

401 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Russia's Knockoff Democracy

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
 THE Russian people, Dostoyevsky once said, believe so fervently in an all-powerful czar that this ideal ''is bound to influence the whole future course of our history.'' And so it was that the heir to this tradition, President Vladimir V. Putin, went before the cameras last week to show that he had in fact broken with the old ways and was as progressive as any leader in the West.
 The scene, though, left a different impression.
 Heads of four political parties (supposedly independent, but all creatures of the Kremlin) sat before Mr. Putin and revealed to him their choice for president. Mr. Putin accepted the decision (though he himself had clearly made it). He praised the candidate (his longtime lieutenant) and suggested that the nomination reflected the views of a broad variety of Russians (none of whom had been given any say in the process). 
 Artifice plays a role in politics everywhere, yet Russia seems to have adopted a kind of imitation of democracy. It is as if a veneer of legitimacy has been put on a variation of the strongman rule present here for centuries -- whether under Peter the Great, Lenin or Mr. Putin himself.
 A parliamentary election was held this month in which many parties took part, but only Mr. Putin's, United Russia, received glowing television news coverage and other government favors; it won in a landslide. Over in the executive branch, the Kremlin on Monday orchestrated the nomination for president of Mr. Putin's aide, Dmitri A. Medvedev, who is all but assured of winning the March election.
 The endorsement lets Mr. Putin say that he is abiding by term limits, just like an American president. Yet a day later, Mr. Medvedev announced that he wanted Mr. Putin to be his prime minister. While the rules are being followed, Mr. Putin seems, at least for now, to be retaining control.
 Hovering over all these events is the question of why Mr. Putin and others in the Kremlin even bother with the democratic trappings. Given that Mr. Putin is highly popular, that the Russian public has long clung to a potent chieftain, why not just pack the Parliament, amend the Constitution and stay another term?
 Mr. Putin appears in part motivated by a need to be seen on the world stage as a lawfully elected leader as genuine as his partners in the Group of Eight. There is an element of Russian pride in this sentiment. Having purportedly embraced democracy, the Kremlin cannot tolerate being told it does elections any less properly than the West. Nor does Mr. Putin care to be lumped with the presidents-for-life reigning in some other former Soviet republics.
 ''He still has this desire to look like a civilized Russian modernizer,'' said Lilia Shevtsova, an analyst at the Moscow office of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. ''The Russian political elite, including Mr. Putin, would like to be personally integrated into the Western structure, the Western community.''
 (This impulse, by the way, is not new. Dostoyevsky, who praised the Russian people's love for their czar, also bemoaned what he said was the Russian elite's longing to be in the West's good graces.)
 Mr. Putin may also have concluded that he can spurn the spirit of the law only so much before governance turns into a free-for-all that might put him more at the whims of the Kremlin's competing clans.
 Some analysts speculate that Mr. Putin and his associates fear making overtly autocratic moves, lest the West retaliate in ways that could hurt Russia's economic revival. This view is not entirely satisfying; American and European companies do plenty of business with Saudi Arabia, China and other authoritarian countries.
 But there could be a more personal wrinkle: senior Kremlin officials may worry that they would be personally banned from traveling to the West and that their personal finances might be imperiled. 
 For their part, the Russian people have shown no great hunger for Western-style democracy. Polls indicate that if Mr. Putin stayed on for another term, he would be greeted with little dissent and something akin to relief or applause. 
 Still, it would be a mistake to say that Russians yearn for authoritarianism, or that the country is generally reverting to Soviet-style repression. While the Kremlin dominates television and has cracked down on the opposition, a diversity of voices flourishes in newspapers, where criticism of Mr. Putin is not uncommon, not to mention on the Internet.
 It could be argued that Mr. Putin, in declining to become a full-blown, constitution-shredding autocrat, is demonstrating that he is more democratically oriented than most Russians. This contrast was noted even by one archfoe, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the billionaire who was arrested after publicly challenging the Kremlin.
 In a 2004 letter from prison, where he is still being held, Mr. Khodorkovsky lamented: ''Putin certainly is no liberal and no democrat, but nonetheless, he is more liberal and democratic than 70 percent of the population of our country.''
 The turmoil after the fall of Communism seems to have deepened Russia's tendency to be drawn to a strong leader, leaving it with a kind of post-traumatic stress disorder. Russians these days crave stability, consumer goods and travel -- the things they were denied before.
 Vyacheslav A. Nikonov, president of the Politika Foundation, a Moscow research institute, said political structures are still developing, the rule of law is shaky and people in power do not have accountability. As a result, the government's shape and character are molded, to a large extent, by the leaders' instincts about what the people expect and will bear. 
 ''Every country has a genetic code,'' Mr. Nikonov said. ''In many societies, the patterns of government last for centuries, or last for a millennium, and I think that Russia is the same. There is quite a strong tradition of undivided government. There is only one thing that Russians do not like in their leaders. That is weakness.''
 ''The institutions are still not here, they are immature,'' Mr. Nikonov said. ''Still, for a 15-year-old democracy, Russia is doing well. In Germany, they elected Hitler exactly on the 15th year of democracy.''
 Mr. Putin himself, while regularly praising what he says are the strides Russia has made in recent years, occasionally seems to be pleading for patience, as if he were acknowledging that the democracy Russia has put in place is not the real thing.
 ''This road is not simple,'' he said in September. ''It takes time and the right groundwork and conditions. We need to ensure that our economic transformations bring about the growth of the middle class, which is to a large extent the standard bearer of this ideology. This is something that takes time and cannot be achieved overnight.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: OFFSPRING: A Russian view of Vladimir Putin and his heir, Dmitri Medvedev, as it appeared on the Web site of the caricaturist, Valentin Kalininskiy. (DRAWING BY KALININSKIY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TERM LIMITS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); DMITRY MEDVEDEV (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2007



402 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3729 words

HEADLINE: Clash of the Titans

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR and MIGUEL HELFT

DATELINE: Mountain View, Calif. 

 BODY:
 A CEREBRAL computer-scientist-turned-executive, Eric E. Schmidt has spent much of his career competing uphill against Microsoft, quietly watching it outflank, outmaneuver or simply outgun most of its rivals. 
 At Sun Microsystems, where he was chief technology officer, Mr. Schmidt looked on as Scott G. McNealy, the company's chairman, railed against Microsoft and its leaders, Steven A. Ballmer and Bill Gates, as ''Ballmer and Butthead.'' During a four-year stint as chief executive of Novell, Mr. Schmidt routinely opined that it was folly for any Microsoft rival to ''moon the giant,'' as he put it; all that would do, he argued, was incite Microsoft's wrath.
 Then, six years ago, Mr. Schmidt snared the C.E.O. spot at Google and today finds himself at the helm of one of computing's most inventive and formidable players, the runaway leader in Internet search and online advertising. With its ample resources and eye for new markets, Google has begun offering online products that strike at the core of Microsoft's financial might: popular computing tools like word processing applications and spreadsheets. 
 The growing confrontation between Google and Microsoft promises to be an epic business battle. It is likely to shape the prosperity and progress of both companies, and also inform how consumers and corporations work, shop, communicate and go about their digital lives. Google sees all of this happening on remote servers in faraway data centers, accessible over the Web by an array of wired and wireless devices -- a setup known as cloud computing. Microsoft sees a Web future as well, but one whose center of gravity remains firmly tethered to its desktop PC software. Therein lies the conflict.
 But in a lengthy interview at Google's campus here, Mr. Schmidt, 52, follows past practices. He soft-pedals. As he coyly describes a move that most of the industry views as Google's assault on Microsoft, he does his best to say that it is something entirely other than that.
 No, he says, there was no thought of a Microsoft takedown when, earlier this year, Google introduced a package of online software offerings, called Google Apps, that includes e-mail, instant messaging, calendars, word processing and spreadsheets. They are simpler versions of the pricey programs that make up Microsoft's lucrative Office business, and Google is offering them free to consumers. 
 Still, Google Apps aren't anything other than a natural step in Google's march to deliver more computing capability to users over the Internet, Mr. Schmidt says.
 ''For most people,'' he says, ''computers are complex and unreliable,'' given to crashing and afflicted with viruses. If Google can deliver computing services over the Web, then ''it will be a real improvement in people's lives,'' he says. 
 To explain, Mr. Schmidt steps up to a white board. He draws a rectangle and rattles off a list of things that can be done in the Web-based cloud, and he notes that this list is expanding as Internet connection speeds become faster and Internet software improves. In a sliver of the rectangle, about 10 percent, he marks off what can't be done in the cloud, like high-end graphics processing. So, in Google's thinking, will 90 percent of computing eventually reside in the cloud?
 ''In our view, yes,'' Mr. Schmidt says. ''It's a 90-10 thing.'' Inside the cloud resides ''almost everything you do in a company, almost everything a knowledge worker does.''
 Mr. Schmidt clearly believes that the arcs of technology and history are in Google's corner, no matter how hard he tries to avoid mooning the giant. Microsoft, of course, isn't planning to merely stand still. It has spent billions trying to catch Google in search and Web advertising, so far without success. And the companies are also fighting it out in promising new fields as varied as Web maps, online video and cellphone software.
 ''The fundamental Google model is to try to change all the rules of the software world,'' says David B. Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School. If Google succeeds, Mr. Yoffie says, ''a lot of the value that Microsoft provides today is potentially obsolete.''
 At Microsoft, Mr. Schmidt's remarks are fighting words. Traditional software installed on personal computers is where Microsoft makes its living, and its executives see the prospect of 90 percent of computing tasks migrating to the Web-based cloud as a fantasy. 
 ''It's, of course, totally inaccurate compared with where the market is today and where the market is headed,'' says Jeff Raikes, president of Microsoft's business division, which includes the Office products.
 TO Mr. Raikes, the company's third-longest-serving executive, after Mr. Gates and Mr. Ballmer, the Google challenge is an attack on Microsoft that is both misguided and arrogant. ''The focus is on competitive self-interest; it's on trying to undermine Microsoft, rather than what customers want to do,'' he says.
 Microsoft, Mr. Raikes notes, has spent years and billions of dollars in product development and customer research, studying in minute detail how individual workers and companies use software. What they want, he says, is the desktop programs and features of Microsoft Office, and the proof is in the marketplace. ''I mean, we have more than 500 million people who are using Microsoft Office tools,'' he says. 
 Indeed, Microsoft is the wealthy incumbent with a huge lead in the market for personal productivity software, with a share of more than 90 percent. But the Google challenge, industry analysts say, is not so much a head-to-head confrontation with Microsoft in its desktop stronghold as it is a long-term shift toward Web software, which operates with different principles and economics.
 Analysts note that Google is a different competitor from others Microsoft has dispatched in recent years: it is bigger, faster-growing, loaded with cash and a magnet for talent. And the technology of the Google cloud opens doors. Its vast data centers are designed by Google engineers for efficiency, speed and low cost, giving the company an edge in computing firepower and allowing it to add offerings inexpensively.
 ''Once you have those data centers, you want to go out and develop complementary products and services,'' says Hal R. Varian, a former professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who is Google's chief economist. They can be offered free or at minimal cost to users, he says, because they bring more traffic to Google, generating more search and ad revenue. 
 Google, it seems, has a promising opening against Microsoft. But tilting at a giant and taking down a giant are very different things.
 Microsoft, of course, isn't standing still. Just as it squelched the first Internet challenge in the 1990s by linking Web browsing software to its mainstay products, it is now adopting a similar strategy for cloud computing by adding Internet features to its offerings. It is moving cautiously on this front, however, to avoid eroding the profitability of its desktop franchise.
 More than any other Google foray, providing Web-based software to workers for communication, collaboration and documents promises to be the acid test of how far Google can go beyond Internet search. Will two of its formulas -- its distinctive, hurry-up model of building products and services, and its rapid-fire approach to recruiting and innovation -- succeed in new arenas? 
 Google's quicksilver corporate culture can be jarring for some employees, even for Mr. Schmidt. He recalls that shortly after joining the company and its young founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, he was frustrated that people were answering e-mail on their laptops at meetings while he was speaking. 
 ''I've given up'' trying to change such behavior, he says. ''They have to answer their e-mail. Velocity matters.'' 
 VELOCITY does, indeed, matter, and Google deploys it to great effect. Conventional software is typically built, tested and shipped in two- or three-year product cycles. Inside Google, Mr. Schmidt says, there are no two-year plans. Its product road maps look ahead only four or five months at most. And, Mr. Schmidt says, the only plans ''anybody believes in go through the end of this quarter.''
 Google maintains that pace courtesy of the cloud. With a vast majority of its products Web-based, it doesn't wait to ship discs or load programs onto personal computers. Inside the company, late stages of product development are sometimes punctuated by 24-to-48-hour marathon programming sessions known as ''hack-a-thons.'' The company sometimes invites outside engineers to these sessions to encourage independent software developers to use Google technologies as platforms for their own products.
 New features and improvements are made and tested on Google's computers and constantly sprinkled into the services users tap into online. In the last two months alone, eight new features or improvements have been added to Google's e-mail system, Gmail, including a tweak to improve the processing speed and code to simplify the handling of e-mail on mobile phones. A similar number of enhancements have been made in the last two months to Google's online spreadsheet, word processing and presentation software. 
 Early this month, Google released new cellphone software, with the code-name Grand Prix. A project that took just six weeks to complete, Grand Prix allows for fast and easy access to Google services like search, Gmail and calendars through a stripped-down mobile phone browser. (For now, it is tailored for iPhone browsers, but the plan is to make it work on other mobile browsers as well.)
 Grand Prix was born when a Google engineer, tinkering on his own one weekend, came up with prototype code and e-mailed it to Vic Gundotra, a Google executive who oversees mobile products. Mr. Gundotra then showed the prototype to Mr. Schmidt, who in turn mentioned it to Mr. Brin. In about an hour, Mr. Brin came to look at the prototype. 
 ''Sergey was really supportive,'' recalls Mr. Gundotra, saying that Mr. Brin was most intrigued by the ''engineering tricks'' employed. After that, Mr. Gundotra posted a message on Google's internal network, asking employees who owned iPhones to test the prototype. Such peer review is common at Google, which has an engineering culture in which a favorite mantra is ''nothing speaks louder than code.'' 
 As co-workers dug in, testing Grand Prix's performance speed, memory use and other features, ''the feedback started pouring in,'' Mr. Gundotra recalls. The comments amounted to a thumbs-up, and after a few weeks of fine-tuning and fixing bugs, Grand Prix was released. In the brief development, there were no formal product reviews or formal approval processes. 
 Mr. Gundotra joined Google in July, after 15 years at Microsoft. He says that he always considered Microsoft to be the epicenter of technological development, but that the rise of cloud computing forced him to reconsider. 
 ''It became obvious that Google was the place where I could have the biggest impact,'' he says. ''For guys like me, who have a love affair with software, being able to ship a product in weeks -- that's an irresistible draw.'' 
 Another draw is Google's embrace of experimentation and open-ended job assignments. Recent college graduates are routinely offered jobs at Google without being told what they will be doing. The company does this partly to keep corporate secrets locked up, but often it also doesn't know what new hires will be doing. 
 Christophe Bisciglia, a 27-year-old engineer, qualifies as a seasoned veteran at Google, having worked there for four years. Mr. Bisciglia has done a lot of college recruiting in the last two years and has interviewed more than 100 candidates.
 ''We look for smart generalists, who we can be confident can fulfill any need we have,'' he explains. ''We hire someone, and who knows what need we'll have when that person shows up six months later? We move so fast.''
 MR. SCHMIDT readily concedes that cloud computing won't happen overnight. Big companies change habits slowly, as do older consumers. Clever software is needed -- and under development, he says -- to overcome other shortcomings like the ''airplane issue,'' or how users can keep working when they find themselves unable to get online. 
 Yet small and midsize companies, as well as universities and individuals -- in other words, a majority of computer users -- could shift toward Web-based cloud computing fairly quickly, Mr. Schmidt contends. Small businesses, he says, could greatly reduce their costs and technology headaches by adopting the Web offerings now available from Google and others. 
 ''It makes no sense to run your own computers if you are a small business starting up,'' he says. ''You'd be crazy to buy packaged software.''
 Still, in order to succeed, Google needs to win a broad array of converts, including corporations. That effort is led by Dave Girouard, the general manager of Google's enterprise business, who joined the company in 2004, shortly after it decided to move beyond its search business and consumer focus. 
 Gmail, introduced just after Mr. Girouard arrived, illustrates Google's strategic evolution as well as its increased willingness to take on Microsoft. 
 Paul Buchheit, a Google engineer, started on what became Gmail as far back as 2001. At the time, there was resistance inside the company to the project. Back then, Google was providing search service for Yahoo, a useful source of revenue for the young start-up, and Yahoo had its own Web e-mail system. Another concern was straying into Microsoft's territory.
 ''Definitely one of the reasons people thought it was a bad idea is that it could incite Microsoft to destroy Google,'' recalled Mr. Buchheit, who left Google last year and now works for a start-up.
 Gmail, a full-fledged Web offering built by Google, took time to develop. Features had to be added and tested, and hundreds of Google engineers had to use it and approve. The company's arsenal of data centers -- highly efficient and designed by Google engineers -- had to be equipped to offer ample free storage for users. 
 And as Google grew in size, profitability and stature during those years, riling a giant was less of a worry. By the time Gmail was ready, Mr. Buchheit says, ''Google was much more established, and they were more comfortable competing with Microsoft.''
 In the corporate market, Google sees itself as a powerful agent of change, breaking down old barriers. ''For the last 30 or 40 years, there has been this huge Chinese wall between business and consumer technology,'' Mr. Girouard says. ''That was historical and no longer valid.''
 Google's push into the business market began in earnest only this year, but Mr. Girouard is already encouraged by the results. About 2,000 companies are signing up for Google Apps every working day, he said. Most are trying the free version. That's fine, he says, because those users also generate more search-related advertising revenue for Google. After a 60-day free trial, companies with more than 50 users are beginning to sign up for the Google Apps Premier Edition at a charge of $50 a year per user, which includes customer support.
 These applications are minimal, task-oriented tools that lack many of the features in Microsoft Office, but, Google managers say, most people use only a fraction of those fancier features anyway.
 ''If you're creating a complex document like an annual report, you want Word, and if you're making a sophisticated financial model, you want Excel,'' Mr. Girouard notes. ''That's what the Microsoft products are great at. But less and less work is like that.''
 Google's entry, he says, has ignited interest in bringing cloud computing into corporations. Senior technology managers of large corporations, he says, are ''talking to us every day of the week about where Google is going and what we can do.'' A few large companies, notably General Electric and Procter & Gamble, have said publicly that they are at least trying out Google Apps.
 Next year, Mr. Girouard predicts, ''a lot of big companies'' will be adopting Google Apps for tens of thousands of workers each.
 Microsoft dismisses Google's optimism as wishful thinking. Microsoft's competitive tracking of the corporate market, says Mr. Raikes, the leader of the Office business, finds nothing like the momentum for Google that Mr. Girouard portrays. ''It is not in any way, shape or form close to what he is suggesting,'' Mr. Raikes says.
 COUNTLESS decisions by corporate technology managers, office workers, university students and rank-and-file computer users of all kinds will ultimately determine Google's success. How easy and inexpensive will it be to do e-mail, word processing, spreadsheets and team projects on Web software? Will high-speed network connections soon become as ubiquitous and reliable as Google seems to assume? Will companies, universities and individuals trust Google to hold corporate and personal information safely?
 At the corporate level, inexpensive, low-stress e-mail is the initial lure of Google Apps. About 160 employees of BankFirst Financial Services, a small bank in Macon, Miss., have been using Gmail for about two months, happily substituting it for an older system that had been overwhelmed by heavy traffic and spam. Bank workers are also using Google Apps' instant messaging and calendar features to get immediate answers to customer questions and to set up meetings online. 
 But BankFirst isn't using Google's online word processing, presentation and spreadsheets, a package known as Google Docs. Like so many other companies, it still relies on the Microsoft Word and Excel programs for those tasks. ''I really don't see us migrating from that,'' says Josh Hailey, the bank's computer network manager.
 According to Compete.com, a research firm, Google Docs is gaining popularity. It had 1.6 million users in November, seven times as many as a year earlier. That's a nice lift, but the Microsoft Office suite, containing programs like Word and Excel, is nearly two decades old and runs on some 500 million PCs. The reality is that even if Mr. Schmidt and Google are right about the potential of cloud computing in the workplace, Microsoft is still seen inside most companies as the safe choice.
 Another crucial battleground for both companies is the university market, where the stakes are less about making money and more about winning the loyalty of students who might become valuable customers later in life. Google and Microsoft each offer free Web-based e-mail to universities, for example.
 When Arizona State University, one of the nation's largest with 65,000 students, decided last year to choose a new e-mail system, it had concerns about the security and privacy of student information and messages stored on Google servers. ''It's like the virtue of banks over mattresses,'' explains Adrian Sannier, the university's chief technology officer. ''You feel like keeping the money in your mattress and defending it with your own gun is the right thing to do.'' But Arizona State decided that Google, with all its expertise, could do a better job than the university's own technology department.
 Microsoft, Mr. Sannier notes, also offered free Web e-mail to Arizona State, but for an online service the university decided Google was the smarter choice because the company is totally committed to Web software. ''We saw Microsoft as a company that is divided on the issue of cloud computing,'' Mr. Sannier says.
 The university's switch to Google-hosted e-mail has gone smoothly, and Mr. Sannier estimates that the school is saving $500,000 a year by not handling e-mail itself. Students, he added, also get more than e-mail. They have access to Google Apps, and thousands of them, he says, now use Google's Web software for calendars, word processing and spreadsheets. 
 To be sure, Microsoft is not ceding cloud computing to Google. It is investing heavily in huge data centers and Web software. Inside Microsoft, there are engineers and product managers who sound a lot like Googlers. 
 Ellie Powers-Boyle, 25, a graduate of M.I.T., works on Microsoft's Web e-mail products. In the last three years, she says, there have been a dozen significant upgrades of the Web e-mail product, and she has worked on three or four new features each time. ''We iterate quickly,'' she says. ''For someone of my generation, the whole idea of waiting years to see if you made the right product makes no sense.''
 The challenge for Microsoft is not the ability to do much of what Google does. Instead, the company faces a business quandary. The Microsoft approach is largely to try to link the Web to its desktop business -- ''software plus Internet services,'' in its formulation. It will embrace the Web, while striving to maintain the revenue and profits from its desktop software businesses, the corporate gold mine. That is a smart strategy for Microsoft and its shareholders for now, but it may not be sustainable. 
 Assuming that competition heats up, Office may continue to be an outstanding product, but Microsoft may not be able to charge as much for it -- just as low-cost personal computers eventually undercut the mainframe business, and traditional publishing and media companies have grappled with Internet distribution. The traditional products remain popular, but they become much less profitable.
 FOR its part, Google faces its own set of challenges: competition from Microsoft and from Web-based productivity software being offered by start-ups like Zoho and Transmedia as well as more established players like Yahoo. A recent report by the Burton Group, a technology research firm, concluded that it was ''unclear at this point whether Google will be able to capitalize on the trends that it's accelerating.'' 
 Is Google ''really committed to the productivity of information workers?'' asks Chris Capossela, a vice president in Microsoft's Office group. ''Boy, there's no question that we are. No customer on the planet thinks about Microsoft without thinking about Office. It's part of the DNA of Microsoft.
 ''Needless to say, we are going to do everything we can to remain the leader in this space,'' he adds. ''And whoever comes our way, we'll certainly be waiting for them.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: About 2,000 companies join Google Apps each working day, says Dave Girouard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOU DEMATTEIS/MICROSOFT, VIA REUTERS) (pg.BU9)
Google's chief executive, Eric Schmidt, says 90 percent of computing tasks can migrate online. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUANG NIU/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.BU10)
Jeff Raikes of Microsoft, right, with Bill Gates, says Google's initiative is focused ''on trying to undermine Microsoft.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B10) ILLUSTRATION (ILLUSTRATION BY TIM BOWER) (pg.BU1)
CHARTS: CLOSING IN ON THE GIANT: Google has quickly risen to become the second most valuable technology company. (SOURCE: BLOOMBERG FINANCIAL MARKETS) (pg.BU9)
 GROWTH SPURT: Gmail has been growing faster than any other leading e-mail site, nearly doubling its visitors in a single year. (pg.BU10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); SPREADSHEET SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (88%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (78%); CLOUD COMPUTING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (75%); INSTANT MESSAGING (73%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (73%); NETWORK SERVERS (73%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); MICROSOFT CORP (92%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (58%); NOVELL INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (93%); STEVEN A BALLMER (78%); BILL GATES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2007



403 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; THE CITY LONG ISLAND WESTCHESTER; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: The Governor's Nose Dive

 BODY:
Gov. Eliot Spitzer's polls are looking like a downhill skier's delight and a politician's nightmare. Each new survey puts his popularity at a lower point than the one before, with his foes rejoicing as the man once thought most likely to reform Albany skids publicly into failure. 
 The latest poll from Siena Research Institute shows that even Mr. Spitzer's fellow Democrats are deserting him, with only one in three saying they want him re-elected in 2010.
 Such holiday gloom need not poison the governor's second year in office. Mr. Spitzer has a long list of bragging points, including an elaborate plan to improve the economy across the state and a new budget process that has, at least, started ahead of time. But nobody is going to notice all that until he clears the slate as soon as possible on what has become known as Troopergate -- his staff's mishandling of what should have been a laudable effort to publicize Senator Joseph Bruno's abuse of state helicopters and police cars.
 Mr. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, and his friends in the news media have been relentlessly hounding the governor, making much of his missteps while artfully dodging Mr. Bruno's. No one should let up on Senator Bruno, who has failed to explain whether there are abysmal conflicts of interest in the way he operates his private businesses. 
 But if Mr. Spitzer wants to occupy higher ground than the Brunos of Albany, he must be able to air out this entire mess by testifying before the Commission on Public Integrity, as he has promised to do. Unfortunately, commission rules require that testimony be confidential. The commission should work to make it possible for the governor to allow his testimony to be released once the case is concluded. 
 Sure, the Republicans will beat their chests about this and that detail in the governor's presentation, but Mr. Spitzer can finally say he has made his statements on this matter once and for all, under oath and on the record. It is also time for other investigations on this matter to come to a close. David Soares, the Albany County district attorney, is reinvestigating conflicting statements by Mr. Spitzer's aides, a sidetrack that should not be taking as long as it is.
 And the Senate's investigation -- aimed mainly at keeping the controversy fresh and alive into next year's legislative elections -- should also be shut down. The final say rightly belongs to the new Commission on Public Integrity, headed by John Feerick, the former dean of Fordham Law School, but it is moving more slowly than it should. 
 One theory for the delay is that the commissioners are waiting for Mr. Soares to finish his work. But the commission's investigation should be independent, not only of the governor and the Legislature but also of the district attorney. Even more important, the commissioners' work should not be allowed to drag into next spring.
 There is a lot of important business facing the governor and the Legislature. It is time to put Troopergate where it belongs -- among the footnotes in New York State's history books. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); SKIING (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); WITNESSES (72%); BUDGETS (69%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); HELICOPTERS (52%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2007



404 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 7482 words

HEADLINE: The Huckabee Factor

BYLINE: By Zev Chafets. 
Zev Chafets, a frequent contributor to the magazine, is the author of ''A Match Made in Heaven,'' about American evangelical support for Israel.

 BODY:
Mike Huckabee walked into the lobby of the Des Moines Marriott at 5:30 a.m. on Dec. 3, deposited an armful of dirty laundry at the desk and checked to make sure he was being credited with Marriott Rewards points toward his next stay. Then, accompanied by his wife, Janet, his daughter, Sarah, and his press secretary, Alice Stewart -- who doubles as his Boston Marathon trainer -- he walked into the dark, freezing morning, climbed into a waiting S.U.V. and headed for Central College in Pella, Iowa. Huckabee, a former Arkansas governor, was in a buoyant mood on three hours of sleep. The night before, his commercial flight suffered a long Chicago holdover on the way from Boston, but he had reason to hope that his days at the mercy of the airlines might be numbered. A Des Moines Register opinion poll had just shown Huckabee passing Mitt Romney to take the lead in the run-up to the Jan. 3 caucus. His picture, he already knew, was on the front page of that morning's USA Today. Now he was headed to Central College, to appear, surrounded by enthusiastic students, on ''The Early Show'' on CBS. This kind of momentum, he hoped, would finally produce enough cash to allow him to charter his own plane. 
 The governor was especially happy that morning about an impending endorsement he expected (and received the following day) from Tim LaHaye, the author of the apocalyptic ''Left Behind'' series of novels. ''Left Behind'' is wildly popular among evangelicals, who have bought more than 65 million copies, making LaHaye a very rich man and one of the few writers who is also a major philanthropist. Recently he donated a hockey rink to Jerry Falwell's Liberty University, although some members of the faculty there deride ''Left Behind'' as science fiction. Huckabee, an ordained Southern Baptist minister, has no such reservations. He considers the ''Left Behind'' books, in which the world comes to a violent end as Jesus triumphs over Satan, a ''compelling story written for nontheologians.'' 
 Huckabee's affability and populist economic and social views have sometimes been misinterpreted as a moderate brand of evangelical Christianity. In fact, as he wrote in his book ''Character Makes a Difference,'' he considers liberalism to be a cancer on Christianity. Huckabee is an admirer of the late Jerry Falwell (whose son, Jerry Jr., recently endorsed his candidacy) and subscribes wholeheartedly to the principles of the Moral Majority. He also affirms the Baptist Faith and Message statement: ''The Holy Bible . . . has truth, without any mixture of error, for its matter. Therefore, all Scripture is totally true and trustworthy.'' 
 On the road to Pella, Huckabee talked about the enthusiasm he now encounters everywhere he goes. For example, he said, his driver in California not only declined payment but also wrote the governor a $50 personal check right on the spot. It was, I thought, a dangerous anecdote to tell within earshot of a professional driver traveling along an icy highway at high speed, but Huckabee was feeling invulnerable, and the driver, I later realized, was already on the governor's team. Huckabee normally starts his mornings by running 6 to 10 miles and reading a chapter from the Book of Proverbs. Today he was too pressed to do either, but he planned to catch up later. Anyway, he knew much of the day's assignment, Chapter 3, by heart. ''Trust in the Lord,'' he quoted, ''and lean not upon thine own understanding.'' Not a bad motto for a campaign that is still too broke to do any independent polling.
 Chapter 3 also contains the admonition to ''keep sound wisdom and discretion.'' Huckabee is, indeed, a discreet fellow, but he has no trouble making his feelings known. He mentioned how much he respected his fellow candidates John McCain and Rudolph W. Giuliani. The name of his principal rival in Iowa, Mitt Romney, went unmentioned. Romney, a Mormon, had promised that he would be addressing the subject of his religion a few days later. I asked Huckabee, who describes himself as the only Republican candidate with a degree in theology, if he considered Mormonism a cult or a religion. ''I think it's a religion,'' he said. ''I really don't know much about it.''
 I was about to jot down this piece of boilerplate when Huckabee surprised me with a question of his own: ''Don't Mormons,'' he asked in an innocent voice, ''believe that Jesus and the devil are brothers?'' 
 In this unpredictable primary season, Mike Huckabee's surge in Iowa -- and beyond -- is perhaps the greatest surprise. Iowa was supposed to be a pushover for Mitt Romney. Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, began working the state more than a year ago. He commands an army of trained professionals and a vast ad budget. Mitt Romney's message flows like Muzak out of every radio and TV in the state. All this effort has reportedly cost Romney more than $7 million. Huckabee, by contrast, has spent less than $400,000 in Iowa. His paid staff in the state is not much bigger than a softball team. Televised Huckabee ads have been harder to catch than ''I Love Lucy'' reruns.
 Even more amazing, when the Register poll came out Dec. 2, Huckabee hadn't been in the state for three weeks. In campaign time, that's approximately three centuries. But absence made hearts grow only fonder. Not only was Huckabee leading in Iowa, he was also five points ahead of Romney, 29 percent to 24 percent, and double digits away from the rest of the field.
 The movement was catching hold beyond Iowa too. On Dec. 5, a Rasmussen daily tracking poll showed Huckabee leading the Republican field nationally, ahead of Giuliani by three points, 20 percent to 17 percent. This represented an eight-point jump for Huckabee in only a week. Other polls still had Giuliani in the lead, but the Real Clear Politics Web site, which averages national surveys, showed Huckabee in a virtual tie for second. 
 Still, in spite of this surge in popularity, Huckabee has almost no money or organization. He has no national finance chairman, no speechwriters and a policy staff of three. His ''national field director'' is his 25-year-old daughter, Sarah. Huckabee does have a pollster, Dick Dresner, but so far there hasn't been enough cash to take any polls. ''I think we can go until the beginning of the year,'' Dresner told me. ''If we start by then to raise some money, we can begin to acquire the trappings of a campaign. Which, at the moment, we don't really have.'' 
 Scott Reed, who ran Bob Dole's 1996 presidential campaign, doubts that Huckabee will come up with the money. ''He spends more time in cable TV studios than he does meeting with his finance committee,'' he says. ''A big win in Iowa will get him enough to go on for a couple weeks. Then, if he comes in second or third in New Hampshire, he's in the race. Short of that, he's a one-night stand.'' 
 Many Republican strategists remain dubious about Huckabee's chances. ''He'll get hammered in New Hampshire,'' the Republican consultant Mike Murphy told me. ''A primary campaign is like a book. Iowa is just the first chapter. After that come more chapters. Opponents will hit Huckabee for being soft on immigration, Arkansas allegations, that kind of thing. And at some point, Republican elites will begin to ask, Is what we need a small-state governor who doesn't believe in Darwin?'' 
 Huckabee himself speaks about a Nascar strategy, with his opponents crashing into walls or one another and him, as the last man on wheels, winning the race. Other candidates, especially Romney and Fred Thompson, have already begun bumping up against him, and of course, he bumps back. And Rudy Giuliani, the putative winner of a Romney flameout in Iowa, is starting to look for Huckabee in his Florida rearview mirror. 
 Huckabee may lose the race, but he has already scrambled it. The Republican presidential contest was expected to focus on foreign policy, national security and executive competence. Huckabee has moved it to issues of character, religion and personality. Regardless of what happens, he is now a real player in the Republican Party, a man to be taken seriously. 
 It has been a startlingly quick transformation. Six weeks ago, I met Huckabee for lunch at an Olive Garden restaurant in Midtown Manhattan. (I had offered to take him anywhere he wanted and then vetoed his first choice, T.G.I. Friday's.) He walked through the room in such total anonymity that I felt sorry for him. Our waiter, Corey, had no idea who he was, or even that he was supposed to be somebody. 
 Lunch with Mike Huckabee is a study in faith-based dieting. He has lost 110 pounds in recent years, a feat he chronicled in a book, ''Quit Digging Your Grave With a Knife and Fork.'' This has given Huckabee something to talk about on daytime television. More important, it has lent him evangelical street cred. An important part of the evangelical narrative is overcoming the devil. But Huckabee was seemingly born born-again. Luckily for him, gluttony counts as a sin, Crisco as a Christian chemical dependency. By the time he reached 40, Huckabee had packed more than 300 pounds onto his 5-foot-11 frame. Then he began wrestling, calorie by calorie, with Satan. 
 Huckabee ordered soup and a sandwich without drama or comment and began talking about rock 'n' roll. This is his regular warm-up gambit with reporters of a certain age, meant to convey that he is a cool guy for a Baptist preacher. Naturally I fell for it, and asked who he would like to play at his inaugural. ''I've got to start with the Stones,'' Huckabee said. The governor regards 1968 as the dawning of ''the age of the birth-control pill, free love, gay sex, the drug culture and reckless disregard for standards.'' The Rolling Stones album ''Their Satanic Majesties Request'' provided the soundtrack for that annus terribilis. But Mike Huckabee wanted me to know that he believes in the separation of church and stage. 
 The governor's musical wish list also included John Mellencamp, who, he noted, would be welcome despite their differing political views; the country duo Brooks & Dunn; Stevie Wonder; and, surprisingly, Grand Funk Railroad. ''That's a groundbreaking group,'' he said earnestly. ''The bass player, Mel Schacher, is very underrated.'' Our food arrived and Huckabee poked at his croutons while gamely turning the conversation to issues. He mentioned three: tax cuts, financing for arts education and energy independence. ''We have to get to the point where we need the Saudis' oil about as much as we need their sand,'' he said. It was a standard line, delivered without any particular passion. 
 The price of oil took us to foreign affairs, which Huckabee knows is not his strong suit. He quoted Pat Buchanan's crack from the 1992 presidential campaign that Bill Clinton's foreign-policy experience came from eating at the International House of Pancakes. But Clinton circa 1992 -- who had worked briefly for Senator William Fulbright and studied the ways of the world at Georgetown, Yale and Oxford -- was Prince Metternich compared with Huckabee.
 In his defense, Huckabee mentioned that as governor, he had visited ''35 or 40 countries,'' where he sometimes negotiated trade deals. ''In some ways, this kind of experience is more significant than that of senators who sit on some committee,'' he said gamely. He also noted that George W. Bush came to office as a Southern governor without foreign-policy experience.
 But things have changed since then. Huckabee says he believes that the next president of the United States will have to lead Western civilization in a worldwide conflict with radical Islam. For a man with that kind of ambition, he has not been particularly well briefed. On Dec. 4, for instance, he was asked about the National Intelligence Estimate released the day before, which found that Iran had suspended its nuclear weapons program in 2003. Huckabee said that he hadn't seen it, though it had been the top news story in the country, maybe the world, for the previous 24 hours.
 At lunch, when I asked him who influences his thinking on foreign affairs, he mentioned Thomas Friedman, the New York Times columnist, and Frank Gaffney, a neoconservative and the founder of a research group called the Center for Security Policy. This is like taking travel advice from Little Red Riding Hood and the Wolf, but the governor seemed unaware of the incongruity. When I pressed him, he mentioned he had once ''visited'' with Richard Haass, the middle-of-the-road president of the Council on Foreign Relations. Huckabee has no military experience beyond commanding the Arkansas National Guard, but he doesn't see this as an insuperable problem. ''What you do,'' he explained, ''is surround yourself with the best possible advice.'' The only name he mentioned was Representative Duncan Hunter of California. ''Duncan is extraordinarily well qualified to be secretary of Defense,'' he said. 
 ''If you aren't for some reason elected president, what cabinet position would you be suited for?'' I asked. Huckabee paused, considering. ''Secretary of health and human services would be one,'' he said. ''Secretary of transportation, or the interior.'' Perhaps aware that this wasn't a Mount Rushmore self-evaluation, he quickly added that he doesn't really want a cabinet position or any other government job. ''I'd be just as happy to go back to Arkansas and open a bait shop on a lake,'' he said. Huckabee was eager to separate himself from George W. Bush, who, he complained, often visited Arkansas without bothering to notify the governor's office. ''Clinton was much better at letting us know his plans and including us in his activities. He was always gracious and respectful.'' In September, Clinton told George Stephanopoulos of ABC that Huckabee was the only Republican ''dark horse that's got any kind of chance.''
 Clinton's goodwill stems, Huckabee believes, from Huckabee's own restraint during the Monica Lewinsky scandal. ''Obviously I was asked to comment. If I had been willing to criticize President Clinton, I could have made a cottage industry out of it. But I didn't do that, I didn't discuss it at all. And I think he was grateful for that.'' 
 Hillary Clinton had recently announced that, if elected president, she would use her husband as a ''roving ambassador.'' I asked Huckabee if he envisioned a similar role for George W. Bush. ''I think he just wants to go back to Texas,'' Huckabee said. ''I've heard him say that.''
 ''But if he wanted be involved?'' I asked. Huckabee paused, picking a crouton out of his salad. ''Well, if the matter ever came up, I wouldn't entirely dismiss it,'' he said finally. 
 Right about then Corey, our waiter, came over with the check. I introduced him to the candidate. ''I thought you looked familiar,'' he said diplomatically. ''What are you for?'' Huckabee gave him a friendly, quizzical look. 
 ''What issues are you for?'' 
 ''Oh,'' the governor said. ''Ah, tax cuts. Support for arts education. And energy independence. I want to get where we need the Saudis' oil about as much as we need their sand.'' 
 Corey mentioned that he, personally, would like to see waiters' tips rise to 18 percent. Huckabee laughed agreeably but said nothing. No Republican candidate wants to get caught by a reporter advocating a price hike for anything.
 Nowadays Huckabee has more policy positions, but his campaign is really all about his Christian character. His slogan is ''Faith, Family, Freedom,'' which Huckabee, who was once a public-relations man for the Texas televangelist James Robison, wrote himself. Huckabee is no theocrat. He simply believes in the power of the Christian message, and in his ability to embody and deliver it. ''It's not that we want to impose our religion on somebody,'' he wrote in ''Character Makes a Difference,'' a book first published in 1997 (as ''Character Is the Issue'') and reissued earlier this year. ''It's that we want to shape the culture and laws by using a worldview we believe has value.''
 During his years in politics, Huckabee has become a master at disarming secular audiences. Throughout the campaign he has impressed the national press corps with his ability to dodge questions aimed at portraying him as a fundamentalist. Asked in a CNN debate, for example, what Jesus would do about capital punishment, Huckabee responded that Jesus was too smart to run for public office. On another occasion, queried if only Baptists go to heaven, he remarked that not even all the Baptists he knows will get past the pearly gates. Such jokes are designed to give outsiders the impression that Huckabee couldn't be all that religious. But they are really just witty formulations of standard evangelical doctrine, things not even the most ardent country Baptist preacher could disagree with. 
 The Rev. Wallace Edgar is such a preacher. He has known Mike Huckabee for more than 20 years, since they led Baptist churches near each other in Texarkana. Wallace is a big Huckabee fan. ''Mike was very conservative with the Scriptures, he didn't deviate from the Word,'' he told me. Some born-again Christians don't like Huckabee's light touch, or the fact that he has involved himself in secular politics at all. A few even accuse him of neglecting the obligation to engage in personal evangelism. Huckabee addressed this issue in September, in an interview with The Baptist Press. ''In fact, I think I've had far more opportunities because of my position as a governor and now as a candidate for president to share my faith,'' he told Will Hall, a reporter for the paper. ''Nobody's paying me; nobody's forcing me to talk about what Christ means to me, and when I'm able to share it, I think it has a, you know, a very dramatic and powerful impact, and they know it's what really drives me and explains me, if you will.'' 
 In late November, Huckabee began running a short television ad called ''Believe.'' It starts with the candidate declaring, ''Faith doesn't just influence me, it really defines me.'' As he speaks, the words ''Christian Leader'' flash across the screen. This ad was, of course, directed at the evangelical voters of Iowa. But it has also caught the attention of big-time figures in evangelical Christianity, many of whom have refrained from supporting Huckabee's candidacy. This failure has puzzled and angered the governor. At the Olive Garden he spoke with bitterness about Richard Land, the president of the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention. ''Richard Land swoons for Fred Thompson,'' he said. ''I don't know what that's about. For reasons I don't fully understand, some of these Washington-based people forget why they are there. They make 'electability' their criterion. But I am a true soldier for the cause. If my own abandon me on the battlefield, it will have a chilling effect.'' 
 The following week, at the Values Voter Summit in Washington, Huckabee won the roomful of grass-roots evangelicals but failed to gain any significant endorsements from evangelical leaders. ''The evangelical leadership didn't, and perhaps still doesn't, perceive Governor Huckabee as a winner,'' Charles Dunn, dean of the school of government at Regent University, told me. ''But more and more, it appears that the leadership is not in touch with its followers.'' 
 This indictment extends to the founder of Dunn's own university, Pat Robertson, who has endorsed Rudy Giuliani. It applies equally to the National Right to Life Committee, which is with Fred Thompson; and to the Rev. Bob Jones III, Jay Sekulow, head of the American Center for Law and Justice (the evangelical counterpart of the A.C.L.U.), and Paul Weyrich, the conservative activist who helped build the evangelical movement, all of whom are supporting Mitt Romney. James Dobson, the founder of Focus on the Family, is still on the fence. ''I just don't understand his neutrality,'' Huckabee told me one day at the end of October in Des Moines. ''I'd be an obvious choice for his endorsement. We're old friends. I love him and I love his wife, Shirley. I just don't know how to explain it.'' 
 Dunn offers a possible explanation for the resistance from born-again leaders. ''Mike Huckabee isn't just another politician,'' he told me. ''He is an evangelical minister. If he does well in Iowa, as he appears to be doing, he will become a national figure no matter what happens after that. He could wind up eclipsing all the other evangelical leaders in this country in one fell swoop. And you know what it says in the Book of Proverbs. 'Envy is the rottenness of the bones.' '' 
 Dunn says he believes that Huckabee is actually lucky to have avoided a lot of marquee evangelical endorsements. ''Some of these people come with a lot of baggage,'' he told me. ''Cultivate them on their terms and you can wind up selling your soul. If Huckabee wins in Iowa and keeps on going, they'll have no choice but to seek him out on his terms.'' 
 In fact, that already seems to be happening. On the day Tim LaHaye endorsed Huckabee, the governor also won the support of Concerned Women of America (led by LaHaye's wife, Beverly), 57 Iowa pastors and Chuck Hurley, the president of the Iowa Family Policy Center. On the ride to Central College, I mentioned Dunn's speculation to Huckabee. The candidate was noncommittal but not dismissive. ''I've never thought of it,'' he said. 
 Possibly he hadn't. But if Mike Huckabee, who has no profession except the ministry and no personal fortune, doesn't wind up on the government payroll next year, he will need a new job. He might just decide he'd like to be the next Billy Graham or Jerry Falwell, a national evangelical leader who saves souls for Christ as he counsels presidents and brokers political power. 
 Mike Huckabee was, by now famously, born and raised in Hope, Ark. His father was a fireman who didn't finish high school. His mother was, as he likes to boast, one generation removed from dirt floors and outhouses. He attended the same kindergarten -- Miss Marie Purkins' School for Little Folks -- as Bill Clinton, who is nine years his senior. But Clinton left Hope when he was 7. Huckabee stayed. 
 ''I was a timid little guy when I was a kid,'' he recalls. ''I used humor as a defense; I became the class clown. But deep inside I felt real vulnerable.'' In the supremely macho culture of small-town Arkansas, he stood out as a klutz. One of Huckabee's lasting childhood memories is how, in seventh grade, the gym teacher put him on a team of the worst basketball players and made him perform for the amusement of the entire class. ''It was just to get others to laugh at us,'' he says. ''I remember how humiliated I felt, being singled out.'' 
 Words and music were Huckabee's salvation. He started playing rock-'n'-roll guitar at 11. He became a champion public speaker and debater. At 14 he was hired as an announcer for the local radio station. Huckabee grew up on stages and in studios. 
 And in a missionary Baptist church. His father brought him up with biblical spare-the-rod-and-spoil-the-child ferocity. ''I feared him,'' Huckabee told me. ''Even though I know today that what he did, he did out of intense love.'' 
 The harsh moral instruction took. If young Mike Huckabee was ever rebellious or difficult, there's no record of it. He preached his first sermon as a teenager, married his high-school sweetheart and went off to Ouachita Baptist University in Arkadelphia. There he majored in speech and communications, worked at a radio station and earned his B.A. in a little more than two years. He spent a year at Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary in Fort Worth, Tex., before dropping out to work for the televangelist James Robison, who bought him his first decent wardrobe and showed him how to use television. To this day, Huckabee regards Robison as one of his role models in the art of communication, along with Ronald Reagan and the radio commentator Paul Harvey. 
 In 1979, after four years of doing what Janet Huckabee wryly refers to as ''missionary work in Texas,'' Huckabee returned to Arkansas to serve as a congregational pastor and, eventually, head of the 490,000-member Baptist State Convention. From this power base, he ran for the Senate against the incumbent Dale Bumpers in 1992 and lost resoundingly. The following year he won a special election for lieutenant governor. Then, in 1996, Gov. Jim Guy Tucker was convicted on federal charges of fraud and conspiracy in events relating to the Whitewater scandal. 
 What happened next is related in the first 31 pages of ''Character Makes a Difference.'' This is Huckabee's ''Profiles in Courage'' (if J.F.K. had been writing autobiography). He gives the book to reporters as a testament to his skill at crisis management. The crisis in question took place on July 15, 1996. Governor Tucker was supposed to resign, and Huckabee was scheduled to be sworn in at 2 p.m. But at 1:55, Tucker called to say that he had changed his mind. He wasn't quitting. 
 This was ''arguably the greatest constitutional crisis in Arkansas history,'' Huckabee writes, as though his state never seceded from the Union or had its capital's high school forcibly integrated by the 101st Airborne. Still, Tucker's change of heart was a big moment. As Huckabee recalls it, the Arkansas State Legislature fell into chaos. ''Many of the old-time Democrats all but fell on the floor and ripped their garments in twain. . . . Keeping your word is a sacred thing in Arkansas.'' When it became clear that garment-rending wouldn't get Tucker to go away quietly, Huckabee took direct action. He addressed the people in a statewide telecast, informing them that he was now in control; he threatened impeachment proceedings against Tucker; state troopers were mobilized to protect the capital. All this activity had the desired effect. Tucker re-resigned. In fact, the whole affair was wrapped up by the 6 o'clock news. 
 Huckabee went on to serve out Tucker's term and two of his own. He was, by most reckonings, a successful governor. He built roads, improved the schools, gave fine speeches and comported himself with affability. Folks generally liked Mike. Which is why many were surprised when, at the end of October, the University of Arkansas published a poll in which state voters, asked an open question about their presidential preference, chose Hillary Clinton. She got 35 percent. Huckabee, less than a year out of the governor's mansion, tied Rudy Giuliani for second place with 8 percent. 
 John Brummett, the political columnist for The Arkansas News Bureau in Little Rock, interprets the University of Arkansas poll as referendum on Huckabee's perceived lack of gravitas. ''He did a lot of good things,'' Brummett told me. ''But a lot of people down here see him as a pale imitation of Bill Clinton. People doubt that he's really presidential-caliber.'' 
 Brummett had his share of run-ins with Huckabee, whom he sometimes called His Huffiness. But he has a soft spot for the governor. ''A while back my dog died,'' he told me. ''When I wrote a column about it, Governor Huckabee got in touch with me. He's got a Labrador, like mine, named Jet. He offered me a puppy from the next litter. I had no doubt that it was a sincere gesture. He's the kind of man whose heart can be touched by a pet.'' Huckabee's compassion made him popular with poor and minority voters. ''Republicans usually get about 5 or 10 percent of the black vote in Arkansas,'' Brummett told me, ''but there's evidence, from precinct reports, that Huckabee got 30 percent, maybe more.'' Fiscal conservatives accuse Huckabee of being too compassionate, a traditional open-handed Southern politician. The charge against him has been led by the Club for Growth, a group that promotes tax cuts and limiting government spending, which Huckabee refers to as the Club for Greed. According to Nachama Soloveichik, a spokeswoman for the Club for Growth, the governor is ''a serial tax hiker and a big-government big spender.'' The columnist George Will has acidly mocked Huckabee's ''incoherent populism,'' saying that his candidacy ''rests on serial non sequiturs: I am a Christian, therefore I am a conservative, therefore whatever I have done or propose to do with 'compassionate,' meaning enlarged, government is conservatism.'' 
 There is some truth to the big-government, big-spender characterization, but it is also an exaggeration. As governor, Huckabee raised some taxes and lowered others and left office with a state surplus of more than $800 million. 
 Huckabee's answer to his opponents on the fiscal right has been his Fair Tax proposal. The idea calls for abolishing the I.R.S. and all current federal taxes, including Social Security, Medicare and corporate and personal income taxes, and replacing them with an across-the-board 23 percent consumption tax. Governor Huckabee promises that this plan would be ''like waving a magic wand, releasing us from pain and unfairness.'' Some reputable economists think the scheme is practicable. Many others regard it as fanciful. (For starters, it would require repealing the 16th Amendment to the Constitution.) In any case, the Fair Tax proposal is based on extremely complex projections. Huckabee does not have an impressive grasp of its details. When I suggested, for example, that consumers might evade the tax simply by acquiring goods and services for cash on the black market, he seemed genuinely surprised. 
 Immigration has also been a tough issue for Huckabee among potential Republican voters. Critics accuse him of being soft for allowing the children of illegals, educated in Arkansas, to apply for public scholarship money. According to Paul Greenberg, the editorial page editor of The Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, this approach is a function of Huckabee's Christian charity. ''He sees them as 'strangers in a strange land.' '' Despite political pressure, Huckabee hasn't backed down from his belief that it is wrong to punish immigrant children for the sins of their parents. On the other hand, there's nothing in the Bible about giving strangers driver's licenses, a policy Huckabee has long opposed. 
 As a premillennialist evangelical, Huckabee also has no problem with enforcing the law, at the border or anywhere else. ''A person with a biblical worldview of human nature says humans are by nature selfish,'' he has written. ''We are not basically good; rather, we are basically self-centered. . . . Only two things will change this behavior: either our nature will be changed by a supernatural experience with God through Christ, or we will fear the consequences of not doing the right thing.'' 
 Huckabee would prefer, of course, that people go the supernatural route, but he is also a law-and-order man. Like his father before him, he (and his wife) administered corporal punishment to their three children. 
 Huckabee has been criticized by rival candidates for his role in the Wayne DuMond case, in which an incarcerated rapist was paroled from prison in Arkansas and subsequently killed a woman in Missouri. Governor Huckabee favored the parole. But attacking him as soft on crime won't be so easy for his opponents. Writing about capital punishment, Huckabee said, ''I took my action with a sense of resolve, and to this day I am confident that I did the right thing 'right' defined against moral absolutes in the midst of an imperfect world.'' In fact, Huckabee is the only man in the race who has actually signed another human being's death warrant. 
 If there are flaws in Huckabee's personal reputation, they center on the perception that he has a preacher's sense of entitlement. In blunt terms, he took a lot of gifts. In 1999, the first year as governor that he was required by law to record their value, he listed 73 presents, including a pair of season football tickets from the University of Arkansas, a guitar from the band Lynyrd Skynyrd, fishing and hunting trips, a carved sculpture of Christ, a leather purse for his wife from Jennifer's Dress Shop, a case of beef, department-store gift certificates and the use of a Chevrolet. He was also given honorary membership to Chenal Valley Country Club, the Little Rock Club, Pleasant Valley Country Club, the Country Club of Little Rock, Maumelle Bass Club and the Old Fishing Club. Huckabee received ''legal services'' from a Fayetteville attorney, Tom Mars, whom he later appointed director of the Arkansas State Police. Mars defended Huckabee in a suit charging that he had improperly claimed $70,000 worth of furniture, intended for the governor's mansion, as a personal gift. (Huckabee eventually conceded the point, but the charge was later dropped.) 
 As lieutenant governor, Huckabee established a corporation, Action America, to which people donated more than $60,000. He used that money to pay himself for delivering inspirational speeches. Asked by the Arkansas news media to disclose the names of donors, Huckabee declined. In all, Huckabee accepted and reported upward of 300 gifts during his years in office, worth at least $150,000 and probably much more. Some were received at a gift shower that was held for the benefit of the family. 
 ''The women who threw that shower were old friends of my wife's,'' he told me at the Olive Garden. ''Local journalists tried to make it look like we were gouging presents. I have no problem with honest criticism, but that was just pettiness.'' 
 In his home state, Huckabee has a reputation for an elephantine memory for slights and criticism. ''The local cliche about him is that he is thin-skinned,'' says Prof. Janine Parry, who teaches Arkansas state politics at the University of Arkansas. ''And he can be mean. The national press hasn't seen much of that. So far he's kept it under control.'' 
 Huckabee, on one well-remembered occasion, banned an alternative newspaper, The Arkansas Times, from the services of the governor's press office. His usual weapon, though, has been his sharp tongue. Huckabee is never profane -- one of his first acts as governor was to ban swearing and inappropriate sexual remarks by his staff -- but he has a way of expressing himself that sometimes flirts with vulgarity. ''Once he told a group of journalists that I was constipated,'' John Brummett recalls. ''That was his way of saying I was full of [expletive].'' 
 This fall, Huckabee demonstrated his style in an interview with The Washington Times. Assailing Hillary Clinton for failing to denounce MoveOn.org's attack on Gen. David Petraeus, he said, ''If you can't get your lips off the backside of George Soros long enough to use those lips to say it's wrong to declare a sitting general . . . guilty of treason, how would you ever expect to have the support of the very military you might have to send into deadly battle?'' 
 Huckabee often describes unpleasant tasks as ''about as much fun as a colonoscopy.'' He once told a reporter from The Washington Post that his rock band doesn't get women tossing their panties on the stage because ''given our demographics, we're more likely to have old men throwing their Depends at us.'' 
 Self-deprecating humor is another Huckabee trademark, but the barbs have a way of winding up in someone else's hide. On the stump, he gets a laugh telling audiences that the five words Arkansas politicians fear most are ''Will the defendant please rise.'' But it wasn't Huckabee who got into trouble with the law; it was his predecessors. In 2000, on the Don Imus radio program, Huckabee called his state ''a banana republic.'' Some Arkansans thought it was funny. Others considered it an effort to ingratiate himself with a national media figure by laughing at them. 
 And yet, despite what she sees as Huckabee's mean streak, Professor Parry of Arkansas, who is a self-described liberal, considers Huckabee a good governor. ''When he first came to office, people like me were worried about the religious aspect,'' she says. ''And he is very orthodox on gays, guns and God. But he knows there's more than just these issues.''
 The Surf Ballroom in Clear Lake, Iowa, is a rock-'n'-roll shrine, the last venue played by Buddy Holly, Ritchie Valens and the Big Bopper before their plane went down in February 1959. When I pulled up there, on the last Friday in October, the old-fashioned marquee read, ''Mike Huckabee and Capitol Offense,'' and beneath that, in equally large letters, ''The Thunder from Down Under.'' Hillary or Mitt would never have agreed to share a marquee with an all-male adult cabaret. They also wouldn't have introduced a new phase of their campaign at the site of one of the most famous crashes in American history. Luckily, Huckabee didn't have enough staff for conventional planning. The show that night had a $10 entry fee, $25 for families. I sat at a round table near the dance floor next to a man with a crew cut and a booming voice who matriculated at Regent University and whose daughter was a student at Jerry Falwell's Liberty University. The crowd was white and in the throes of advanced middle age. 
 The band was tight that night, but the show started slowly. Only a few couples took the floor. A man who looked like Dick Cheney did a sedate version of the Chicken with his wife, who also looked like Dick Cheney. ''Get out there and dance,'' Huckabee exhorted the crowd. ''Let's show the world that conservative Republicans can have as much fun as anybody.'' Huckabee, I later learned, doesn't dance himself, or even move around onstage. He must be one of the few guys of his generation who didn't join a band to meet girls. 
 The candidate was in high spirits. The campaign, he announced, had taken in more money in the last week than in the previous few months. He was presented with a fishing rod as a gift, and he observed that he believed a man should go to church once a week and fishing once a week. Several times he declared the Surf to be ''sacred ground.'' 
 If there was magic there, it was working. Three days later, the Hawkeye Poll of the University of Iowa was published. Huckabee had 13 percent, in a virtual tie with Rudy Giuliani for second place, behind Mitt Romney with 36. At that point, the Huckabee bandwagon didn't seem all that amazing to Iowa veterans. ''Actually, it is pretty straightforward,'' said Prof. David Redlawsk, director of the University of Iowa's Hawkeye Poll. ''About 45 percent of the 85,000 or so Republican caucus voters are evangelical Christians. Roughly half of them automatically vote for the most socially conservative candidate in the race, and it looks like they have decided that's Huckabee. The other half can be won over, too -- if they think he's electable.'' 
 Three weeks later, Redlawsk revised his estimate. He thought Huckabee might actually win. He even wondered if Huckabee might be peaking too soon. The Iowa caucus doesn't really decide anything, not even convention delegates. It's a media event, a momentum-builder for the candidate who is judged to exceed expectations. ''If he continues to lead in the polls until Jan. 3, he could find himself in the position that a narrow win is interpreted as a loss,'' Redlawsk cautioned. 
 Money remains a problem. At the start of November, Huckabee set an online fund-raising goal of $2,067,521, and he barely made it, despite all the buzz around his candidacy. Compare him with Ron Paul, who raised more than $4 million on the Internet in one day in October, while still lingering in the single digits in both national and early primary state polls.
 ''Huckabee's voters are people who tithe,'' a professor at Liberty University told me. ''People who give 10 percent of their income to the church don't usually have money left over for political donations.'' 
 Huckabee, who tithes himself, agrees. There is big evangelical money out there, of course, but so far he hasn't been on the receiving end of it. In the first three-quarters of this year, his campaign's largest individual bundler was Stephens Inc., a Little Rock investment-banking firm that anted up about $35,000. Oddly, one member of the Stephens family, Jackson T. (Steve) Stephens Jr., has donated more than $1 million to the Club for Growth and is on its board of directors. The governor declined to discuss the matter, the only time in our dealings when I got a ''no comment.''
 Huckabee, like the other candidates, has yet to report his campaign's gross income from the last quarter of 2007, but judging from his Iowa operation, it couldn't be much. On the first Sunday afternoon in December, the very day that Huckabee took the lead in the Register poll, I stopped by his Des Moines headquarters. The place is about the size of Floyd's Mayberry barbershop and not as busy. Janet Huckabee was there, decking the walls for Christmas. A few young staff members and volunteers sat at phones that didn't ring. I came in with Steve Penland, a burly man in a Marines baseball cap who wanted to know if Huckabee was planning to repeal Nafta. This is a big deal in Iowa, but no one in the office, including the resident ''issues'' man, had any idea where the candidate stood. (I asked Huckabee the next day; he's for keeping it.) Penland walked away from the exchange a dissatisfied customer, although he did get a holiday mint from Janet Huckabee. 
 As Mike Huckabee was being interviewed by Harry Smith of ''The Early Show'' at Central College, a few blocks away, in downtown Pella, the Parliament of Dutch Iowa was convening. Pella is a little town founded 160 years ago by immigrants from the Netherlands, and they built their American home in the image of the old country, windmills, a canal and all. In't Veld Meat Market, known locally as the Baloney Shop, is a local institution where the Parliament gathers. It is a daily meeting of elders, who range in age from early retirees to Tony Tysseling, who turns 100 next June and drove himself to the meeting, as he does every morning. The group has one conversational rule: no politics and no religion. But they agreed to make an exception for a stranger from New York. 
 The Parliament is not what you would call polarized. Only one man (they were all men, except for one woman who said that she was just there keeping an eye on her husband) admitted to being a Democrat. They razzed Tony Tysseling for having once voted for F.D.R. ''I voted for Hoover the first time, though,'' he said in self-defense. ''Hoover was an Iowa boy.'' The others nodded. Some of them voted for Wendell Willkie or Tom Dewey or Ike. Others converted to the Republican cause 20 years earlier, when Pat Robertson ran in the caucus. Robertson got 25 percent in 1988, roughly where Huckabee was now showing in the polls. 
 ''I like the sound of Mike Huckabee,'' one man said. ''I don't know much about him, but he seems like he'd fit in this community.'' 
 ''He's not too far East,'' said Leo Nikkel. 
 ''Jan. 3 is the Orange Bowl,'' noted Eldon Schulte, who played linebacker for the Chicago Bears in the early '60s. ''Same day as the caucus.'' 
 ''Lot of people may not vote,'' said a man at the end of the table. 
 ''Lot will,'' another said. It was as close as they were going to get to an argument. 
 Finally I called the vote, reading out names as the elders raised their hands shyly. One vote for Mitt Romney. One for Rudy Giuliani. Nine for Mike Huckabee, and the rest unwilling to express an opinion. Casey Van Weelden summed up local sentiment: ''Huckabee's a moral man. He's a preacher. And he lost a hundred pounds. He's going to do all right in Iowa. What I don't know is how he's going to go with the rest of the country.'' 
 Neither does Huckabee. His Nascar strategy is, at best, a long shot. He doesn't have many troops in New Hampshire, or the money to campaign simultaneously in more than 20 states for Super Tuesday. And there is always the possibility that the sometimes hypersensitive governor will crack under the pounding of his primary opponents. 
 But even if his presidential prospects do dim, Huckabee could be a natural for the No. 2 slot, especially for Giuliani, who could use both an evangelical and a Southerner on the ticket. And Huckabee plays well with others. ''If the candidates held a greenroom Mr. Congeniality contest, Huckabee would win in a walk,'' an aide to one of his opponents told me. 
 Of course, Huckabee swears he isn't interested in second place. Could he be tempted? As the Republican consultant Mike Murphy says, ''Vice presidents become presidents.'' Huckabee, who inherited the governor's office from his boss, is well aware of this means of accession. Or he might wait for another shot. ''Mike's only 52 years old, much younger than the other candidates,'' his adviser Dick Dresner told me. ''He can look past this race to 2012 or beyond. With the national exposure he's getting this year, he could be a real factor in the G.O.P. for a long time.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 13, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 16 about Mike Huckabee misstated his academic credentials. He majored in religion at Ouachita Baptist University in Arkadelphia, Ark., not speech and communications. Speech was his minor.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Behind the Long Shot: Scenes from Huckabee campaign headquarters in Des Moines, Iowa, in early December, after polls showed a bounce for the candidate. Bottom row: In advance of the surge of volunteers the campaign hopes will follow Huckabee's rise in the polls, Janet Huckabee, Mike's wife, prepares for the coming seasons, Christmas and Caucus.
The Candidate: Huckabee in Iowa, clockwise from top left: With his wife, Janet
speaking to Principal Financial Group employees
conferring with Janet before an appearance
meeting supporters at a community college near Des Moines
appearing at Central College for a segment of ''The Early Show'' on CBS
with the ''Pella Parliament'' at In't Veld Meat Market.
Huckabee, Before and After: Fishing on the Arkansas River in 2001 (top) and four years and 110 pounds later. (Photographs by Michele Asselin
Mark Peterson For The New York Times
 Mike Huckabee) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); RELIGION (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (86%); WRITERS (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (74%); CHRISTMAS (73%); CAUCUSES (72%); MARATHONS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (71%); AIRLINES (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (69%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (61%); POLLS & SURVEYS (55%); LIBERALISM (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL HUCKABEE (94%); MITT ROMNEY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) IOWA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2007



405 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: Obama Showing New Confidence With Iowa Sprint

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: WATERLOO, Iowa 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama is seeking to capitalize on a moment of opportunity in the weeks before the Iowa caucuses to challenge Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's long dominance of the Democratic field, and in doing so, he now faces intensified questions about his vulnerabilities in a general election.
 These days, Mr. Obama spends less time acknowledging Mrs. Clinton as he speaks to Iowans. But he finds himself at the center of a fusillade of criticism from his rivals, including an assertion by former President Bill Clinton that to elect Mr. Obama would be to ''roll the dice'' for America -- a comment that validates the political threat Mr. Obama poses.
 Mr. Obama, in an interview on Friday, addressed the shift in sentiment about his prospects of beating Mrs. Clinton in Iowa and holding her off in New Hampshire and other states that follow. ''A month ago, I was an idiot,'' he said. ''This month, I'm a genius.'' 
 The campaign of Mr. Obama, which slogged uncertainly through a period in the late summer and fall, alarming contributors who feared that he might have missed his moment, is now brimming with confidence as he delivers a closing argument to Iowa voters. His speeches are noticeably crisper, his poise is more consistent and many supporters say they no longer must rely upon a leap of faith to envision him winning the nomination.
 With one week remaining before the campaign pauses for Christmas, Mr. Obama is dashing through a 22-city tour from the Mississippi River in the east to the Missouri River in the west, rushing to lock in voters before a holiday interlude. His organization faces its greatest test yet: turning enthusiasm among many grass-roots Democrats into widespread support at the caucuses on Jan. 3 in precincts that will decide the outcome, particularly rural areas where his support still remains uneven after 10 months of campaigning.
 As he traveled across Iowa a month ago, a chief element of Mr. Obama's pitch was to draw sharp contrasts with Mrs. Clinton and to urge voters to consider whether she had been truthful in explaining her positions. One of the few mentions he made about his rival here Saturday was to respond to criticism by associates of the Clinton campaign that he was too inexperienced and his background was unexamined.
 ''I understand that there's a history of politics being all about slash and burn and taking folks down,'' Mr. Obama, of Illinois, told reporters. ''I recall the Clintons themselves calling it the politics of personal destruction, which they decried. My suspicion is that's just not where the country's at right now. They are not interested in politics as a blood sport.''
 Yet despite a fresh sense of confidence surrounding Mr. Obama, the race in Iowa remains remarkably unsettled, and on Saturday evening The Des Moines Register's editorial pages announced its endorsement of Mrs. Clinton. Many potential caucusgoers are still making up their minds -- or are open to changing them -- as the six major Democratic candidates unleash advertising that urge voters to consider the gravity of the election.
 A variety of polls show Mr. Obama, at worst, to be in a dead heat with Mrs. Clinton in Iowa and strongly gaining on her in New Hampshire, which will have a primary election on Jan. 8.
 Strategists for Mr. Obama said that they believed he had sufficiently answered questions about his experience. But fresh doubts are being injected into the atmosphere of the race every day. In an advertisement, another Democratic opponent, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, says that ''being president is not the same as running for president.''
 Still, Mr. Obama finds himself in the tightest competition with Mrs. Clinton, who dropped her above-the-fray posture and became more combative in recent weeks, but even more directly with John Edwards, a former senator from North Carolina who placed second here in 2004 and has staked his candidacy on a strong showing. Mr. Edwards released a new television advertisement on Saturday, in which he says, ''Saving the middle class is going to be an epic battle, and that's a fight I was born for.''
 Reflecting concern about Mr. Edwards's campaign, Mr. Obama briefly mentioned him at a campaign stop on Saturday in Independence when he responded to criticism from Mr. Edwards about Mr. Obama's health care plan. Both candidates are fighting for many of the same voters, a point underscored by their travel itineraries practically mirroring each other.
 With the war in Iraq having lost some of its intensity as a distinguishing point among Democratic candidates (several audiences barely applauded on Saturday when Mr. Obama stated his opposition to the war), other issues have come to the fore, like health care, the economy and which candidate is best suited to win the general election.
 Mr. Obama is seeking to remind voters of his judgment, temperament and unifying approach to seize upon what many Democrats see as a moment of vulnerability for Mrs. Clinton. At the same time, he has narrowed his focus to a micro-level in Iowa, calling sheriffs, local officials and prospective precinct captains when he passes through town.
 Before leaving Iowa for the weekend, Mrs. Clinton forcefully, if obliquely, pressed the case that she was not only more experienced than Mr. Obama, but better able to take on what is sure to be an aggressive campaign by the Republican nominee. 
 ''I've been vetted,'' Mrs. Clinton, of New York, told reporters on Friday. ''I've been tested. There are no surprises.''
 An adviser to Mrs. Clinton's campaign suggested last week that Mr. Obama's admission of drug use as a young man could weaken his candidacy. Her campaign repudiated the remarks, Mrs. Clinton apologized and the adviser resigned. But she and her aides have kept the issue alive by referring to it publicly in what appeared to be an effort to drive up negative views of his character and to raise doubts about his ability to weather a general election.
 In an interview, Mr. Obama responded that voters would ultimately be turned off by such attacks on him, particularly about his admission more than a decade ago that he used marijuana and cocaine in his youth. 
 ''My past and my character seemed to be fine when I was 20 points down,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Those kinds of tactics or strategies, I think, are emblematic of an old politics. It's the exactly the kind of politics that the American people are tired of.''
 In the final 18 days of the race here, Mr. Obama intends to devote nearly all of his time to Iowa, with the exception of a two-day trip to New Hampshire. He completed his final fund-raiser of the year on Tuesday in Seattle, which freed his schedule for 15-hour days of back-to-back rallies and town meetings, a pace far more hectic than much of the year. 
 ''The political climate on the night of the caucuses is as important to turnout as anything,'' said his campaign manager, David Plouffe. ''Right now, we have a good climate, but the next 20 days will seem like 20 years.''
 So in the closing weeks of the race, as volunteers make about 10,000 phone calls every night on behalf of Mr. Obama except on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day, they are given the task of collecting an answer to a new piece of information: If you are going away for the holidays, will you be back by Jan. 3?
 In such a tight race, Mr. Plouffe said, a margin of 2,000 or 3,000 could tip the balance. That is why none of the candidates are leaving any possibilities to chance, from the students who will be 18 by Election Day in 2008 to the older voters who are being gently asked to stick around Iowa until the caucuses before moving to a warmer climate for the winter.
 As he reaches out to those voters, Mr. Obama imposes upon them a heavy sense of responsibility. At the same time, he seems to unwittingly raise expectations for his own campaign here.
 ''You in Iowa have this extraordinary privilege of choosing who the next president of the United States is going to be,'' Mr. Obama told an audience in Guttenberg on the opening leg of his bus tour. ''Whoever wins this caucus is likely to win the nomination and is likely to win the presidency.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters of Barack Obama rallied at the site of a candidate debate last week in Johnston, Iowa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE POPE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg.A42) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CHRISTMAS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (99%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2007



406 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Eggnog, the Tonic For What Ails Detroit

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
In Detroit, the weather outside may be frightful, and the outlook for auto sales is not delightful, but that did not get in the way of auto company parties last week.
 The Ford Motor Company's two top executives, William Clay Ford Jr. and Alan R. Mulally, toasted each other Tuesday night at their party in Dearborn, Mich.
 Mr. Mulally, who was hired as chief executive last year, said he relies heavily on Mr. Ford's automotive expertise. In turn, Mr. Ford, now executive chairman, called Mr. Mulally a ''human tornado.'' 
 Mr. Ford's confidence in Ford's management has grown since the company hired James D. Farley from Toyota this fall to lead its marketing efforts. ''I feel like I'm surrounded by like-minded people now,'' Mr. Ford said. ''I've never felt that way before.''
 Across town, G.M.'s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, told his variation on the joke that a car company's health can be measured by the size of the shrimp at its buffet tables.
 ''We may not have the biggest shrimp, but we have the widest range of shrimp, to fit everyone's needs,'' Mr. Wagoner, whose company sells eight brands of vehicles, said Monday night.
 Referring to the battle in Washington over fuel economy standards, he said, ''We considered having green shrimp,'' sending faint shudders through guests at the Heritage Center in Sterling Heights, Mich. ''Fortunately,'' he added, ''we did not do that.''
 Honda Motor had plenty of jumbo shrimp, as well as lobster and scallops, at its party at the Max M. Fisher Music Center in Detroit. 
 Honda's new American president, Tetsuo Iwamura, seemed unfazed by the frosty weather. He told guests that he spent many December nights in Germany while working in the automaker's European operations.
 There, Mr. Iwamura became a devotee of the annual Christmas markets, where he said he kept warm by drinking spiced wine and eating roasted potatoes.
 Chrysler's party at the Detroit Science Center on Thursday night was missing one notable guest: its host. Jason H. Vines, Chrysler's vice president for corporate communications, resigned on Monday, four months after Chrysler was acquired by Cerberus Capital Management. MICHELINE MAYNARD AND NICK BUNKLEY
 SHOPPING AND GIVING Executives looking for suits at the Brooks Brothers flagship store on Madison Avenue last week were treated to Christmas cookies, a performance by musicians who have played at Jazz at Lincoln Center and a reading by Marlo Thomas. 
 The activities were part of the retailer's effort to raise $500,000 for St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, up from $100,000 last year, said Emilie M. Antonetti, managing director of the Golden Fleece Foundation, the company's charitable arm. All of Brooks Brothers' American stores are participating.
 Claudio Del Vecchio, chairman and chief executive of Brooks Brothers -- his company Retail Brand Alliance acquired the retailer in 2001 -- established the Golden Fleece Foundation this fall to organize the company's philanthropy. Mr. Del Vecchio, whose family owns the Luxottica Group, the Italian eyewear giant, has supported many charities, like the Gift of Sight, a Luxottica foundation. LOUISE KRAMER
 OPTION TO BUY Under pressure from shareholders, many companies have cut back on the perquisites for top executives. But some chief executives, like Charles G. McClure Jr. of ArvinMeritor, have found ways to benefit from the loss of a special privilege.
 In the case of Mr. McClure, 54, it was the loss -- make that gain -- of his company car. When directors ''determined to phase out most perquisite programs,'' including company cars and club memberships, Mr. McClure opted to buy the car that had been provided to him, according to the company's proxy statement filed last week. 
 The proxy did not describe the car, but it did note that the difference between the car's value and what he paid for it was $13,292. Then, the company covered his taxes on that gift. PATRICK McGEEHAN 
 JOIN THE CLUBRobert D. Welding did not last long as chief executive of the Federal Signal Corporation, but long enough to have shareholders pay for him to join a country club whose initiation fee is $85,000.
 Mr. Welding, 59, resigned abruptly and without explanation last week, four years after joining Federal Signal, which makes fire trucks and flashing lights for police cars. A company spokesman said Mr. Welding resigned and would retire on Jan. 1.
 According to Federal Signal's last proxy statement, the company paid the first half of the fee for an unidentified club in the Chicago area in 2006 and had agreed to pay the balance when Mr. Welding attained ''full membership status.'' The spokesman did not know if Mr. Welding had become a full-fledged member yet. PATRICK McGEEHAN

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Children with Marlo Thomas at Brooks Brothers' flagship Manhattan store on Thursday. A percentage of the day's sales will go to St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Charles G. McClure Jr. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (68%); JAZZ & BLUES (68%); HISTORY (64%); FOUNDATIONS (63%); CHARITIES (63%); MUSIC (63%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (63%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (95%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (85%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (52%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (95%); F (NYSE) (95%); HNDA (LSE) (85%); HMC (NYSE) (85%); 7267 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (95%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (77%); RICK WAGONER (56%); CHARLES G MCCLURE JR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007



407 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Hunger at the Holidays

 BODY:
Unsettling, isn't it, to consider the possibility of hidden misery and scarcity in the New York suburbs, a landscape designed and maintained to project comfort and abundance? This is an age of apparent affluence, when even the implements of daily living -- homes, cars, even beverage cups and shopping carts -- have swelled to bursting, are bigger than big, the better to contain and carry all that we consume and have become. It seems hardly the time or place for empty stomachs and barren cupboards, especially at the holidays. 
 And yet hunger is real here, and growing.
A few statistics suffice to make the point. As Robin Finn wrote in this section last Sunday, food banks and food-rescue agencies on Long Island say demand for their services is up by 40 percent. Fran Leek, director of parish outreach at St. Hugh of Lincoln Church in Huntington Station for the last 12 years, said the need at her food pantry had risen 150 percent since she arrived; she now struggles to make her inventory of groceries stretch to help 350 families a month. 
 Government agencies are witnessing the rising need. Suffolk County's Department of Social Services helped 12,800 people receive food stamps in 2004 -- and 20,850 in 2007. It's hard to tell how much of that increase is due to increased poverty, and how much to the county's increased efforts to bring more people onto the rolls.
 Government benefits remain limited. Across the country, about 800,000 people on food stamps, many of them elderly or disabled, must survive on a minimum benefit of $10 per month. That amount that has not changed in 30 years. Some suggest that many who are eligible for food stamps simply don't bother to get them, because the paltry sums aren't worth the considerable effort of applying. Private charitable agencies, meanwhile, are filling the gap for families who earn too much to qualify for aid under punishingly low federal and state income thresholds.
 In the New York region, the problem of poverty and hungry is linked inextricably to the shortage of affordable housing. Across the region last year, the number of households paying 50 percent or more of their income on housing, including taxes and utilities, rose by 41,000, to more than 400,000. When winter comes, and the cost of heating is added to the fixed costs of housing and gasoline, many a family budget is stretched to the breaking point. It is impossible to economize on a mortgage payment or the rent. But it is always possible to save a few dollars by going hungry.
 Advocates for the poor say there are simple things the government can do to help the hungry, like keeping social-service centers open in the evening, as Nassau County does one night a week, to allow more working families to apply for food stamps. Although the counties and New York State may be constrained by stingy federal guidelines and dwindling aid, they should still redouble their efforts to make sure everyone who is eligible for aid actually receives it.
 Meanwhile a wide array of nonprofit agencies has mobilized to meet the growing need, to serve ''the pockets of poor,'' as Ms. Leek put it, who are hidden within the folds of Long Island's conspicuous wealth. 
 They deserve your support.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); FAMILY (89%); FOOD STAMPS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (75%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); BUDGETS (66%); CHARITIES (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



408 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: The Quality of Mercy/Dec. 9-15

 BODY:
THE NEWS Federal judges have broad discretion to set aside sentencing guidelines and impose sentences they think are reasonable in criminal cases, the Supreme Court ruled on Monday in deciding two cases involving drug convictions. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS In each case, an appeals court overturned a sentence imposed by a trial judge that was lighter than called for by the federal guidelines, after prosecutors had complained. In one of the cases, the trial judge disagreed with guidelines that require much harsher sentences for crack-cocaine possession than for the possession of an equivalent amount of powdered cocaine.
THE NEWS The United States Sentencing Commission, which sets guidelines for federal crimes, voted 7-0 on Tuesday to reduce retroactively sentences for crack-cocaine offenses, bringing them closer to those imposed for powdered cocaine. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS According to the board, the perception that the disparity in the sentencing guidelines was racist -- crack offenders are overwhelmingly black, while powdered cocaine offenders are mostly white and Hispanic -- was becoming ''corrosive'' to the justice system. The decision will eventually allow as many as 19,500 inmates to apply for sentence reductions, with 3,800 potentially eligible for release next year. 
 THE NEWSMichael Vick, the star quarterback of the Atlanta Falcons who pleaded guilty to running a dogfighting ring on his property in Virginia, was sentenced on Monday to 23 months in prison.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The judge said that he decided to impose a sentence longer than the one prosecutors had requested under their plea agreement with Mr. Vick because Mr. Vick lied about the extent of his involvement in the dogfighting operation, and never owned up to being a full participant in killing dogs on his property -- not to mention lying about his drug use while out on bail. Prosecutors did not object to the sentence. 
 THE NEWSConrad M. Black, the disgraced publishing executive who was convicted of looting more than $6 million from his company, Hollinger International, through improper fee payments, was sentenced on Monday to 6 1/2 years in prison and fined $125,000. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS The sentence is much lighter than the 24-year term prosecutors initially sought for the 63-year-old Mr. Black, who said he would appeal anyway. Letters from celebrity acquaintances like Elton John attesting to Mr. Black's character seemed to cut no ice with the judge, who noted that the money Mr. Black donated to Sir Elton's charitable foundation was the company's, not his own.
 THE NEWS Facing growing anger over the handling of the gang rape of a 10-year-old Aborigine girl, the newly elected government of Australia said it may intervene in the State of Queensland's justice system as it concerns members of the Aborigine minority group. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS Nine men and boys pleaded guilty in the rape case, but none have been sent to prison; the six who were under 17 each got a year's probation and the three older offenders got suspended sentences. Critics say that widespread child abuse among Aborigines, Australia's most economically downtrodden group, is made worse by chronic leniency in the courts and neglect by social agencies. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (ASSOCIATED PRESS DOUG
DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
JERRY LAI/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 QUEENSLAND COURTS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (95%); JUDGES (92%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (92%); COCAINE (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); APPEALS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); BAIL (73%); CELEBRITIES (71%); ATHLETES (65%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (65%); SPORTS (65%); CHARITIES (61%); FOUNDATIONS (61%)

COMPANY: SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US SENTENCING COMMISSION (57%); ATLANTA FALCONS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: ELTON JOHN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (74%) QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (74%) AUSTRALIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



409 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: EDITORIAL; The Governor's Nose Dive

 BODY:
Gov. Eliot Spitzer's polls are looking like a downhill skier's delight and a politician's nightmare. Each new survey puts his popularity at a lower point than the one before, with his foes rejoicing as the man once thought most likely to reform Albany skids publicly into failure. 
 The latest poll from Siena Research Institute shows that even Mr. Spitzer's fellow Democrats are deserting him, with only one in three saying they want him re-elected in 2010.
 Such holiday gloom need not poison the governor's second year in office. Mr. Spitzer has a long list of bragging points, including an elaborate plan to improve the economy across the state and a new budget process that has, at least, started ahead of time. But nobody is going to notice all that until he clears the slate as soon as possible on what has become known as Troopergate -- his staff's mishandling of what should have been a laudable effort to publicize Senator Joseph Bruno's abuse of state helicopters and police cars.
 Mr. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, and his friends in the news media have been relentlessly hounding the governor, making much of his missteps while artfully dodging Mr. Bruno's. No one should let up on Senator Bruno, who has failed to explain whether there are abysmal conflicts of interest in the way he operates his private businesses. 
 But if Mr. Spitzer wants to occupy higher ground than the Brunos of Albany, he must air out this entire mess by testifying before the Commission on Public Integrity, as he has promised to do. Unfortunately, commission rules require that testimony be confidential. The commission should work to make it possible for the governor to allow his testimony to be released once the case is concluded. 
 Sure, the Republicans will beat their chests about this and that detail in the governor's presentation, but Mr. Spitzer can finally say he has made his statements on this matter once and for all, under oath and on the record. It is also time for other investigations on this matter to come to a close. David Soares, the Albany County district attorney, is reinvestigating conflicting statements by Mr. Spitzer's aides, a sidetrack that should not be taking as long as it is.
 And the Senate's investigation -- aimed mainly at keeping the controversy fresh and alive into next year's legislative elections -- should also be shut down. The final say rightly belongs to the new Commission on Public Integrity, headed by John Feerick, the former dean of Fordham Law School, but it is moving more slowly than it should. 
 One theory for the delay is that the commissioners are waiting for Mr. Soares to finish his work. But the commission's investigation should be independent, not only of the governor and the Legislature but also of the district attorney. Even more important, the commissioners' work should not be allowed to drag into next spring.
 There is a lot of important business facing the governor and the Legislature. It is time to put Troopergate where it belongs -- among the footnotes in New York State's history books. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); SKIING (73%); WITNESSES (72%); BUDGETS (69%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); HELICOPTERS (52%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



410 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2519 words

HEADLINE: Free Trade Zones Ease Passage Of Counterfeit Drugs to U.S.

BYLINE: By WALT BOGDANICH; Andrew W. Lehren contributed reporting from New York, and R. M. Koster from Panama.

DATELINE: DUBAI, United Arab Emirates 

 BODY:
Along a seemingly endless row of identical gray warehouses, a lone guard stands watch over a shuttered storage area with a peeling green and yellow sign: Euro Gulf Trading.
 Three months ago, when the authorities announced that they had seized a large cache of counterfeit drugs from Euro Gulf's warehouse deep inside a sprawling free trade zone here, they gave no hint of the raid's global significance.
 But an examination of the case reveals its link to a complex supply chain of fake drugs that ran from China through Hong Kong, the United Arab Emirates, Britain and the Bahamas, ultimately leading to an Internet pharmacy whose American customers believed they were buying medicine from Canada, according to interviews with regulators and drug company investigators in six countries.
 The seizure highlights how counterfeit drugs move in a global economy, and why they are so difficult to trace. And it underscores the role played by free trade zones -- areas specially designated by a growing number of countries to encourage trade, where tariffs are waived and there is minimal regulatory oversight. 
 The problem is that counterfeiters use free trade zones to hide -- or sanitize -- a drug's provenance, or to make, market or relabel adulterated products, according to anticounterfeiting experts. 
 ''Free trade zones allow counterfeiters to evade the laws of the country because often times the regulations are lax in these zones,'' said Ilisa Bernstein, director of pharmacy affairs at the United States Food and Drug Administration. ''This is where some of the Internet sellers work,'' she added.
 Dubai is particularly attractive to counterfeiters because of its strategic location on the Persian Gulf between Asia, Europe and Africa. Records show that nearly a third of all counterfeit drugs confiscated in Europe last year came from the United Arab Emirates. ''Three or four years ago, Dubai did not even appear on the radar screen,'' said an investigator for a major American drug company who is based in China and requested anonymity because he did not have authority to speak for his employer.
 Dubai is vulnerable because of the huge volume of goods that move through its free trade areas, and because of what is perceived by some in the pharmaceutical industry to be a murky line of authority for rooting out counterfeits there. ''It is not clear that the normal Dubai customs authorities have jurisdiction,'' said Rubie Mages, a director of global security for Pfizer. 
 The authorities in Dubai do show a willingness to act when drug company investigators tip them to possible counterfeits, as they did in the raid announced earlier this year. ''Dubai has taken a big step in fighting the counterfeiters,'' said Ahmed Butti Ahmed, director general of Dubai customs. 
 But significant quantities of fake drugs are still getting through, international health officials say. And as countries create more free zones, counterfeiters have more options. ''What happens is they move around,'' said Ms. Bernstein of the F.D.A. Sometimes, in an attempt to avoid detection, they move products between free zones.
 ''It's not just the U.A.E. trade zones that are a problem, but free zones around the world,'' said Steve Allen, a senior investigator for Pfizer, who was in Dubai early this month to talk to customs officials. 
 One problem area, counterfeiting experts say, is the Colon Free Trade Zone, situated next to the Panama Canal.
 In June, the Panamanian authorities raided a warehouse there that was used by an Australian, George Adams, to run his Internet pharmacy business. No charges were filed in connection with that raid, but about $50,000 in drugs were seized, Mr. Adams said. Several months earlier, Mr. Adams had been arrested for trying to sell counterfeit Viagra. He said he was ''set up'' and denies any wrongdoing.
 Mr. Allen, of Pfizer, said his latest concern involves counterfeit shipments passing through Jordan and Mauritius, an island east of Africa.
 In July, the authorities in Dubai said fake drugs from Mauritius had been seized at a free zone next to the Dubai airport. There were more than half a million pills of counterfeit Plavix, a blood-thinning drug made by the French company Sanofi-Aventis.
 The Dubai health authorities say they do not know who made it.
 Some pills, a government official said at the time, contained cement powder.
 A Suspicious Shipment
 On May 22, 2006, British customs officials made a troubling discovery at Heathrow Airport in London. They intercepted 846 pounds of pharmaceuticals, mostly counterfeits of products made by such well-known companies as Merck, Novartis, AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Procter & Gamble. Some medication contained traces of metal. 
 These were not just lifestyle drugs; this medicine was supposed to treat high blood pressure, high cholesterol, osteoporosis and acid reflux, among other ailments.
 Where the drugs came from and where they were going struck inspectors as odd. 
 The shipment had arrived from the United Arab Emirates en route to its next destination: the Bahamas. This was not a route the drug companies used, said Nimo Ahmed, head of intelligence for the British drug regulatory agency. ''What triggered this particular interception was that the pharmaceutical companies had conducted some awareness training with customs in Heathrow to explain suspicious routes,'' Mr. Ahmed said.
 Pfizer took a particular interest in the case. Thousands of pills of its cholesterol-fighting drug Lipitor had been among those counterfeited, the company said. 
 Pfizer, which runs one of the industry's most sophisticated anticounterfeiting operations, contacted Bahamian law enforcement officials in the hope they would investigate the intended recipient of the Heathrow cache. In early June, the Bahamian authorities followed up and raided the Personal Touch Pharmacy in Freeport, seizing nearly $4 million in drugs, some of which turned out to be counterfeit, investigators said. 
 Eventually it was determined that the pharmacy did $8 million in annual business. The question was, with whom? 
 Meanwhile, back in London, there was the matter of tracing the drugs back to their source. That led to one of the many free trade zones in the United Arab Emirates. Those zones are major revenue producers for the emirates and, according to a 2006 State Department report, 17 of them were in operation, with 11 more in development. 
 ''The government in Dubai, believing in the liberal market, adopted this concept,'' said Mohammed Y. Rai Al Boom, a spokesman for the Dubai Airport Free Zone Authority. ''It is very convenient to get products in and out of Dubai.''
 Mr. Ahmed, the British health official, said the zones were set up to encourage legitimate trade. ''They will process packages quicker, receive fees for them, and if everything is done legitimately it's a win-win for everybody,'' he said. But, he added, ''counterfeiters are using it as a way to hide where their products are originally sourced.'' 
 Free zones act as way stations for goods moving around the globe. Since most of the shipments do not officially enter the country, there are fewer bureaucratic entanglements. In the emirates' zones, the usual requirement for local ownership of companies is waived, and there are no import and export fees or income tax.
 Shipping records showed that the Heathrow container came from a company located in a free zone in Sharjah, one of the emirates.
 Drug company investigators say that shortly after the raid in the Bahamas, an effort was made to hide additional drug stock by moving it from Sharjah to the Jebel Ali Free Zone. 
 Afaque Ahmed Khan, a business executive in Dubai, has seen Jebel Ali grow from nothing. ''It's literally like someone walking in the sand and placing his figure on a spot and saying, 'This here is going to be the transit point for trade, globally,''' Mr. Khan said. ''And that's what happened, literally.''
 By far the biggest and oldest free zone in Dubai, Jebel Ali is home to some 6,000 companies. A major new airport is being built to complement the seaport, where millions of containers from boats around the world are unloaded each year. 
 The counterfeit drugs were put in warehouse VC-08, which belonged to Euro Gulf, a trading house that sells laundry, household cleaning and personal care products, according to its Web site. ''Our proactive international strategy has resulted in an increase in exports to more than 40 countries worldwide,'' the Web site said.
 But customs officials in Dubai had been alerted to what was inside. They swept in, found counterfeit drugs and charged seven people with various crimes.
 A Canadian Pharmacy
 In the Bahamas, investigators had also made an important discovery. The computers at Personal Touch Pharmacy were connected to a server hosting a Canadian Internet pharmacy Web site. 
 The site belonged to RxNorth, described by one trade association as the world's first major online pharmacy.
 A founder, Andrew Strempler, had been the subject of numerous profiles, including one in The New York Times in 2005 that described how at the age of 30 he had two Dodge Vipers, a Jaguar and a yellow Lamborghini with a license plate that reads ''RX Boss.''
 The article reported that Mr. Strempler's innovation ''created a whole new Canadian industry that has plugged a niche in America's troubled health care system almost overnight, providing about $800 million worth of low-cost drugs a year to two million uninsured and underinsured Americans, many elderly.'' Drugs have traditionally been cheaper in Canada because of its health care system.
 The big pharmaceutical companies were not pleased. Pfizer and Merck cut off his supplies, forcing Mr. Strempler to buy from other wholesalers.
 That was not Mr. Strempler's only setback. According to the Manitoba Pharmaceutical Association newsletter, the group's discipline committee concluded that in 2001 Mr. Strempler had improperly filled ''in excess of 10,000 orders for medications for patients residing in the United States of America without receiving prescriptions from a medical practitioner or dentist licensed to practice in Canada.''
 Mr. Strempler's online business began to unravel last year when Edward Hector, a former customer service employee, complained to a Canadian television station about the company's business practices. In a recent interview, Mr. Hector said he was told, ''Under no circumstances are you to tell any customer that their medication comes from the Bahamas.'' Mr. Hector said he left RxNorth in May 2006 after working there for a little more than a year.
 Mr. Strempler did not return telephone messages seeking comment, but he has publicly defended his products. The television station also quoted him as saying customers were not told about the Bahamas because medicine coming through there might actually originate in Europe or Australia. It was not clear if he knew the true source of drugs being dispensed by the company in the Bahamas.
 In fact, drug company investigators say, some of them were coming from China, a country known for producing counterfeit medicine.
 ''We traced the source of the medicines and determined that they had been manufactured in China,'' said Ms. Mages of Pfizer. From the mainland it went to Hong Kong, then to the United Arab Emirates and the Bahamas, where individual prescriptions were filled and put into packets and addressed.
 ''Instead of sending it directly to the patient, it then went back to the U.K., where U.K. postage would be affixed, and then it would be mailed to the U.S.,'' Ms. Mages said. ''This was done to lend credibility to the medicine.''
 Drug company investigators say they believe that at least some of the counterfeit drugs seized at the Jebel Ali zone were following that same route. 
 Mr. Ahmed, the British health official, said circuitous routes were used to avoid customs checks. ''The chance of getting intercepted lessens if they use this route,'' he said. And Ms. Mages cited another reason: ''The whole purpose of going through multiple points of entry is to disguise the source.''
 In August and September of last year, the F.D.A. intercepted 5,000 packages from the online pharmacy. At the same time, the agency also warned Americans not to buy 10 drugs from RxNorth or related Web sites because preliminary testing had found counterfeits. 
 The drugs named were: Lipitor, Crestor and Zetia, for cholesterol; Diovan and Hyzaar, for high blood pressure; Actonel for osteoporosis; Nexium for reflux disease; Celebrex for arthritis pain; Arimidex for breast cancer; and Propecia for baldness.
 Trail's End
 Mr. Strempler has not been charged with any crime relating to RxNorth, and published reports say about a year ago he transferred dispensing operations to another Canadian online pharmacy. 
 The F.D.A. declined to comment on RxNorth. Health Canada, the national health agency, said it ''cannot comment on ongoing investigations, specific companies or alleged violations with respect to possible counterfeit activity.''
 In the Bahamas, a pharmacist and office manager for Personal Touch Pharmacy face trial next year on conspiracy and fraud charges, said Garvin Gaskin, chief counsel for the office of attorney general in the Bahamas.
 In Dubai, seven officials associated with Euro Gulf were convicted recently and sent to prison, customs officials said. ''We have been successful in getting customs authorities to work with us to inspect and to seize questionable goods, but we still have a long way to go,'' Ms. Mages said.
 And Mr. Ahmed, the British health official, said he expected individuals to be tried next year on charges relating to RxNorth's links to Britain. He declined to elaborate.
 But a critical piece of the puzzle remains missing -- who made the counterfeit drugs? Investigators had obtained the license number of a truck that brought the suspect medicine into Hong Kong from mainland China. But that turned out to be a dead end.
 And even if investigators do find the factory, there is no shortage of Chinese companies making fake, subpotent or adulterated drug products. 
 ''Some of them in the morning, they manufacture good drugs and in the afternoon and evening they manufacture counterfeit medicine,'' said Dr. Mohammed Abu Elkhair, a health official in Abu Dhabi who helped organize a conference last month in the capital city to educate United Arab Emirates officials on how to combat counterfeit medicine.
 In October, The New York Times reported that scores of Chinese chemical companies were exporting drug ingredients even though they were not licensed to do so. 
 Calling counterfeit medicine a growing global threat, Dr. Abu Elkhair said one only had to look at a mass poisoning in Panama last year to understand the seriousness of the problem. More than a hundred people died there because the government had unwittingly mixed a counterfeit ingredient made by a chemical company in China into cold medicine.
 ''The people there lost faith in the whole health care system, not just in the drug regulations authority,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE VENDOR: Andrew Strempler, a founder of the online pharmacy RxNorth, has defended his products in the face of criticism over their origins. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS FRICKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A10)
 AN EXPANDING PORT: A safety inspector looks over containers alongside the Jebel Ali Free Zone, the oldest and largest free trade zone in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A10) CHART: TRACING A TRADE ROUTE: The authorities say that drugs sold by a Canadian online pharmacy, RxNorth, did not originate in Canada, but were made in China and shipped to the United States along a complex intercontinental trade route. (Sources: Drug company investigators and British law-enforcement officials) (pg. A10) CHINA UNITED ARAB EMIRATES BRITAIN CANADA UNITED STATES THE BAHAMAS Sharjah Hong Kong A T L A N T I C O C E A N The packaged drugs were sent back to Britain, then mailed to buyers in the United States. 5 The drugs were shipped to the Bahamas, where pharmacists filled the individual orders. 4 From the United Arab Emirates, the drugs were flown to London Heathrow Airport. 3 From Hong Kong, the drugs were shipped to a free trade zone in the emirate of Sharjah. 2 1 Drugs from an unknown manufacturer on the Chinese mainland were trucked to Hong Kong. 1 2 3 5 4 Chart showing RxNorth's manufacturing trade route. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERFEITING (93%); COUNTERFEIT DRUGS (92%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (97%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); CANADA (94%); HONG KONG (94%); BAHAMAS (93%); EUROPE (92%); GULF STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007



411 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: Precursor to Defeat: Bubble Deflates

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -- In what the Giants had hoped would not be foreshadowing for their game Sunday night against the Redskins or for their fortunes for the rest of the season, the practice bubble next to Giants Stadium collapsed during the ice and wind storm that struck the area early Sunday. 
 No one was inside and no one was injured when the inflated structure fell about 6 a.m., after one of its steel revolving doors was knocked off its foundation. The resulting gap released the warm air that holds the white fabric aloft.
 The Giants said they hoped the bubble, which has an artificial-turf field of about 70 yards, would be operational for the team's next full practice, on Wednesday. ''It depends on how long it takes the company making the repairs to fix the door area,'' said Jim Minish, executive vice president for facilities for the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, in a statement. He added, ''Once they do that, we'll begin the inflation, which takes about three hours.''
 The authority operates and leases the bubble and the stadium to the Giants. Minish said the bubble had collapsed three times in the past four years.
 On Sunday evening, the bubble looked like a wrinkled tarp on the tarmac on the stadium's west side. And a large steel box that holds a revolving door was on its side, looking more like an abandoned propeller than a structure's primary entryway. 
 The collapse forced the Giants to cancel the Touchdown Club pregame party. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007



412 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
EARNINGS REPORTS The big Wall Street banks will continue to report their fourth-quarter results, with Goldman Sachs on Tuesday, Morgan Stanley on Wednesday and Bear Stearns on Thursday. 
 Other earnings reports will come from Adobe Systems (Monday); Best Buy, Darden Restaurants, Hovnanian Enterprises, Palm and Take-Two Interactive Software (Tuesday); General Mills, Nike and Oracle (Wednesday); Circuit City, ConAgra, FedEx, Research in Motion and Rite Aid (Thursday); and Walgreen (Friday).
 ECONOMIC INDICATORS It is a light week for economic reports. The highlights include the third-quarter current-account deficit (Monday); November housing starts (Tuesday); final third-quarter gross domestic product and leading economic indicators for November (Thursday); and personal income and spending for November and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey (Friday).
 A VOTE ON MEDIA OWNERSHIP The chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, Kevin J. Martin, left, plans to force a vote on his proposal to ease ownership restrictions on media companies (Tuesday).
 LENDING SCRUTINY The Federal Reserve Board of Governors will hold an open meeting on the proposed amendments to truth-in-lending statutes to address unfair and deceptive practices in mortgage lending (Tuesday).
 EX-QWEST CHIEF'S APPEAL A court in Denver will hear oral arguments in the appeal of Qwest's former chief executive, Joseph P. Nacchio, of his conviction for insider trading (Tuesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); CREDIT REGULATION (73%); US TRUTH IN LENDING ACT (72%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (70%); HOUSING STARTS (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); APPEALS (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INSIDER TRADING (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); DARDEN RESTAURANTS INC (84%); TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (72%); ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (72%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (57%); GENERAL MILLS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); DRI (NYSE) (84%); TTWO (NASDAQ) (72%); ADBE (NASDAQ) (72%); ADB (FRA) (72%); HOV (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%); RIM (TSX) (57%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (57%); GIS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (72%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (57%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (57%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (57%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (57%)

PERSON: KEVIN MARTIN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



413 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Used to Taking Charge, but Finding Herself in Need

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

 BODY:
Armed only with a stick, Eilene Rockette stood outside wearing rain boots, a sweatshirt and sweat pants while being drenched by what felt like buckets of water. She yelled to others peering out from their apartments to help her clear debris that had clogged several drains on the street.
 The date was Aug. 29, 2005, the place was Lafayette, La., and the storm was Hurricane Katrina. Although Katrina was less devastating in Lafayette than in New Orleans, the situation in Ms. Rockette's neighborhood was becoming dire: Water was flooding the streets, approaching the doors of parked cars and seeping into ground-level apartments. 
 ''You're thinking about your children and what you need in order to protect them,'' said Ms. Rockette, 44. ''We were frightened.''
 Ms. Rockette said about 100 neighbors joined her in the driving rain, jabbing at the muck that clogged the drains. The flooding quickly subsided, she said, and the neighborhood was spared major property damage.
 Ms. Rockette's actions that day provide a fitting image of her: a leader, an activist, someone always looking for a way to help.
 Lately, though, she has been the one in need of help.
 Not long after enduring a second hurricane -- Rita, on Sept. 24, 2005 -- Ms. Rockette was laid off from her job with the government of Lafayette, a city about 135 miles west of New Orleans. 
 In August 2006, she moved to Brooklyn, where she had previously lived for about 12 years, so that her daughter, London Tagore Gibson, 10, could be closer to her father.
 Being away from her family and coping with unemployment and her daughter's uncharacteristic struggles in school have made for a very stressful two years for Ms. Rockette, who has also battled epileptic seizures since her daughter was born.
 She has relied on Section 8 housing vouchers and food stamps to get by. In September 2007, she received $237.68 from Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens, one of seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, to buy school clothes for her daughter. She also has received food and employment counseling from Catholic Charities.
 But Ms. Rockette is still having trouble finding work. 
 After separating from her husband in 1998, Ms. Rockette moved to Abbeville, La., from New York to be closer to her family while she recovered from a knee injury. She said she regularly attended City Hall meetings in nearby Lafayette and was not afraid to speak her mind.
 ''I was a big-mouth black woman that went down South, and they weren't used to it,'' she said. ''When I went there and talked and stood up so many times, I got offered a job.''
 In 2001, she began working as a marketing and advertising associate with the Planning Department of the Lafayette government, she said, focusing mostly on public transportation issues.
 But the charisma that took Ms. Rockette far in Louisiana has not been as successful in a much larger city.
 She was told she was overqualified for a sales job at Burlington Coat Factory. She was told she was not strong enough for a job stocking shelves at a market near her home. She said she has volunteered to do small errands and chores for neighbors in her building, but they have all declined.
 ''How did I go from advertising, media marketing, creating ad campaigns, putting on concerts, performances, all of this, to where I can't even get a stock job?'' Ms. Rockette asked, referring not only to her job but also to her community activism. ''Sometimes, emotionally, it weighs you down and can take away the confidence in yourself.''
 Ms. Rockette is struggling financially. She said her former husband has encountered hardship in his job as a stockbroker and has not been able to pay child support for the past several weeks. She has not been able to pay her telephone bills -- mobile or land line -- and has not had access to either. She said that she was $1,200 behind on rent for her $875-a-month apartment in Ditmas Park, and that if she did not pay some of it by the end of the year, her landlord told her, she could be evicted. 
 ''I find myself sometimes, emotionally just crying,'' Ms. Rockette said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eileen Rockette and her daughter, London Tagore Gibson, 10, at home in Brooklyn. Ms. Rockette has struggled to find work. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CHARITIES (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); EPILEPSY (62%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (61%); RELIGION (61%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007



414 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Leadership Battle Grips South Africa's Dominant Party

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: POLOKWANE, South Africa 

 BODY:
In South Africa, the African National Congress is the unchallenged political machine, the party's leader is its kingmaker and the conference to select that person, which began Sunday, is not unlike an American presidential primary.
 But even at its quirkiest, American presidential politics has seldom been like this. More telling, never has South Africa's.
 The A.N.C., as the African National Congress is known, faced an unprecedented, caustic and potentially crippling leadership struggle as its 4,000 delegates gathered for their annual meeting in Polokwane, a rural college town north of the administrative capital, Pretoria. 
 On one side is Thabo Mbeki, the president not only of the A.N.C. but also of South Africa itself. Mr. Mbeki wants to keep his party job so he can influence who succeeds him as national president when his term ends in 2009. 
 On the other side is Jacob Zuma, once Mr. Mbeki's deputy president and now an implacable rival. Mr. Zuma wants the party presidency because, in normal times, it is a stepping-stone to the national presidency.
 In postapartheid South African politics, however, these are not normal times. Never have such polar opposites vied for power. Mr. Mbeki, the distant, pipe-puffing, capitalist intellectual, was schooled in British universities during exile under apartheid. Mr. Zuma, a rough-edged, unschooled and occasionally socialist populist whose scant education was gained in an apartheid prison, is as charismatic as Mr. Mbeki is cold.
 The results of the delegates' leadership balloting for president and other party offices could be announced as early as Monday, officials said. But challenges to the method of voting and other procedures, many made by Mr. Zuma's supporters, may stall the process. 
 This could be a watershed choice in more ways than personality. Mr. Mbeki's conservative economics have built South Africa into the continent's fiscal powerhouse, but critics say his policies have created a handful of billionaires while leaving millions of poor behind. Mr. Zuma has embraced the socialists and communists, who want to redistribute wealth to the impoverished, and is said to have privately assured financiers that he is a fiscal moderate.
 Mr. Mbeki has brokered peace accords in parts of Africa, gaining something of a reputation as a diplomat, but is accused of coddling authoritarians like President Robert G. Mugabe of Zimbabwe. Mr. Zuma says Mr. Mbeki's government has been soft on dictators, pointing toward a shift in foreign policy on rights issues.
 Mr. Mbeki takes a hard line against corruption, but his administration has been riddled by bribery investigations. Mr. Zuma, meanwhile, is himself the target of a bribery investigation, involving payoffs for military contracts, but he suggests that Mr. Mbeki's minions dredged up the charges to weaken his popularity.
 Mr. Mbeki's legacy is tarnished by a long history of failing to address South Africa's AIDS pandemic. Mr. Zuma says he wants a war on AIDS -- but not long ago drew ridicule for saying he avoided H.I.V. infection by taking a shower after sex. 
 Mr. Mbeki's supporters cast him as the protector of South African democracy against demagogy and other ''destructive elements.'' Mr. Zuma's supporters say he is the democrat, shattering a political system that has mostly excluded the public from the leadership process.
 In fact, the two men's public rivalry is by itself revolutionary for the A.N.C., which during its 55 years has groomed future rulers in back rooms and announced them to the world with an almost obsessive emphasis on unity. This time, unity is getting little more than lip service.
 In Johannesburg last week, Mr. Zuma observed International Human Rights Day by assailing leaders who abuse judicial proceedings for political gain -- an ill-concealed reference to his own status as a prosecutors' target. ''History is dotted with the legacy of tyrants who abused the rights of citizens in order to usurp or hold on to power,'' he said.
 Mr. Mbeki has publicly warned that divisions in the governing party threaten to tear it apart, and insisted in a rare newspaper interview last week that he had never tried to block Mr. Zuma's rise. But on Sunday, Mr. Mbeki's two-and-one-half-hour keynote speech to the party's conference dwelled heavily on political corruption, a virus that he warned is wreaking ''repulsive'' damage on the A.N.C. 
 Mr. Zuma's financial adviser has already been convicted of shunting more than 1.2 million rand -- about $175,000 -- in bribes to Mr. Zuma to help a French arms maker win government military contracts. Mr. Zuma was later charged with corruption, but legal technicalities scotched the trial. 
 As the party conference began Sunday, prosecutors filed court papers asserting that Mr. Zuma had not only taken an additional $420,000 in bribes, but had also not reported the money on tax returns. The filing suggests that prosecutors are preparing to reinstate charges against Mr. Zuma, raising the prospect that the A.N.C.'s new president and South Africa's prospective leader could rule under a cloud of felony accusations.
 Mr. Mbeki controls the party's levers of power, and many public figures are aligned against Mr. Zuma. On Friday, Desmond Tutu, the Nobel prize winner, human rights advocate and former Cape Town archbishop, urged delegates to vote against Mr. Zuma, saying that they ''should not choose someone of whom most of us would be ashamed.''
 That apparently referred to Mr. Zuma's recent trial on charges that he raped the H.I.V.-positive daughter of a family friend. Mr. Zuma, who said the sex was consensual, was acquitted, but not before drawing scorn for his remarks on showering after sex.
 Despite that, Mr. Zuma appears to have the edge over Mr. Mbeki. Recent polls of A.N.C. delegates showed him with a sizable lead in the race for party president, partly reflecting unhappiness with Mr. Mbeki's tendency to shut out lower-level party officials from policy decisions.
 At a reception at Polokwane's airport on Saturday, delegates and hangers-on swamped Mr. Zuma, asking for photographs and interviews, while Mr. Mbeki left after 15 minutes of handshakes. As the conference opened Sunday in a hall at the University of Limpopo, Mr. Zuma's raucous supporters ignored an official ban on partisan demonstrations to chant slogans and sing songs, including Mr. Zuma's liberation-era theme music, a ditty called ''Bring Me My Machine Gun.'' 
 The display drowned out efforts by the party's chairman, a supporter of Mr. Mbeki, to bring order. Mr. Mbeki and Mr. Zuma, who sat nearby watching, said nothing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Four thousand delegates gathered Sunday in Polokwane, South Africa, for the annual meeting of the African National Congress. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS FARRELL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); BRIBERY (84%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (73%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); RURAL SCHOOLS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); AIDS & HIV (65%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (64%); CORRUPTION (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (61%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (50%); EPIDEMICS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (93%)

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (89%); JACOB ZUMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ZIMBABWE (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007



415 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; ZURICH JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: The World Is Flat, and Chocolatiers Want to Coat It

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: ZURICH 

 BODY:
When the cold winter wind blows off Lake Zurich, the people who live around this sprawling factory, a 10-minute ride from the center of town, can smell the chocolate in the air. It is especially pungent this time of the year, when the factories are humming to meet holiday demand, the chocolate-maker's bonanza.
 ''Some people who live around a factory mind the odor,'' said Sara Bouachir, an official of Lindt & Sprungli, the $2.1 billion-a-year Swiss chocolate giant that runs the factory. ''But not here.'' 
 But factories like this face a challenge. The Swiss already consume an average of more than 25 pounds of chocolate a year, placing them second only to the British, so how do you get them to eat more? This is driving the chocolate-makers of Zurich to new heights of innovation, with dark chocolates flavored like hot chili peppers, grappa or saffron. 
 It is also making Swiss chocolate a case study in globalization. Swiss chocolatiers, having long ago conquered markets in Europe and North America, are now aiming at the vast expanses of Russia, India and China.
 Zurich itself remains a haven for chocolate-lovers, with cozy chocolate shops nestled among the big Swiss banks, like UBS and Credit Suisse, along the noble Bahnhofstrasse. Stores like Teuscher and Sprungli stand next to luxury shops like Cartier and Chanel. 
 ''People are more and more sensitive about quality; they buy less but higher quality,'' said Ms. Bouachir. ''People do tastings, as with wine, and they want to know the background of their chocolate.''
 The people of Zurich are the beneficiaries of a process that they, who still refuse to join the European Union, fear in other areas -- the free movement of goods across national borders. In just the last 10 years, Lindt & Sprungli has opened a global chain of Lindt Boutiques, with more than 100 in the United States alone. Now, Ms. Bouachir said, visitors from India and Thailand are coming to see how it is done.
 Peter Bauer, 41, a pastry chef in a small shop a five-minute walk from the Lindt factory, has been leading the search for new kinds of chocolates. He is the moving force behind the emergence of dark, single-variety chocolates, concocted of beans from a single region.
 ''Eighty-eight percent of people would say it's too bitter, but I say it's great,'' he said, as he kneaded a ball of pastry dough, laced with pistachios. He loves munching dark chocolate in front of the television, he said. ''But take any five Swiss people, and three will say they prefer milk chocolate.''
 This preference for the tried and true is a major issue for the big chocolatiers of Zurich, like Barry Callebaut, a $3.5-billion global chocolate bean merchant whose offices fill several floors of an office building in a shabby corporate park on the edge of Zurich. From here, Barry Callebaut's pinstriped-suited global sourcing experts, huddling in conference rooms named for chocolate-producing places like Ecuador and Sao Tome, buy cocoa beans, sugar, powdered milk and other ingredients for making chocolate in industrial quantities.
 One floor below is a chocolate academy, where the company trains pastry chefs and bakers to use chocolate. Barry Callebaut runs seven huge chocolate factories, including two in Switzerland, from which it supplies industrial chocolate to the likes of Hershey, Nestle and Cadbury Schweppes. It also has its own consumer brands, like Van Houten and Van Leer. Listed on the Zurich stock exchange, its shares have soared more than 50 percent this year.
 The strategy Barry Callebaut employs to lure the Swiss into eating more chocolate is essentially the one it uses to seduce consumers globally: emphasizing chocolate's contribution to good health (some studies have found that dark chocolate may be good for the heart); pitching it as a taste experience; and making it as conveniently available, in stores or vending machines, as food or drink.
 ''Clearly there's a trend toward dark chocolate, and single-origin chocolate,'' said Gaby Tschofen, of the company's management board. ''But consumers also want chocolate they're used to. Chocolate is your little luxury.''
 Some say the Swiss are saturated. ''You could give chocolate away, not for free, but for much cheaper,'' said Franz Urs Schmid, director of Chocosuisse, the chocolate-makers association. ''But it wouldn't increase the quantity the Swiss consume.''
 Then, too, in coming months the Swiss may have to pay more for their chocolate, Ms. Tschofen said. The price of powdered milk, a prime ingredient, has doubled over the past year. 
 Chocolate even got caught up in the credit squeeze that has afflicted financial markets this year. Hedge funds, on the lookout for lucrative investments, had gone into cocoa beans, driving the price up, she said, but had to sell their stocks when the financial crisis hit, causing the price of beans to drop again.
 Walk along Bahnhofstrasse, and the trend to single-source chocolate is evident everywhere, in chocolate made of beans exclusively from one country, be it the Dominican Republic, Sao Tome or Ecuador. Many are spiced exotically.
 Stepping out of Teuscher, one of the leading chocolate shops, Raico Pschichholz, 29, a health care worker on a holiday weekend from Berlin, said he had just purchased two bars of chocolate, one filled with pralines, a soft pasty layer, and another with rose pepper. ''I recently found one in Berlin with grape and goat cheese,'' he said proudly.
 Barry Callebaut is not waiting for the Swiss to eat more chocolate. This year, it opened a factory near Moscow, and in January will inaugurate another near Shanghai. ''In North America, it's the eight weeks prior to Christmas,'' Ms. Tschofen said, listing the world's chocolate-eating seasons. ''In Germany it's still Christmas, in Russia it's New Year's, and in Japan it's St. Valentine's Day.''
 For Sergio Braunschweiler, 31, a Swiss banker, it is any time of the year. When he buys chocolate, he said, stepping out of Sprungli, ''then the darker the better.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 20, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Monday with the Zurich Journal article, about efforts by Zurich's chocolatiers to make the Swiss eat more chocolate, misidentified the street on which the Teuscher chocolate emporium, shown in the photograph, is located. It is on the Storchengasse, not the Bahnhofstrasse.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Teuscher, a luxury chocolate emporium on the bustling Bahnhofstrasse in Zurich, helps make the Swiss city a haven for those with a sweet tooth and a well-filled wallet. Among the store's wares, left, are trays of chocolates in the shape of elephants and of pigs, of varying shades. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOMINIC BUETTNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (91%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (91%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); CONFECTIONERY (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (77%); RETAILERS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (94%) SWITZERLAND (94%); INDIA (90%); EUROPE (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); THAILAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007



416 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: A Year for Quick Hits and Fast Flops as Campaigns Broke New Ground

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THEY say the older you get, the faster the years seem to go by. But you could be the president of the ''Gossip Girl'' fan club or the newest cast member of ''High School Musical 3'' and still believe that time's flight is on fast-forward.
 The reason? The quickening pace of change in advertising, which influences so much of commerce and culture. In 2007, the velocity picked up as more marketers, agencies and media owners forsook the tried-and-true in favor of new ways to reach elusive consumers. 
 Not everyone trying to think differently hit a home run. (After the Mitchell report, even home runs are suspect.) Here is a recap of eight high and low points, in alphabetical order.
 Why eight? Given the forecasts for the economy next year, eight could be the new 10.
 'DEXTER' The power of viral video -- clips meant to be shared among computer users -- was demonstrated with a fiendish campaign for ''Dexter,'' a drama on the Showtime cable network owned by CBS. Visitors to a Web site (sliceoflifetv.com) can customize mock news reports about a serial killer, echoing the story lines of the series.
 Is it a coincidence that viewership for ''Dexter'' rose significantly after the campaign began? The ratings are, um, to die for. Agencies: Ralph, London, and Initiative, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. 
 DORITOS Consumers are being invited to create commercials, on the theory that involving them in the ad-making process will renew the ardor for Madison Avenue they had before TiVos, iPods and satellite radio made it so simple to dodge hucksters.
 Several efforts encouraging consumers to create commercials delivered delightful results. The best was a contest by Doritos snack chips, sold by the Frito-Lay unit of PepsiCo, to ''crash the Super Bowl'' with a do-it-yourself spot.
 Frito-Lay intended to pick one winner, but enjoyed the finalist entries enough to run two during the game. Agencies: None, which should give the likes of Havas, Interpublic, Omnicom, Publicis and WPP pause.
 FAGE TOTAL How ''ridiculously thick'' is Fage Total yogurt, sold by Fage USA? Dense enough, according to an eye-catching campaign last summer, that if a jeweler buys an ad page in a magazine opposite an ad for Fage (pronounced ''fah-yeh''), when the reader closes the issue, a noticeable impression is left in the yogurt from the watch, necklace or earrings.
 By engaging the reader in unexpected fashion, the delectable trompe l'oeil made a static medium suddenly seem interactive. Agency: Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, New York, part of the WPP Group.
 GENERAL MOTORS A commercial from General Motors to demonstrate how the company is finally working to improve the quality of its cars and trucks backfired and required retooling.
 The spot showed a robot in a G.M. factory getting fired after making a mistake. After failing at a skein of dreary jobs, the robot flings itself off a bridge -- but its dire fate turns out to have been part of a nightmare.
 That did not satisfy advocates of more sympathetic depictions of suicide in the media. The spot was re-edited, returning with the scene of imagined roboticide removed. (Other commercials this year with suicide themes, for marketers like Volkswagen and Washington Mutual, ended up like poorly performing robots: junked.) Agency: Deutsch L.A., part of the Deutsch unit of Interpublic.
 NATIONWIDE They all laughed when, for a big Super Bowl spot, Nationwide Financial signed the singer Kevin Federline, known mainly, if at all, for his brief marriage to Britney Spears. But Nationwide had the last laugh when the commercial turned out to be one of the most clever -- and most praised -- of the year.
 What put the spot across was Mr. Federline's willingness to mock his own image, which effectively delivered the Nationwide pitch, ''Life comes at you fast.'' He began the ad as the blinged-out star of a glitzy rap video clip, but ended it at a fast-food joint, slinging fries in a silly uniform. Agency: TM Advertising, Irving, Tex., part of Interpublic.
 ORVILLE REDENBACHER The snackmeister Orville Redenbacher has been dead since 1995, but ConAgra, the maker of his namesake popcorn products, revived him in commercials with a digital doppelganger. The zombielike results were grotesque enough to inspire critics to rebrand the character as ''Orville Deadenbacher.''
 Six months after the ads first appeared, ConAgra buried the campaign, dismissed the creative agency and moved the account elsewhere. Agency: Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami, a unit of MDC Partners.
 SNICKERS One of the most offensive campaigns of this or any year was a television and Internet effort for the Snickers candy bar sold by the Masterfoods USA division of Mars, which left a bad taste in millions of mouths.
 A commercial showed two lugs harming themselves after they had kissed by mistake. Adding insult to injury, video clips on a Web site, meant to extend the ''joke,'' featured material that many viewers considered homophobic, like interviews with pro football players who offered disgusted reactions to the accidental kiss.
 Masterfoods USA withdrew the commercial after one showing and took down the Web site, wasting millions of dollars and drawing snickers from its competitors. Agency: TBWA/Chiat/Day, New York, part of the Omnicom Group. 
 VIRGIN MOBILE A campaign for Virgin Mobile USA sought to celebrate New York with posters tailored to a score of city neighborhoods. But many residents judged the ads to be patronizing or condescending.
 Worse, some posters for the Upper West Side of Manhattan, mocking the Upper East Side, wound up -- you guessed it -- on the Upper East Side. That is like confusing Zabar's and Zegna. Agency: McKinney & Silver, Durham, N.C., part of Havas.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: One misfire: a spot for General Motors with a suicidal robot.
 One hit: a magazine campaign for Fage Total yogurt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (88%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (76%); JEWELRY (75%); PRINT ADVERTISING (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); CABLE TELEVISION (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); MURDER (69%); SNACK FOODS (69%); HOMICIDE (69%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (67%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); WPP PLC (84%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (83%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (57%); HAVAS SA (57%); FRITO-LAY INC (54%); PEPSICO INC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (84%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (84%); WPP (LSE) (84%); OMC (NYSE) (57%); HAV (PAR) (57%); PEP (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (84%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (84%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007



417 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Election in South Korea Is Missing Its Suspense

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
South Korea's presidential elections have tended to be bruising, down-to-the-wire contests that exposed voters' ideological schisms and raw emotions over the country's tortured relations with North Korea and the United States.
 But this time, in a campaign that has otherwise failed to grab the electorate's attention, there has really been only one issue: the economy. And the only suspense had been whether the clear front-runner's campaign would be derailed by charges of stock manipulation. 
 As candidates crisscrossed the country in the final days before the vote on Wednesday, it seemed almost certain that Lee Myung-bak, a former mayor of Seoul and a construction industry executive nicknamed the ''Bulldozer'' for his take-charge style, would be elected.
 With Mr. Lee holding a nearly 30-percentage point lead in opinion polls by three major news organizations last week, his aides were talking confidently of capturing more than 50 percent of the popular vote. In South Korea, the candidate with the most votes wins, but no one has been able to garner more than 50 percent since South Korea's democratization in the late 1980s. 
 ''We are predicting between 50 percent and 55 percent,'' Chung Doo-un, a top aide to Mr. Lee and a National Assembly member, said Sunday. ''I think this will be unprecedented in the history of South Korea.''
 Late Sunday, though, Mr. Lee's seemingly assured victory was challenged by President Roh Moo-hyun, who instructed the justice ministry to reopen an investigation into accusations that Mr. Lee had been involved in manipulating the stock of an investment company, BBK. On Sunday morning, a video clip had surfaced in which Mr. Lee, who has denied any involvement with the company, appears to be claiming to have founded it in 2000. 
 On Monday morning, the justice ministry, which had cleared Mr. Lee of the charges this month, said it stood by its earlier judgment. 
 Mr. Lee's spokesman, Kim Heon-jin, said Monday that Mr. Roh's move had been politically motivated and that ''possible editing'' had been done to the video.
 It was not clear how the president's reopening of the investigation would affect Mr. Lee, whose approval ratings had suffered only slightly in the weeks before he was cleared by prosecutors. Barring a last-minute reversal, Mr. Lee, 65, is likely to be elected to succeed Mr. Roh, who is limited by the Constitution to a single five-year term.
 Five years ago, Mr. Roh, a human rights lawyer and a former lawmaker, won with a message of asserting independence from the United States, reconciling with North Korea and emphasizing social equality, but his ratings have fallen because of popular discontent over his economic policies.
 In his campaign appearances, Mr. Lee, the candidate for the conservative Grand National Party, capitalized on that anger, as he attacked the Roh administration and presented himself as the candidate best qualified to handle the economy.
 ''I will create a world where young people can choose good jobs,'' Mr. Lee said to a raucous crowd at a market in the southeastern city of Taegu last week. ''To people selling things, those running small- and medium-size companies, I will create a world that works. I will unfailingly revive the economy.'' 
 Mr. Lee's agenda for accomplishing that mission ranges from the orthodox, like lowering corporate taxes, to the grandiose, like building a huge canal to connect two rivers and form a unified shipping route from the southwest to the northeast. He has also pledged to realize what he calls his ''Korea 747 Vision'' -- increasing economic growth to 7 percent a year, doubling per capita income, to $40,000, within a decade and moving the country's economy, now the world's 13th biggest, to the seventh largest.
 The message has resonated in a country increasingly squeezed between high-tech Japan and low-cost China. While multinationals like Samsung are doing well, small- and medium-size businesses find it increasingly difficult to compete against counterparts outside the country because of rising labor costs. While the stock market is booming, economic growth has slowed. Soaring real estate prices have made housing unaffordable for average Koreans, and youth unemployment remains high.
 Although many of the economic difficulties lie beyond the control of any president, voters blame Mr. Roh for the malaise.
 Mr. Roh ended up losing even his most ardent supporters -- young voters who, in 2002, were attracted to his image as a reformer and rallied for him on the Internet and on the streets.
 ''I was very excited in 2002 but feel that he didn't accomplish much in the economy,'' said Lee Jong-youl, 32, an office worker browsing in a bookstore in downtown Seoul on Wednesday. ''For someone in the middle class or lower, like me, I feel that income gaps have widened.''
 Mr. Lee said he had barely followed this election and was undecided about whom to support, but he added that the front-runner was ''not bad.''
 Yoon Yae-young, 31, a graduate student, was not supporting Mr. Lee but explained why others were. ''The young believe that he'll revive the economy and create jobs,'' Mr. Yoon said. ''They blame Roh Moo-hyun for everything. There's a joke that even when something bad happened in your personal life, you blamed Roh Moo-hyun.''
 Mr. Roh was so unpopular that members of his Uri Party created a new party, the United New Democratic Party, in an effort to disassociate themselves from him. Still, the new party's candidate, Chung Dong-young, 54, ranks a distant second in polls.
 Mr. Lee's focus on bread-and-butter issues stands in sharp contrast to that of Mr. Roh and his predecessor, Kim Dae-jung, both of whom had the clear objectives of democratizing South Korean society and reconciling with North Korea.
 Mr. Lee supports engaging North Korea and promises substantial economic assistance if it abandons its nuclear arms program. But he does not make emotional appeals to Korean unity, as Mr. Roh did, and takes a harder rhetorical line by insisting that he will not shy away from taking tough measures against North Korea.
 ''Lee Myung-bak is perceived as being much more of a pragmatist than an ideologue,'' said Lee Nae-young, a political scientist at Korea University who has been conducting opinion polls on the election. ''He appeals to the general public because his views are perceived as being closest to the general public's views.''
 Since the last presidential election, he said, Korean public opinion had shifted to the center while the left and right has shrunk. Seoul's policy toward North Korea has not come to the fore as an issue in this election because differences between conservatives and liberals have narrowed considerably since 2002, he added, and a general consensus over the engagement policy has emerged.
 Indeed, Mr. Lee's Grand National Party itself has moved toward the center. In the 2002 and 1997 elections, it selected as its standard-bearer Lee Hoi-chang, a right-wing politician with a hard-line stance against North Korea.
 Last month, Lee Hoi-chang, 72, unexpectedly declared his candidacy, this time as an independent, saying he was displeased with the front-runner's policy toward North Korea.
 ''Lee Myung-bak's policy toward North Korea is a copycat of the sunshine policy,'' Lee Hae-yon, a spokeswoman for Lee Hoi-chang, said of the engagement policy toward the North. ''Our candidate believes that the main goals should be to denuclearize North Korea and for its regime to change.''
 Lee Hoi-chang trails, in third place. But analysts say he could eke out a few points on Wednesday and rob the front-runner of his goal of winning more than 50 percent of the popular vote.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Seoul, supporters cheer in front of an image of Lee Myung-bak, who holds a nearly 30-percentage point lead in opinion polls. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEOKYONG LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007



418 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 371 words

 BODY:
WEAK CLOTHING SALES Sales of women's clothing, a traditional measure of the holiday shopping economy, are unusually weak so far this year, according to a major credit card company. 
 Kmart made a generation of bargain hunters react like starving dogs to a ringing bell. Now, Internet companies want to bring the Blue Light Special to the cellphone. [C6.]
 LONG-DISTANCE AUTOGRAPHS A device called the LongPen has helped Conrad M. Black, who faces jail time, deal with the inconvenience of being unable to conduct a book tour for his new biography of Richard M. Nixon. [C4.]
 CHIPS OUTPACE SOFTWARE The potential speed of computer chips is still climbing, but now the software they run is having trouble keeping up. [C1.]
 IN THE MIDDLE OF WAR The story of Bilal Hussein, an Iraqi photographer who had a hand in The Associated Press's 2005 Pulitzer Prize for photography before being jailed for 20 months by the United States military, highlights the unprecedented role that Iraqis are playing in news coverage of the war. [C1.]
 KICKED DOWN A NOTCH ''Emeril Live,'' starring the chef Emeril Lagasse, taped its final installments last week and laid off a half-dozen staff members, bringing an abrupt end to an impressive 11-year run. [C1.]
 BAILOUT FOR BORROWERS Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, said he favored direct federal spending to help mortgage borrowers who risk losing their homes. [C6.]
 GAMESTOP IN THE S.&P. 500 The video game retailer GameStop has become a member of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, replacing Dow Jones & Company. [C4.]
 NEW MAGAZINE FOR ATHLETES Lenny Dykstra, a former star outfielder for the New York Mets and Philadelphia Phillies, has teamed up with Doubledown Media to produce The Players Club, a magazine to help players manage their millions. [C4.]
 AD WINNERS AND LOSERS Marketers increasingly veered from the tried-and-true in 2007 in favor of new ways to reach elusive consumers. Some ideas worked; some didn't. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C8.]
 POWER MARKET'S CRITICS A coalition of industrial and consumer groups is asking that an inquiry into electricity marketing be widened, saying that customers are paying ''unjust and unreasonable rates.'' [C3.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); BASEBALL (87%); BAILOUTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); NEWS REPORTING (73%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (70%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (70%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (70%); SPORTS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (69%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (55%)

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (66%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (66%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%)

PERSON: EMERIL LAGASSE (85%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); RICHARD NIXON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (52%) IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007



419 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Urges U.S. to Help Those Facing Foreclosure

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, former chairman of the Federal Reserve, said Sunday that the government should provide direct financial assistance to homeowners who are threatened by foreclosure in the worsening credit crisis. 
 In an interview on ''This Week'' on ABC, Mr. Greenspan said that helping homeowners directly would create ''a short-term fiscal problem'' for the government, but that doing so would be more effective than solutions like freezing mortgage rates.
 Two ways to help homeowners directly would be to reduce taxes or to give cash grants similar to those given to disaster victims. 
 Either approach would strain the federal budget, but Mr. Greenspan said, ''It's far less damaging to the economy to create a short-term fiscal problem, which we would, than to try to fix the prices of homes or interest rates.''
 Either of those efforts, Mr. Greenspan said, would ''drag this process out indefinitely.''
 ''It's important to recognize that there are a very large number of people who are in very major stress and having great difficulty in paying off their mortgages,'' Mr. Greenspan said. 
 ''Cash is available,'' he added, ''and we should use that in larger amounts, as necessary, to solve the problems of the stress of this.''
 In one step taken by the Bush administration, Henry M. Paulson Jr., the secretary of the Treasury, has negotiated a freeze on interest rates on some subprime mortgages. Mr. Paulson has not called for any government spending to help homeowners or banks.
 Two Democratic presidential candidates have urged the federal government to take a more direct role. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York has urged a suspension of foreclosures and John Edwards, a former senator from North Carolina, has suggested that the government set up a rescue fund for homeowners in trouble.
 Last Tuesday, the Federal Reserve cut its benchmark short-term interest rate a quarter of a percentage point, to 4.25 percent, in hopes of bolstering the economy. But the stock markets had hoped for a larger cut, causing stock prices to drop sharply. Last Wednesday, the Federal Reserve and other central banks announced a plan to lend billions of dollars to private banks to encourage them to make loans more available and thus spur the economy. 
 The Fed said it would make $40 billion available for lending to banks during December. Other central banks around the world said they would provide $50.2 billion in December and January. 
 Banks routinely borrow from one another to provide loans. But the cost of interbank borrowing has risen sharply at the same time that banks are being required to hold more capital on their books.
 As the economy was slowing and talk of an impending recession increased, Mr. Greenspan and other economists said they worried about inflation. Mr. Greenspan said it was ''critically important'' that the Federal Reserve be permitted to suppress ''the inflation rate that I see emerging, not immediately, but clearly over the intermediate and longer term period.''
 Mr. Greenspan said he was not sure that directly helping homeowners would solve the credit crisis. ''I don't know if it would work,'' he said, ''but it would certainly help people. It would help their incomes; it would help their personal state.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (76%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (63%); INTERBANK LENDING (60%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (76%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); JOHN EDWARDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007



420 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2079 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate Executive With Hand in Trump Projects Rose From Tangled Past

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
It is a classic tale of reinvention, American style.
 Born in the Soviet Union in 1966, Felix H. Sater immigrated with his family to Brighton Beach when he was 8 years old. At 24 he was a successful Wall Street broker, at 27 he was in prison after a bloody bar fight, and at 32 he was accused of conspiring with the Mafia to launder money and defraud investors.
 Along the way he became embroiled in a plan to buy antiaircraft missiles on the black market for the Central Intelligence Agency in either Russia or Afghanistan, depending on which of his former associates is telling the story.
 But in recent years Mr. Sater has resurfaced with a slightly different name and a new business card identifying him as a real estate executive based on Fifth Avenue. And although he may not be a household name, one of the people he is doing business with is: Donald J. Trump. 
 Mr. Sater -- who now goes by the name Satter -- has been jetting to Denver, Phoenix, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and elsewhere since 2003, promoting potential projects in partnership with Mr. Trump and others. In New York, the company Mr. Sater works for, Bayrock Group, is a partner in the Trump SoHo, a sleek, 46-story glass tower condominium hotel under construction on a newly fashionable section of Spring Street.
 But much remains unknown about Mr. Sater, 41, and determining the truth about his past is a bit like unraveling the plot of a spy novel: Almost every character tells a different tale. 
 A federal complaint brought against him in a 1998 money laundering and stock manipulation case was filed in secret and remains under seal. A subsequent indictment in March 2000 stemming from the same investigation described Mr. Sater as an ''unindicted co-conspirator'' and a key figure in a $40 million scheme involving 19 stockbrokers and organized crime figures from four Mafia families. 
 The indictment asserted that Mr. Sater helped create fraudulent stock brokerages that were used to defraud investors and launder money. Mr. Sater and his lawyer, Judd Burstein, repeatedly refused to discuss in detail his role in the stock scam.
 But a onetime friend, Gennady Klotsman, who is known as Gene and who was accused with Mr. Sater as a co-conspirator, contends that they both pleaded guilty in 1998, and that Mr. Sater began cooperating with the authorities. Prosecutors are unwilling to discuss either the 1998 complaint or the 2000 indictment. 
 ''I'm not proud of some of the things that happened in my 20s,'' Mr. Sater said in an interview. ''I am proud of the things I'm doing now.''
 Mr. Sater, who has an untitled position at Bayrock, said he started spelling his name as Satter to ''distance himself from a past'' in an age when anyone can look up a name on Google. But he continues to use the name Sater on the deed to his house on Long Island.
 Mr. Burstein added, ''He does not hide his past, and difficulties he had, from anybody he does business with.''
 But Alex Sapir, president of the Sapir Organization, a partner in Trump SoHo, said he was ''not happy'' to have just learned of Mr. Sater's past on Thursday. ''This is all news to me,'' he said. 
 Mr. Trump also said he was surprised to learn of Mr. Sater's past. ''We never knew that,'' he said of Mr. Sater. ''We do as much of a background check as we can on the principals. I didn't really know him very well.'' 
 Mr. Trump said that most of his dealings with Bayrock had been with its founder, Tevfik Arif, and that his son Donald and his daughter Ivanka were playing active roles in managing the project. Neither Bayrock nor Mr. Trump has been accused of wrongdoing.
 Mr. Sater has generally kept a low profile on the Trump projects, although he mingled with guests and the owners at the September party introducing Trump SoHo. Mr. Trump and Mr. Sater were also together in Loveland, Colo., in 2005, where they were interviewed by a reporter for The Rocky Mountain News about potential development deals in nearby Denver. Mr. Trump said he did not recall Mr. Sater's being there.
 ''They seemed to get along just fine,'' said Justin Henderson, a Denver developer who worked with Mr. Trump and Mr. Sater on an ultimately unsuccessful deal to build the tallest towers in Colorado. ''It seemed that Mr. Trump relied heavily on Mr. Sater's opinion on certain markets.''
 Mr. Sater's latest transformation could prove to be a cautionary tale for Mr. Trump, who has carefully molded his image into an international brand that has extended from real estate to bottled water, men's suits, steaks, vodka, a television show and, in his latest invention, the Trump Hotel Collection.
 The hotel collection, a hotel management company, includes two projects with Bayrock: Trump SoHo and Trump International Hotel and Tower in Fort Lauderdale. A third joint project, in Phoenix, is also in the works.
 ''Trump is a name associated with a certain cachet and bravado, I suppose, that will attract certain kinds of people,'' said Rita Rodriguez, chief executive of the Brand Union, a corporate branding and identity agency. 
 ''The brand is a strategic and financial asset,'' she said. ''It has to be taken care of very similarly to any other asset you have on your balance sheet. Anything that would detract from that could jeopardize the brand impression the brand makes.''
 Mr. Sater was born in the Soviet Union, the son of Rachel and Mikhail Sater, according to public records, court testimony and the federal indictment. He has said his parents, who are Jewish, moved first to Israel, then to Baltimore and finally to New York in the early 1970s to escape ''religious persecution.''
 Mr. Sater was born Haim Felix Sater, but he once testified in court that he ''Americanized'' his name to Felix Henry Sater in the early 1990s. 
 Mr. Sater took classes at Pace University but dropped out at 18 to work at Bear Stearns. Like Mr. Klotsman, he rose quickly, moving from firm to firm selling stock.
 Mr. Sater's first brush with the law came in 1991. Mr. Sater and Mr. Klotsman were at El Rio Grande, a Midtown watering hole, celebrating with a friend and eventual co-conspirator, Salvatore Lauria, who had just passed his stockbroker's exam.
 Mr. Sater later told a judge that he was in a good mood, having made a quick $3,000 in commissions that day. But he got into an argument with a commodities broker at the bar, and it quickly escalated. According to the trial transcript, Mr. Sater grabbed a large margarita glass, smashed it on the bar and plunged the stem into the right side of the broker's face. The man suffered nerve damage and required 110 stitches to close the laceration on his face.
 ''I got into a bar fight over a girl neither he nor I knew,'' Mr. Sater said in an interview. ''My life spiraled out of control.'' Mr. Sater was convicted at trial in 1993, went to prison and was effectively barred from selling securities by the National Association of Securities Dealers.
 But according to the 2000 federal indictment in the fraud case, Mr. Sater, Mr. Klotsman, Mr. Lauria and their partners gained control in 1993 of White Rock Partners, which later changed its name to State Street Capital Markets. Although the companies ''held themselves out as legitimate brokerage firms,'' the indictment states, ''they were in fact operated for the primary purpose of earning money through fraud involving the manipulation of the prices of securities.''
 The trio would secretly gain control of large blocks of stock and warrants in four companies through offshore accounts, the indictment said. In an illegal ''pump and dump'' scheme, they would inflate the value of the shares through under-the-table payoffs to brokers who sold the securities to unsuspecting investors by spreading false information about the companies. Brokers were prohibited from acting on sell orders from investors unless they found another buyer, the indictment said.
 The partners would then sell large blocks of stock at a steep profit. Investors suffered substantial losses as share prices plummeted. Despite the prohibition against selling securities, a subsequent complaint by regulators at the N.A.S.D. recounted how Mr. Sater ''cursed, yelled and screamed'' at the firm's brokers in an attempt to motivate them. He also offered cash rewards to brokers who sold the largest block of house stocks.
 At the same time, Mr. Sater, Mr. Lauria and others sought protection and help from members of the Mafia in resolving disputes with ''pump and dump'' firms operated by other organized crime groups. In 1995, for instance, Edward Garafola, a soldier in the Gambino crime family, sought to extort money from Mr. Sater. Mr. Sater, in turn, got Ernest Montevecchi, a soldier in the Genovese crime family, to persuade Mr. Garafola to back off, according to the indictment. 
 The denouement of Mr. Sater's career on Wall Street began in 1998 at a locker at a Manhattan Mini Storage in SoHo, where investigators discovered two pistols, a shotgun and a gym bag stuffed with a trove of documents outlining the money laundering scheme and offshore accounts of Mr. Sater and his partners. According to a law enforcement official, as well as Mr. Klotsman and another defendant in the case, Mr. Sater had rented the locker and then neglected to pay the rent. Mr. Sater denied having anything to do with the locker or the guns.
 At the time investigators opened the storage locker, Mr. Sater and Mr. Klotsman had gone to Russia, where their wheeling and dealing continued, they said. Their most interesting stories, however, are hard to assess.
 Mr. Sater and Mr. Klotsman tried to cut a deal with the C.I.A., according to a book co-written by Mr. Lauria, ''The Scorpion and the Frog: High Times and High Crimes.'' In exchange for leniency, the book said, they offered to buy a dozen missiles that Osama bin Laden had placed on the black market. The deal later collapsed. 
 Mr. Lauria has since renounced his book, which also details the false stock brokerage scheme, calling it largely a work of fiction. He even tried unsuccessfully to block publication. However, his co-author, David S. Barry, said he documented all the stories in the book with records and other interviews.
 Mr. Klotsman said that Mr. Sater did obtain information for the United States about another set of black-market missiles, and that those efforts ''bought Felix his freedom'' from prison. 
 Mr. Sater, Mr. Klotsman and Mr. Lauria eventually returned to New York. Mr. Klotsman and Mr. Lauria agreed to cooperate with the United States attorney's office in Brooklyn and pleaded guilty to racketeering charges in connection with the fraudulent stock brokerages, other defendants and lawyers in Mr. Sater's case said. The information they provided helped prosecutors obtain guilty pleas from all 19 of their former cohorts, including six with ties to the mob.
 Mr. Klotsman and his lawyer assert that Mr. Sater also pleaded guilty and cooperated. ''Felix was one of the significant participants in the fraud,'' the lawyer, Alexi M. Schacht, said.
 Mr. Klotsman, who grew up with Mr. Sater, now lives in a $600-a-month apartment in Moscow. In an interview, he said he was paying the American government $625 a month in restitution for the $40 million lost by investors. He questioned whether Mr. Sater was paying a dime.
 But Mr. Sater and his lawyer, Mr. Burstein, avoided many questions concerning his legal problems involving the Wall Street scam, including whether he pleaded guilty and cooperated. ''I challenge you to find any official government document anywhere demonstrating his indictment or conviction for any crime other than the assault,'' Mr. Burstein said. 
 Mr. Sater said he joined Bayrock in 2003 at the urging of the company's founder, Mr. Arif. A neighbor of Mr. Sater's in Sands Point, on Long Island, Mr. Arif is a former economist for the Soviet government who built a chain of five luxury hotels in Turkey and Kazakhstan after the collapse of the Soviet Union. 
 Within a stone's throw of the Manhattan Mini Storage building, the Trump SoHo is rising rapidly at the corner of Spring and Varick Streets, another new glass tower amid the somewhat grubby industrial buildings of what had been the city's printing district. The tower has generated opposition from some local residents and preservationists.
 It is, for Mr. Sater, an emblem of his new life. ''I'm trying to lead an exemplary existence,'' he said. ''Old, bad luggage is not something anyone wants to remember.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Felix H. Sater, far left, in September with Alex Sapir, a partner in the Trump SoHo condominium hotel project at Spring and Varick Streets. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLINT SPAULDING/PATRICK MCMULLAN) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); INDICTMENTS (88%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); ESPIONAGE (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); LAWYERS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (64%); CRIME RATES (62%); INTERVIEWS (60%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (56%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (78%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); AFGHANISTAN (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007



421 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-17
 40 Years On, C.I.A.'s Army In Laos Is Still on the Run
 Four decades after the C.I.A. hired thousands of jungle warriors to fight Communists on the western fringes of the Vietnam War, men who say they are veterans of that covert operation are isolated, hungry and periodically hunted by the Laotian Communist government. A1
 Fake Drugs Go Global 
 Counterfeit drugs move through the global economy in complex ways that are difficult to trace, traveling from free trade zones in Dubai and Panama to Internet pharmacies, where they are marketed to Americans.A1
 Turkey Bombs Kurdish Rebels
 Turkey's military said it bombed Kurdish militant targets in northern Iraq as part of an American-sanctioned effort to weaken the Kurdish guerrilla group that hides there.A15
 Change of Guard in Basra
 British forces handed over control of Basra Province to Iraq's government, giving up military control of the final region under their supervision after four and a half years. A15
 Suspect Escapes in Pakistan
 A man who was arrested in Pakistan last year on suspicion of plotting to blow up trans-Atlantic airplanes, and who faced extradition to Britain in another case, escaped from his guards after a court hearing in Islamabad, officials said.A8
 300 Break Out of Indian Jail
 Three hundred prisoners, who were apparently led by Maoist rebels broke out of a jail in central India, the police said.A17
 Gaza Rocket Wounds Israeli
 A rocket fired at Israel by Palestinian militants from Gaza wounded an Israeli toddler, an army spokesman said.A11
 Voting in Kyrgyzstan
 Voters in Kyrgyzstan cast ballots in early parliamentary elections intended to lift the former Soviet republic from the political morass paralyzing it since a revolution in 2005. A10
 Setback in Philippine Talks
 Negotiations between the Philippine government and Islamic separatists suffered a serious setback after the insurgents accused the government of unilaterally changing a draft agreement over the central issue of ancestral homelands. A12
 NATIONALA18-24 
 Complaints Persist Over Medicare Sales Pitches
 Federal officials have tried to crack down on the deceptive marketing practices of private Medicare plans, forcing insurers to monitor their sales agents more closely. But interviews in eastern Mississippi and neighboring Alabama suggest that the problems persist. A1 
 Facebook as Research Focus
 A team of researchers from Harvard and the University of California, Los Angeles, are monitoring profiles on Facebook.com of an entire class of students at one East Coast college to study how personal tastes, habits and values affect the formation of social relationships. A1
 Rivals Ruffled by Huckabee
 Mike Huckabee's sudden ascendance to the top tier of presidential candidates has rippled across the Republican field, forcing other candidates to shift resources, rethink long-held assumptions and try to calculate what a Huckabee victory in Iowa might mean for the later contests. A1 
 Mr. Huckabee has gained the backing of many Evangelical Christian home-school proponents, and people in the movement nationally believe his support from that group is broad in Iowa and, more important, that the strength of that support is deep. A19 
 Bill Clinton, Front and Center
 With less than three weeks before Hillary Clinton's first test in the Iowa caucuses, Bill Clinton has become a powerful force in her campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination. A1 
 A Role Model in Philadelphia
 In northeast Philadelphia, a fancy new football field has become an oasis in the blighted neighborhood, and the football coach has become a mentor to countless young men. A18 
 Charges in Sex Ring Case
 A man who lured 100 Asian women into a sex ring in Minneapolis has been charged in federal court with transporting women across state lines to engage in prostitution. A21 
 Search for a Lost Grave
 In Nashville, an excavation hopes to solve the mystery over the location of the grave of Charles Henry Dickinson, who was killed in an 1806 duel with a future president, Andrew Jackson. A23 
 NEW YORK/REGIONA26-27
 Partner in Trump Project Faces Down Murky Past
 Felix H. Sater's past is a classic tale of American reinvention: former Soviet emigre cum Wall Street broker cum alleged Mafia conspirator. He recently resurfaced as a real estate executive with an altered name and business ties to Donald J. Trump, but much remains unknown about Mr. Sater, including the details of his criminal history. A27 
 Daring Escape From Jail
 Two prisoners with violent reputations staged a cinematic escape from a New Jersey jail, using dummies fashioned out of bed sheets and pictures of pin-up models to cover their tracks. They squeezed out of their cells and jumped out of the building through holes barely larger than a sheet of legal paper and then long-jumping from a roof over a fence topped with razor wire. A26 
 The Subprime Fallout
 The binge of subprime loans that flooded the Williamsbridge area of the Bronx a few years ago has now given way to foreclosures, and longtime neighborhood residents who did not even take on the risky loans worry that their property values will be sunk by poorly maintained homes and revolving-door neighbors. A26 
 ARTSB1-10
 Radio Host Remains Unbowed
 The humbling of Don Imus last spring over his remarks about the Rutgers women's basketball team has done nothing to quiet Michael Savage, left, a radio host with a far bigger following and far more checkered track record. B1
 OBITUARIESA25
 Diane Wood Middlebrook
 A biographer, poet and critic known for her best-selling, book on the controversial life of the poet Anne Sexton, she was 68. A25
 Dan Fogelberg
 A singer and songwriter whose hits ''Leader of the Band'' and ''Same Old Lang Syne'' helped define the soft-rock era, he was 56. A25
 BUSINESS DAYC1-10 
 Apparel Sales Struggling
 Sales of women's clothing, a traditional pillar of the holiday shopping season, are unusually weak so far this year, according to a major credit card company, an ominous sign for the retail industry. C1 
 A Challenge in Chips
 The potential speed of chips is still climbing, but the software they run is having trouble keeping up. Newer chips with multiple processors require software that can break computing chores into chunks for simultaneous processing. C1 
 Business DigestC2 
 EDITORIALA28-29
 Editorials: Disappointments on climate; flawed media plan; the election watchdogs going missing; a lesson from new Jersey.
 Columns: Roger Cohen and Paul Krugman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); SALES FORCE (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); MEDICARE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); COUNTERFEITING (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); COUNTERFEIT DRUGS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); ARRESTS (67%); INSURANCE (60%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (56%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (51%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL HUCKABEE (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (94%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); TURKEY (92%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007



422 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1664 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Candidates Scrambling To Cope With Rise of Huckabee

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
This article was reported by Michael Cooper, Michael Luo, Marc Santora and Paul Vitello and written by Mr. Cooper.
 Just one month ago, Mitt Romney's supporters thought that they had Iowa fairly well in hand. But there was Mr. Romney last week, telling several hundred people at a high school cafeteria in Marion that he was the underdog and pleading for their help to keep him from being derailed at the caucuses by the rise of Mike Huckabee. 
 ''You're going to do something which people don't expect,'' Mr. Romney told them, ''which is give me a victory.'' 
 His campaign is working feverishly to right itself, zeroing in on Mr. Huckabee's past moderate record on immigration with critical television advertisements, a mailing and recorded phone calls from a former Arkansas lawmaker who says, ''I know Mike Huckabee's a likable guy, but I also know what he did to our state.'' 
 As the Democratic candidates crisscrossed Iowa on Sunday, the Republicans pounded one another, with Mr. Huckabee's ascendancy rippling across the field. Mr. Romney demanded that Mr. Huckabee apologize to President Bush for comments he made about the administration's foreign policy, with Mr. Huckabee firing back, while Fred D. Thompson flung the ultimate conservative insult, calling him a ''liberal.'' Senator John McCain of Arizona, meanwhile, was gathering endorsements, including one expected Monday from Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, who was on the Democratic presidential ticket in 2000. 
 The campaign most immediately threatened by Mr. Huckabee's rise was that of Mr. Romney. One senior Romney adviser, Ronald C. Kaufman, said of Mr. Huckabee's campaign, ''Am I worried? Of course I am.'' But, Mr. Kaufman added, ''At the end of the game, you want the ball in Tom Brady's hands, or the mike in Mitt Romney's hands, and I have faith in our team.''
 Mr. Romney now faces a two-front battle -- in Iowa, which holds its caucuses on Jan. 3, and in New Hampshire, whose primary is on Jan. 8. 
 Mr. Huckabee's rise also comes at a delicate time for Rudolph W. Giuliani, who has been slipping in national polls and who failed to lift his standing in New Hampshire with a heavy advertising campaign. Mr. Giuliani, a former mayor of New York, scaled back his advertising in New Hampshire so he could marshal his resources for later states. 
 The rise of Mr. Huckabee could help Mr. Giuliani in one way: If Mr. Romney is defeated in Iowa, he heads into New Hampshire weakened, unsettling the field and clearing the way for Mr. Giuliani's national strategy. That strategy counts on a victory on Jan. 29 in Florida to propel his candidacy in the nationwide primaries of Feb. 5, when important moderate states like New York and California vote. 
 Campaigning over the weekend showed the chaotic interplay of the race. Mr. Romney finished a swing through Iowa that was meant to try to stem the rise of Mr. Huckabee there but hurried back to New Hampshire to defend his flank there. 
 And Mr. Giuliani, who chose Florida to refocus his campaign, gave a rare formal speech on Saturday in which he called for leading a ''revitalized, 50-state Republican Party into the White House.'' But he found his address overshadowed that day by news of Mr. Huckabee's attack on the Bush administration's foreign policy, describing an ''arrogant bunker mentality'' in an essay in Foreign Affairs magazine.
 The article landed as Mr. Huckabee, a former Arkansas governor who is the central player in the drama, was in New Hampshire through the weekend, hoping his recent momentum would help slice into the edge that Mr. Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, holds in his neighboring state. 
 The scene in New Hampshire showed the altered state of the Huckabee campaign. Only two or three reporters followed him on his last visit. This time, more than three dozen turned out to track his movements. 
 But Mr. Huckabee's campaign showed the strains of its own success. Its e-mail service was down for 24 hours, forcing it to rely on old-fashioned phone calls. 
 The Giuliani campaign professes delight at Mr. Huckabee's rapid rise, but it could ultimately cost Mr. Giuliani, whose drop in national polls came after news accounts questioned his business dealings and his personal life. Now Mr. Huckabee is essentially tied with Mr. Giuliani in several national polls, which could undermine one of the Giuliani campaign's central arguments: that he is the strongest Republican candidate nationwide.
 One of Mr. Giuliani's chief political advisers, Anthony V. Carbonetti, dismissed the notion that Mr. Huckabee could politically endanger Mr. Giuliani. 
 ''Huckabee is roughly where Thompson was when he got his bump,'' Mr. Carbonetti said, referring to the former senator from Tennessee whose star has dimmed since entering the race at the end of the summer. ''It's something we've seen before. But the one constant is us on top. We're now on the third generation of No. 2's: there was McCain, Thompson and now Huckabee.''
 But Mr. Giuliani's decisions not to focus on Iowa and to scale back his efforts in New Hampshire pose other risks. He could have to wait nearly a month for his first victory, time in which another candidate might gain momentum. More immediately, he risks falling off the media radar screen as news organizations concentrate on the race in Iowa. 
 The McCain campaign is also trying to seize on Mr. Romney's troubles in Iowa. It believes that a defeat there for Mr. Romney would put Mr. McCain in a position to pull off an upset in their must-win state, New Hampshire, where they have pinned their hopes for a comeback. 
 ''Mike Huckabee gives us a new deck of cards to play with,'' said Mr. McCain's campaign manger, Rick Davis. ''And anything that gives us a new deck of cards is a good thing.''
 In Iowa, the Romney campaign believes that its vastly superior ground operation is worth several percentage points and can help it close a gap in the polls by bringing out enough supporters to grind out a victory on caucus night. 
 ''We're going to be represented in every precinct caucus,'' said Gentry Collins, the Romney campaign's Iowa state director. ''Is that something other campaigns are prepared to do? My sense is, probably not.''
 Mr. Huckabee is being helped by conservative Christian voters. But Mr. Romney's advisers point out that in past Iowa caucuses, the favored candidates of the Christian right, including Pat Robertson, who pulled off a second-place finish there in 1988, have topped out with somewhere around 25 percent of the vote. 
 To capitalize on his momentum, Mr. Huckabee is focusing on the parts of his message beyond social conservatism, like the environment, a break from the Bush administration's foreign policy and a sort of economic populism. He is also shifting his positions by adopting a harder-line stance on immigration. 
 Mr. Huckabee, in his latest campaign swing through New Hampshire, sounded almost like John Edwards, a Democrat running for president, when he decried what he called ''fat cat'' chief executive officers and their outsize paychecks.
 Still, Mr. Romney's advisers think they will be able to win back fiscally conservative caucusgoers worried about the economy and immigration. ''That's the piece we have to bring back,'' said Alex Gage, his director of strategy. 
 In Iowa last week, Mr. Romney regularly tore into Mr. Huckabee's record, sometimes bringing it up directly with audiences in town hall forums and other times waiting to do it with reporters afterward. And after the Foreign Affairs article, he questioned Mr. Huckabee's Republicanism.
 ''That's an insult to the president, and Mike Huckabee should apologize to the president,'' Mr. Romney said Sunday on the NBC program ''Meet the Press.''
 The Romney campaign's decision to directly engage Mr. Huckabee carries risk; Iowans are known to dislike negative campaigning. But Mr. Romney's advisers are convinced that they must begin to draw contrasts with Mr. Huckabee, preferably before Christmas, because they believe he has not been scrutinized enough by the news media in Iowa.
 Mr. Huckabee has been ramping up his organization in Iowa, but it still remains far behind Mr. Romney's. The campaign recently doubled the office space at its headquarters in downtown Des Moines; it now has 17 paid employees in Iowa, up from 3 over the summer. The campaign is broadcasting commercials in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina and is preparing its first mailing in Iowa.
 But the campaign remains bare bones in many ways. It has not had the money to do any polling. The campaign predicts that it will have precinct captains in the major caucus precincts, but not in all of them. Mr. Huckabee's Iowa state director, Eric Woolson, got a BlackBerry only about a month ago.
 Also in the mix is Mr. Thompson, whose late entrance in the campaign failed to resonate with the conservative voters who are now flocking to Mr. Huckabee. Mr. Thompson sees Iowa as his best chance to get back in the game. So his campaign is moving to Iowa, where it plans two bus tours -- starting Monday -- that total some 16 days on the road before and after Christmas.
 But the greatest uncertainty lies in whether Mr. Huckabee can seriously compete beyond Iowa. His trip to New Hampshire over the weekend put that to the test. And while sizable crowds turned out, many seemed to have been drawn more by the star power of the actor Chuck Norris.
 The Giuliani campaign believes that Mr. Huckabee's momentum will fade. But its decision to scale back advertising in New Hampshire is telling. From Nov. 10 through Dec. 9, the Giuliani campaign spent $1.7 million on commercials in New Hampshire, compared with $1.3 million by Mr. Romney and $1.2 million by Mr. McCain, according to the Campaign Media Analysis Group, which estimates advertising expenditures. 
 Although Mr. Giuliani will cut back on advertising in New Hampshire, he is not writing off the state; he plans to campaign there Monday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HUCKABEE: Mike Huckabee on Saturday in New Hampshire, where the number of reporters following him has increased. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB SILBERBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
ROMNEY: Mitt Romney with a supporter in Iowa, where he asks people to make sure Mr. Huckabee does not derail him. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 GIULIANI: Rudolph W. Giuliani on Saturday in Florida. He hopes a victory in that state's Jan. 29 primary will lift his candidacy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS ZUPPA/ST. PETERSBURG TIMES) (pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); IMMIGRATION (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (54%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); FOREIGN POLICY (51%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL HUCKABEE (93%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); RUDY GIULIANI (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); JOE LIEBERMAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007



423 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: In '08 Race, the Other Clinton Steps Up, for Better or Worse

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: DUNLAP, Iowa 

 BODY:
When Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign advisers laid out their new political strategy in a private conference call with allies last Tuesday, Bill Clinton was not on the line. He did not need to be. The message being delivered was his.
 A day earlier, Mr. Clinton had unveiled the campaign's new talking points at rallies in Iowa. His wife was ''a change agent,'' ''a proven agent of positive change'' and ''a lifetime advocate of a change agenda.''
 The ''change, change, change'' phrase, as some advisers call it, was coined by Mr. Clinton after he told campaign officials that the old strategy of running like an incumbent front-runner was not enough, advisers said. The Clintons had to wrest the message of change from Senator Barack Obama.
 On the conference call, the campaign's chief strategist, Mark Penn, reinforced the idea. ''Let me go through the basic message frame,'' he said; a reporter was given access to the call by two participants on it. ''If you want to have change in this country, if you want a new beginning, then how about electing someone who has a lifetime of making change?'' 
 Mr. Clinton is not running his wife's campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination. But less than three weeks before the Iowa caucuses, and with polls showing a tight race, he has become the most powerful force in her political operation besides the candidate herself. 
 He is shaping strategy, challenging advisers on their assumptions and acting like a vice-presidential candidate in a general election -- attacking rivals so Mrs. Clinton can stay positive much of the time.
 Yet as the Clinton campaign has struggled over the last six weeks, Mr. Clinton has at times been part of the problem. His remark last month that he had opposed the Iraq war ''from the beginning'' -- a statement at variance with his earlier comments -- fueled unwelcome stories about Clintonian parsing, especially since Mrs. Clinton was already under fire for straddling the issue of driver's licenses for illegal immigrants.
 More generally, his higher profile in the campaign is again focusing attention on his mixed history in office, encompassing his skills as a campaigner and the economic boom of the 1990s but also his personal indiscretions and the hostility and derision aimed at him and his wife by much of the Republican Party.
 Robert Shrum, a Democratic consultant who was senior strategist to John Kerry in 2004 and has worked with Mr. Clinton in the past, said that Mr. Clinton was strategically brilliant, but undisciplined and prone to dominate the spotlight.
 ''He's got great strengths, but he's also a spontaneous person -- he says what moves him at the moment,'' Mr. Shrum said. ''You're going to get some big downsides, I guess, but some big upsides too. The biggest danger for her is that he reinforces this sense of back to the future. People don't want to go back to the future, they want to go forward to the future.''
 More than anything, Mr. Clinton is increasingly angry with the news media over what he sees as overly critical coverage of Mrs. Clinton and kinder treatment of Mr. Obama, advisers said.
 They say he allowed that frustration to spill over on ''The Charlie Rose Show'' on Friday night, when he criticized the news media as forgoing tough scrutiny of Mr. Obama. The advisers said he also believed that the Obama camp was persuading the reporters to focus on gaffes by his wife and her campaign, like the recent Clinton campaign statement that Mr. Obama harbored presidential ambitions even in kindergarten, and a campaign official's remark last week about Mr. Obama's past drug use.
 Mr. Clinton's role in his wife's campaign has grown in intensity because of several factors, advisers said. They include his belief that victory or defeat in the Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire primary could have a slingshot effect on her performance in other states; and a competitive zeal that has not been this electrified since his bid for the presidency in 1992, advisers said.
 ''He's going on full cylinders right now,'' Mr. Penn said in an interview on Sunday. ''He knows that campaigns have their ups and downs, and I think he's fundamentally optimistic about the outcome.''
 From now until the nomination is settled, Mr. Clinton is going to be campaigning, raising money or calling supporters and high-profile holdouts every day, advisers said.
 He is concentrating on states that vote first. He is to campaign in South Carolina on Monday and return to Iowa on Tuesday with the former basketball star Magic Johnson. Mr. Clinton's staff is also hiring a traveling press secretary for his campaign trips -- a person who will, Mrs. Clinton's advisers say, help keep him on message, among other things. 
 Some advisers and supporters of Mrs. Clinton are torn about her husband's role. They say that Mr. Clinton, for all his political gifts, has been living in a rarefied, postpresidential bubble for the last seven years, and has not had to deal as much with an aggressive news media and with other Democrats ripping into his wife -- and himself.
 These advisers expressed concern, for instance, about Mr. Clinton's performance on ''Charlie Rose'' and his insistence that he was against the Iraq war from the start. While some Clinton aides said that Mr. Clinton had said in 2005 and 2006 that he was against the war early on, they conceded that, with his wife now a candidate, his words faced new scrutiny, and that his re-entry to high-stakes personal campaigning had not been entirely smooth.
 ''He is brilliant in sizing up the political challenge and giving advice; he is a little rusty at execution, and his impatience and anxiety seems even worse when it comes to Hillary than when he was running himself,'' said one longtime senior adviser who worked on both Clintons' campaigns, and who spoke on condition of anonymity.
 Mr. Clinton draws several hundred people to each of his appearances, and he still generates ovations. At Mrs. Clinton's event here in Dunlap on Sunday, some of her loudest applause came when she mentioned her husband for the first time. Yet Mr. Clinton's charisma on the stump is uneven. During his four stops in Iowa last week, campaign aides acknowledged that his presentation was flatter earlier in the day than at his final event at 8 p.m. in Iowa City.
 The Clintons still rarely campaign together. Advisers say they double the output when they travel solo, but concerns also abide about Mr. Clinton's drawing attention away from his wife when they appear together. They are expected to team up in the final days in Iowa and New Hampshire; until then, their daughter Chelsea and Mrs. Clinton's mother are expected to play a higher-profile role on the trail.
 Inside the campaign, meanwhile, Mr. Clinton's frustrations are being absorbed by a team of people who are long familiar with them. Mr. Penn and the campaign's advertising chief, Mandy Grunwald, both worked on his presidential bids, and Mrs. Clinton thinks of her campaign manager, Patti Solis Doyle, almost as an adopted daughter. 
 Democrats close to Mr. Clinton say that while he has been anxious, they cannot imagine he would ever try to have Mr. Penn or Ms. Solis Doyle fired or demoted; rather, he is concerned that advice to Mrs. Clinton be fully debated.
 ''The president and Penn have been very close for over 10 years,'' Mr. Shrum said. ''I believe the two of them together have been the strategic drivers of the campaign, and one thing I think is ridiculous is the notion that he's all unhappy with the campaign and its strategicdirection, because I believe that he helped set it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bill Clinton with his wife at a campaign fund-raiser for her. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. A1)
 Bill Clinton last week at a fund-raiser for his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton. Mr. Clinton is not running the campaign, but has become the second-most powerful force in her political operation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH SCHULTZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCE CALLS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IRAQ WAR (61%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); DRIVERS LICENSES (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007



424 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; VITAL SIGNS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: In the Upper Great Plains, Lower Mortality Rates

BYLINE: By ERIC NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
Minnesota is to die for -- unless you are in a hurry to expire.
 Researchers have found that Minnesotans and residents of the other Upper Great Plains states have some of the lowest mortality rates in the country. 
 The problem with conventional examinations of variation in mortality rates, the researchers say, is that they tend to be limited to factors like socioeconomic and environmental conditions without taking geography into account.
 ''These findings underscore the importance of further investigation of 'people versus place' in the study of mortality,'' they write in the December issue of The American Journal of Public Health. The study was led by Jeralynn Sittig Cossman of Mississippi State University.
 In the long run, of course, the mortality rate for people across the country is the same (100 percent, for those keeping track). But for this study, the researchers looked at 35 years of data and calculated mortality rates over seven, five-year periods. Then they compared the results by county.
 The researchers were surprised that the Upper Great Plains states fared so well. ''Despite economic decline and rapid out-migration,'' the study said, ''it was the healthiest region.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%)

ORGANIZATION: MISSISSIPPI STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



425 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: For Sports Fans, a Season of Foul Play

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The sports world is giving New Yorkers more than their usual quotient of agita, and that includes people who think a full-court press is a legal maneuver and a hat trick part of David Copperfield's act.
 This has nothing to do with athletics or the skills of teams like the Knicks, who play a game that almost resembles basketball, and the Jets, who make a wild stab at football. 
 We're talking here about honor, history and money.
 Honor, for one, has taken a heck of a beating in the last few days.
 Madison Square Garden, the source of sordid courtroom tales of men behaving badly, agreed to pay a former employee, Anucha Browne Sanders, $11.5 million to settle a sexual harassment lawsuit. As ever, Garden officials insisted that they were as innocent as newborn babes; they just wanted to make the case go away. But a federal jury in Manhattan didn't buy it. Odds are that neither do most New Yorkers.
 Honor? Baseball players in New York uniforms trashed it by juicing up with drugs they had to have known were not kosher. Sadly, their ranks include the much-admired Andy Pettitte of the Yankees, who belatedly acknowledged on Saturday that in this regard, he was as pure as the driven slush.
 History came barreling through town by way of baseball's Hall of Fame, which voted to posthumously admit Walter O'Malley, the Dodgers' owner who abandoned Brooklyn 50 years ago in favor of Los Angeles.
 Predictably, Mr. O'Malley's election touched off a debate, still vibrant among some Brooklynites, over whether he committed the worst act of betrayal since Judas. ''Never forget, never forgive'' die-hards duked it out verbally with ''get over it!'' types.
 Frankly, we didn't have a dog in this fight. But we leaned sentimentally toward the die-hards, if only to recall a Brooklyn question from long ago about what to do if you find yourself in a room with Hitler, Stalin and Walter O'Malley, and you have a gun but only two bullets.
 The answer was obvious: Shoot O'Malley twice.
 Then there's the matter of money, specifically taxpayer money, thrown liberally at sports teams, whether or not they deserve it or need it.
 Both the Yankees and Mets enjoy city subsidies -- totaling in the hundreds of millions of dollars, by the estimates of some watchdog groups -- to build new ballparks that will be smaller than the existing stadiums and cater to the elites that can afford ticket prices that, rest assured, will go up.
 (Wouldn't you know, over the weekend the Mets said that ticket prices for 2008 would rise by about 20 percent. Wait till you see what they and the Yankees charge after their new stadiums open in 2009.)
 Of immediate concern to some politicians is the multimillion-dollar tax break that the Garden has enjoyed for 25 years. In 1982, the Garden threatened to move out of town, taking along the Knicks and the Rangers. To persuade it -- some would say bribe it -- to stay put, the State Legislature voted to exempt the arena from city real estate taxes.
 It was a tax break that City Hall assumed back then would expire after 10 years. Instead, because of the way the state law was written, it endures. And endures.
 These days, it is worth about $11 million a year. As calculated by the city's Independent Budget Office, the municipal treasury over the last quarter-century has lost $297.7 million, not exactly chump change.
 For leading city officials, it is time to pull the plug, though you can count on the Garden fighting back. All that a Garden spokesman chose to say on Monday, when asked for comment, was that ''as we've told the mayor, we will have responsible dialogue concerning this issue at the appropriate time.''
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is long opposed to, in his words, ''bribing companies to come and to stay.'' In the City Council, a proposed resolution urges the Legislature to put the Garden back on the property tax rolls. Whatever merit the exemption may have once had no longer exists, the Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, said on Monday. ''We're at a point now that we need the money,'' she said.
 The resolution is about ''economic fairness,'' Ms. Quinn said, and ''isn't in any way an effort to take a whack at the Garden'' because of a scandal like the sexual harassment case.
 It might be worth noting, however, that the Garden's tax obligation that is waived each year comes close to equaling its settlement with Ms. Browne Sanders. In effect, that tax break will go far to help pay her.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); BASEBALL (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); LITIGATION (73%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (69%); TICKET SALES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (58%); NEW YORK JETS (57%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



426 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; A CONVERSATION WITH ALAN RABINOWITZ; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Zoologist Gives a Voice to Big Cats in the Wilderness

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA DREIFUS

 BODY:
Among zoologists, Alan Rabinowitz is known as the Indiana Jones of wildlife conservation. But he is actually more the Dag Hammarskjold of biology. 
 That is because Dr. Rabinowitz, executive director of science and exploration at the Wildlife Conservation Society, is a kind of international diplomat for big cats -- jaguars, leopards, pumas. 
 For 20 years, he has traveled the world, imploring the power elite of democracies and dictatorships to dedicate large parcels as reserves for these imperiled felines. 
 In the 1980s, he persuaded the leaders of Belize to establish the world's first jaguar preserve. More recently, this Brooklyn-born biologist prevailed on the junta in Myanmar to transform 8,400 square miles of forest into the Hukawng Valley Tiger Reserve. 
 Dr. Rabinowitz, 53, recounts his Burmese adventures in a new book, ''Life in the Valley of Death: The Fight to Save Tigers in the Land of Guns, Gold and Greed'' (Island Press). An edited version of a two-hour conversation in New York follows. 
 Q. With so many of the world's animals in danger, why do you mostly advocate for big cats?
 A. Because cats get to the human psyche. People love big cats. If I go to a government and say, ''If you don't do something quickly, you're going to lose your tigers,'' they listen. If I say, ''You're about to lose all your wolves,'' they won't care. But leopards, tigers, jaguars -- people have a huge admiration for them,
 My real goal is to save large sections of pristine wilderness for all types of wildlife. One way to do that is to make sure that the top predators have enough safe territory to thrive in. Because big cats need so much territory, when you save them, you're really saving whole ecosystems and you're saving the other animals down on the food chain. This is what's called the ''apex predator strategy'' in conservation.
 The other thing I've seen is that no government, even if they are doing a lot of development, wants to lose their big cats. Even when you're talking to the most authoritarian of dictators, none of them wants to be the guy at the helm when the last of his country's tigers go extinct. 
 Q.How does a conservationist negotiate with dictators? Do you employ special strategies?
 A. I don't go in with a plan. I just talk from my heart. These guys, they are used to people coming to them with hidden agendas. I think they can see that I don't have any other than the wildlife. 
 When I first went to Burma-Myanmar, for instance, there wasn't a lot of trust there (laughs). I was told, ''You don't look like a scientist.'' But the situation for the Burmese tiger was desperate. Between habitat destruction and hunting, they were almost gone. We did surveys, and in a lot of areas where tigers were supposed to be, you saw none. I was pretty blunt about that.
 Sometimes, personal things worked for me. In 2003, I was diagnosed with a slow-growing form of leukemia. Some of the toughest leaders in the Burmese military, they just couldn't fathom why anyone with cancer was repeatedly coming to their country and going into the jungle when in their mind I should be meditating or having a more easy life. ''So what if I have cancer?'' I told them. ''The tigers still have to have a home.'' I think my personal situation helped win some trust. 
 Q. Because of gross human-rights violations, the military government of Myanmar is under economic sanctions from the United States. There are people who wonder how you could work with such a government. What's your answer? 
 A. Tigers have no control over what human governments they live under. If we're going to draw lines on what is an acceptable political landscape for saving wildlife, where can we work? Wildlife always ends up taking a back seat to what's going on among humans -- always. If we're going to save wildlife, I've got to give it a front seat. Nothing we do hurts the people of Burma. 
 But if I based conservation on what I considered moral subjectivity, I'd be doing the wildlife no favor. And we'd be virtually guaranteeing the extermination of tigers from Burma. They've been almost hunted out for their skins and for the traditional-medicine trade.
 Q. How are the tigers faring since the preserve was established? 
 A. Tigers don't come back so quickly. When you're down to very low numbers, you have to get a male and female just even meeting. With so few, it's not easy for them to find each other. Even when you get them meeting, the young stay with the female for about three years. She doesn't breed again until those young leave her. So if the tigers are coming back, we won't know it for a few more years.
 For the meanwhile -- since hunting has been banned and since we've started some economic development projects for the local people -- there's been an increase in the prey-species that tigers eat: wild pigs and sambar deer. We've set up ''camera traps'' on animal trails where you can photograph everything that passes. We haven't seen a lot of tigers yet. 
 Q. We understand that you've been trying to negotiate with the North Koreans to set up a wildlife sanctuary.
 A. In the Demilitarized Zone, yes. We think there are a lot of animals in there. It's forested. And because it's so heavily fortified, there isn't human settlement. We reached out to the North Koreans. We thought, why not make the DMZ into a peace park? 
 We first approached the North Koreans years ago to try to study the Siberian tiger that migrates into there. They wouldn't let any Americans in. We were able to get one British scientist to visit their capital city, a birdwatcher. They never allowed him out of the city. There's no story to tell there.
 Q. What originally drew you to conservation?
 A. As a child, I had this horrific stutter. In school, I was put in what was called the retarded classes. I was very angry that people couldn't see past the stuttering. From the second grade on, I stopped talking, except to the little green turtle and the chameleon I kept at home. 
 Talking to the animals, I realized they had feelings. I didn't know if they understood me. But I saw that they were exactly like me. They weren't broken, but people mistreated them because they can't communicate. I thought if these animals had a voice, people wouldn't be able to crush them and throw them away. When I was a child, I promised the animals that if I ever got my voice back, I'd be their voice.
 It makes me feel whole, knowing that I'm allowing more animals to live in this world. Every time I set up a protected area, I feel I'm paying them back for helping me speak. When we got Hukawng established, I thought, all those turtles, otters and tigers, they now have a chance to live. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DIPLOMAT: Alan Rabinowitz and Siberian tigers at the Bronx Zoo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE (91%); ZOOLOGY (91%); WILD CATS (90%); MAMMALOGY (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); CATS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ANIMALS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); WILDERNESS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) MYANMAR (94%); UNITED STATES (88%)

TITLE: Life in the Valley of Death: The Fight to Save Tigers in the Land of Guns, Gold and Greed (Book)>; Life in the Valley of Death: The Fight to Save Tigers in the Land of Guns, Gold and Greed (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



427 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; PERSONAL HEALTH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Teenage Risks, and How to Avoid Them

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
Last January in Freehold Township, N.J., a car driven by a 17-year-old high school student, with two fellow students as passengers, passed a car being driven by another teenager at 70 miles an hour in a 50-mile zone. The passing vehicle crashed into an oncoming van. Three boys and the 68-year-old van driver were killed. 
 It is an all too familiar tale, prompting parents and school officials alike to wonder why risky behavior is so common among teenagers and what might be done to curtail it. Is it that teenagers think that they are immortal or invulnerable, immune to the hazards adults see so clearly? Or do they not appreciate the risks involved and need repeated reminders of the dangers inherent in activities like driving too fast, driving drunk, having unprotected sex, experimenting with drugs, binge drinking, jumping into unknown waters, you name it?
 None of the above, says Valerie F. Reyna, professor of human development and psychology at the New York State College of Human Ecology at Cornell. The facts are quite the opposite. Scientific studies have shown that adolescents are very well aware of their vulnerability and that they actually overestimate their risk of suffering negative effects from activities like drinking and unprotected sex. 
 For example, a study by researchers at the University of California, San Francisco, found that teenagers were more likely than adults to overestimate risks for every outcome studied, from low-probability events like contracting H.I.V. to higher-probability ones like acquiring more common sexually transmitted diseases or becoming pregnant from a single act of unprotected sex.
 ''We found that teenagers quite rationally weigh benefits and risks,'' Dr. Reyna said in a recent interview. ''But when they do that, the equation delivers the message to go ahead and do that, because to the teen the benefits outweigh the risks.'' 
 For example, she said: ''The risk of pregnancy from a single act of unprotected sex is quite small, perhaps one chance in 12, and the risk of contracting H.I.V., about one in 500, is very much smaller than that. We're not thinking logically; they are.'' 
 For that reason, Dr. Reyna and Frank Farley, a professor at Temple University and past president of the American Psychological Association, noted last June in an article in Scientific American Reports that traditional programs that appeal to teenagers' rationality ''are inherently flawed, not because teens fail to weigh risks against benefits,'' but because ''teens tend to weight benefits more heavily than risks when making decisions.''
 As for perceptions of invulnerability, a national study of 3,544 teenagers a decade ago found that their own estimates of their risk of dying were very much higher than the actual risk. Because adolescents already feel so vulnerable, showing them photos or films of fatal car crashes may do nothing to reduce future risk-taking.
 ''It now becomes clearer why traditional intervention programs fail to help many teenagers,'' Dr. Reyna and Dr. Farley wrote. ''Although the programs stress the importance of accurate risk perception, young people already feel vulnerable and overestimate their risks.''
 In Dr. Reyna's view, inundating teenagers with factual risk information could backfire, leading them to realize that behaviors like unprotected sex are less risky than they thought. Using an analytical approach of weighing risks versus benefits is ''a slippery slope that all too often results in teens' thinking that the benefits outweigh the risks,'' she said.
 A New Strategy
 Based on what she and others have learned about how teenagers react to risky choices, Dr. Reyna, co-director of the Center for Behavioral Economics and Decision Research at Cornell, and her colleague Charles J. Brainerd are testing a new approach to adolescent risk prevention.
 She explained that as people grew older and more experienced, they became more intuitive, and more of their decisions were based on what she calls ''gist,'' an overall sense of what is the best course of action.
 This approach, in which ''one sees the forest more than the trees,'' enables adults to reach the bottom line more quickly and, in the process, reduce their risky behaviors.
 For example, while an adolescent might consider playing Russian roulette for a $1 million payoff, a normal adult would not give it a moment's thought. Cutting directly to the chase, the adult would be more inclined to think: ''No way! No amount of money is worth a one in six chance of dying.'' 
 ''Young people don't get it,'' Dr. Reyna said. ''They don't get the gist of a situation. Gist is based on one's culture, background and experiences, and experience is what teens lack.'' 
 A gist-based approach to decision making results in simple, black-and-white conclusions of good or bad, safe or dangerous, she and Dr. Farley wrote.
 How can ''gist'' be created? After a young woman I knew became a paraplegic after swerving her car to avoid hitting a squirrel, I trained myself mentally not to brake or swerve in that situation, and I urged my sons and daughters-in-law to do the same. The gist here is that the life of a squirrel is not worth the possible consequences to me or anyone else on the road.
 Likewise, in helping a teenage girl resist spontaneous, unprotected sex, a gist-based approach has her practicing ways to say ''no'' and not worry about losing her boyfriend. A 15-year-old who already had one unintended pregnancy and who participated in the ''intuitive, gist-enhanced intervention program'' that Dr. Reyna and Dr. Farley devised put it this way: ''In talking about all the different ways to say 'no,' I've actually used them, which makes me feel much more comfortable. And I feel confident. I don't feel stupid by saying 'no.' And even if people think I'm stupid, that's their problem.'' 
 Making Good Choices
 Teenagers need ''practice at recognizing cues in the environment that signal possible danger before it's too late to act,'' the two experts urged in a 44-page review of adolescent decision making published in September 2006 in the journal Psychological Science in the Public Interest. 
 At the same time, Dr. Reyna warned: ''Younger adolescents don't learn from consequences as well as older adolescents do. So rather than relying on them to make reasoned choices or to learn from the school of hard knocks, a better approach is to supervise them.''
 In other words, young teenagers need to be protected from themselves by removing opportunities for risk-taking -- for example, by filling their time with positive activities and protecting them from risky situations that are likely to be tempting or that require ''behavioral inhibition.'' 
 A young teenage girl should not be left alone in the house with her boyfriend, and responsible adults should be omnipresent and alcohol absent when teenagers have parties.

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION (ILLUSTRATION BY STUART BRADFORD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (87%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (87%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (78%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (75%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (72%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (68%); INTERVIEWS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



428 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: The Price of Growing Fuel

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN; Eric Ferkenhoff contributed reporting from Chicago.

 BODY:
Shopping at a Whole Foods Market in suburban Chicago, Meredith Estes said food prices have jumped so much she has resorted to coupons. Charles T. Rodgers Jr., an Arkansas cattle rancher, said normal feed rations so expensive and scarce he is scrambling for alternatives. In Oregon, Jack Joyce, the owner of Rogue Ales, said the cost of barley malt has soared 88 percent this year.
 For years, cheap food and feed were taken for granted in the United States. 
 But now the price of some foods is rising sharply, and from the corridors of Washington to the aisles of neighborhood supermarkets, a blame alert is under way. 
 Among the favorite targets is ethanol, especially for food manufacturers and livestock farmers who seethe at government mandates for ethanol production. The ethanol boom, they contend, is raising corn prices, driving up the cost of producing dairy products and meat, and causing farmers to plant so much corn as to crowd out other crops. 
 The results are working their way through the marketplace, in this view, with overall consumer grocery costs up roughly 5 percent in a year and feed costs up more than 20 percent.
 Now, with Congress poised to adopt a new mandate that would double the volume of ethanol made from corn, ethanol skeptics say a fateful moment has arrived, with the nation about to commit itself to decades of competition between food and fuel for the use of agricultural land.
 ''This is like a runaway freight train,'' said Scott Faber, a lobbyist for the Grocery Manufacturers Association, who complained that ethanol has the same ''magical effect'' on politicians as the tooth fairy and Santa Claus have on children. ''It's great news for corn farmers, but terrible news for consumers.''
 But ethanol critics are not getting much traction with their argument. Last week, the Senate voted 86 to 8 for a new energy bill containing expanded ethanol mandates, and the House is expected to follow suit this week.
 Experts with no stake in the argument say ethanol has indeed contributed to rising food costs, but that is only one among several factors. Higher fuel costs are driving up the expense of growing and transporting food. And strong economic growth abroad is increasing demand for agricultural commodities, allowing once-destitute people to augment their diets with meat and dairy.
 It is also a tough time, politically, to make a case against ethanol. With continuing turmoil in the Middle East, sky-high gas prices and presidential candidates stumping in Iowa, the heart of the Corn Belt, a new renewable fuel standard has plenty of supporters on Capitol Hill.
 ''We did get whipped,'' said Jay Truitt, vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association. ''We continue to be caught up in this fervor, almost spirituality, about ethanol. You can't get anyone to consider that there is a consequence to these actions.''
 He added, ''We think there will be a day when people ask, 'Why in the world did we do this?'''
 The bill in Congress would increase the mandate for renewable fuels to a striking 36 billion gallons by 2022. That is far beyond a requirement on the books now for 7.5 billion gallons of ethanol by 2012.
 Much of the newly required ethanol could be made from agricultural wastes like corn stalks and straw, and its production would not compete directly with food production. But the proposed mandate, known as a renewable fuel standard, also calls for 15 billion gallons of ethanol made from grains, primarily corn. 
 Ethanol advocates say they believe yield increases will supply much of the extra corn needed to meet the new mandate. 
 Mark W. Leonard, who raises cattle and corn in western Iowa and owns a stake in several ethanol plants, said it was ''absolutely essential'' that the government increase the mandate for ethanol, and he urged Congress to push up the deadlines.
 ''This is a national security issue more than anything else,'' said Mr. Leonard, noting the nation's dependence on imported oil. ''We need to quit sending money to people who want to blow us up.''
 When the current standard was passed as part of a 2005 energy bill, it set off a construction binge of ethanol plants that continues, primarily in the Corn Belt but also in places like California, Texas and upstate New York. As new plants opened and the demand for ethanol increased, so did corn prices. 
 Farmers have responded to the boom by planting more and more corn. In fact, the amount of corn planted this year, 94 million acres, was the most since World War II, and it produced a record crop of 13.2 billion bushels. But even with bumper crops, corn prices are expected to climb next year.
 Joe Victor, vice president for marketing for Allendale, an agricultural research firm in the Chicago suburbs, said Midwestern farmers would face a pleasant quandary in the spring in deciding what to plant because wheat and soybean prices are at or near record highs and corn prices remain bullish.
 ''Oh geez, they've got money galore,'' he said. ''The Senate vote for the energy bill was a real confidence builder for the farmer to think, 'They are not going to pull the rug out from underneath us.'''
 The price increases for corn have had a broad impact, both because farmers are planting more corn and less of other crops and because livestock producers are scrambling for feed substitutes. For instance, soybeans acreage planted this year was about 16 percent less than in 2006.
 Feed costs have increased 25 to 30 percent in the last year, according to David Fairfield, director of feed services at the National Grain and Feed Association. He attributed virtually all of the increase to the demands of the ethanol industry
 One consequence of the higher feed costs is rising competition for malt barley between livestock farmers, who want it for feed, and brewers, who need it for beer. Mr. Joyce, the Rogue Ales owner in Newport, Ore., said he has been forced to raise prices to pay for the additional costs of ingredients.
 Mr. Rodgers, the Rison, Ark., rancher, said he used to feed his cattle a mixture of corn gluten and soybean hulls. But he said he cannot get corn gluten anymore, and the cost of soybean hulls has risen to $150 a ton from about $105 a ton.
 ''I'm all for us being energy independent,'' he said, but added, ''it's got to be market driven.''
 The impact of ethanol on prices at the grocery store is less certain.
 Grocery prices that are measured by the Consumer Price Index increased 5.4 percent in the last year, with dairy prices up 14 percent; meats, poultry, fish and eggs, 5.4 percent; cereal and baked products, 5.2 percent; and fruits and vegetables, 4.5 percent. 
 Those increases outpaced overall inflation of 4.3 percent. Government economists predict grocery prices will jump another 3 to 4 percent in 2008.
 In a study completed in May, researchers at Iowa State University concluded that retail food prices had already increased by $47 per person in the previous year or so as a result of higher corn prices. If corn prices near $4.50 a bushel next year, as many people expect, the research suggests that retail food prices for meat will increase about 7.5 percent and egg prices will go up 13.5 percent. 
 But researchers for the Renewable Fuels Association dispute that math and contend that the link between corn prices and grocery prices is weak.
 As the debate continues, one thing is certain: American shoppers are increasingly frustrated over rising prices.
 ''It's the staples, the cheeses, the milks and produce,'' said Ms. Estes, shopping at the Chicago-area Whole Foods. ''It's going up, and my grocery bill at the end, it's like, 'Are you kidding me?'''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jack Joyce, the owner of Rogue Ales in Newport, Ore., says the cost of barley has skyrocketed, forcing him to raise prices. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C4) CHART: PAYING MORE FOR DINNER: Recent spikes in food commodity prices have helped lead to higher prices in the grocery store. (SOURCE: BLOOMBERG FINANCIAL MARKETS
 BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); ETHANOL (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CORN FARMING (88%); CORN MARKETS (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (78%); GRAIN MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FOOD MFG (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (77%); MEATS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (75%); ENERGY REGULATION (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (74%); BEEF (73%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); POLITICS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (62%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (57%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); TRAINS (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL CATTLEMEN'S BEEF ASSOCIATION (60%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); GROCERY MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (54%)

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813910 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (60%); SIC8621 PROFESSIONAL MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS (60%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (58%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) OREGON, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



429 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Bus and Subway Service Improvements Planned

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
To sweeten the pill of a proposed fare increase, New York City Transit said on Monday that it was planning a series of subway and bus service improvements that would go into effect in the second half of next year. 
 The service changes would mean shorter waits for riders or extended hours of operation on some subway lines, added bus service and the creation of a new bus route in Manhattan. 
 The improvements would be made only after the financial performance of the transit agency's parent, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, was reviewed during the first three months of the year to certify that its economic position had not weakened, officials said Monday. 
 Riders would see the first service improvements in June, according to material released on Monday. Some of the changes are relatively small, like shaving one or two minutes from waiting times for evening service on the Nos. 1, 4 and 6 lines. Others add hours of operation to some lines. Operation of the B and W lines on weekdays would be extended to 11 p.m. from 9:30 p.m. Some changes, like an increase in service on the G train, would not begin until next December. 
 The changes would also create a new bus line, the M13, from the Lower East Side to East Midtown, and would extend the B71 and B77 buses from Brooklyn via the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel into Manhattan, where they would go to South Ferry. 
 The service additions are expected to cost $16 million next year and $46 million in 2009. The proposed fare increase would bring in $90 million in 2008 and $110 million the next year, the authority said.
 The transportation authority's board is to vote on Wednesday on its 2008 budget, including the first fare and toll increases since 2005. If the increases are approved, commuters on the Metro-North Railroad and the Long Island Rail Road will see their fares go up on March 1. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (92%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); FERRIES (78%); BUDGETS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



430 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Home Prices in S. Korea Stalling at a High Point

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: SEOUL 

 BODY:
In 30 years as a real estate broker, Chung Doo-hyun says, he has never seen a market behave the way South Korea's is.
 First, there was the wave of feverish buying that drove up housing prices across South Korea, including in Seoul's skyscraper-studded financial district, Yoido (pronounced YUH-wee-doe), where Mr. Chung's tiny office is. Then, about a year ago, buyers and sellers became scarce, he says. Real estate prices stopped moving. The market came to a near halt. 
 ''The whole real estate market is frozen,'' said Mr. Chung, 65. ''Everyone is just waiting.''
 It is an unusual predicament, at a time when increasing volatility in real estate markets elsewhere has emerged as one of the biggest challenges to global growth. In the United States, a housing market slowdown has strained the economy, shaken Wall Street and spread to Europe; while in fast-emerging China and India, runaway property values threaten to spur inflation or, worse yet, plummet. 
 Across South Korea, prices are just standing still. In the last year or so, there has been a steep drop in the number of housing transactions, particularly in Seoul, the nation's political and commercial capital. According to the construction ministry, the number of apartments sold in Seoul fell to 8,680 in October, down almost two-thirds from a year ago. During the same period, transactions nationwide fell by almost half.
 Since December, apartment prices in Seoul have risen just 3 percent, after increasing 93 percent over the preceding five years, according to data from Kookmin Bank. Nationwide, apartment prices have risen just 2.1 percent this year.
 Real estate agents, developers and economists here all agree that the frozen market is the work of the current president, Roh Moo-hyun. Mr. Roh imposed new taxes and restrictions on real estate deals, in an effort to deter speculators, whom he blamed for stoking the overheating housing market. But many agents, developers and economists say Mr. Roh overshot his mark, making it prohibitively expensive for anyone to buy or sell.
 Now, the market seems to be waiting for Wednesday's, presidential election. Many here hope a successor will restart the housing market by reversing the policies of Mr. Roh, who is not seeking re-election. Real estate prices have emerged as a leading campaign issue, with the current front-runner, the conservative Grand National Party's Lee Myung-bak, a former chief executive of Hyundai Construction, promising to lower capital gains taxes and other taxes.
 But, many economists warn that by idling the market and giving investors time to reconsider their enthusiasm for high prices, Mr. Roh may have created a different problem. They say that even if a new president reverses Mr. Roh's antispeculative measures, prices are just as likely to fall or even collapse as they are to resume climbing.
 ''The policies have ended up raising doubts about whether the crazy gains can continue,'' said Kim Kwang-soo, head of KS Economic Research Institute. ''This is a tremendous bubble, which must burst sooner or later.''
 If there is a bubble, it was created by economic growth and higher living standards fueling a half-decade construction frenzy that continues to chug along, even amid the drop in real estate sales. Across the country, dominolike rows of identical high-rise apartments have sprung up, while armies of bulldozers and cranes transform farmland into dozens of ''New Towns'' and ''Innovative Cities.'' 
 Development helped cause a land grab that drove real estate values to such heights that middle-class buyers felt increasingly priced out of the market, prompting concerns of a possible asset bubble. In Seoul's most popular neighborhoods, three-bedroom apartments now routinely cost $2 million, about 100 times the average national income.
 Unlike its Asian neighbors, as prices rose, South Korea intervened forcefully. Initially, Mr. Roh, a populist who took power in 2002 on a left-leaning platform, appeared powerless. But late last year, his increasingly restrictive measures slowed price gains. Among the most potent of Mr. Roh's steps were raising the capital gains tax by as much as 60 percent and limiting the size of some bank loans so that monthly payments did not surpass 40 percent of monthly income.
 But the moves have been widely criticized for spreading pain too broadly. Industries from realty to construction and even trucking say they have lost business. Retiring workers, many who want to sell homes bought three or four decades ago, complain that the steeper capital gains taxes will wipe out profits that they had been counting on to finance their retirements.
 But even if a new president can rekindle the boom, it may prove short-lived. Some experts warn that South Korea faces a severe glut in new housing over the next five years, as large developments begun during the early 2000s, when the market was soaring, reach completion. Shim Gyo-eon, a real estate professor at Konkuk University, predicts that some one million new units will come on the market by 2013.
 ''I have never seen so much supply coming at once,'' said Dr. Shim, who has been unable to find buyers for his own house in Seoul. 
 One of the developments soon to come online is in the twin cities of Cheonan and Asan, a 40-minute ride from Seoul on South Korea's new high-speed train. On what is now a huge stretch of excavated red earth, developers are building the Cheonan-Asan New Town, a corporate park and high-rise community meant to house some 4,000 families. 
 Along the development's outskirts, more than 100 additional apartment towers, with space for 20,000 more families, have already begun rising.
 Large glass-fronted showrooms in Cheonan, display full-size models of the uncompleted units available for order. But while construction continues, developers say that orders have been disappointingly low, with most showrooms sitting empty. 
 ''Buyers just aren't coming,'' said Shin Dong-hyun, a director at Daewoo Engineering and Construction, which is building three apartment complexes with 2,100 units in Cheonan.
 Mr. Shin says part of the problem is a ''short-term oversupply of apartments.'' Still, he says he is confident that they can all be sold eventually -- if the current government policies are changed.
 ''People are interested in buying,'' he said. ''But they can't under these conditions.''
 Mr. Chung, a real estate agent in Yoido, says he is lucky now if a single customer calls or shows up each day at his office, Kukdo Real Estate Agency. That compares with 10 or more queries he received daily until last year. His business has plunged into the red. 
 Mr. Chung said business is even tougher now than it was during South Korea's financial crisis a decade ago, when the economy nearly collapsed. 
 ''At least during the crisis, people were selling,'' he said. ''Now, they're doing nothing.''
 ''Roh Moo-hyun dropped a bomb us,'' said Mr. Chung. 
 South Korea's new leader will face the tricky task of mopping up the aftermath. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Many new apartment complexes are under construction and few are being sold in South Korea. Chung Doo-hyun, a broker in Seoul, says ''The whole real estate market is frozen.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEOKYONG LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (95%); HOME PRICES (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ELECTIONS (88%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); POLITICS (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (62%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

COMPANY: KB FINANCIAL GROUP INC (66%); KOOKMIN BANK (53%)

TICKER: KB (NYSE) (66%); 105560 (KSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (66%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



431 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Princeton Student Admits Faking Attack

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
A Princeton University junior who claimed to have been beaten by two men in black ski caps for his conservative views admitted on Monday that he made up the attack, according to Princeton Township police officials.
 Francisco Nava, 23, told police that he was attacked on Friday evening, two days after he and three other students belonging to a conservative group, the Anscombe Society, had received threatening e-mail messages, according to the university. The society opposes premarital sex and advocates for a return to more traditional morality in society. A politics professor who serves as an unofficial adviser to the group, Robert P. George, also received e-mail threats.
 Mr. Nava initially told police that one of the men approached him a few miles away from campus and asked him to go with him to help someone who was hurt. Mr. Nava said that when he walked toward the man, he was grabbed by a second man and pinned against a brick wall in a field. He said that both men hit him in the face before running away. 
 But on Monday, when confronted by police officials about inconsistencies in his story, Mr. Nava admitted that he had inflicted scratches and bruises on his own face because of ''underlying personal issues'' and that he had not received any threatening e-mail messages, said Detective Sgt. Ernie Silagyi, who interviewed Mr. Nava.
 Detective Sergeant Silagyi said that Mr. Nava, who was on campus Monday, could be charged with filing a false police report, a misdemeanor. Mr. Nava declined to be interviewed yesterday through the university's communications office.
 Princeton University officials are investigating the fabricated attack, and Mr. Nava's possible role in sending the threatening e-mail messages, and they could bring disciplinary actions ranging from a warning to expulsion against Mr. Nava, said Lauren D. Robinson-Brown, the university's communications director. 
 ''The university takes all matters related to the safety of its community members extremely seriously and takes immediate steps whenever threats to their safety and security are brought to its attention,'' she said in a statement. ''Therefore it is particularly concerning that a student would fabricate such matters.''
 The revelations about Mr. Nava came after he admitted to Professor George over the weekend that he had fabricated an earlier threat against himself as a high school student at the Groton School in Massachusetts, from which he graduated in 2002. 
 ''He said he was very distraught, he was unhappy he didn't have any friends, his father had died and he was having trouble getting along with his mother,'' Professor George said on Monday. ''He wanted to leave Groton, he was suffering depression, and his mother wanted him to finish and he decided to persuade her.''
 Professor George said that Mr. Nava, a politics major from Texas, had joined the Anscombe Society in the last year and was a member of the university's Religious Life Council, a resident adviser for younger students and a tutor for a Big Brothers Big Sisters program. ''He was very popular and well known,'' Professor George said. ''He seemed to be well adjusted. He had a lot of friends, a girlfriend.''
 Professor George, who invited Mr. Nava to stay at his home after the attack, said that he was flabbergasted to learn that it had been fabricated. ''It's a real shock,'' he said. ''He's a person that everyone respected.''
 Professor George said that he and some students were sent two threatening e-mail messages on Wednesday that he turned over to the university's campus security. He described one message as saying: ''We're watching you. You don't belong here. We will make you suffer. We will destroy you.'' He said that the other message said, ''We will kill you.''
 Rob Biederman, a senior economics major who is president of the Undergraduate Student Government, said that the fabricated attack had falsely created an impression of intolerance at Princeton that was not accurate.
 ''I don't think Princeton is the kind of place where students would be threatened or physically harmed for what they believe,'' he said. ''Something about it didn't seem quite right because I couldn't see a Princeton student being so vehemently opposed to something their classmate said as to be compelled to physical violence.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); CONTUSIONS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); MISDEMEANORS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



432 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Fashion and Faith Meet, on Foreheads of the Pious

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting from Cairo.

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
There is a strong undercurrent of competition in Egypt these days, an unstated contest among people eager to prove just how religious they are. The field of battle is the street and the focus tends to be on appearance, as opposed to conviction.
 It is not that the two are mutually exclusive, but they are not necessarily linked. As Egyptians increasingly emphasize Islam as the cornerstone of identity, there has been a growing emphasis on public displays of piety. 
 For women, that has rapidly translated into the nearly universal adoption of the hijab, a scarf fitted over the hair and ears and wrapped around the neck. For men, it is more and more popular to have a zebibah.
 The zebibah, Arabic for raisin, is a dark circle of callused skin, or in some cases a protruding bump, between the hairline and the eyebrows. It emerges on the spot where worshipers press their foreheads into the ground during their daily prayers.
 It may sometimes look like a painful wound, but in Egypt it is worn proudly, the way American professionals in the 1980s felt good about the dark circles under their eyes as a sign of long work hours and little sleep.
 Two decades ago, Egypt was a Muslim country with a relatively secular style. Nationalism and Arabism had alternated places as the main element of identity. But today, Egypt, like much of the Arab Middle East, is experiencing the rise of Islam as the ideology of the day. 
 With that, religious symbols have become the fashion. 
 ''The zebibah is a way to show how important religion is for us,'' said Muhammad al-Bikali, a hairstylist in Cairo, in an interview last month. Mr. Bikali had a well-trimmed mustache and an ever-so-subtle brown spot just beneath his hairline. ''It shows how religious we are. It is a mark from God.''
 Observant Muslims pray five times a day. Each prayer involves kneeling and touching one's forehead and nose to the ground. All five prayers require placing one's head on the ground for a total of 34 times, though many people add prayers and with them, more chances to press their heads to the ground. Some people say the bump is the inevitable result of so many prayers -- and that is often the point: The person with the mark is broadcasting his observance, his adherence to one of the five pillars of Islam.
 But the zebibah is primarily a phenomenon of Egypt. Muslim men pray throughout the Arab world. Indeed, Egyptian women pray, but few of them end up with a prayer bump. So why do so many Egyptian men press so hard when they pray?
 ''If we just take it for what it is, then it means that people are praying a lot,'' said Gamal al-Ghitani, editor in chief of the newspaper Akhbar El Yom. ''But there is a kind of statement in it. Sometimes as a personal statement to announce that he is a conservative Muslim and sometimes as a way of outbidding others by showing them that he is more religious or to say that they should be like him.'' 
 There are many reasons for the Islamic revival that has swept Egypt and the Middle East, from the rise of satellite television, which offers 24 hours of religious programming, to economies that offer little hope of improving people's lives, to the resentment of Western meddling in the Middle East. 
 But there is also peer pressure, a powerful force in a society where conformity and tradition are aspired to and rewarded.
 ''I will learn more about someone when I get to know him, but the appearance is the first impression,'' said Khaled Ashry, 37, a security guard at a private school.
 Hanaa el-Guindy, 21, an art student in Cairo, covers her head and wears a long loose-fitting dress to hide her figure. ''The outward appearance is important,'' Ms. Guindy said. ''It says, 'I am a good person.' This is a good thing. On Judgment Day, this sign, the zebibah on their forehead, will shine. It will say, 'God is great.'''
 In much of the Arab world, symbols of extreme observance are fairly standard and tend to stem from the conservative religious cultures of Persian Gulf nations, like Saudi Arabia. There is the long beard. In extreme cases men wear a loose-fitting robe that stops at their ankles, just as the prophet Muhammad wore his own gown at ankle length.
 Those symbols have seeped their way into Egypt, and are growing in popularity. More and more women, for example, are covering their faces with a niqab, a black mask of cloth that has come to Egypt from the Persian Gulf. The zebibah, however, is 100 percent Egyptian, and does not carry the negative connotation of imported symbols. 
 Men with long beards can still find it hard to get a job. The zebibah, on the other hand, can open doors. ''The zebibah can help,'' said Ahmed Mohsen, 35, a messenger for a law firm whose own mark was pinkish, bumpy and peeling. ''It can lead to a kind of initial acceptance between people.'' 
 There are no statistics on the zebibah's prevalence. But today, perhaps more than any other time in recent history, Egyptians are eager to demonstrate to one another just how religious they are.
 ''In Egypt, it's the way we pray; we probably hit our heads harder than most in order to get one,'' said Ahmed Fathallah, 19, as he played dominoes one evening in a Cairo coffee shop. ''You also have to understand that people here like to show off their piety, maybe almost more than in the rest of the Middle East.''
 There are many rumors about men who use irritants, like sandpaper, to darken the callus. There may be no truth to the rumors, but the rumors themselves indicate how fashionable the mark has become.
 Not everyone has a zebibah. Plenty of Egyptians still regard their faith as a personal matter. But the pressure is growing, as religion becomes the focus of individual identity, and the most easily accessible source of pride and dignity for all social and economic classes.
 ''You pray, but it doesn't come out,'' said Muhammad Hojri, 23, as he gently teased his brother, Mahmoud, 21, recently while they worked in a family kebab restaurant. Muhammad has a mark. Mahmoud does not, and did not appreciate his brother's ribbing. 
 ''I pray for God, not for this thing on my forehead,'' Mahmoud shot back.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pressing the head into the ground in prayer, as this man is doing in Cairo, can leave a callus, or zebibah
 A man reading the Koran has a zebibah, seen as a sign of piety in Egypt. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERVIEWS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) EGYPT (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



433 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Blazing Arizona

 BODY:
On Jan. 1, Arizona intends to become the first state to try to muscle its way out of its immigration problems on its own. That is when, barring a last-minute setback in court, it is to begin enforcing a new state law that harshly punishes businesses that knowingly hire undocumented immigrants. It is a two-strike law, suspending a business's license on the first offense and revoking it on the second. It is the strictest workplace-enforcement law in the country. 
 We have always said that workplace laws should be enforced vigorously -- as part of a comprehensive, nationwide immigration system that doesn't just punish, but tries to actually solve the problems that foster and sustain the breaking of immigration laws. The boosters of the Arizona law, including the Minutemen border vigilantes who have made ''January First!'' an anti-immigrant rallying cry, have a much narrower goal: the biggest purge of illegal immigrants in the Southwest since the federal government's Operation Wetback in 1954. 
 If that happens, the immigrants will take a big chunk of Arizona's growth and economic vitality with them -- and not necessarily back across the international border. The collateral damage will be severe as citizens and legal immigrants are also thrown out of work, as businesses struggle to find workers in a state with a 3.3 percent unemployment rate and as sleazy employers move more workers off the books, the better to abuse and exploit them. And the national problem of undocumented immigration will be no closer to a solution.
 There are many compassion-and-common-sense criticisms of Arizona's Fair and Legal Employment Act: stories about families torn apart, breadwinners deported and citizen children on public assistance. They make little headway with the law-and-order crowd. Nor does the fact that many hard-line defenders of workplace enforcement show a lopsided devotion to federal laws; they seldom complain when employers abuse undocumented immigrants and steal their wages, even though those violations worsen job conditions and pay for American workers, too. 
 For now, let's just point out that Arizona's plunge into enforcement-only immigration policy highlights the folly and inadequacy of that approach, particularly when it is left to a crazy quilt of state laws. America is a country where millions of illegal immigrants have entered for years all but invited and mostly not pursued. They have become integral to our economy, although now -- thanks to harsher enforcement and the defeat of comprehensive immigration reform in Congress -- most have no way to become legal, no options except slipping back into destitution on the other side of the border.
 There is no way for Arizona or any other state to get businesses back on a legal footing without exacting a great economic and human toll. 
 It could be that Arizona's enforcement of the law will be calm and measured. But we worry about Maricopa County, which includes Phoenix and two-thirds of the state's population. Maricopa's county attorney, Andrew Thomas, and county sheriff, Joe Arpaio, are prone to media-driven stunts. Sheriff Arpaio makes a show of his meanness, hounding and humiliating prisoners and forming his deputies into squads that check people's clothes and accents before demanding their papers. 
 Arizona is home to many moderate politicians, like Gov. Janet Napolitano, who were all too aware of the bill's problems, and yet it became law. Many say the Minutemen and their allies had offered an ultimatum: approve this bill or face a citizen's initiative on the 2008 ballot that would be even harsher and blunter, and all but impossible to repair. That promise was reneged on; petitions for the Minutemen's initiative are being collected now. 
 As Arizona exacts its punishment on the undocumented workers who have made it so prosperous, it runs the risk of proving itself tough but not smart. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); FAMILY (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



434 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: As Ethanol Takes Its First Steps, Congress Proposes a Giant Leap

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
Congress is on the verge of writing into law one of the most ambitious dictates ever issued to American business: to create, from scratch, a huge new industry capable of converting agricultural wastes and other plant material into automotive fuel.
 The potential benefits include reducing the nation's dependence on oil and the emissions of gases that contribute to global warming. But the goals Congress is considering are so sweeping, analysts say, that it is not clear they can be achieved.
 No fuel of the type in question has been produced commercially in the United States. Even in the view of people who back the idea, the technology to do it is immature, the economics are uncertain, and the potential for unintended consequences is high. 
 Hundreds of new factories will be required, perhaps a billion tons of plant material will need to be hauled around every year, and estimates of the required investment start at tens of billions of dollars. 
 ''It's not clear that it is doable, but it wasn't clear you could send a man to the moon, either,'' said Mark Flannery, head of energy equity research at Credit Suisse. ''You don't know until you try.''
 As a new energy bill has slogged through Congress on the way to the president's desk, much of the debate has focused on a historic revision of fuel-economy standards intended to make American cars 40 percent more efficient.
 Less attention has fallen on other portions of the bill, but they could be far-reaching. One measure calls for a huge increase in the amount of ethanol used in the nation's fuel supply. Much of it would be made from corn, as ethanol is today. Producing about seven billion gallons of ethanol a year from corn has reshaped agricultural markets and sent corn prices soaring. Congress wants to double that level of production, to 15 billion gallons.
 But the bill goes much further. It calls on the country to use, by 2022, an additional 21 billion gallons a year of ethanol or other biofuels produced by unlocking the energy contained in such biological materials as straw, tree trimmings, corn stubble and even garbage, material known collectively as biomass. 
 To reach that goal, the nation's scientists and business leaders will need durable political and financial support to overcome a host of technical, environmental and logistical obstacles.
 The end result, if it worked, would be the sort of energy transformation that was promised in the 1970s and 1980s, until government and industry lost their motivation when oil prices plummeted. 
 Congress says this time will be different. The new legislation would oblige farmers to grow new crops in new ways, automobile companies to produce more vehicles capable of running on a high-ethanol blend, and the oil industry to retrofit its refining and distribution networks to deliver the new fuel.
 ''We have the opportunity to revolutionize the way we create fuel for transportation,'' said Martin Keller, the director of the federal Department of Energy's BioEnergy Science Center at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee. ''If we focus on this, we can replace between 30 and 50 percent of our gasoline consumption with new biofuels.''
 A broad energy bill in 2005 took the ethanol industry from infancy to a coddled but uneasy adolescence. The legislation set off a frenzied buildup of ethanol plants across the Midwest, with the number of distilleries increasing to 134 today from 81 in January 2005, according to the Renewable Fuels Association. Plants under construction or being expanded have increased to 77 from 16.
 The new energy bill, if enacted as it stands, would convert the ethanol industry to full partnership with the oil and gas industry. But if ethanol's recent past offers any lessons, the transformation will not be easy. 
 Ethanol companies have been canceling distilleries and distillery expansions in recent months as the price of their product has slumped and the price of corn, their main feedstock, has climbed. The infrastructure still does not exist to blend and transport the relatively small amount of ethanol that is produced today, resulting in huge price gaps between markets. 
 ''We're still trying to digest the energy bill from 2005,'' said Charles T. Drevna, president of the National Petrochemical and Refiners Association. He warned that the billions of dollars that it will cost to build and refit blending terminals and refineries for ethanol would be passed on to consumers.
 Ethanol producers acknowledge the hurdles but say the strong mandates will encourage industry to step into line. ''It certainly is a challenge, but an achievable challenge,'' said Christopher G. Standlee, executive vice president of Abengoa Bioenergy. 
 The bill would represent a striking advance for a fuel that has been quite controversial in the last 25 years.
 The seven billion gallons of ethanol the country will consume this year will be used largely as an additive, displacing about 4 percent of total gasoline consumption. That is well ahead of a schedule set in the 2005 energy bill. The legislation catapulted the United States to become the world's biggest producer of ethanol, followed by Brazil.
 Under the new legislation, corn ethanol use would reach 15 billion gallons by 2015, a big jump considering that 20 percent of the American corn crop is already going into ethanol. Mandates for next-generation biofuels use would reach nine billion gallons in 2017 and 21 billion by 2022. The bill does contain an escape clause, allowing the government to modify the mandates if they do not prove feasible.
 Energy experts express wonderment at the scope of the new mandates and the short timelines, 5 to 15 years, for achieving them.
 ''Congress is making the assumption that the technology will appear,'' said Aaron Brady, an ethanol expert at Cambridge Energy Research Associates. ''To make billions of gallons of next-generation biofuels, a lot of things have to go right within the space of only a few years.'' 
 Mr. Brady estimates that more than 100 additional corn ethanol plants will be required, along with at least 200 other biomass fuel plants, a number that could rise depending on how the technology develops.
 A loose alliance of national-security advocates and environmentalists has promoted biomass ethanol as an alternative to fossil fuels, arguing that it can reduce the country's reliance on imported oil and help contain global warming, especially if biomass sources like switchgrass and trees can be developed that would need little water and fertilizer to grow. 
 But many environmentalists remain uneasy about corn ethanol because it requires energy and fertilizer made from natural gas, oil and coal, and they are concerned that biomass fuels may also have unexpected environmental consequences.
 According to food producers who oppose expanding ethanol production, the additional eight billion gallons of corn ethanol use outlined in the bill will require growing 20 million more acres of corn. ''That means fewer acres for fruits, vegetables, soybeans, alfalfa and other crops, and higher food prices,'' said Jesse Sevcik, a vice president at the American Meat Institute.
 Ethanol producers say the food-cost concerns are overblown, but they concede that corn has limits as a fuel. They say ethanol made from other plants not vital for food production is the answer.
 As a scientific matter, it has been clear for years that biomass can be converted into fuel. Plants contain large amounts of a tough material called cellulose that consists of tightly linked sugar molecules. If the cellulose is dissolved, the sugars can be fermented into ethanol. Biomass can also be converted by chemical means into fuels resembling gasoline or diesel. 
 Decades of work, still incomplete, have gone into figuring out how to do the conversions. Scientists are still tinkering, and companies are just breaking ground on small-scale production lines.
 ''Obviously there are concerns, because it's not simple,'' said Carlos Riva, chief executive officer of Verenium Corporation, a leader in ethanol research.
 Energy Department and Congressional reports suggest the country has sufficient land and biomass to replace a third or more of American gasoline needs, depending on how efficient cars become in the future. 
 In theory, that could cut the nation's emissions of carbon dioxide, the principal greenhouse gas. Engines that burn biomass-derived fuels emit carbon dioxide, but the fuels will have been made from plants that absorbed carbon dioxide from the air months earlier. Burning oil and coal, by contrast, converts carbon that was trapped underground for millions of years into carbon dioxide, raising the atmospheric concentration. 
 However, scientific reports about biomass ethanol raise some of the same concerns that have been raised with corn ethanol, including potential problems with soil erosion, runoff and soil fertility.
 The sheer bulk of many of the necessary biomass sources is one of the biggest problems, posing challenges for harvest, transport and storage. Mr. Brady, the energy analyst, estimates that 700,000 tons of biomass would be needed each year for a distillery to produce 50 million gallons of ethanol.
 ''You're talking about a huge amount of material that has to be hauled back and forth, and that will cost energy,'' Mr. Brady said. ''I don't know if it will be a deal-breaker, but I don't think the logistics of this have been worked out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An ethanol plant is being built in Lima, Ohio, with a pair of silos to hold a million bushels of grain. It is estimated that the energy bill would require more than 100 new corn ethanol plants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. D. POOLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) ILLUSTRATION (ILLUSTRATION BY THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CHARTS: CROP PRICES ARE SOARING: The agricultural commodities that go into processed food are becoming more expensive, contributing to higher prices at the grocery store. (SOURCE: BLOOMBERG FINANCIAL MARKETS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (90%); BIOMASS (89%); ETHANOL (89%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); LEGISLATION (79%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); AGRICULTURE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); EQUITY RESEARCH (71%); CORN MARKETS (68%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



435 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: McCain Senses Momentum Is Starting to Help Him

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

DATELINE: CONCORD, N.H. 

 BODY:
Seeking to capitalize on a series of highly sought newspaper endorsements, Senator John McCain is strongly pushing to attract independent voters who helped drive his victory here eight years ago.
 In a sign of a re-energized candidacy, he also plans to return after Christmas Day to campaigning in Iowa, where he has failed, until recently, to gain support and has devoted few resources since the near-collapse of his campaign in the summer. 
 The campaign says it has not changed its strategy. But, Mr. McCain said Monday, ''I am obviously going to try to capitalize on it,'' referring to the momentum. 
 The crowds following Mr. McCain here have been steadily growing in the last month. On Monday, they burst out the door of American Legion Post 59 in Hillsborough as he announced an endorsement by Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut. 
 It is a trifecta of major newspaper endorsements, from The Des Moines Register, The Manchester Union Leader and The Boston Globe, along with others, that has buoyed the campaign with a little more than two weeks before the first nominating contests. 
 ''Maybe it is wishful thinking,'' Mr. McCain said after a recent event, ''but I think we are starting to see some of the same thing we saw in 2000.'' 
 Mr. McCain said that he had worked to persuade voters to give him a second look and that his campaign believed that is exactly what they were doing. Although his closing message is better defined and he is drawing distinctions with his rivals more crisply, his candidacy continues to face hurdles. 
 The quest for independents, who can vote in either primary here, may be complicated by antiwar candidates like Senator Barack Obama and even Ron Paul, the libertarian Republican who recorded more than $5 million in contributions on the Internet on Sunday, a one-day record.
 Mr. McCain expects that the improved security in Iraq after the troop increase that he championed may work to his advantage.
 Beyond the struggle for independents, Mr. McCain also has to work to bring in fiscal conservatives who have been drawn to Mitt Romney's economic message. To that end, Mr. McCain will lay out in greater detail on Tuesday in Salem plans to deal with the mortgage crisis, the shrinking dollar and federal spending.
 Among the proposals are repealing the alternative minimum tax, making permanent President Bush's tax cuts, and banning Internet and cellphone taxes.
 At the forum on Monday where Mr. Lieberman announced his support, Mr. McCain was in a fiery mood, ribbing Adam Kowalski, 19, for wearing a Santa Claus hat. He said, ''You look kind of dorky in the hat.'' 
 Mr. Kowalski took it in good humor and in an interview later expressed sentiments typical of many who show up at Mr. McCain's events. 
 ''I like his honesty,'' he said. ''Hearing him speak is completely different.'' 
 An independent, Mr. Kowalski said he had not made up his mind but was leaning toward Mr. McCain, saying the senator was the only Republican he could envision supporting. 
 On the war, Mr. Kowalski said that he was torn, because Mr. McCain may be correct on the increase in troops, but that Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Mr. Obama might have the best answer in trying to end the war. 
 ''All I know is that it is either all or nothing with Iraq,'' he said.
 Although some polls a few months ago showed Mr. McCain barely registering, more recent surveys suggest that he is gaining support nationally. He appears to be in a particularly strong position in New Hampshire, tied for second with Rudolph W. Giuliani behind Mr. Romney, according to a CNN/WMUR poll.
 Mr. McCain's campaign says a number of factors are coalescing in their favor. 
 The rise of former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas has forced Mr. Romney to concentrate on Iowa and spend resources there. 
 Mr. Giuliani, the former New York mayor, has started to pull out resources from New Hampshire, a development that the McCain camp sees as an opportunity to peel off his supporters. 
 Mr. McCain could face many hurdles even if he fares well here. His financial woes mean that he may not be well-prepared financially for the big day of primaries on Feb. 5, when hefty advertising budgets are likely to trump the personal campaigning that Mr. McCain relishes. 
 Mr. McCain is focusing heavily on New Hampshire, where he has campaigned more aggressively than his rivals. Instead of popping in and out for one-day visits, as Mr. Romney and Mr. Giuliani did on Monday, he has gone on multiday bus tours that build their own momentum. 
 In the last month, Mr. McCain has been here 12 days, holding 30 forums and greeting at 14 stops at coffee shops, restaurants and diners.
 In a clear effort to capitalize on the attention from Mr. Lieberman's endorsement, Mr. McCain held a news conference at the New Hampshire Political Library in Concord to announce a coalition of 300 independents who would work for his campaign. 
 ''You run in the primary like you run for governor,'' Mike Dennehy, the campaign's New Hampshire director, said. 
 That means wide personal contact. 
 Mr. McCain said he did not agree with the notion that independents would flock to the Democrats, saying that though 42 percent of New Hampshire voters were registered independents, many lean heavily to the right or left.
 Ultimately, he said, he can worry only about what he can control, like highlighting his years of fighting climate change, an issue that he feels is important to many independents here. 
 ''I do predict they will turn out,'' he said. ''How they turn out I don't know.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Joseph I. Lieberman following Senator John MCain in Hillsborough, N.H., to announce his support for Mr. McCain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB SILBERBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: WHERE THE CANDIDATES HAVE CAMPAIGNED: Number of campaign events, including speeches, fund-raisers and news conferences, held since June. Includes events planned for today. (Source: Candidate schedules tracked by The New York Times) Mitt Romney Rudolph W. Giuliani Mike Huckabee John McCain Fred D. Thompson John Edwards Hillary Rodham Clinton Barack Obama 108 41 105 37 75 179 99 113 Since the near collapse of his campaign this summer, Mr. McCain has focused mostly on South Carolina and New Hampshire. REPUBLICANS DEMOCRATS 100 200 300 0 IOWA N.H. OTHER STATES Chart showing the number of campaign events the candidates have held since June. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CHRISTMAS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); TAX LAW (64%); TAX RELIEF (64%); CONSERVATISM (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGION (56%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (57%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%); MITT ROMNEY (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); RON PAUL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (56%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



436 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2459 words

HEADLINE: Fed and Regulators Shrugged As the Subprime Crisis Spread

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS; Gretchen Morgenson contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Until the boom in subprime mortgages turned into a national nightmare this summer, the few people who tried to warn federal banking officials might as well have been talking to themselves.
 Edward M. Gramlich, a Federal Reserve governor who died in September, warned nearly seven years ago that a fast-growing new breed of lenders was luring many people into risky mortgages they could not afford. 
 But when Mr. Gramlich privately urged Fed examiners to investigate mortgage lenders affiliated with national banks, he was rebuffed by Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman.
 In 2001, a senior Treasury official, Sheila C. Bair, tried to persuade subprime lenders to adopt a code of ''best practices'' and to let outside monitors verify their compliance. None of the lenders would agree to the monitors, and many rejected the code itself. Even those who did adopt those practices, Ms. Bair recalled recently, soon let them slip. 
 And leaders of a housing advocacy group in California, meeting with Mr. Greenspan in 2004, warned that deception was increasing and unscrupulous practices were spreading.
 John C. Gamboa and Robert L. Gnaizda of the Greenlining Institute implored Mr. Greenspan to use his bully pulpit and press for a voluntary code of conduct.
 ''He never gave us a good reason, but he didn't want to do it,'' Mr. Gnaizda said last week. ''He just wasn't interested.''
 Today, as the mortgage crisis of 2007 worsens and threatens to tip the economy into a recession, many are asking: where was Washington?
 An examination of regulatory decisions shows that the Federal Reserve and other agencies waited until it was too late before trying to tame the industry's excesses. Both the Fed and the Bush administration placed a higher priority on promoting ''financial innovation'' and what President Bush has called the ''ownership society.'' 
 On top of that, many Fed officials counted on the housing boom to prop up the economy after the stock market collapsed in 2000.
 Mr. Greenspan, in an interview, vigorously defended his actions, saying the Fed was poorly equipped to investigate deceptive lending and that it was not to blame for the housing bubble and bust. 
 On Tuesday, under a new chairman, the Federal Reserve will try to make up for lost ground by proposing new restrictions on subprime mortgages, invoking its authority under the 13-year-old Home Ownership Equity and Protection Act. Fed officials are expected to demand that lenders document a person's income and ability to repay the loan, and they may well restrict practices that make it hard for borrowers to see hidden fees or refinance with cheaper mortgages.
 It is an action that people like Mr. Gramlich and Ms. Bair advocated for years with little success. But it will have little impact on many existing subprime lenders, because most have either gone out of business or stopped making subprime loans months ago.
 Before this year, officials here enthusiastically praised subprime lenders for helping millions of families buy homes for the first time. ''I was aware that the loosening of mortgage credit terms for subprime borrowers increased financial risk,'' Mr. Greenspan wrote in his recent memoir, ''The Age of Turbulence: Adventures in a New World.'' ''But I believed then, as now, that the benefits of broadened home ownership are worth the risk.''
 As housing prices soared in what became a speculative bubble, Fed officials took comfort that foreclosure rates on subprime mortgages remained relatively low. But neither the Fed nor any other regulatory agency in Washington examined what might happen if housing prices flattened out or declined. 
 Had officials bothered to look, frightening clues of the coming crisis were available. The Center for Responsible Lending, a nonprofit group based in North Carolina, analyzed records from across the country and found that default rates on subprime loans soared to 20 percent in cities where home prices stopped rising or started to fall. 
 ''The Federal Reserve could have stopped this problem dead in its tracks,'' said Martin Eakes, chief executive of the center. ''If the Fed had done its job, we would not have had the abusive lending and we would not have a foreclosure crisis in virtually every community across America.''
 Mr. Greenspan, hailed as perhaps the best central banker in history when he left the Fed in early 2006, is now feeling defensive. In an extensive interview last week, he adamantly disputed the assertion that he could have prevented the mortgage bust. 
 The housing bubble, he said, had far less to do with the Fed's policy on interest rates than on a global surplus in savings that drove down interest rates and pushed up housing prices in countries around the world.
 As for his role as a regulator, Mr. Greenspan argued that the Fed was ill-suited to investigate deceptive lending practices. 
 ''I got the impression that there were a lot of very questionable practices going on,'' he said. ''The problem has always been, what basically does the law mean when it says deceptive and unfair practices? Deceptive and unfair practices may seem straightforward, except when you try to determine by what standard.''
 Mr. Greenspan also contended that the Federal Reserve's accountants and bank examiners were ill-suited to the job of investigating fraud.
 ''It becomes essentially an enforcement action, and the question is, who are the best enforcers?'' he said. ''A large enough share of these cases are fraud, and those are areas that I don't think accountants are best able to handle.''
 Others are more critical.
 ''Hindsight is always 20-20, but it's clear the Fed should have acted earlier,'' said Ms. Bair, who became chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in 2006. ''Financial innovation is great, but you have to have some basic rules. One of the most basic rules is that a borrower should have the ability to repay.''
 A Booming Industry 
 Mr. Greenspan and other Fed officials repeatedly dismissed warnings about a speculative bubble in housing prices. In December 2004, the New York Fed issued a report bluntly declaring that ''no bubble exists.'' Mr. Greenspan predicted several times -- incorrectly, it turned out -- that housing declines would be local but almost certainly not nationwide.
 The Fed was hardly alone in not pressing to clean up the mortgage industry. When states like Georgia and North Carolina started to pass tougher laws against abusive lending practices, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency successfully prohibited them from investigating local subsidiaries of nationally chartered banks. 
 Virtually every federal bank regulator was loathe to impose speed limits on a booming industry. But the regulators were also fragmented among an alphabet soup of agencies with splintered and confusing jurisdictions. Perhaps the biggest complication was that many mortgage lenders did not fall under any agency's authority at all.
 Subprime loans carry high interest rates, sometimes as high as 12 percent, and were designed for people with weak credit records. Unlike traditional banks and thrifts, which traditionally financed their loans with deposits, most subprime lenders are financed by investors on Wall Street who buy packages of loans called mortgage-backed securities.
 Starting from a virtual standstill 10 years ago, subprime lenders became by far the fastest-growing segment of mortgage lending before they collapsed. They made $540 billion in mortgages by 2004 and $625 billion at their peak in 2006 -- about one-quarter of all new mortgages.
 Mr. Gramlich, a Democratic appointee to the Federal Reserve who had spent much of his career studying problems of poverty, saw both great benefits and great perils in the new industry.
 As head of the Fed's Committee on Consumer and Community Affairs from 1997 to 2005, he agreed that subprime lending had opened new doors to people with low incomes or poor credit histories. Home ownership, which had hovered around 64 percent for years, climbed to almost 70 percent by 2005. The biggest gains were among blacks and Hispanics, groups that had suffered discrimination for decades.
 What alarmed Mr. Gramlich was that many subprime loans were extremely complicated and loaded with hidden risks. 
 Borrowers were being qualified for loans based on low initial teaser rates, rather than the much higher rates they would have to pay after a year or two. Many of the loans came with big fees that were hidden in the overall interest rate. And many had prepayment penalties that effectively blocked people from getting cheaper loans for two years or longer.
 ''Why are the most risky loan products sold to the least sophisticated borrowers?'' Mr. Gramlich asked in a speech he prepared last August for the Fed's symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyo. ''The question answers itself -- the least sophisticated borrowers are probably duped into taking these products.''
 Turning Away a Bigger Role
 In 2000, Mr. Gramlich privately urged the Fed chairman to send examiners into the mortgage-lending affiliates of nationally chartered banks. Many of them, like Bank of America's affiliate, had already come under fire from state regulators and consumer groups. Fed examiners, Mr. Gramlich argued, could clean up those practices from the inside. 
 Mr. Greenspan was against the idea. In an interview last week, he said he feared that Fed examiners would fail to spot deceptive practices and inadvertently give dubious lenders what amounted to a government seal of approval.
 ''I remember telling him, 'be careful,' '' Mr. Greenspan said. If the Fed gave the appearance that it was overseeing thousands of local institutions, which he said it did not have the resources to do, ''we're going to end up with a situation that very well could be worse rather than better.''
 To be sure, some of the speculative excesses of the housing bubble and the subsequent bust were driven by broader forces. 
 The Fed helped stoke the housing market by slashing short-term interest rates from 2000 to 2004. The rate cuts drastically reduced the effective cost of buying a house, which added more fuel to what was already a powerful housing boom. 
 In addition, foreign investors were pouring trillions of dollars into American securities. Much of that money, often described as the ''global savings glut,'' flowed directly into mortgage-backed securities that were used to finance subprime mortgages.
 But by 2005, federal banking regulators were beginning to worry that mortgage lenders were running amok with exotic and often inscrutable new products. 
 The agencies, however, were like a Rube Goldberg machine with parts moving in different directions. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency was in charge of nationally chartered banks and their subsidiaries. The Federal Reserve covered affiliates of nationally chartered banks. The Office of Thrift Supervision oversaw savings institutions. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insured deposits of both state-chartered and nationally chartered banks.
 Because each agency receives its funding from fees paid by the banks or thrifts they regulate, critics have long argued that they often treat the institutions they regulate as constituents to be protected. All of them are wary about stifling new financial services.
 Ms. Bair was an exception, especially for the deregulation-minded Bush administration. As a former assistant secretary of the Treasury in 2001 and 2002, she had worked with Mr. Gramlich to raise concerns about abusive lending practices. Indeed, she tried to hammer out an agreement with mortgage lenders and consumer groups over a tough set of ''best practices'' that would have covered subprime mortgages.
 But that effort largely stalled because of disagreement. Though some big lenders did endorse a broad code of conduct, she recalled, they soon began loosening standards as competition intensified.
 The drop in lending standards became unmistakable in 2004, as lenders approved a flood of shaky new products: ''stated-income'' loans, which do not require borrowers to document their incomes; ''piggyback'' loans, which allow people to buy a home without making a down payment; and ''option ARMs,'' which allowed people to make less than the minimum payment but added the unpaid amount to their total mortgage.
 Fed officials noticed the drop in standards as well. The Fed's survey of bank lenders showed a steep plunge in standards that began in 2004 and continued until the housing boom fizzled in 2006.
 But the regulators found themselves hopelessly behind the fast-changing practices of lenders. In a bid to set new standards for exotic mortgages, the agencies waited until December 2005 to propose a ''guidance'' to banks and thrifts. They did not agree on the final standard until September 2006.
 Standards for Lenders 
 But the real shock to consumer groups -- and even to some of the regulators -- was that the new underwriting standards did not apply to subprime loans. Instead, they applied to only a fairly narrow array of exotic mortgages like ''option ARMs.'' 
 ''The gaping hole was that it would only apply to nontraditional mortgages,'' Ms. Bair said. But the exotic mortgages were already fading from the market, in part because of bad publicity. Subprime lending, by contrast, was still booming and represented a much bigger business.
 ''We hadn't really focused on that,'' said John C. Dugan, Comptroller of the Currency, who had pushed hard for the new guidance. ''From our own perspective of national banks, it was really a smaller part of our universe.'' 
 It was not until March 2007 that the group of regulators proposed yet another ''guidance,'' this one to address standards for subprime lending. But those standards were not finished until June 29. By that time, more than 30 subprime lenders had gone out of business and many more were headed that way.
 Several people familiar with the regulatory deliberations said the delays stemmed in part from intense resistance among some policy makers to challenging subprime lenders. 
 ''I had concerns, I really had concerns,'' acknowledged Mr. Dugan, adding that he became convinced after listening to enough public comment on the issue.
 In the end, any concerns for the industry quickly became moot. Less than two months after the new standards were issued, the subprime industry was essentially dead.
 Ben S. Bernanke, who succeeded Mr. Greenspan as Fed chairman, is now scrambling to head off a recession. Last week, the Fed lowered its benchmark interest rate for the third time since August, and officials now worry that the subprime crisis has inflicted deep damage on credit markets that could in turn derail the entire economy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Federal agencies completed standards for subprime lending on June 29. By then, many lenders were out of business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEL EVANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. A32)
 John Gamboa and Robert Gnaizda of the Greenlining Institute, a housing advocacy group, warned the Fed in 2004 about unscrupulous lenders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A32) CHART: THE TIGHTENING CREDIT MARKET: A CHRONOLOGY OF WARNINGS IGNORED (Source: Inside Mortgage Finance (mortgage lending data)) (pg. A32) Chart showing the tightening of the credit market. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (88%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); ETHICS (74%); BEST PRACTICES (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (69%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (67%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (64%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); SHEILA BAIR (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



437 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Song 2008? Strike Up the Broadband

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
Already, the influence of the Internet and new media has been felt on the national political scene -- from the success of Barack Obama in raising large amounts of money from small donors over the Web, to the George Allen ''Macaca'' clip posted on YouTube, which played a key role in his losing his Senate seat in 2006, thereby helping turn over control of the Senate to the Democrats. In his lively new book, ''The First Campaign: Globalization, the Web and the Race for the White House,'' Garrett M. Graff -- the founding editor of the blog FishbowlDC.com and editor at large of Washingtonian magazine -- asks how the technology that is transforming the global economy is going to affect the ''first campaign of the new age.'' 
 Because that campaign is still in medias res, his book circles around this question without coming to any real conclusions. But along the way Mr. Graff raises a lot of provocative questions about how candidates are grappling with ''the new campaign paradigm'' (which, he says, emphasizes a dialogue between candidates and voters, instead of a one-way conversation); how they are planning to chart America's course in a new, globalized world that is increasingly reliant on broadband communication and technological innovation; and how his own generation (born in the 1980s and ''more technologically savvy and more civic-minded than the one before it'') regards the current state of politics.
 Although many of the more compelling ideas in this book are heavily indebted to the works of other writers -- most notably, the New York Times columnist Thomas L. Friedman's writings on globalization -- the astonishingly young Mr. Graff (who was born in 1981) proves in these pages that he is a cogent writer, willing to tackle large-scale issues and problems. 
 Unlike some bloggers, who, as Matt Bai noted in his recent book, ''The Argument,'' willfully eschew a historical perspective, Mr. Graff grounds his narrative in lots of historical analogies and a broad spectrum of reading. The one big flaw of his book is that while he can be eloquent on the positive effects that the Internet has had on American politics -- including making vast amounts of information easily accessible, increasing voter involvement and empowering grass-roots movements -- he does not come to terms with its downsides: its tendency to fuel partisanship (which in turn makes compromise and legislation on the big issues facing the country more difficult); its blurring of the lines between subjective analyses and rigorously fact-checked reports; its tendency to promote commiseration among like-minded people instead of reasoned debate between individuals with different points of view.
 Mr. Graff got his start as Howard Dean's first Webmaster and he makes it clear in these pages that he believes that ''the reins of power online are firmly in the hands of the Democrats'' -- even though the veteran political reporters Mark Halperin and John F. Harris suggested in their 2006 book, ''The Way to Win,'' that the new media overwhelmingly favors conservatives, not only because of the ascendance of Fox News, the Drudge Report and talk show hosts like Rush Limbaugh, but also because the right showed with its Swift Boat attacks on John Kerry in 2004 that it knew how to manipulate the new-media landscape. 
 In contrast, Mr. Graff argues that Republicans have been slower to capitalize on Internet fund-raising than Democrats like Barack Obama, that the G.O.P. signaled its wariness of the Internet this year by trying to scuttle a YouTube debate, and that ''a new power structure of ordinary bloggers'' like Daily Kos has emerged on the left that poses a potent threat to conservatives.
 ''The left's blogosphere,'' Mr. Graff writes, ''has grown up in an era when Republicans controlled government, giving them a target and an ongoing battle to wage. The right's blogosphere has grown only in fits and starts within a party that's both in power and by its core nature more hierarchical.''
 When it comes to Washington's understanding of the need to build a technological infrastructure for the 21st century -- expanding broadband access, encouraging research and development, and educating and recruiting new-economy workers -- Mr. Graff is gloomier about both sides of the political aisle. Whereas the cold war helped set off a boom in science- and government-sponsored research, he says, the United States now ''risks being overtaken in the world that it created.'' 
 Mr. Graff writes that America ''is no longer a net exporter of high tech, going from a $54 billion surplus in 1990 to a $50 billion deficit in 2001''; that in 2005 only one out of the 25 largest I.P.O.'s worldwide was held in the United States; that only 3 of the Top 10 recipients of American patents in 2003 were United States-based companies; that as a percentage of gross domestic product, federal research and development dollars fell to less than 1 percent in the early 2000s from nearly 2 percent in 1965; and that the United States now ranks 12th among major industrialized nations for broadband penetration.
 Today, Mr. Graff observes, ''the nation's best minds quickly end up in places like Silicon Valley or Wall Street,'' not the government, leaving Washington increasingly ''out of touch'' with the new economy. ''This disconnect points to one of the biggest problems that the country faces today,'' he goes on. ''The new economy lacks a political infrastructure. The older industries are the best organized and most entrenched and therefore the most powerful. They're able to land the meetings with officials that lead to government loans; it's their armies of lobbyists who can operate in back rooms, slipping in tax breaks and making competition for newcomers more difficult.'' 
 Echoing arguments that Bill Bradley made in his 2007 book, ''The New American Story,'' and Charles E. Schumer made in his 2007 book, ''Positively American,'' Mr. Graff suggests that the erosion of quality in American education poses a serious threat to American competitiveness in a global environment in which countries like China and India are capturing more and more of the high-tech jobs that once went to the United States.
 Given globalization, Mr. Graff argues, education and job security, like energy policy, are no longer simply domestic issues, adding that the question of whether the United States ''will make the investments and decisions necessary to compete in the coming decades must be front and center'' in the presidential campaign of 2008. 
 So far, this does not seem to be happening. While some candidates are learning to embrace the digital age as a means of getting their message out, none have yet made the issue of technological innovation and the challenge of globalization centerpieces of their campaign.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARAH E. MATTINGLY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); WRITERS (89%); BROADBAND (86%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: First Campaign, The (Book)>; First Campaign, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



438 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer Urges Financing Of Proposals For SUNY

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. Eliot Spitzer said on Monday that despite the state's budget difficulties, it must find money to invest in at least some of the proposals outlined by his higher education commission, though he stopped short of saying which recommendations he would embrace in his budget. 
 ''If we're going to rebuild New York, we have to invest in New York, and tighten our belts in other areas,'' the governor said during a news conference that included the formal presentation of the commission's report to him. ''This is an investment in our future.'' 
 He briefly referred to the importance of hiring more faculty members at the state's public universities and to the importance of higher education to drive economic development. 
 ''Where the great universities are, there the jobs have migrated,'' he said.
 The 30-member commission, which was led by Hunter R. Rawlings III, the former president of Cornell University, said the state should permit its public universities and colleges to raise tuition without the Legislature's approval and to hire 2,000 more full-time faculty. 
 The 85-page report also called for the creation of a $3 billion innovation fund to finance research at public and private universities in fields like bioscience, engineering and medicine that can spur economic development. And it said support for public universities should be more predictable, proposing a ''compact'' in which the costs of new investment would be shared by the state and the universities. 
 Kenneth Adams, president of the Business Council of New York State, called the report's recommendations ''very powerful'' and said they should ''attract people across party lines.'' 
 ''It is fraught with challenges politically, but it is about trying to restore the competitive edge of New York State,'' he added. ''It's very bold, but we can't afford not to do it.''
 The proposal that the universities be able to set their own tuition will most likely be the most contentious. 
 Senator Kenneth P. LaValle, Republican of Port Jefferson, the chairman of the Senate Higher Education Committee and a member of the commission, said he favored modest, regular tuition increases but opposed having ''differential tuition'' from campus to campus, which would lead to higher tuition at the research centers. He said that ''no student who attends the state university should have a feeling that their degree is worth less than those who are paying more money.'' 
 He said there were other ways to ensure that the research campuses drew more dollars.
 Assemblywoman Deborah J. Glick, a Democrat from New York City who is chairwoman of the Assembly's Higher Education Committee and also a commission member, said she also opposed differential tuition.
 ''Seventeen- and 18-year-olds who are going to start four years of college are very price sensitive,'' she said. ''And if they get into half a dozen SUNY schools, they will decide not based on which one has the best course offerings for them, but on price.'' 
 Ms. Glick said she was also uncomfortable with automatic tuition increases, but planned to hold hearings on the commission report.
 Donald Boyce, a graduate student in public administration at the University at Albany, who is president of the SUNY Student Assembly and a member of the commission, said he viewed regular tuition increases as ''prudent and reasonable,'' so long as there was also growth in grants and scholarships and the state's support. 
 ''On the surface, we as students find it tough to afford these increases,'' he said. But, he added, ''SUNY and CUNY do need a reasonable policy that governs how to increase tuition and eliminates the game of 'Tuition Roulette.'''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%); K S ADAMS JR (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



439 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: Former Russian Spies Are Now Prominent in Business

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
At a venture capital conference in Silicon Valley, Oleg S. Shvartsman mixed easily among the titans of private equity. 
 ''He didn't stand out from the crowd,'' said Evgeny Zaytsev, the organizer of the conference on Nov. 9. 
 That is, until he acknowledged in a newspaper interview that the $3.6 billion group of equity funds he manages serves investors ''close to the top of the F.S.B. and S.V.R.,'' the domestic and overseas espionage agencies of the Russian government. 
 Russians and outsiders have long suspected that the Federal Security Service, or F.S.B. by its Russian initials, successor to the K.G.B., has had a hand in Russian business. But Mr. Shvartsman's statement, the boldest such assertion yet, has generated debate over the appropriate corporate role for spies and ex-spies. 
 Highly educated and well connected, former Federal Security Service officers include among their number Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin. And Mr. Putin has seeded former colleagues throughout government and appointed them to boards of state-run corporations. 
 For big Western companies, the prevalence of former Federal Security Service agents in Russian business is raising questions of ethics and due diligence, as a growing number -- including Boeing, Exxon Mobil and Renault -- have business transactions with Russian companies linked to former spies or members of the political police.
 Boeing and Exxon declined to comment on their companies' due-diligence criteria for deals with former K.G.B. officials. A spokeswoman for Renault said her company was ''not concerned'' with the matter. 
 ''We look at AvtoVaz as an interesting partner,'' the spokeswoman, Olga S. Sergeyeva, said, referring to Russia's largest carmaker, ''so we work with the people who manage the factory. That person is Chemezov.'' Sergei V. Chemezov, chairman of the state-run Russian Technology, is a former K.G.B. agent who served with Mr. Putin in the east German city of Dresden in the 1980s. 
 ''Very creepy'' was how one European manager of an equity fund invested in Russia described his dealings with the leadership of a company run by former security service officers. He did not want to be identified making the assessment because he wants to do business with the companies. 
 There is nothing illegal about such dealings, and Russia is an attractive emerging market. The country has drawn $45 billion in Western capital so far this year. And as Mr. Shvartsman's foray into Silicon Valley, presumably in search of investment opportunities for his funds, showed, Russians are also stepping up their investment abroad of tens of billions of dollars, part of the country's windfall from high oil prices.
 It could also be argued that the role former members of the intelligence services play in business here is similar to the outsize role the Chinese Army plays in businesses there. 
 Currently serving security service employees are prohibited from working outside the service, according to Gennadi V. Gudkov, a member of parliament and a former K.G.B. agent. 
 Only, according to an old Russian axiom, no one ever leaves the service. Mr. Putin himself said in his 2000 presidential campaign, using a post-1917 revolution name for K.G.B. precursors, that ''there is no such thing as a former Chekist.'' 
 In the interview published in the newspaper Kommersant, Mr. Shvartsman described other fund investors as ''not the leadership of the presidential administration, but members of their families.'' And he boasted that his ties to the secret police helped his company, the FinansGroup, buy businesses in Russia at knock-down prices because business owners, he said, ''know where we come from.'' 
 Mr. Shvartsman suggested that he had F.S.B. backing for corporate raiding, a term that is often more than just a figure of speech in Russia's bare-knuckle business world. 
 The assertions sent ripples through business circles here, though the Kremlin spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, dismissed Mr. Shvartsman's statements as ''absolutely untrue.'' 
 Still, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and a leading Israeli bank, Tamir Fishman, pulled out of a deal with Mr. Shvartsman to create the Tamir Fishman Russia Venture Capital Fund. 
 Just last week, Renault signed a memorandum of understanding to buy 25 percent of AvtoVaz, and manage it in partnership with Mr. Chemezov's Russian Technology. 
 To be sure, intelligence agency officials have become businessmen in other countries, too. The first President Bush was director of central intelligence in the 1970s and, more recently, a senior adviser to the Carlyle Group, a private equity firm, until 2004. And some Western businessmen here say that the K.G.B., with its language training and networking opportunities for the young and ambitious, is a good school for international business. 
 Aleksandr Y. Lebedev, a Russian airline tycoon whose estimated worth is $3.5 billion, was a K.G.B. agent in London in the late 1980s. 
 In an interview, Mr. Lebedev said that seeing the great gap in economic development between the West and the Soviet Union in the 1980s made reformers of some in his generation of Soviet spies. Thus, the characterization of the K.G.B. as an inherently reactive force is a misperception, he said, and it should not be surprising that former agents became free-market enthusiasts. Last month, the Russian edition of Smart Money magazine published a cover article proclaiming, ''The K.G.B. Is better Than an M.B.A.''
 In Russia, there may be some logic to that reasoning. Boeing is buying titanium for its new 787 Dreamliner jet from a company run by Mr. Chemezov. Exxon Mobil is a partner in a Sakhalin Island oil development with Rosneft, a huge Russian energy company whose chairman, Igor I. Sechin, is a former intelligence officer. Mr. Sechin is also Mr. Putin's deputy chief of staff. 
 One son of the Federal Security Service director, Nikolai Patrushev, worked at the state foreign trade bank, the VTB Group, and another worked at Rosneft. 
 Sergei B. Ivanov, a first deputy prime minister and former K.G.B. agent who served in London, is chairman of the state aircraft-making monopoly. His son was vice president of Gazprombank, the banking arm of the Russian natural gas monopoly. 
 ''Due diligence has become something of a headache sorting this all out,'' a Western business consultant, who did not want to be further identified criticizing the Kremlin, said.
 And Yevgenia M. Albats, author of a 1994 book on the K.G.B., ''The State Within a State,'' said, ''The F.S.B. is no longer just a police organization, it is a business.'' 
 In exchange for loyalty, Mr. Putin has allowed top F.S.B. officials to tap business opportunities in Russia's oil-boom economy by acquiring stakes in companies in oil, telecommunications, retailing and finance. 
 ''The problem is, this business has the power of violence,'' Ms. Albats said. ''It has troops and intelligence equipment.''
 Whether the security service will retain its power remains to be seen. Last week, Mr. Putin endorsed Dmitri A. Medvedev, the other first deputy prime minister, to be Russia's next president, a step that most here assume makes Mr. Medvedev's choice a certainty. Mr. Medvedev has no known background in the security services. 
 After the publication of his interview, Mr. Shvartsman asserted that the Kommersant journalist, Maksim Kvasha, had used ''literary license'' in transcribing his statement, though he did not take back any of the specifics. In an interview on Echo of Moscow radio, he said the journalist should ''drink poison.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Oleg Shvartsman says investors have agency ties. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DMITRY KOSTYUKOV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.C1)
 A first deputy prime minister, Sergei B. Ivanov, right, speaking with Sergei V. Chemezov, the chairman of Russian Technology. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATALIA KOLESNIKOVA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMAKERS (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); ETHICS (51%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (55%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); XOM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (74%); SERGEI IVANOV (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



440 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Anxious Markets Continue to Slide

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street extended last week's losses Monday as investors remained concerned about flagging growth and rising prices, and were skeptical that a special Federal Reserve credit auction would be a solution. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 170 points and all the major indexes lost at least 1 percent.
 Investors remained nervous even as the Fed offered $20 billion in 28-day credit through an auction Monday. Results will not be released until Wednesday. The aim of the auction is to encourage commercial banks to borrow from the Fed and, in turn, to bolster lending to businesses and consumers.
 In economic news, the government said the current-account deficit, the broadest measure of international trade, narrowed as expected in the third quarter compared with the second, to the lowest level in two years.
 The New York Fed's Empire State Manufacturing Index fell more sharply in December than economists expected, while the National Association of Home Builders said its housing market index held steady in November at its lowest level since it started the index in 1985.
 A speech Sunday by Alan Greenspan, the former Fed chairman, added to the market's ill humor. Mr. Greenspan said that stagflation -- when inflation accelerates and the economy weakens -- is a growing possibility, given last week's data showing spiking consumer prices. Higher inflation is also a problem for consumers, especially during the holiday season. Sales data have suggested tepid spending by Americans.
 ''The consumer is two-thirds of our economy. The consumer holds the key to whether we have a recession in 2008,'' said Alfred E. Goldman, chief market strategist at A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis.
 The Dow fell 172.65, or 1.29 percent, to 13,167.20, finishing at its low of the session.
 Broader stock indicators also declined. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 22.05, or 1.50 percent, to 1,445.90, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 61.28, or 2.32 percent, to 2,574.46.
 Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Avalon Partners, said the market was also volatile ahead of Friday's ''quadruple witching,'' a quarterly occurrence during which contracts expire for stock index futures, stock index options, stock options and single-stock futures.
 Light crude futures fell 64 cents, to settle at $90.63 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Wall Street started 2007 soaring because of strong merger-and-acquisition activity but found little consolation in deal-making Monday.
 The diversified manufacturer Ingersoll-Rand said it would buy the air-conditioner maker Trane for $10.1 billion. Ingersoll-Rand shares fell $5.58, to $43.60, Trane surged $8.04, to $45.24.
 Aon Corporation said it would sell two insurance units for $2.75 billion in separate cash deals, and the conglomerate Loews Corporation said its board approved a spinoff of the cigarette maker Lorillard. Aon rose 46 cents to $49.40. Loews rose $1.14, or 2.4 percent, to $47.94.
 The benchmark 10-year treasury note rose 23/32, to 100 27/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.14 percent, from 4.23 percent.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (SOURCE: ASSOCIATED PRESS
BLOOMBERG FINANCIAL MARKETS)
 THE FAVORITES: Stocks held by the largest number of acocunts at Charles Schwab. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); FUTURES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); SALES FIGURES (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (74%); ENERGY MARKETS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); HVAC & REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MFG (68%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (67%); MERGERS (67%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (62%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%); STOCK OPTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: AON PLC (60%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

TICKER: AON (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (60%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



441 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Donors Pledge $7.4 Billion in Aid to the Palestinians

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Eighty-seven countries and international organizations pledged $7.4 billion in aid to the Palestinians on Monday, in the most ambitious fund-raising effort in more than a decade to help Palestinians create a viable, peaceful and secure state of their own.
 The total is set to cover the next three years. The Palestinians had hoped to secure $5.6 billion in budgetary and development support over the next three years, but the amount pledged exceeded that figure. 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice represented the United States at the one-day conference here. 
 The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, said at the conference that a ''moment of truth'' had arrived, urging the world to increase its aid for Palestinians -- or risk disaster. 
 ''Without this support, without the payment of aid that will allow the Palestinian treasury to fulfill its role, we will be facing a total catastrophe in the West Bank and Gaza,'' Mr. Abbas said.
 In appealing for the financing, Prime Minister Salam Fayyad, an economist appointed to lead the Palestinians' caretaker government, formally presented his new recovery plan for economic, institutional and security reform for a future Palestinian state.
 The total for 2008 alone, according to the conference's final declaration, was $3.4 billion.
 The United States pledged $555 million for 2008, up from $75 million this year. ''The Palestinian Authority is experiencing a serious budgetary crisis,'' Ms. Rice said. ''This conference is literally the government's last hope to avoid bankruptcy.''
 However, the American pledge was misleading, because much of it had been announced previously by the White House but has not been approved by Congress.
 The European Union, the largest aid donor to the Palestinians, pledged $650 million for 2008. Separately, European nations made three-year pledges, including France and Sweden at $300 million each, Britain $500 million, Norway $420 million, Spain $360 million and Germany $200 million. 
 In a move significant both practically and symbolically, the Saudis pledged $500 million over three years. 
 Many countries do not fulfill pledges that they make at such conferences. Egypt and other Arab countries are known for pledging funds to the Palestinian Authority that they do not deliver. 
 The donors' meeting is a high-profile effort to build on the momentum of peace talks with Israel last month in Annapolis, Md., where the Bush administration played host. Those talks were the first serious negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians in years, and the two sides pledged to seek a final peace agreement by the end of 2008. 
 The event on Monday was the largest Palestinian donor meeting since 1996, and the latest in a string of aid-raising events for the Palestinians over the years. The Palestinians are one of the highest aid-dependent populations in the world, according to a new World Bank report. 
 Despite the aid pledges, the Palestinian economy will continue to contract unless Israel eases its blockage of the Gaza Strip and removes crucial internal checkpoints to allow Palestinians to move freely in the West Bank, the World Bank cautioned in the report. 
 The World Bank estimated that without such measures, the Palestinian gross domestic product would probably contract by 2 percent annually over the next five years. If Israel does ease the restrictions, and if the Palestinians put promised reforms in place, the economy could grow by 5 percent a year, the report added. 
 Mr. Abbas, in his remarks, appealed to Israel to take a number of concrete measures, including a freeze on all settlements in the Palestinian territories, the dismantling of what he identified as ''wildcat settlements,'' a halt to construction of Israel's barrier of separation and the release of more Palestinian prisoners.
 The fund-raiser on Monday was also a chance for President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to play diplomatic maestro, backslapping delegates and greeting Ms. Rice with kisses on both cheeks as he opened the conference. 
 ''Our aim is not to perpetuate assistance to the Palestinians indefinitely,'' said Mr. Sarkozy, who calls himself a close friend of Israel. To that end, he called for Israel to allow freedom of movement of people and goods and to immediately freeze all settlement construction on the West Bank. 
 ''I must insist on this point: it is in Israel's best interest, provided its own security is not threatened, to foster a normal existence in the West Bank,'' he said. ''This alone will enable the Palestinians to work, to stop ruminating on their humiliation, to curb the violence and trafficking and to regain their zest for life.'' 
 As for the Palestinians, Mr. Sarkozy told them to live up to their promises to maintain ''law and order over its territory'' and to overhaul their security services.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Nicolas Sarkozy of France with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president. (POOL PHOTO BY CHARLES PLATIAU) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); APPROVALS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (90%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (88%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (75%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (51%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (51%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); NORWAY (79%); EGYPT (79%); GERMANY (70%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



442 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: India's Automaker of Many Faces May Land Jaguar

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS; Julia Werdigier contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The luxury brand Jaguar is poised to join Tata Motors, a widely diverse Indian auto company that makes tractor-trailers, full-size S.U.V.'s and the world's cheapest car. 
 Tata is the front-runner in the bidding for Ford Motor's Jaguar and Land Rover brands, people close to the negotiations say, and a decision could be made over the next few days. A final signed deal, which is expected to be worth about $2 billion, will not be announced until early next year, according to the people, who were not authorized to comment publicly. 
 Jaguar dealers in the United States have expressed concern about an Indian buyer, which they believe would devalue the luxury brand name. Tata Motors, coincidentally, is preparing to introduce its ''People's Car,'' which will cost about $2,500 -- about one-twentieth the price of the least expensive Jaguar. 
 The combination of luxurious, specialized products and cheap, commodified ones may seem like an unlikely business model, but the Tata Group, the sprawling family-run conglomerate that owns a third of Tata Motors, is full of similar contradictions. 
 The group's Taj Hotels command some of the highest rates in the world -- one night in a luxury suite in the Taj Mahal Palace in Mumbai costs 110,000 rupees ($2,795) in high season. But the group is building no-frills hotels around India, with rates as low as 1,499 rupees ($37.95) a night for a double room in some cities. 
 Tata owns a chain of high-end jewelry stores, Tanishq, and makes fertilizer though its Tata Chemicals unit. The company has an exclusive charter airplane business, serving clientele like chief executives and Bollywood stars, and owns Tata Sky, which beams business news and hit movies into a million Indian households. 
 Analysts and economists in India say that while the parent company may look like a ball of contradictions from the outside, it is held together by some common management mandates. 
 As in many family-run conglomerates, there is a ''strong emphasis on the long-term perspective,'' said Subir Gokarn, Standard & Poor's chief economist in Asia. Tata focuses on building institutions, on social responsibility and ethics, and on fair dealing with government, he said. 
 But it is also highly profitable. After-tax profits at Tata Motors, which is publicly traded, increased 21 percent in the first half of this fiscal year, to 9.94 billion rupees ($253 million). 
 Charities are among the shareholders that receive those profits. Tata Sons, the holding company that manages the Tata Group, is two-thirds owned by charitable trusts. 
 Tata Motors has been the front-runner in a three-way contest for Jaguar and Land Rover since trade unions backed Tata's bid in November. The Indian automobile company Mahindra & Mahindra is also vying, as is the private equity group One Equity Partners, an affiliate of JPMorgan Chase. 
 While Tata is not commenting on the deal, Ratan N. Tata, the head of the conglomerate, has talked recently about how he thinks acquisitions should be handled in general. ''Our mandate is we don't want to change the look and feel of a company,'' Mr. Tata said in October in his Mumbai headquarters. That means keeping the management intact, he said. 
 When Tata is done buying a company, he said, it should look the same as before, ''except now it's owned by someone in India.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tata, the Indian company that makes cars, S.U.V.'s and tractor-trailers, is reportedly the front-runner for Jaguar and Land Rover. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PUNIT PARANJPE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ETHICS (76%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); FINE JEWELRY (73%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (67%); FERTILIZERS (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (60%)

COMPANY: TATA MOTORS LTD (92%); TATA GROUP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (90%)

TICKER: TTMT (LSE) (92%); TTM (NYSE) (92%); TATAMOTORS (NSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (92%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (92%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (58%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (76%); ASIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007



443 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: No. 1 Book, And It Offers Solutions

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In 1967, Jack Wennberg, a young medical researcher at Johns Hopkins, moved his family to a farmhouse in northern Vermont. 
 Dr. Wennberg had been chosen to run a new center based at the University of Vermont that would examine medical care in the state. With a colleague, he traveled around Vermont, visiting its 16 hospitals and collecting data on how often they did various procedures.
 The results turned out to be quite odd. Vermont has one of the most homogenous populations in the country -- overwhelmingly white (especially in 1967), with relatively similar levels of poverty and education statewide. Yet medical practice across the state varied enormously, for all kinds of care. In Middlebury, for instance, only 7 percent of children had their tonsils removed. In Morrisville, 70 percent did. 
 Dr. Wennberg and some colleagues then did a survey, interviewing 4,000 people around the state, to see whether different patterns of illness could explain the variations in medical care. They couldn't. The children of Morrisville weren't suffering from an epidemic of tonsillitis. Instead, they happened to live in a place where a small group of doctors -- just five of them -- had decided to be aggressive about removing tonsils. 
 But here was the stunner: Vermonters who lived in towns with more aggressive care weren't healthier. They were just getting more health care.
 Dr. Wennberg would eventually move to Dartmouth and, over the last 30 years, has done versions of his Vermont study for the entire country. Again and again, he has come up with the same broad result. And that result holds the key to health care reform -- how to spend less on health care while not making the population any less healthy. 
 Dr. Wennberg's story forms the backbone of ''Overtreated,'' by Shannon Brownlee, which is my choice for the economics book of the year. This was another very good year for economics books. Alan Greenspan wrote a best-selling memoir that was really two books, one an autobiography, the other an exposition on the virtues of the free market. Robert H. Frank and Robert Reich wrote thoughtfulbooks about reversing the excesses of that free market. Paul Collier offered a clearheaded argument for reducing global poverty in ''The Bottom Billion.'' 
 But I'm going with Ms. Brownlee's book because it's the best description I have yet read of a huge economic problem that we know how to solve -- but is so often misunderstood. 
 As you've doubtless heard, this country spends far more money per person on medical care than other countries and still seems to get worse results. We devote 16 percent of our gross domestic product to health care, while Canada and France, where people live longer, spend about 10 percent. 
 Some of this difference is unavoidable. The United States does more than its share of medical research and bears much of those costs. It also has a diverse, economically unequal population, which, in turn, leads to a diverse and complicated set of health problems.
 But health care spending simply can't continue to rise at its current pace. If it did, it would ''eventually overwhelm both the federal budget and workers' paychecks,'' as Peter Orszag, director of the Congressional Budget Office, told me. ''Slowing such growth is the single most important step we can take to assure our fiscal future and lift a growing burden on workers.''
 Fortunately -- if that's the right word -- there is an obvious candidate for cost-cutting: all that care that brings no health benefit. It's not hard to find examples. Scientific studies have shown that many treatments, including spinal fusion, routine episiotomies and neonatal intensive care, are overdone. These procedures often help specific subsets of patients. But for a lot of people, and ''Overtreated'' is full of stories, the treatments are a modern-day version of bloodletting.
 ''We spend between one fifth and one third of our health care dollars,'' writes Ms. Brownlee, a senior fellow at the New America Foundation and former writer for U.S. News & World Report, ''on care that does nothing to improve our health.''
 Worst of all, overtreatment often causes harm, because even the safest procedures bring some risk. One study found that a group of Medicare patients admitted to high-spending hospitals were 2 to 6 percent more likely to die than a group admitted to more conservative hospitals.
 Why is this happening, then?
 Above all, it's the natural outgrowth of our fee-for-service health care system. It turns doctors into pieceworkers, as Ms. Brownlee puts it, ''paid for how much they do, not how well they care for their patients.'' Doctors and hospitals typically depend on the volume of work for their income, and they are the gatekeepers who decide when work needs to be done. They also worry about being sued if they do too little. So they err on the side of overtreatment. 
 Patients play a role, too. We're entranced by the wonders of modern medicine and fooled by our byzantine health insurance system into thinking that we're not really paying for all those unnecessary spinal fusions.
 The typical book about current affairs is better at describing problems than solutions. But there is a nice surprise at the end of ''Overtreated.'' (If you find yourself wishing the book had fewer anecdotes, I'd suggest you skip to the end rather than putting it down.) In plain English, Ms. Brownlee lays out an agenda for reform that is usually confined to academic journals. 
 It includes some steps that should be widely popular, like giving doctors incentives to explain the risks and benefits of procedures more clearly than they do now. Research has shown that patients frequently decide against marginal care when they know the true risks and benefits. Malpractice laws would also need to be changed so doctors were not sued by patients who later changed their minds.
 Other solutions would be more difficult -- because medical evidence is often murky, because hospitals and insurers would fight to keep their revenues and because most Americans think it's the other guy who's getting unnecessary treatment. These are the reasons that presidential candidates don't focus on wasteful treatment. 
 But models for reform are out there. Hospitals that don't use the fee-for-service model, like those run by the Veterans Health Administration, are already getting better results for less money. They closely track their performance -- that is, the health of their patients -- and motivate employees to improve it.
 As I've written before, there is nothing wrong with devoting a large chunk of our economy to medical care. Since the 1950s, doctors have made incredible progress against diseases that were once inevitably fatal. That progress is probably the finest human achievement of the last half century. 
 If we weren't wasting so much money on overtreatment, it would be a lot easier to repeat the achievement over the next half century.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Overtreated'' diagnoses the big flaw in medical spending. (pg.C1)
 Shannon Brownlee's new book is loaded with anecdotes about health treatments that did not improve the patient's health. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA GROSVENOR) (pg.C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); CHILDREN (75%); POVERTY RATES (75%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (74%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (70%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (70%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); BESTSELLERS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (84%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



444 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Europe Puts $500 Billion Into Banks To Ease Credit

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
The European Central Bank on Tuesday pumped 348 billion euros ($500 billion) into the financial system, easing conditions in credit markets grappling with a global lending squeeze linked to the United States housing downturn and traditional year-end demands for cash.
 Market interest rates for two-week loans, the maturity at which the bank lent the money, plunged half a percentage point on Tuesday, to 4.45 percent. The duration of the loans will probably ensure that liquidity is readily available through the end of the year, credit analysts said. 
 The Bank of England also did its part, auctioning off $:10 billion in three-month loans. But the British bank's governor, Mervyn King, conceded on Tuesday that central banks, despite their ability to manufacture unlimited amounts of cash, are reaching the limits of their ability to ease the five-month-old credit crisis.
 Despite a range of unusual liquidity injections, central banks in the United States, Europe and Britain have been unable to bring down spreads -- the difference between their benchmark policy rates and rates that banks charge one another for short-term loans. The three-month lending rate fell a tenth of a percentage point, to about 4.8 percent, on Tuesday, far higher than normal.
 That reflects a continuing reluctance of banks to trust one another's creditworthiness because of extensive write-downs linked to bad investments in the deteriorating United States mortgage market -- a problem central banks can influence only indirectly.
 ''Even the operations we have put into place can't be guaranteed and are unlikely to bring about a significant reduction in spreads except insofar as the operations can improve the confidence of the banking sector,'' Mr. King told British lawmakers. ''It's hard to say whether it will turn out to be an important step.''
 Mr. King was referring to liquidity injections in general, but also to a coordinated effort led by the Federal Reserve last week to infuse $64 billion into the system through central banks in North America and Europe. The results of that action will be announced on Wednesday.
 Late Monday, the European Central Bank announced that it would guarantee unlimited two-week loans at a fixed rate of 4.21 percent, instead of taking its standard approach of fixing the amount it lends and allowing overall demand to determine the cost of borrowing. The normal tactic would have resulted in an infusion of about 180 billion euros, the bank said.
 Though the bank took the same approach when the credit crisis erupted in August, the scale of the intervention at that time -- about 95 billion euros in overnight funds -- was much smaller.
 The scale of the effort left many market analysts puzzled as to why the bank stepped in so forcefully. Some speculated that the bank wanted to guard against a fresh outbreak of credit market chaos at the end of the year.
 Though vexed primarily by the ripple effects of the United States mortgage crisis, credit markets are also coping with the surge in demand for cash that is common as banks clean up balance sheets and meet lingering obligations before the fiscal year ends on Dec. 31. The money lent on Tuesday will come due on Jan. 4. 
 ''Atop the usual uncertainty, the E.C.B. was worried about what the year-end market might look like,'' said Erik Nielsen, chief Europe economist at Goldman Sachs in London. ''So they put a lid on it like only central banks can do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Bank of England's governor, Mervyn King, told Parliament that banks are nearly out of options to ease the credit crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PARLIAMENTARY BROADCASTING, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); EURO (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANK OF ENGLAND (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



445 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Report Finds U.S. Agencies Distracted by Focus on Cuba

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY; James C. McKinley Jr. contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Catching Americans who travel illegally to Cuba or who purchase cigars, rum or other products from the island may be distracting some American government agencies from higher-priority missions like fighting terrorism and combating narcotics trafficking, a government audit to be released Wednesday says.
 The report, from the Government Accountability Office, says that Customs and Border Protection, which is part of the Department of Homeland Security, conducts secondary inspections on 20 percent of charter passengers arriving from Cuba at Miami International Airport, more than six times the inspection rate for other international arrivals, even from countries considered shipment points for narcotics. 
 That high rate of inspections and the numerous seizures of relatively benign contraband ''have strained C.B.P.'s capacity to carry out its primary mission of keeping terrorists, criminals and inadmissible aliens from entering the country at Miami International Airport,'' says the audit, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times. 
 The audit also called on the Treasury Department to scrutinize the priorities of its Office of Foreign Assets Control, which enforces more than 20 economic and trade sanctions programs, including those aimed at freezing terrorists' assets and restricting the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, but has long focused on Cuba.
 Between 2000 and 2006, 61 percent of the agency's investigation and penalty caseload involved Cuba embargo cases. Over that period, the office opened 10,823 investigations into possible violations involving Cuba and just 6,791 investigations on all other cases, the audit found.
 Critics of the American embargo on Cuba seized on the report as evidence that Washington's policy, which began in the Kennedy administration and has grown more stringent ever since, was outdated.
 ''This is not good policy,'' said Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, who requested the report a year ago with Representative Barbara Lee, Democrat of California. ''It's vindictive. It's stupid. It's costly. And now we find out it's a threat to our national security.''
 The State Department, in a statement responding to the audit, said enforcing the Trading With the Enemy Act, which prohibits Americans from spending money in Cuba without authorization from Washington, remained an important tool to isolate the Cuban government. Loosening the embargo, which the leading Democratic presidential candidates have called for in the campaign, would ''provide increased revenue to the successor dictatorship run by Raul Castro, and prolong its tight control over all aspects of Cuban life,'' the department said.
 The Bush administration's tightening of the Cuba sanctions in 2004 appears to have discouraged many Americans from visiting the island. Manuel Marrero, Cuba's tourism minister, acknowledged as much in a recent interview in Havana, blaming the ''blockade,'' as Cubans call the embargo, for scaring Americans away.
 ''Sooner or later, there will be justice for the people of the United States, and they will be allowed to visit and share with our people,'' Mr. Marrero said.
 Even with the number of American visitors down 37,000 in 2006, from 84,500 in 2003, according to the Cuban government, the United States government devotes significant resources to pursuing those who still go.
 Most passengers arriving in Miami from Cuba are American citizens or residents who fly on charter flights and have American government permission to visit relatives on the island. But they are forbidden to bring Cuban products back to the United States. Still, searches regularly turn up cigars, bottles of rum and pharmaceutical items in the travelers' luggage.
 Most of the charter flights from Cuba arrive in Miami around midday, with five flights landing between 11:30 and 11:40 a.m. and additional flights in the afternoon.
 As those passengers collect their luggage, most of the three secondary inspection facilities and most of the customs personnel are focused on them. As a result, the audit found, inspection of other arrivals is sometimes delayed.
 Most of the Americans who visit Cuba each year do not go directly from Miami but use third countries like Canada, Mexico, Jamaica or the Bahamas. Catching them is difficult but not impossible. In some cases, American immigration officials simply observe them getting off flights from Havana at foreign airports where the United States has a presence, officials say.
 Those who are caught violating the embargo are referred to the Treasury Department. Officials there say that Cuba cases, most of which involve unlicensed travel and the importation of Cuban cigars, consume a relatively small portion of staff time and do not affect enforcement of other sanctions programs.
 The Treasury Department relies on warning letters and informal settlements for lower fines than on formal administrative hearings. On top of that, officials said they have recently begun focusing more of their resources on other programs and less on Cuba enforcement.
 The statistics bear that out. Between 2000 and 2005, there were 8,170 violations of the Cuba embargo, which accounted for more than 70 percent of the agency's total penalty cases.
 In 2006, however, the number of cases pursued dropped significantly. That year, only 290 people were fined for violating the embargo, accounting for 29 percent of the agency's penalty cases.
 Although the Treasury Department can assess civil fines of up to $55,000 for those who violate the embargo, most penalties are considerably lower. Between 2000 and 2006, the average violation brought a $992 fine.
 In 2007, 13 people have been fined, most for under $1,000, for ordering Cuban cigars over the Internet, an increasingly common violation. One of the largest fines went to Travelocity, the Internet travel agency, which had to pay $182,750 for booking nearly 1,500 flights to Cuba from 1998 to 2004.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (93%); TERRORISM (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); AUDITS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); AIRPORTS (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); INADMISSIBILITY OF IMMIGRANTS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); US PRESIDENTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (57%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (50%); BARBARA LEE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



446 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-16
 4 White House Lawyers Were at Talks on Tapes
 At least four top White House lawyers took part in discussions with the Central Intelligence Agency between 2003 and 2005 about whether to destroy videotapes showing the secret interrogations of two Qaeda operatives, current and former administration and intelligence officials said.A1 
 Secret Detentions in Pakistan 
 Pakistan's military and intelligence agencies, apparently trying to avoid acknowledging an elaborate secret detention system, have quietly set free nearly 100 men suspected of links to terrorism, few of whom were charged, human rights groups and lawyers here say.A1
 Iraq's Utilities Still Lag
 Despite a significant reduction in violence in Iraq over the past three months, the Iraqi government has made little headway in improving the delivery of electricity, health care and other essential services, a Pentagon report said.A6
 Mbeki Loses A.N.C. Post
 The African National Congress chose the colorful Zulu politician Jacob G. Zuma as its new leader, handing South Africa's president Thabo Mbeki a resounding defeat.A14
 Israel Kills 10 in Gaza
 To suppress rocket fire from Gaza, Israeli forces killed at least 10 Palestinian militants in 24 hours over the last two days.A8
 NATIONALA20-34 
 Senate Adds War Funds And Rejects Withdrawal
 The Senate voted to add $70 billion for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to a sweeping year-end budget package after again rejecting Democratic efforts to tie the money to calls for troop withdrawals from Iraq. A24 
 Energy Bill Passes
 The House approved legislation that will slowly but significantly change the cars Americans drive, the fuel they burn, the way they light their homes and the price they pay for food. A24 
 Strained Ties Fray More
 Harry Reid, left, the Senate majority leader, has called President Bush a loser and a liar and has referred to him as King George. Mr. Reid has also apologized -- but only, he likes to point out, for the ''loser'' line. A20 
 Defective Voting Machines
 Thousands of Colorado's electronic voting machines do not work properly and have been decertified, according to a review by the Colorado secretary of state. A20 
 McCain on Mortgage Crisis
 Reacting to voters' concerns about the economy, Senator John McCain said he would consider greater intervention by the federal government to limit the fallout of the mortgage crisis if current measures fail. A33
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-6
 Arrests Expose Alliance Of Street Gang and Mafia
 New Jersey authorities said they had broken up an ''alarming alliance'' between the Luchese crime family and the Bloods street gang to supply drugs and cellphones to gang members inside a New Jersey prison.B1 
 Easing Traffic at Kennedy
 The United States transportation secretary has negotiated an agreement with the airlines to ease congestion at Kennedy Airport by shifting some flights to less busy times, according to government officials and industry executives. B1 
 Neediest Cases B4
 BUSINESS DAYC1-10
 Revising Media Rules
 The Federal Communications Commission approved rules to tighten the reins on the cable television industry and to loosen restrictions that prohibited companies from owning a newspaper and a television or radio station in the same community. A1 
 Fed Acts on Home Loans
 The Federal Reserve, acknowledging that mortgage lenders peddled deceptive loans to borrowers who had little chance of repaying them, proposed new restrictions on exotic mortgages and high-cost loans for people with weak credit. A1 
 Business DigestC2 
 EDITORIALA36-37
 Editorials: A crisis long foretold; down payment on Mideast peace; too costly for even the well-to-do; bad bill now, bad bill later.
 Columns: Thomas L. Friedman and Maureen Dowd.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); LAWYERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); TERRORISM (70%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); AIRPORTS (61%); AIRLINES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); GANGS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%)

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (68%); HARRY REID (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); JACOB ZUMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



447 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: Tough Time for a Comeback

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD and NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
For decades, city leaders and local business executives here have been predicting an imminent revival of their desolate downtown. For all their cheerleading, though, nothing much changed. 
 Even the Renaissance Center, an enormous office and hotel complex with seven soaring glass towers built 30 years ago on the city's riverfront, did not spark the turnaround that its name promised. 
 But finally, downtown Detroit is showing signs of life -- just as the automobile industry, its life force, is facing a further decline in 2008.
 Regardless of what looms, investment money and people are pouring into the city -- at least to visit. Thousands of people thronged to the renovated Detroit Institute of Arts when it reopened on Thanksgiving weekend, offering 32 hours of free admission. 
 Two new casinos opened this fall, creating thousands of jobs, and bringing luxury hotel rooms to a town where one of the few upscale choices was at the airport.
 More rooms will come when the Book Cadillac Hotel, a city landmark from the 1920s but vacant and often vandalized for the last 20 years, completes a $180 million renovation next year that will create a 455-room Westin hotel and 67 condominiums, including the first in the city to sell for more than $1 million.
 More jobs will arrive when Quicken Loans, a mortgage company, chooses the site downtown where it will move 4,000 employees from Livonia, a desirable middle-class suburb, putting all those jobs downtown next year.
 Even the Detroit Lions did their part earlier this fall, scoring an impressive string of victories at the start of the N.F.L. season.
 ''Things are rolling,'' said Detroit's mayor, Kwame M. Kilpatrick. 
 But the direction is arguably as much downhill as up. Automakers have laid off nearly 100,000 workers in the last two years, announcing more cuts this fall and another round of buyout offers Tuesday, despite new agreements with the United Automobile Workers union that were supposed to be a new, leaner start for the American industry. The companies plan deep production cuts in the new year, which company executives and analysts expect will bring the worst industry sales since the mid-1990s. 
 Detroit's poverty rate, 28.5 percent, is the nation's highest. The area's foreclosure rate is the second highest, behind Stockton, Calif., according to RealtyTrac, a statistics firm in Irvine, Calif. One in every 33 homes in Wayne County, home to Detroit, is in default. 
 Last month, The Detroit Free Press printed a 121-page pullout section listing more than 18,000 foreclosed properties across Wayne County. An estimated 4,500 homeowners attended a forum in Detroit last week, where they met with representatives from 23 lenders in hopes of saving their homes.
 Even as a snowstorm battered the city on Sunday, local television reports showed one man slinging his possessions into a U-Haul van, forced to leave because his lender had seized his home.
 Detroit's population is now half its peak in the 1950s, and the city is as small as it was in the 1920s, before the auto industry boom that made Detroit an industrial powerhouse and one of the nation's largest cities.
 Houses sit begging at every price level, from the wealthy Grosse Pointe and Bloomfield Hills to modest bungalows in the city. The average home requires six months to sell, compared with three nationwide.
 And in a blow to the city's heritage, Berry Gordy, the founder of Motown Records, and the city gave up on a plan to build a museum and entertainment center that would feature the record label's music. The center was supposed to replace Motown's second Detroit headquarters, which the mayor ordered torn down two years ago on the eve of the Super Bowl, declaring the long-empty building an eyesore.
 ''It has been 30 years of a strategy that says if we revitalize downtown the rest of the city will follow,'' said Kevin Boyle, a Detroit native and professor of history at Ohio State University, who has written extensively on the city. ''And that is simply not true.''
 To Mr. Kilpatrick, though, one of the biggest obstacles is overcoming the city's reputation -- an unfair one, in his eyes -- as a civic failure. 
 ''In 2007, the perception of Detroit is as far away from reality as we've ever had it,'' Mr. Kilpatrick said. ''We're ready to reintroduce the city to the world.''
 On Thanksgiving weekend, many people took the mayor up on his offer. More than 57,000 patrons visited the art institute when it was reopened after an extensive renovation for 32 hours straight, with free admission, instead of the $8 admission charge that has been made mandatory (patrons previously were allowed to pay by donation, yielding an average $2.50 a person.) 
 ''There are pockets where it is all starting to come together,'' said Margaret Birkett, 38, of Huntington Woods, a Detroit suburb. She and her husband, Michael, had traveled into the city to attend his 20th high school reunion at a city restaurant, an event that never would have taken place downtown a few years back. 
 ''It's a long way to go, but we like it here,'' he added. 
 Judy Dapprich, 65, of suburban Belleville, Mich., used to come to Detroit with her husband for special events like Christmas Eve, when they would shop at the J. L. Hudson's department store, since demolished. Now they make six to eight trips a year. ''I'm very impressed with everything that's been done,'' she said.
 One big attention-getter is the new MGM Grand Hotel and Casino, which opened in October. Its gaming revenues rose in November compared with last year, when it was housed in a temporary building. But the occupancy rate at the hotel, where rooms start at $299 a night, is below the 55 percent average for the area, the owners told the state gaming commission this month.
 And in the eyes of some, the new casinos, which include the 17-story Motor City Hotel and Casino that opened on Nov. 28, may be doing as much harm as good.
 Some of the casino's patrons include Detroit's homeless. They used to buy food with the nickels and dimes they received for collecting returnable beverage containers, said Chad Audi, director of the rescue mission, which sits on a side street a few blocks from the Motor City.
 Instead, these gamblers are spending their change in slot machines. ''It's turning into a very bad, negative impact on us,'' he said.
 This year, the rescue mission serves about 1,200 people daily, up from about 900 a year ago. More of them include entire families, not just single mothers or homeless men, Mr. Audi said.
 He applauded the new investments downtown, but said there are not enough new jobs in neighborhoods ''so people can have the lives they have had.''
 Jennifer M. Granholm, Michigan's governor, said she hoped areas beyond downtown would start to reap the benefits soon. 
 ''There's a lot of great stuff happening, it's just got to filter out into the neighborhoods,'' Ms. Granholm said this month, in an interview during a holiday party at her residence in Lansing. ''No state can thrive without a vibrant urban center.''
 But even Mr. Kilpatrick said the city could not completely rebound without better times across the state, which has an unemployment rate of 7.9 percent, up 0.2 percentage points in October from 2006.
 Still, John Ferchill, the Cleveland hotel developer overseeing the Book Cadillac project, is not concerned. The hotel, scheduled to reopen next fall, is already booked for special events through the end of 2008, while advance room reservations are ''way over what we thought they would be.''
 He added, ''If there's a bad economy, the Book Cadillac doesn't know about it.'' 
 But the city has a long way to go before it will be called vibrant. Indeed, many streets are largely deserted after dark, and echo with distant sirens. New developments are surrounded by empty buildings, with streetlights burned out on nearby roads. Tiger Stadium, stripped of its seats, signs and other memorabilia, sits awaiting its fate, which may include demolition.
 And the Lions, meanwhile, lost their sixth consecutive game on Sunday, in a 51-14 rout by San Diego that ended their hopes for a winning season.
 Still, long-patient local residents see signs of hope. ''People's hearts and minds have got to get over the past,'' said Jay Meehan, a sociology professor at Oakland University in suburban Rochester, Mich. He spoke while sitting on a bench inside the art institute in front of murals by Diego Rivera that depicted the Rouge assembly line in the 1930s.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A former Chrysler factory, top left, sits empty. The renovated Detroit Institute of Arts, top right, drew 57,000 patrons when it reopened. Above, the MGM Grand Hotel and Casino opened in a permanent space in October.(pg.C1)
The Detroit Institute of Arts was renovated. Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick said, ''We're ready to reintroduce the city to the world.''
 Tiger Stadium, stripped of its seats, signs and other memorabilia, awaits its fate, which may include demolition. (pg.C4) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FORECLOSURE (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); MAYORS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (76%); POOR POPULATION (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); CASINOS (73%); VANDALISM (70%); HOMEOWNERS (70%); THANKSGIVING (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); POVERTY RATES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT LIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



448 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Seminary's Renovation Juggles the Old, the New and the Financial

BYLINE: By STACEY STOWE

 BODY:
The General Theological Seminary in Chelsea has been on the same site in Manhattan for almost two centuries, and this is both a blessing and a burden.
 The school, the oldest Episcopal seminary in the nation, has a glorious collection of buildings, many dating to the 19th century, and though many exteriors are relatively well maintained, the interiors need extensive work to be brought into compliance with city and state building codes.
 The seminary has already restored 11 of its 19 buildings, and despite its landmark status, it is undertaking other changes with some surprisingly modern approaches. Almost $52 million has been spent so far; the total project is to cost more than $100 million. 
 It has sold some of its air rights to a developer who will build a seven-story condominium above a new seminary library. It completed a hip minimalist-style conference center on its grounds in September. And the 42 members of the seminary board have unanimously approved an expensive but environmentally conscious plan to heat and cool its largest building. 
 Founded in 1817, the General Theological Seminary has occupied the block between Ninth and 10th Avenues and between 20th and 21st Streets since 1826.
 Its mission is to prepare men and women for ordained ministry, and it offers a range of degrees, including a Master of Divinity and Master of Arts for lay students. A day-care center on campus is open to the public, and St. Mark's Library has one of the most comprehensive collections of Anglican reference materials in the country. There are also a number of community programs for the city's poor.
 The new library with the condo above it, designed by the Polshek Partnership, is to be built on the footprint of Sherrill Hall, a blocky mid-20th-century building of about 75,000 square feet on Ninth Avenue. Demolition is scheduled to start on Jan. 15.
 It took 14 months and dealing with 12 city agencies for the seminary to gain approval for construction of retail space and market-rate housing above the 20,000-square-foot library. 
 The delay was caused in part by the seminary's site within a historic district. In addition, its Chelsea neighbors balked at the sale of the seminary's 240,000 square feet of air rights to the Brodsky Organization, a developer that was proposing a 17-story apartment building. The apartment complex will now be seven stories, 75 feet high. The transaction resulted in $32 million for the seminary.
 After the sale, the seminary still has 100,000 square feet of air rights, according to Maureen Burnley, vice president of the seminary.
 Elizabeth Leber, a partner at the architecture firm Beyer Blinder Belle, who has worked on the adaptive reuse and historic renovation of the campus for eight years, said the sale of the remaining air rights ''would have generated another $20 million for the building and renovation projects.''
 Ms. Leber said the seminary faced complicated decisions. It owns historic buildings that must be maintained, but it is barred from making changes that don't comply with landmark guidelines. ''So you can't go with the cheapest method,'' she explained. ''If it's a slate roof, you can't replace it with asphalt shingles, even if that is all you can afford.''
 The Rev. Ward B. Ewing, dean of the seminary, said the transformation of the campus would rely on money generated from its new conference center and hotel, the air rights sale, the transformation of three town houses on the site to six duplexes -- three for faculty housing and three to be sold at market rate -- low-interest loans, and a capital campaign that has so far netted $4 million. Next year, a campaign will begin seeking an additional $15 million.
 Tearing down Sherrill Hall, which includes the dean's residence, means Mr. Ewing will be moving, albeit only a few hundred yards away. He and his wife, Jenny, will reside in an 1836 schist building whose leaded windows overlook the graceful town houses on 20th Street and the leafy playground of the day care center. 
 Ms. Leber said the ''signature'' renovation on the grounds is the seminary's refectory, where the students and faculty dine. It covers 3,500 square feet and has a vaulted 35-foot-high ceiling studded with plaster coffers and banded with wooden arches. Pastel stained-glass windows, wainscoted walls with coat hooks, and a five-foot-high fireplace adorn the space, one that resembles the grand dining hall in Harry Potter's Hogwarts.
 ''It's a hidden gem in New York City,'' said Ms. Leber, who also transformed and linked three historic buildings -- covering some 60,000 square feet -- into a conference center complex for 300 people and a 60-room hotel, where the spare chic design and pastoral views rival Manhattan's trendiest rooms.
 Known as the Desmond Tutu Center, the building opened in September with a temporary heating and cooling system. Temporary, because the seminary is building geothermal wells in a former parking lot to serve the Tutu Center.
 ''When we're able to disconnect our two boilers that run off gas and oil, we're able to eliminate 1,400 tons of carbon emissions'' in a year, said Dennis Frawley, project manager for redevelopment of the campus. 
 The 10-inch-diameter wells are being drilled 1,500 feet through schist bedrock to water that is 50 to 60 degrees year-round. 
 Using a geothermal heat pump, heat is extracted from the earth in winter through a matrix of wells and buried pipes. In summer, the process is reversed, with heat from indoors released back into the ground through the pumps and wells where it is cooled and pumped back into the building, Mr. Frawley explained.
 The master plan for the seminary is ''green.'' The idea is to install geothermal wells for all 19 buildings.
 ''There's no other way to go; it was the right thing to do for the earth,'' said Dean Ewing, who is renovating his historic Tennessee homestead in a similarly environmentally conscious manner. ''The economic payoff in energy savings won't come for more than a decade, but it's worth it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: General Theological Seminary, left, has occupied its site since 1826. The school's dean, Ward Ewing, at the spot where geothermal wells will be drilled. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (88%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); LIBRARIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (72%); APPROVALS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%)

COMPANY: BRODSKY ORGANIZATION (51%); BEYER BLINDER BELLE (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (51%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (51%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



449 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Pension Fund Shortages Create Hard Choices

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Almost half of the states have been underfunding their retirement plans for public workers and may have to choose in the years ahead between their pension obligations and other public programs, according to a comprehensive study to be released to the public on Wednesday. 
 All together, the 50 states have promised to pay some $2.7 trillion in pension and retiree health benefits over the next 30 years, according to the Pew Center on the States, which spent more than a year studying the issue. 
 The amount does not include separate retirement plans run by local governments. 
 While some states are managing their costs reasonably well, the center found that others, like New Jersey and West Virginia, have made serious mistakes and are now cutting education and health programs as they struggle with costs incurred decades ago. 
 Still more states are at risk of being caught in a similar squeeze, the center said, because they are not setting aside enough money now, as their populations age and more public employees approach retirement. 
 ''It is a huge bill,'' said Susan Urahn, managing director of the center, a nonpartisan research group that studies public finance and other civic matters. 
 By way of comparison, $2.7 trillion is roughly the value of all investments worldwide in information technology last year, one of the study's authors, Richard Greene, said. 
 Ms. Urahn said that the magnitude of government legacy costs was poorly understood and that one of the center's goals was simply to establish where things stood. 
 Until now, there has been a paucity of independent data, making state-to-state comparisons nearly impossible. Previous attempts to rank state pension funds have been foiled by differences among plans. And efforts to describe the ''average'' public pension fund have failed to show where the biggest problems were occurring, or to give credit to the most successful states.
 Unlike companies, state and local governments are not subject to federal pension laws, which set uniform standards for private industry. If a company skips its required pension contributions, it can be required to pay a big excise tax. No comparable enforcement mechanism exists for states.
 Even in the absence of federal oversight, some states, including Alabama, Arkansas and North Carolina, have been diligently prepaying their retirement obligations, the center found. 
 But others have consistently let their contributions lag behind the amounts needed. The study showed that about half the states fell into each category. 
 Among the states that have fallen behind, some, like Florida and Iowa, have been skimping only slightly. But several -- including Illinois, Kansas, Oklahoma, Michigan, New Jersey, Virginia and Washington -- have contributed far less than the required amount, year after year. 
 Other states appear to have been fully funding their pension plans, only to run into trouble in the last few years, at which point they started to fall behind. States in this situation include Colorado, Kentucky, Maryland and Ohio. 
 Even in the most extreme cases, Ms. Urahn said, the public may not be aware of any problem because there is always enough money to keep sending out pension checks, and retirees do not complain. But once the money dedicated to pensions starts being depleted faster than it is replenished, financial problems are likely. The further behind a state falls, the more cash it has to come up with each year to catch up. 
 At some point, the ailing retirement system can start to dominate the state's overall finances, taking cash away from other important programs. Ms. Urahn said New Jersey was ''a great example.'' 
 ''Large underfunded long-term liabilities put future budgets -- and taxpayers -- at risk,'' the center said in its report. It said that paying each year's required contribution was essential, even though doing so ''requires a great deal of political fortitude and the kind of long-term thinking that is hard to come by, particularly in difficult economic times.''
 The report also noted that besides pensions, most states had promised health benefits to retired public workers and are only now starting to grapple with those costs.
 Retiree health plans run the gamut, from very rich to bare bones. Some states, like New York, have succeeded in maintaining well-financed pension plans, only to find themselves forced to come up with tens of billions of dollars more, because they promised retiree health care and did not set aside any money to cover that. 
 The center pointed to several states with grievous records that are now trying to turn the corner. 
 One is West Virginia, which has a chronically weak pension fund. By 2003 the fund had dwindled to a point where it had just 39 cents for every dollar it owed retirees -- a level comparable to that of some airline and steel company pension funds that failed and had to be taken over by the federal government. 
 States cannot turn to Washington for help, and in the last few years West Virginia's leaders have decided to start contributing substantially more than the actuarially required amount. 
 This effort ''is starting to pay dividends,'' the center found, noting that West Virginia now has 55 cents on hand for every dollar owed. The more any employer has in a pension fund, the more of the plan's overall cost will be paid by investment returns. If West Virginia can manage to stick to this new approach, it should ultimately realize long-term savings. 
 Ms. Urahn said that Kansas was also attempting a course correction, establishing a rule this year that would require government employers to make pension contributions that at least cover the value of the year's benefits earned. The rule will be put to the test for the first time in 2008, so its efficacy is not yet known. 
 The Pew Center on the States is a nonpartisan research body sponsored by the Pew Charitable Trusts.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THAT STATUS OF PENSION FUNDING: According to a new study, only a small number of states had set aside enough money as of last year to cover all the benefits promised to their workers. (SOURCE: PEW CENTER ON THE STATES) (pg.C1)
 CHARTS: TRYING (OR NOT) TO MAKE UP THE DIFFERENCE: Some states put more than required into their pension funds last year. In some cases, this was because they had already fallen far behind and were trying to close big gaps. But several other states that were already underfunded last year fell even further behind. (SOURCE: PEW CENTER ON THE STATES) (pg.C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); EXCISE TAX (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



450 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 702 words

 BODY:
FED PROPOSES MORTGAGE RULES The Federal Reserve proposed restrictions on exotic mortgages and high-cost loans for consumers with weak credit. New rules would force lenders to show that customers can realistically afford their mortgages. 
 The number of groundbreakings for new homes fell 3.7 percent in November, and economists said that they expected the housing market to worsen. [C7.] 
 NEWS AND CABLE COMPANIES The Federal Communications Commission approved a regulation stipulating that no one cable company can control more than 30 percent of the cable market. It approved another rule that gives owners of newspapers more leeway to buy radio and television stations. [A1.] 
 STATE PENSION PLANS Almost half of the states have been under-funding retirement plans for public workers and may have to choose in the years ahead between their pension obligations and other public programs, according to a comprehensive study. [C1.] 
 DETROIT ON A ROLL Detroit's auto companies are facing a difficult 2008, but the city itself is showing signs of life -- thanks to a renovated art museum, two new casinos that have created thousands of jobs, and the revival of a landmark hotel. [C1.] 
 General Motors said it would begin a round of buyout offers that would allow it to start hiring new workers for less pay. [C4.] 
 GOLDMAN REVERSES THE TIDE Goldman Sachs capped another record year with a modest gain in fourth-quarter earnings, prospering amid the financial tumult that has hurt many rivals. But investors worry that Goldman will fail to match its 2007 performance next year. [C3.] 
 house passes Energy bill An energy bill that will slowly but significantly change the cars Americans drive, the fuel they burn, the way they light their homes and the price they pay for food easily cleared the House. President Bush said he would sign it on Wednesday. [A16.] 
 LAWYER ACCUSED OF FRAUD Federal prosecutors charged the former outside counsel for the bankrupt commodities brokerage firm Refco with fraud tied to the eventual collapse of the commodities and futures brokerage. [C3.] 
 INSURANCE FOR MORE PEOPLE Health insurers plan to propose steps that would allow more individuals, even those who have health problems, obtain coverage. The proposals are an acknowledgment that too many people cannot get coverage. [C1.] 
 BANKS STEP INTO BREACH The European Central Bank and the Bank of England both pumped money into the financial system, aiming to ease conditions in credit markets. But the British bank's governor, Mervyn King, above, conceded that central banks are reaching the limits of their ability to ease the five-month-old credit crisis. [C5.] 
 RESCUING A BOND INSURER Officials from Merrill Lynch, Bear Stearns and other banks are in talks to bail out a bond insurance company, ACA Capital Holdings, that has guaranteed $26 billion in mortgage securities, two people briefed on the situation said. [C1.] 
 TERRORISM INSURANCE The House approved a government insurance program that commits Washington to paying for most of the damage in the event of a terrorist attack in the next seven years. President Bush is expected to sign the legislation. [C8.] 
 MTV AND BRUCKHEIMER IN DEAL MTV will announce a deal with the company owned by Hollywood producer Jerry Bruckheimer to develop video games. [C3.] 
 LAUGH, THEN BUY THE HAIR GEL Viral marketing -- the entertaining online ad campaigns that consumers are meant to pass on -- is being spoofed in a campaign for L'Oreal products that is, itself, an example of viral marketing. Advertising. Stuart Elliott. [C3.] 
 2008 LOOMS OVER MARKETS Stocks rose after investors found solace in the European Central Bank's $500 billion loan issuance, but the possibility of recession in 2008 made for a back-and-forth session. [C10.] 
 KIMMEL TO RESUME SHOWS The comedian Jimmy Kimmel will resume his late-night show on Jan. 2 without his writers, ABC said, joining Jay Leno and Conan O'Brien of NBC. [C10.] 
 REALLY BIG LECTURE HALL The Internet has provided some college professors with an fervent, international fan base, thanks to free videotaped lectures and classes that can be downloaded from university Web sites or Apple's iTunes store. [A1.] 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (76%); FUTURES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); CASINOS (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (64%); LAWYERS (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (62%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (61%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); TERRORISM (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); BANK OF ENGLAND (51%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%); MANIFOLD CAPITAL CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



451 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: 2 Measures Of Housing Were Lower In November

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The housing market, in its deepest rut since the early 1990s, showed little sign of climbing out in November, and economists said that they expected conditions to worsen in the near term. 
 The number of groundbreakings for new homes fell 3.7 percent in November, to a 1.187 million annual pace, the Commerce Department said on Tuesday. Permits for new home projects, an indicator of future building activity, dropped to 1.152 million, the lowest annual pace in more than 14 years. 
 Home builders have been stymied in recent months by a significant tightening of credit among mortgage lenders and a drop-off in demand, leading to sharp declines in house prices and a rise in inventories. 
 ''Housing market conditions were already in quite bad shape when credit market turmoil intensified in August,'' Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR, wrote in a research note. ''With mortgage financing further constrained and inventories of unsold homes much too high, the near-to-medium-term outlook for housing starts is poor.''
 The report reflected a shift toward multifamily structures, like apartment buildings and condominiums, as builders predict that more families will have difficulty obtaining mortgages in the months ahead. 
 Groundbreakings for multifamily units ticked up last month, keeping pace with a 22 percent rise over the last 12 months. Single-family starts have plummeted 24 percent in the same period.
 Home builders appear to be realizing that the drop in demand is not likely to be reversed anytime soon. Analysts and others said that last month's decline in groundbreakings and permits fell short of correcting the supply problems roiling the market. 
 ''The scope of the declines remains too small to make a meaningful dent in the inventory overhang that continues to loom over the housing market,'' Richard Moody, chief economist at Mission Residential, wrote in a research note.
 The continuing problems in housing could contribute to slowing economic growth in the next few months. Some economists have predicted that residential investment could shave more than a percentage point from growth in the gross domestic product over the next two quarters. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A carpenter on a Toll Brothers luxury-home project awaiting the lowering of a section of a roof frame in Cary, N.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM R. BOUNDS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); FAMILY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



452 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Banks Study Bailing Out Bond Insurer

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
Officials from Merrill Lynch, Bear Stearns and other major banks are in talks to bail out a struggling bond insurance company that has guaranteed $26 billion in mortgage securities, according to two people briefed on the situation, because the insurer's woes could force the banks to take on billions in losses they had insured against. 
 The insurer, ACA Capital Holdings, which lost $1 billion in the most recent quarter, has been warned by Standard & Poor's that its financial guarantor subsidiary may soon lose its crucial A rating. If it did, the banks that insured securities with the ACA Financial Guaranty Corporation would have to take back billions in losses from the insurer under the terms of the credit protection they bought from the company. 
 The troubles at ACA could also serve as the first real test for credit default swaps, the tradable insurance contracts used by investors to protect, or hedge, against default on bonds. In June, the value of bonds underlying credit default swaps rose to $42.6 trillion, up from just $6.4 trillion at the end of 2004, according to the Bank for International Settlements. 
 ''The hedge is only as good as the counterparty, or the other party, to the hedge,'' said Joseph R. Mason, a finance professor at Drexel University and the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. ''This is part and parcel of the financial innovation that has grown very rapidly in recent years.''
 It is unclear how much capital it would take to shore up ACA. Another solution the banks are discussing would relieve ACA of having to post collateral against its insurance contracts if the company is downgraded. Critics say either move would be a temporary fix that would not address rising defaults on home loans backing collateralized debt obligations insured by the company.
 ACA's problems may bring further scrutiny to other bond insurance firms that have exposure to securities linked to home loans made to people with blemished, or subprime, credit. Moody's Investors Service reaffirmed the ratings of several financial guarantors on Monday but said it might still downgrade others; Fitch Ratings and S.&P. are also reviewing ratings.
 Investment banks, hedge funds and insurance companies often use credit default swaps to bet on or against bonds without trading the underlying securities. Warren E. Buffett and other critics have described the contracts as financial time bombs, because they say that traders often misprice risk of default and do not set aside enough reserves to cover claims. They also note that investors have become complacent about the risks in recent years because default rates fell to historically low levels.
 Turmoil at ACA Capital has been evident for a few months. In a filing last month, the company said it wrote down the value of its swaps contracts by $1.7 billion and reported a negative net worth of $883 million, about $25 a share. The merchant banking affiliate of Bear Stearns owns 29 percent of ACA Capital. The company also insures municipal bonds and manages collateralized debt obligations, pools of assets like mortgages and other loans.
 S.&P. promptly put ACA Financial's rating on watch for a possible downgrade. If downgraded, the company would have to put up at least $1.7 billion in collateral against its swap contracts valued as of September -- money the firm said it did not have.
 On Dec. 6, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce said $3.5 billion of its subprime holdings were insured by an unidentified A-rated bond guarantor that was at risk of being downgraded. Analysts concluded that ACA was the guarantor; the bank said it would have to write down $1.7 billion of its mortgage holdings if the guarantor was downgraded.
 None of ACA's other clients have come forward but people briefed on the situation said that Merrill was one of the biggest banks to have insurance contracts with the troubled company.
 A spokeswoman for Merrill declined to comment. A Bear Stearns spokesman said it was a very small creditor and counterparty to ACA. ''As such, our exposure is limited,'' he said.
 Banks that insured securities with ACA have another reason to keep the company afloat -- if it fails they may have to restate earnings they have already booked as a result of their dealings with the company. 
 At the heart of many of the insurance contracts issued by the company is a popular transaction known as the negative basis trade. For example, a bank holding a bond that paid interest at o.50 percentage point over the London inter-bank offered rate would pay ACA 0.30 percentage point to insure it, pocketing the 0.20 point difference for the life of the contract. Accounting rules allow the banks to book that entire amount as income when the contracts are written. 
 In a conference call last month, executives at ACA insisted that losses on insured C.D.O.'s would be insignificant, noting that only $33 million of the bonds it had written protection on had been downgraded to below investment grade. Calls to Alan S. Roseman, its chief executive, and to a company spokesman were not returned on Tuesday.
 Analysts note that about $10.7 billion of the mortgage-related C.D.O.'s the company has insured contain lower-rated, or mezzanine, securities that are most vulnerable to losses from falling home prices and rising foreclosures. Many analysts expect a large portion of the C.D.O.'s with mezzanine debt to be wiped out.
 ''Some of the ratings that were being used don't reflect the true credit quality of these various securities,'' said Sean Egan, a managing director at Egan-Jones, an independent credit-ratings firm. 
 Mr. Egan and other analysts also note that ACA more than doubled its credit default business in the last 12 months; it had contracts outstanding on $70 billion in bonds on Sept. 30, up from $30 billion a year ago. The timely use of credit default swaps this summer helped large investment banks like Goldman Sachs and Lehman Brothers avoid huge losses on mortgage securities as others had billions in losses. But Jim Keegan, a senior vice president and portfolio manager at American Century Investments, questions whether the firms that sold protection will be able to pay up when losses materialize. 
 ''It's a zero-sum game,'' he said, noting that the gains at the investment banks buying the protection have to eventually result in losses for the firms they hedged with. ''If you put trades on that worked so well that you bankrupt your counterparty, you will not collect on those trades.''
 Last week, the New York Stock Exchange delisted ACA Capital after its stock price had collapsed and the company declined to offer a plan to bring itself back into compliance with listing standards. The stock was trading at about 40 cents over the counter on Tuesday; it traded as high as $15 in the summer.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: A BOOMING MARKET: The market for credit default swaps -- tradeable insurance contracts that offer protection against bond defaults -- has grown sevenfold in less than three years. Here is a look at two ways the credit default swaps market can be measured: NATIONAL VALUE
 MARKET VALUE (SOURCE: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (91%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BONDS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); INSURANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); GUARANTY CORP (57%); MANIFOLD CAPITAL CORP (57%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (82%); DREXEL UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



453 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: What Was That All About?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: Bali, Indonesia 

 BODY:
 As readers of this column know, I have a rule that there is a simple way to test whether any Arab-Israeli peace deal is real or not: If you need a Middle East expert to explain it to you, it's not real. I now have the same rule about global climate agreements: If you need an environmental expert to explain it to you, it's not real.
 I needed 10 experts to explain to me the Bali climate agreement -- and I was there! I'm still not quite sure what it adds up to. I'm not opposed to forging a regime with 190 countries for reducing carbon emissions, but my gut tells me that both the North and South Poles will melt before we get it to work. 
 There is a better way. Just make America the model of how a country can grow prosperous, secure, innovative and healthy by becoming the most clean, energy-efficient nation in the world -- and let everyone follow us. 
 Unfortunately, the Bush team has not been able to lead on this issue -- for two reasons. First, its credibility is shot, even though if you add up all the clean energy, biofuel and other programs the administration has initiated over the past two years, plus the half-a-loaf energy bill spearheaded by the Democrats that the president is scheduled to sign today, they don't add up to zero anymore.
 There was a revealing encounter here Thursday between the U.S. negotiating team and environmentalists that was worthy of pay-per-view. The American team was giving its big briefing. The room was packed with activists from around the world. They came loaded to carve up the Americans, who, it was just assumed, had to be stupid because they represented the Bush administration.
 And then something unexpected happened. For 90 minutes, Andy Karsner, who runs the Department of Energy's renewable energy programs, James Connaughton, who heads White House climate policy, and their colleagues put on a PowerPoint performance that was riveting in its understanding of the climate problem and the technologies needed to solve it. Their mastery of the subject was so impressive that it left the room full of global activists emotionally confused: On the one hand, it was obvious that these U.S. officials really knew their stuff, yet on the other, I'd bet not a single person there believed they reflected the true Bush policy.
 As if reading the minds of everyone there, Malini Mehra, the chief executive of the Centre for Social Markets, an Indian activist group, took the microphone and, in so many words, asked the Bush aides: Who are you and what planet did you come from? It could not possibly be from planet Bush.
 ''Anyone who has been listening to the news on climate change knows that there has been one message from this administration -- that any serious action on climate change threatens the U.S. economy and our way of life,'' Ms. Mehra said to me later. 
 So to now hear these American technocrats ''present what was a thoughtful analysis that made sense, flies in the face of what we have come to know about this administration,'' she added. 
 A lot of this is the price America is paying for the gratuitous way President Bush trashed the Kyoto treaty in 2001, without presenting any alternative for six years. Message to world: ''Get lost. We only care about ourselves.'' 
 So now, when both Mr. Bush and Congress have moved a little, few people believe even that is for real. As Irwandi Yusuf, the governor of Indonesia's Aceh Province, bluntly said to me: ''We don't believe the Americans in this administration.''
 The other reason we can't be a model is that whatever the U.S. is now doing to address the global warming challenge, it is not transformational. It is an incremental approach to a scale problem that can only be solved by triggering massive innovation in clean power. And without a price signal -- a carbon tax or cap-and-trade system -- to make it profitable to invest enormous sums, long term, in new clean technologies, it will not happen at scale. 
 The Bush team loves new technologies, but not the price signals needed to initiate them. By the way, finance or energy ministers who deal with price signals weren't even at the Bali convention, which was dominated by environmental regulators.
 ''This is a problem of economic transformation, not environmental regulation,'' said Glenn Prickett, senior vice president at Conservation International. (Disclosure: My wife is on its board.) ''The transformation needed will require far more than just passing one law or signing one treaty. It will require the same level of focus and initiative that the Bush administration is devoting to the war on terror. No political leader in the U.S. is approaching this issue yet with anywhere near the seriousness required.''
 So I still don't know what Bali was about, but I do know that it was incremental, not transformational -- and incrementalism, when it comes to clean energy, is just a hobby. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); BIOMASS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (74%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (72%); EMISSIONS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); BIOFUELS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (67%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (67%); PAY PER VIEW (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

PERSON: JAMES CONNAUGHTON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



454 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Too Costly for Even the Well-to-Do

 BODY:
Harvard's new financial aid policy is the boldest move yet to mitigate the soaring costs of a college education. Most previous efforts to make higher education affordable have focused, as they should, on helping low-income students. Now Harvard will also provide generous aid to students whose annual family incomes reach as high as $180,000. It is a welcome move, but also a disturbing admission that the priciest colleges are now beyond the reach of even many upper-middle-class families. 
 The cost of attending college has been rising faster than inflation and faster than family incomes, prompting anguished outcries from consumers and calls in Congress for colleges to rein in their costs or disgorge more of their endowments. Some of the most expensive schools have responded with new aid programs. Princeton, in a move emulated by others, shifted to grants from loans, easing the debt burden on students, and removed home equity from financial aid calculations. Harvard's new policy also includes these provisions.
 Harvard currently provides a free undergraduate education to students from families earning up to $60,000 a year. Under its new plan, families earning between $120,000 and $180,000 a year would pay only 10 percent of their incomes for tuition and fees on an education that is currently priced at more than $45,000 a year. More than 90 percent of American families would be eligible for aid, Harvard officials estimate. 
 The new standards will make the cost of a Harvard education comparable to the charges at the nation's leading public universities. The new approach should allow more students to engage in unpaid research, unpaid summer internships and study abroad. Students who graduate with little or no debt could more readily pursue low-paying careers in public service. 
 Although Harvard is often a trendsetter, it is not clear that many other schools can afford to follow. Its endowment of $35 billion is the largest of any university. Most other colleges rely heavily on tuition and fees and can't readily give up that income. There are more than 60 colleges that have endowments that exceed $1 billion that ought to move at least partially in the same direction.
 Students attending public colleges have also faced steep cost increases, in part because state governments have become stingier in providing support. Governors and legislators ought to be ashamed if their flagship public universities charge more than a high-priced private school like Harvard.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (73%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (64%); GOVERNORS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



455 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Down Payment on Mideast Peace

 BODY:
The political and territorial challenges facing Israeli and Palestinian peace negotiators are formidable and familiar. The economic obstacles to the creation of a viable Palestinian state are also formidable, but easier to make a dent in -- if all the donors who claim to care about the Palestinians and peace live up to their promises. 
 On paper, this week's international pledging conference was a huge success. Led by the United States, the European Union and Saudi Arabia, donors committed to contribute $7.4 billion over the next three years. That is almost $2 billion more than the Palestinian Authority had sought, though probably less than it really needs. 
 The conference owes at least some of its success to Tony Blair, who is coordinating international efforts to support Palestinian development. It was also helped by the Bush administration's overdue attention to peacemaking since the Annapolis conference and by the serious economic recovery plan presented by the Palestinian prime minister, Salam Fayyad, an economist. 
 Life has been growing steadily grimmer in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip since the outbreak of the second intifada in 2000 and Israel's crushing military counterattacks and economic blockades. Things got even tougher after the West suspended most of its support following Hamas's 2006 election victory. Those aid spigots have now been reopened, at least to the West Bank where Palestinian Authority moderates, under President Mahmoud Abbas, are in charge. It is crucial that the people of Gaza also receive support. But that support should not flow through Gaza's Hamas government. 
 Much of the money pledged on Monday will be needed just to keep Mr. Abbas's government solvent. What the Palestinian economy really needs is private investment to reanimate commerce and revive trade with the world. That can only happen once Israel agrees to remove the barricades that seal off West Bank communities from each other and feels secure enough to ease the passage of goods through border crossing points.
 To make a real difference, the billions pledged in Paris will need to be matched by diplomatic progress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HAMAS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); HAMAS (55%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%); TONY BLAIR (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



456 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Manhattan Market Dips, but Parts Remain Rarefied

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
Once part of the sprawling Nabisco cookie complex, the eight-story red-brick building at 450 East 15th Street, just east of 10th Avenue in the meatpacking district of Manhattan, is the epitome of understated warehouse chic, with polished concrete floors and century-old brick walls and frosted windows.
 Known as the Milk Studios Building -- after its largest tenant, a photography studio where covers of Vanity Fair and Vogue are shot -- the building is fully leased to companies in the fashion and related industries.
 Last week, Stellar Management, a New York real estate company, and its financial partner, the Rockpoint Group, agreed to buy the building for more than $160 million, or about $540 a square foot, said the sellers' broker, Douglas L. Harmon, a managing director at Eastdil Secured. The deal represented a handsome profit for his clients: Angelo, Gordon & Company and Belvedere Capital. They acquired the building in 2004 for $55 million and spent $15 million to upgrade it. 
 But the terms also underscore how the credit squeeze has affected the office market, even in red-hot Manhattan. A few months ago, the Milk Studios Building would have commanded $190 million, Mr. Harmon said. 
 These days, prices have declined because loans are not being made as freely. An earlier buyer would probably have put in only $10 million or so of equity, but now Stellar and Rockpoint have to contribute $90 million or more, he said.
 ''The market is still strong for quality properties,'' said Mr. Harmon, who has sold $35 billion worth of property in the last three years. ''However, the debt-equity ratios required to make a purchase have radically changed.'' Debt is no longer as widely available because of the decline in the secondary market where loans were pooled, sliced up according to varying degrees of risk and then sold as bonds to investors.
 Until last summer, there seemed to be no limit to what a New York office building could command. Each month brought a new deal of $1,000 a square foot or more in Manhattan, the nation's priciest real estate market. One record after another was shattered as values continued to soar, ultimately approaching $1,600 a square foot in the fanciest part of Midtown.
 But these days, fewer big buildings are changing hands, and prices are no longer escalating at a dizzying pace. Since last summer, only one major new $1,000-a-foot deal has been struck, with Larry A. Silverstein, the New York developer, and his cash-rich partner, the California State Teachers' Retirement System, agreeing to pay more than $1 billion for 1177 Avenue of the Americas, a 50-story tower between 45th and 46th Streets. 
 Even though the frenzy has abated, Manhattan continues to lead the nation. Last month, contracts were signed for $6.5 billion worth of office buildings around the country, said Robert M. White Jr., the president of Real Capital Analytics. Of those, $4.5 billion involved Manhattan buildings, he said. Real estate specialists say investment capital is still plentiful -- from foreign buyers attracted by the cheap dollar as well as pension funds and insurance companies. Real estate investment trusts, which use less leverage than private investors and were shut out from much of the recent feverish competition for buildings, are also expected to become more active buyers.
 SL Green, a New York real estate investment trust, recently agreed to buy Citigroup's office complex at 388 Greenwich Street in TriBeCa, which has 2.6 million square feet, for $1.57 billion. Citigroup will lease the space from the new owner. Since SL Green is a seller, as well as a buyer, the disappearance of highly leveraged investors, cuts both ways, said the president, Andrew W. Mathias.
 ''On the sale side, I regret not having the hot money in our auctions,'' Mr. Mathias said. ''On the buy side, it's certainly been nice to be able to compete for large transactions.''
 In contrast to the weakening leasing market in other cities, office space in Manhattan remains scarce, with a current vacancy rate of only 5.7 percent, according to the brokerage firm Cushman & Wakefield. Rents remain quite high but are no longer skyrocketing.
 Like investment sales, the once-frantic leasing market has slowed somewhat, as some tenants wait to see what happens to the city's economy. Studley, a brokerage company that represents tenants, has tracked leases for 6.7 million square feet this quarter, a slight increase from the last quarter, when 6.5 million square feet were taken, but less than the 7.6 million square feet leased during the fourth quarter of 2006.
 Some real estate specialists say landlords are sweetening the concessions they offer tenants -- a sign that the owners are trying to stave off a decline in rents.
 Concessions -- months of free rent and allowances to tenants for renovating or creating their space -- began diminishing at the end of last year and reached their lowest point during the second quarter of this year, said Steven E. Coutts, who directs national research at Studley. For leases in which the annual rent was $100 a square foot or more, concessions in the second quarter represented an average of 4.5 percent of the cost of the lease transaction; they have now climbed to 6.2 percent of the cost, he said. 
 Ruth Colp-Haber, a partner at Wharton Properties Advisors, which represents small- to medium-size tenants, is currently negotiating a lease in the West 30's and said she was ''pleasantly surprised'' to get free rent and an allowance to improve the space. ''A year ago, we wouldn't have gotten any of those things.''
 Real estate professionals have not noticed an appreciable increase in sublease space since the subprime mortgage crisis began. So far, Wall Street firms have announced a total of 13,000 to 15,000 layoffs, but not all are in New York, said Marisa DiNatale, a senior economist at Moody's economy.com, a research company in West Chester, Pa. She estimated that the city has lost 7,000 to 10,000 jobs.
 Like Citigroup, HSBC Holdings is seeking to use its real estate to free up capital. It is seeking tenants for 18 floors of its company-owned headquarters building at 452 Fifth Avenue. Citigroup also plans to give up 75,000 square feet in 666 Fifth Avenue, The New York Observer reported last week. Jared Kushner, an owner of 666 Fifth as well as the owner of The Observer, declined to comment. 
 Many real estate specialists are bracing for the financial services industry to give up more space through sublets. ''As a landlord, my biggest concern right now is sublet space,'' Mr. Mathias said. ''That's what killed the market in 2002.'' He said that landlords were willing to wait until a tenant meets their asking price, while tenants seeking to sublease tend to be less patient, driving rents down.
 But Mitchell Konsker, a vice chairman at Cushman & Wakefield, said financial services tenants were too quick give up space during the last downturn and found themselves paying much higher rents when they needed to ramp up again. ''Most of the financial tenants are not just dumping space on the marketplace,'' Mr. Konsker said. ''They're being very cautious.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 21, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article and a picture caption on the Square Feet pages of Business Day on Wednesday about the office market in Manhattan misstated the address of the Milk Studios Building, which recently sold for more than $160 million. It is at 450 West 15th Street, not East 15th Street.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Milk Studios Building, at 450 East 15th Street, top, sold for $160 million. The complex at 388 Greenwich Street, left, is being sold for $1.57 billion, and 1177 Avenue of the Americas, right, for more than $1 billion. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (74%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); CREDIT CRISIS (67%)

COMPANY: ANGELO GORDON & CO LP (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



457 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Concerns Grow Over Work Of Official in California

BYLINE: By REBECCA CATHCART

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Chriss W. Street was called a hero in 1994, when he sounded the alarm on high-risk investments in the Orange County portfolio and predicted the county's $1.7 billion bankruptcy filing. 
 His reputation for prescience and fiscal responsibility helped elect him as county treasurer last spring. 
 Since then, though, the county's Board of Supervisors and other officials have raised concerns over Mr. Street's performance, including a $750,000 remodeling of the treasurer's offices and a lack of transparency in his investment decisions. 
 His financial track record before taking office has also come under scrutiny after a series of suits and a federal investigation into the 2006 bankruptcy of an Indiana-based trucking manufacturer, Fruehauf Trailer, which Mr. Street oversaw as a trustee for seven years. 
 Last Friday, the Orange County district attorney subpoenaed Mr. Street's office e-mail messages and other documents related to recent purchases and travel expenses. 
 On Tuesday, the Board of Supervisors voted, 4 to 1, for a three-week probationary period before deciding whether to oust Mr. Street. 
 Until the next board hearing, on Jan. 8, an outside consultant will review the county portfolio and monitor Mr. Street's investment decisions. 
 Calls for comment from Mr. Street, who attended the Tuesday board meeting, and from his spokesman, were not returned.
 If the board removes Mr. Street, it would name an interim treasurer until a new election is scheduled, a county supervisor, Patricia C. Bates, said. 
 Mr. Street surprised -- and angered -- board members during their regular meeting two weeks ago in the public comment part of the meeting when he announced that 14 percent of county investments were held in potentially risky bonds, called structural investment vehicles, that are often backed by assets tied to subprime mortgages. 
 Eight percent of those bonds, he said, had been put on a ''creditwatch'' by Moody's Investment Service. 
 ''When the treasurer gets up in front of public comments, he usually talks about homelessness around the civic center,'' said the vice chairman of the Board of Supervisors, John M. W. Moorlach, said during the meeting Tuesday. An issue like portfolio weakness, Mr. Moorlach said, should have been handled with more sensitivity and advance notice. 
 Mr. Street does not inspire confidence, Mr. Moorlach said, ''when he gets up and talks about S.I.V.s, and we don't have something specific in our hands and don't have an e-mail or anything to let us know about it.'' 
 The concern over the investments follows Florida's tumultuous experience with the bonds, which depreciated along with their underlying subprime mortgage assets, causing wary investors to pull out quickly. 
 Orange County is not as vulnerable to sudden loss, said Ian Rudge, an economic policy adviser to the board. 
 Although Florida's pool of investors was large and varied, Orange County draws capital mainly from the school districts and the county. 
 Mr. Rudge also said the Orange S.I.V.s were backed by banks like Rabobank and others that would step in to cushion any depreciation. 
 The referendum on Mr. Street has been brewing for months, Mr. Rudge said, and it has more to do with problems other than the current portfolio. 
 ''Here is a gentleman who is under various investigations, who was served with a subpoena on Friday, who has had various issues from his former company,'' Mr. Rudge said. ''We don't think he's going to be able to devote his full attention to making sure we don't have any future problems in this current market situation while dealing with issues about his personal and professional conduct.'' 
 The state of the county's investments and Mr. Street's performance with other work made it impossible for the board to decide on Tuesday whether to remove him, Ms. Bates said. 
 ''He is adamant that judgments made on his prior investment life are very politically motivated,'' she said. ''We need to separate that from his work here as a duly elected official before we make the critical and very difficult decision of whether to remove this individual.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasurer Chriss W. Street (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTINA HOUSE FOR THE ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); COUNTIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BONDS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); SUBPOENAS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (55%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



458 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; SHANGHAI JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Cinephiles, Pack Your Bags. An Uncut Version Awaits.

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
For weeks now, the ranks of Chinese visitors to Hong Kong have swelled with a brand-new category of tourists: moviegoers.
 In a response to the censoring of a film about love and betrayal in Shanghai during the Second World War by the Taiwan-born director Ang Lee, mainland movie fans have flocked by the thousands to Hong Kong to see the full, uncut version of the film, ''Lust, Caution.''
 The phenomenon of so many people voting, as it were, with their feet has highlighted the public's rapidly changing attitudes toward the long unquestioned practice of government censorship of the arts, and prompted debate about the way films are regulated in China. 
 Travelers have made their way to Hong Kong to see movies before, of course, but always in much smaller numbers. Critics and commentators here attribute the interest in Mr. Lee's movie to a variety of factors, from word of mouth about risque sexual content stripped from the censored version, to a sensitive political subtext rarely seen in mainland cinema, to the fame of the Academy Award-winning director.
 Perhaps most important, though, is the rise of a class of affluent urbanites in China's rich eastern cities who have grown increasingly accustomed to ever more choice in their lives. ''I went to Hong Kong with my girlfriend to see ''Lust, Caution'' because it was heavily censored here,'' said Liang Baijian, 25, a businessman and stock market investor from the Guangxi autonomous region. ''We could have bought a pirated copy of the movie here, but we were not happy with the control and wanted to support the legal edition of the film.''
 At least one Chinese movie fan has tried to sue the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, which regulates the industry, for deleting some of the film's content. The director, Mr. Lee, has said that the censored material was regarded as politically unacceptable in Beijing because it reinforced the notion of sympathy between a young Chinese woman and a collaborator with the Japanese occupiers. The lawsuit has been repeatedly rejected by Beijing courts.
 Many in the Chinese film industry support the idea of introducing a ratings system like the one used in the United States, which advocates say would lessen the need for outright censorship. The state film administration, however, has resisted.
 Other travelers to Hong Kong, meanwhile, said they accepted the rationale of a censorship system in a country of stark disparities in regional income and education, but thought the practice was no longer justified in cities.
 ''For myself, I strongly object to censorship, but for the country as a whole, I think I can still understand its necessity,'' said Yan Jiawei, a graphics designer from Shanghai who saw ''Lust, Caution'' on a recent business trip to Hong Kong. ''It has something to do with people's educational level. In big cities like Shanghai, people will treat the deleted scenes as art, while those in less developed areas will only think of them as immoral.''
 People in the movie industry here said that the fact that a censored ''Lust, Caution'' was available at all in mainland China demonstrated how far the parameters of the acceptable had broadened since the beginning of China's reform era over two decades ago. Not long ago, Chinese film was thoroughly dominated by plot lines that heavy-handedly reinforced conventional dividing lines between good and bad, with little room for moral complexities. Unquestioned love of country was a favorite theme.
 While many have been drawn to ''Lust, Caution'' by the allure of sex scenes, which even now run the gamut from tame to nonexistent in most Chinese cinema, still more groundbreaking for a film released here is the notion of a traitor in a leading role depicted as an attractive character instead of a villain. ''The country has undoubtedly become more and more open and advanced, and this is the tide of history, which no one can prevent,'' said Fang Li, a leading producer. ''Compared to a market economy that's developing so fast, I've never seen an industry in China as backward as the film industry, though.''
 Mr. Fang said much of the blame for this lay with the censors, a group of mostly elderly people who work in committee and invite critical comment on movies from different branches of government, from the Women's Federation to provincial governments, all seeking to present their constituency in the best light and to avoid offense. The censors ''spend most of their time worrying how not to lose their post,'' he said. ''They are very careful not to make mistakes.''
 Other critics of the system said the country's censors had become much more careful about leaving fingerprints. Wu Di, a researcher at the China Movie Art Center in Beijing, said that when the director Tian Zhuangzhuang shot ''The Blue Kite,'' a 1993 movie about the banned topic of the Cultural Revolution, notice was sent throughout the film industry warning companies against hiring him. Mr. Tian framed one of the posters and hung it on his wall, referring to it in interviews with journalists.
 ''Now, under the so-called harmonious society, they wouldn't do things so baldly,'' Mr. Wu said. Instead of publishing a banning notice, nowadays the same result is achieved with a few phone calls, which leave little trace.
 Li Yu, director of the recent film ''Lost in Beijing,'' which has some nudity, said she tried hard to remain positive, even after being forced to excise several minutes from her movie.
 ''People who make movies in China understand the situation well, and a lot of them are criticizing the system, saying that censorship prevents them from making good movies, which is partly true,'' Ms. Li said. ''But I feel the environment is becoming more and more relaxed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mainland moviegoers can see only a censored version of ''Lust, Caution,'' top. To see the uncut film, many affluent Chinese in urban centers like Shanghai, above, must travel to Hong Kong. (PHOTOGRAPH BY QILAI SHEN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSORSHIP (91%); FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CITIES (71%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (66%); LITIGATION (66%); AFFLUENT MARKET (66%); WORLD WAR II (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%) EAST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (94%); HONG KONG (94%); TAIWAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



459 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Morgenthau Says Rumors Of His Quitting Are False

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; Mathew R. Warren contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Robert M. Morgenthau, facing a swirl of rumors that he was retiring after 33 years as Manhattan district attorney, met with reporters on Tuesday and said the speculation was untrue.
 ''I'm too old to retire,'' Mr. Morgenthau, 88, said when asked about his plans after the news conference. ''My grandfather used to say, you know, opportunity knocks at everybody's door at least once. The trick is to recognize the knock. So the opportunity to retire knocked on my door and I missed it.''
 Mr. Morgenthau said he was not declaring now whether he would run for re-election in 2009, when he will be 90. 
 ''I don't cross bridges until I come to them,'' he said. ''But I expect to.''
 After declining to comment on his plans for almost a week, Mr. Morgenthau held an impromptu year-end briefing for reporters who regularly cover his office.
 He celebrated his achievements over the past year (tackling white-collar crime as violent crimes decline, and returning $43 million in penalties to state and city coffers). And perhaps to convey a sense of youthfulness, he brought along his 17-year-old daughter, Amy, from his second marriage, the youngest of his seven children.
 ''That's Amy Morgenthau,'' the district attorney said, gesturing toward his daughter, in blue jeans and a white T-shirt, perched on the windowsill of the office of James Kindler, the chief assistant district attorney and Mr. Morgenthau's top aide.
 Amy, a junior in high school, smiled.
 The latest round of speculation about Mr. Morgenthau's plans flared a week ago after The New York Post, in its Page Six column, reported that he was considering stepping down before the end of the year to make room for a handpicked successor, Cyrus Vance Jr., a trial lawyer and the son of President Jimmy Carter's secretary of state. 
 After the item ran, lawyers close to Mr. Morgenthau said that there had been whispers that he had thought about it, though it was not clear if he would retire before or after the 2009 election. 
 ''There were only two things that were true in that Post gossip column,'' Mr. Morgenthau said on Tuesday. ''One was that I was the district attorney; the other was that Cy Vance had been an assistant district attorney.''
 Mr. Morgenthau was elected in 1974 and took office in January 1975, to fill the remaining term of Frank S. Hogan, who had resigned because of ill health after 32 years as district attorney.
 Reviewing the year, Mr. Morgenthau said that there had been 65 murders in Manhattan, a 40 percent drop from last year, and that the borough was on track to having a quarter of the murders it had in 1963. He said the decrease in violent crimes had allowed his office to focus more on financial crimes, like tax evasion, hiding income in offshore accounts, unlicensed money transmission and bid-rigging.
 ''One murder is one murder too many,'' Mr. Morgenthau said. ''But it has enabled us to attack and investigate some of the economic crimes which undermine the social and economic viability of the city.''
 Explaining his daughter's presence, Mr. Morgenthau said later, ''She was just checking up on me.'' He said he took her to lunch at the Museum of Jewish Heritage in Lower Manhattan, where he is chairman of the board. ''They have a very nice store,'' he said, adding that he bought Amy a necklace and a bracelet, and earrings and a bracelet for his wife, Lucinda Franks.
 Mr. Morgenthau also laid to rest any concern about his health. ''I'm knocking on wood,'' he said, ''but my health is excellent. If it were not, I wouldn't think of running. My doctor has told me I can do anything I want to do, except fall down. He's forbidden me to fall down.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); ELECTIONS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); VIOLENT CRIME (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (67%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



460 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: High Noon in New Orleans: The Bulldozers Are Ready

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
Ever since it took over the public housing projects of New Orleans more than a decade ago, the Department of Housing and Urban Development has been itching to tear them down.
 Now, after years of lawsuits and delays, it looks as if the agency will finally get its Christmas wish. The New Orleans City Council is scheduled to vote on Thursday on whether to sign off on the demolitions of three projects. HUD already has its bulldozers in place, engines warm and ready to roll the next morning.
 Arguing that the housing was barely livable before the flooding unleashed by Hurricane Katrina, federal officials have cast their decision as good social policy. They have sought to lump the projects together with the much-vilified inner-city projects of the 1960s. 
 But such thinking reflects a ruthless indifference to local realities. The projects in New Orleans have little to do with the sterile brick towers and alienating plazas that usually come to mind when we think of inner-city housing . Some rank among the best early examples of public housing built in the United States, both in design and in quality of construction. 
 On the contrary, it is the government's tabula rasa approach that evokes the most brutal postwar urban-renewal strategies. Neighborhood history is deemed irrelevant; the vague notion of a ''fresh start'' is invoked to justify erasing entire communities.
 This mentality also threatens other public buildings in New Orleans that can be considered 20th-century landmarks. If the government gets its way, a rich architectural legacy will be supplanted by private, mixed-income developments with pitched roofs and wood-frame construction, an ersatz vision of small-town America. That this could happen in a city that still largely lies in ruins is both sad and grotesque.
 Scattered across the city, the housing complexes involve more than 4,500 units. HUD plans to complete the demolitions within the next six months. 
 Despite the rush to raze the complexes, none of the designs for new housing are complete. And federal officials did not give developers the option of preserving part of any of the complexes in plotting the new projects.
 Few would argue for preserving every one of the projects as it exists today. The facades of a 1950s section of the B. W. Cooper housing complex, for example, are monotonously repetitive. Its claustrophobic lobbies are in sharp contrast to the more private, individual entrances found in some of the older apartments, and the overall quality of construction is low. 
 But the best of the projects, built as part of the New Deal's progressive social agenda, feature many elements that are prized by mainstream urban planners today. 
 At the Lafitte housing complex, a matrix of pedestrian roads fuses the apartment blocks into the city's street grid and the fabric of the surrounding neighborhood. Low-rise apartments and narrow front porches, set around what were once beautfully landscaped gardens, are intended to encourage a spirit of community.
 The quality of the construction materials would also be unimaginable in public housing today: Their concrete structural frames, red-brick facades and pitched terra cotta roofs would seem at home on a university campus.
 The problems facing these projects have more to do with misguided policy and the city's complex racial history than with bad design. The deterioration can be attributed to the government's decision decades ago to gut most of the public services that supported them.
 In the last few months the public has been able to judge firsthand how hollow HUD's argument for demolition is. Just a few miles from Lafitte, the developer Pres Kabacoff is completing a renovation of the five remaining two- and three-story apartment blocks at the St. Thomas housing project, a complex that was partly demolished before the storm. The apartments, which are similar in scale to Lafitte's, were renovated at a cost of under $200 per square foot -- roughly what new construction with lesser materials would have cost.
 Their handsome brick facades, decorated with wrought-iron rails and terra cotta roofs, are a stark contrast to the generic suburban tract houses that surround them on all sides. (And they are likely to be far more durable in the next storm.)
 The point is that HUD's one-size-fits-all mentality fails to take into account the specific realities of each project. The agency refuses to make distinctions between the worst of the housing projects and those, like Lafitte, that could be at least partly salvaged. Nor will it acknowledge the trauma it causes by boarding up and then eradicating entire communities in a reeling city.
 In an eerie echo of the slum clearance projects of the 1960s, government officials are once again denying that these projects and communities can be salvaged through a human, incremental approach to planning. For them, only demolition will do.
 The difference between then and now is what will exist once the land is cleared. If the urban renewal projects of the 1960s replaced decaying historic neighborhoods with vast warehouses for the poor, HUD's vision would yield saccharine, suburban-style houses. And the situation is likely to get worse. The government has identified some other historically important public buildings for demolition as part of its push for privatization. Charity Hospital, an Art Deco structure built downtown in the late 1930s, was abandoned after Hurricane Katrina, and its fate is uncertain. 
 The Thomas Lafon Elementary School, a sleek Modernist structure from the 1950s, is destined for the wrecking ball. And there has been talk of tearing down the Andrew J. Bell Junior High School, an elegant French neo-Gothic building completed in the late 19th century.
 Blow after blow, in the name of progress. Cast as the city's saviors, architects are being used to compound one of the greatest crimes in American urban planning. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters at a candlelight vigil outside the Lafitte housing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. E6)
The Lafitte housing complex, scheduled for demolition, has many features that are prized by urban planners today. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. E6)
 A resident walks past the partly demolished B. W. Cooper Housing project in New Orleans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); LITIGATION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); HURRICANES (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); HISTORIC SITES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



461 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise on European Cash Infusion

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks rose Tuesday after investors found solace in the European Central Bank's $500 billion loan issuance, but the possibility of recession in 2008 made for a back-and-forth session.
 The European bank's huge 16-day tender supported the idea that the world's central banks were working to revive demand in struggling areas of the credit market. The Bank of England said Tuesday that it also would offer additional reserves to lenders. The Federal Reserve auctioned off $20 billion in 28-day credit on Monday.
 Few were pronouncing the credit squeeze at an end just yet, though, and the market's seesaw movements on Tuesday reflected its uncertainty. Alongside federal data showing that new-home construction in the United States dropped in November to its lowest rate in more than 16 years, the central banks' actions had a hard time galvanizing a market that remained anxious that the economy had further to fall. 
 ''It's very disconcerting that we're getting central bank interventions for a problem that many were hoping would be a self-contained one,'' said Joseph V. Battipaglia, chief investment officer at Ryan Beck & Company.
 Also, cautious comments from Goldman Sachs and Best Buy damped enthusiasm over their better-than-expected quarterly earnings.
 ''The credit issues, the liquidity issues, are still there,'' said Ryan Detrick, strategist at Schaeffer's Investment Research. ''There's a dark cloud over the market.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 65.27, or 0.50 percent, to 13,232.47, after gaining as many as 112 points, falling by 75 points, and then rebounding.
 Broader stock indicators also bounced back from a midday slump. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 9.08, or 0.63 percent, to 1,454.98, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 21.57, or 0.84 percent, to 2,596.03.
 All three stock indexes lost at least 1 percent on Monday on concern that prices could keep rising despite a weakening economy -- a phenomenon called stagflation. 
 Stocks have also been volatile because of the coming ''quadruple witching'' on Friday, when contracts expire for stock index futures, stock index options, stock options and single-stock futures.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 15 points, or 2.03 percent, to 754.06.
 Goldman fell $7.12, or 3.4 percent, to $201.51 after releasing its earnings report, which showed a 2 percent profit gain but uneven results across its units.
 Best Buy rose 48 cents, to $51.62, after the electronics retailer posted a 52 percent profit gain but issued a forecast that came in below analysts' expectations.
 The Commerce Department said housing starts and building permits fell last month compared with October, bolstering investors' belief that the economy will continue to feel the housing market's drag in the new year. Housing starts fell 3.7 percent, to the lowest level in more than 16 years, while building permits fell 1.5 percent, to the lowest in more than 14 years.
 Light crude fell 14 cents, to $90.49 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange, and gold prices advanced.
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 7/32, to 101 2/32. The yield, which moves opposite its price, slipped to 4.12 percent, from 4.14 percent.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.
 THE FAVORITES: Stocks held by largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); FUTURES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CREDIT REGULATION (76%); AUCTIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); HOUSING STARTS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (70%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (70%); BUILDING PERMITS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); STOCK OPTIONS (59%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF ENGLAND (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



462 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: The Vatican's Relative Truth

BYLINE: By JOHN L. ALLEN Jr.. 
John L. Allen Jr. is the senior correspondent for The National Catholic Reporter and author of ''The Rise of , Benedict XVI.''

 BODY:
POPE BENEDICT XVI has offered a couple of recent previews of what's likely to be his core message to the United Nations next April, the projected highlight of his first visit to the United States. Last Tuesday, the pontiff released the text of his annual statement for the Vatican's World Day of Peace, raising typical papal concerns like poverty and disarmament, but also a defense of the family based on heterosexual marriage and, in the section reflecting Benedict's budding environmentalism, a reminder of human supremacy over the animal kingdom. 
 Ten days earlier in Rome, Pope Benedict offered a more targeted message in a meeting with Catholic nongovernmental groups that work with the United Nations, delivering a stern warning against the ''bitter fruits'' of ''relativistic logic'' and a ''refusal to admit the truth about man and his dignity.'' Given the titanic battles the Vatican has waged against certain United Nations agencies over abortion and birth control, his comments were quickly spun by the Italian press as a major papal ''attack'' ahead of next year's General Assembly address. 
 But if the pope's words have fed expectations of a ''High Noon''-style showdown, they are likely to be dashed. Benedict had no intention of making an anti-United Nations jeremiad. Like every pope since the birth of the United Nations in 1945, Benedict supports robust global governance, in a fashion that has long bewildered neoconservative critics of the United Nations in the United States and elsewhere. If there was anything remarkable in what he said, it's only that the Vatican's public-relations crew still hasn't found a way to keep the pope from making cosmetic missteps that distract attention from his message. 
 While the Vatican may have its differences with United Nations agencies over sex, it also sees the organization as the lone realistic possibility for putting a human face on international politics and economics -- what Pope John Paul II called a ''globalization of solidarity.'' 
 Moreover, Benedict undeniably has a point about relativism. From China to Iran to Zimbabwe, it's common for authoritarian regimes to argue that rights like freedom of the press, religion and dissent represent Western -- or even Anglo-American -- traditions. If human rights are to be protected in a 21st century increasingly shaped by non-Western actors like China and the so-called Shiite axis from Lebanon to Central Asia, then a belief in objective truth grounded in universal human nature is critical. That's hardly just a Catholic concern, but no one on the global scene is making the argument with the clarity of Benedict XVI.
 Part of the problem is that so far, this cerebral pope has a track record of blurring such compelling arguments during his biggest turns on stage. When he visited Auschwitz in May 2006, for example, he offended some Jews by asserting that the Nazis tried to destroy Christianity too. Four months later, he set off a firestorm among Muslims with a lecture at the University of Regensburg by quoting a 14th-century Byzantine emperor to the effect that Muhammad brought ''things only evil and inhuman,'' such as ''his command to spread by the sword the faith he preached.'' And in Brazil last May, the pope incensed indigenous people in Latin America by suggesting that Christianity was not imposed on them.
 In each case, Benedict was actually trying to make a deeper point worth hearing. In Auschwitz, his contention was that objective truth grounded in God is the only bulwark against the blind will to power; his Regensburg address was devoted to reason and faith, arguing that reason shorn of faith becomes nihilism, while faith without reason ends in fanaticism and violence; and in Brazil, he argued that since Christ embraces all humanity, he cannot be foreign to anyone's spiritual experience.
 Those ideas, however, were overshadowed by a few throwaway phrases that betray a worrying insensitivity to how unfamiliar audiences are likely to hear what he says. One would think that by now the lesson would have been learned, but all evidence is to the contrary. While it was intended to strike a tone of sympathy and common human concern, the speech to the nongovernmental groups instead came off as a screed.
 Benedict's trip to the United Nations in April will be his most important voyage to date, and his best opportunity to address the community of nations. He clearly has something valuable to say, a message that focuses on what he has termed a ''dictatorship of relativism'' menacing not just the Catholic Church or institutional religion, but everyone, especially the most vulnerable. The question is whether he'll be able to find a language to ensure that what he pitches is also what people catch.
 At this stage, the odds that he'll succeed seem, well, only relatively good.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NORA KRUG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); RELIGION (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (55%); ABORTION (52%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (74%) UNITED STATES (94%); HOLY SEE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); ASIA (79%); ITALY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



463 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon Says Services in Iraq Are Stagnant

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Despite a significant reduction in violence in Iraq over the past three months, the Iraqi government has made little headway in improving the delivery of electricity, health care and other essential services, a new Pentagon report said Tuesday.
 The report is the latest of the Pentagon's quarterly assessments on progress in Iraq and offers the Bush administration's most comprehensive assessment of security and economic trends there. 
 As expected, the report chronicled a substantial decline in attacks on Iraqi civilians, Iraqi security forces and American troops -- a reduction to numbers not seen since the summer of 2005, according to the Pentagon. 
 But the assessment also indicated that the Iraqi government has been slow to take advantage of that downturn in violence by taking the political and economic steps to cement the security gains. 
 The delivery of basic services is one area in which the United States has been urging the Iraq government to make progress. The hope is that improving the distribution of electricity, clean water and medical care would build public support for the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki and ease sectarian tensions. 
 But the sectarian agenda of the Shiite-dominated Iraq government has been a hindrance, the study said, noting that there have been only ''minimal advances in the delivery of essential services to the people of Iraq, mainly due to sectarian bias in targeting and execution of remedial programs.''
 At the same time, according to the Pentagon, the increase in the price of oil has increased government revenues. The Iraqi economy is projected to grow by 6.3 percent in 2007. And Iraqi authorities have increased their spending on infrastructure, such as the electricity sector. 
 But although electricity production has increased somewhat, supply still falls well short of demand, the report said. The shortfall in November 2007 was 42 percent of total demand compared with 53 percent in August 2007 and 47 percent in August 2006.
 The United States has built 85 of 142 planned health care centers, many of which have been turned over to the Ministry of Health, which has been dominated in recent years by followers of Moktada al-Sadr, the anti-American Shiite cleric. The report noted, however, that some of the medical centers have not been opened ''due to a shortage of trained medical staff'' and a ''sectarian agenda'' within the Health Ministry that has led to the discrimination against Sunni areas.
 Sectarian politics has hampered progress in other areas, as well. The American military has recruited about 69,000 mostly Sunni volunteers to help secure Iraq. The United States would like the Iraqi government to institutionalize the arrangement by hiring many of the volunteers as policemen or soldiers. But the Pentagon report said that such efforts are ''moving slowly'' because of ''fears by the Maliki government that those forces may return to violence or form new militias.''
 While political gains have been tenuous there has been much progress in lowering the level of violence, the report indicated. The number of attacks per week using bombs, mines, mortars, antiaircraft weapons and small arms was fewer than 600 during November 2007. When President Bush began to send additional reinforcements to Iraq in February, the weekly figure was about 1,400.
 The number of civilian deaths declined to about 600 in November from more than 2,500 in January, according to American and Iraqi government data cited in the report.
 The number of roadside bomb attacks, which are generally aimed at American and Iraqi forces, dropped drastically. There has also been a significant decline in car bomb attacks, which are often directed at civilians, since the start of the year. However, the number of suicide attacks involving car bombs and individuals wearing vests filled with explosives was up slightly from October to November.
 More than 3,600 members of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia were killed or captured from February 2007 until mid-November, the report said, including 54 emirs or senior leaders. The military pressure on the homegrown Sunni Arab extremist group, which American intelligence agencies have concluded is foreign-led, has driven many of the insurgents north, according to the Pentagon.
 Regarding Iran, the report said that there has been ''no identified decrease in Iranian training and funding'' of Shiite militias in Iraq, but the Pentagon study did not specifically say whether Iranian arms shipments have declined. There has been a decrease of attacks involving a particularly lethal type of roadside bomb that American intelligence says is supplied by the Iranian Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); TRENDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); VOLUNTEERS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); ARMED FORCES (75%); POLITICS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); LABOR SHORTAGES (62%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



464 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Terrorism Damage Bill Is Passed By House

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
The House approved a government insurance program on Tuesday that commits Washington to paying for most of the damage in the event of a terrorist attack in the next seven years. The vote was 360 to 53. 
 The legislation, already passed by the Senate, is expected to be signed shortly by President Bush.
 It continues a program that was created in 2002 in response to the attacks on the World Trade Center in September 2001 and was renewed at the end of 2005. It requires insurers to pay for the first $27.5 billion in damage and then 15 percent of the remaining costs up to $100 billion. 
 The White House had initially threatened to veto extension of the terrorism insurance program, contending that the insurance industry had regained its strength after paying more than $31 billion in the World Trade Center attacks and did not need government support. But it relented after the Senate scaled back initial legislation endorsed by the House. 
 The House had sought more generous financial terms for the insurance companies and wanted the program to be extended for 15 years to assist further long-term planning for construction and other businesses.
 The Senate met the House roughly halfway on the duration of the program; the only other expansion it permitted was to provide coverage regardless of whether a terrorist attack was carried out by foreigners or American citizens. Previously, an attack carried out by an American was not covered. 
 The insurers had insisted that without government backing they would again refuse to sell coverage for terrorist attacks, as most of them did after the World Trade Center attacks. Banks, real estate and construction companies, hotel chains and other businesses said the economy would slow drastically if they were unable to buy terrorism insurance.
 With election campaigning well under way, neither the Democrats nor the Republicans wanted to risk being blamed for making a struggling economy worse. The economic pressure broke the impasse, 13 days before the government insurance program was to have expired. 
 Arguing for wider benefits for the insurance companies on Tuesday, Representative Gary L. Ackerman, Democrat of New York, said the House risked ''disrupting U.S. financial markets'' unless it compromised.
 The Consumer Federation of America, which often finds itself at odds with the Bush administration, agreed with it on terrorism insurance. J. Robert Hunter, director of insurance for the consumer group, said that after several years of record profits, the insurers had more than enough cash to pay for any attack short of one with nuclear or chemical weapons, which are not covered at present. 
 The insurers contend that terrorism presents too many variables for them to be able to calculate and price the risks and that some attacks could overwhelm them.
 On the House floor, Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, said insurers and victims of terrorism should not bear the expense of attacks. Providing terrorism insurance, he said, was part of national defense. 
 As for how businesses could defend themselves against terrorism, Mr. Frank responded, ''What are you going to do, put antiaircraft guns on the roof?'' This was not a case of markets' failing, he said, but ''a case of stepping up for national defense purposes.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); INSURANCE (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); VETO (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); HOTEL CHAINS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); GARY L ACKERMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



465 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: F.C.C. Reshapes Rules Limiting Media Industry

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Communications Commission approved two new rules on Tuesday that are likely to reshape the nation's media landscape by setting new parameters for the size and scope of the largest news and cable companies.
 One rule would tighten the reins on the cable television industry. By stipulating that no one company can control more than 30 percent of the market, the rule introduces fresh regulation to an industry where there has been little of it, angering both the cable industry and Republican commissioners, who favor a free-market approach. 
 The other rule, which gives owners of newspapers more leeway to buy radio and television stations in the largest cities, is a step in the direction of deregulation. It is intended to help the newspaper industry, which is suffering from dwindling advertising revenue, and to recognize that the historical conditions that gave rise to cross-ownership restrictions have changed, now that more news sources are available on the Internet and cable television.
 But the change drew criticism from newspaper executives, who said it was too modest to be meaningful, and from prominent lawmakers and commission Democrats, who called it a Christmas present to the nation's largest conglomerates. 
 Both rules are certain to be reviewed by courts in the coming months. On Capitol Hill, some lawmakers said Tuesday that they would try to undo the rule about the newspaper industry.
 Nevertheless, the votes were an important political victory for Kevin J. Martin, the F.C.C. chairman, who presided over a contentious meeting at which he re-established his control over the deeply divided agency. Mr. Martin had suffered a sharp setback three weeks ago when he was unable to find two commissioners to support a plan to regulate cable television more tightly.
 The decisions were a blow to Comcast Communications, the nation's largest cable company, which has grown substantially over the last decade through a series of acquisitions and will now be unable to buy more cable companies unless it can get the order overturned by a court. 
 By taking Comcast out of any bidding, the new rule was also a setback to smaller cable operators thinking of selling to other companies.
 As for the relaxation of the newspaper-broadcast rule, telecommunications lawyers said it could pave the way for Rupert Murdoch to win permanent waivers to control two television stations in New York, as well as The New York Post and The Wall Street Journal. 
 In one 3-to-2 vote on Tuesday, Mr. Martin sided with the agency's two other Republicans to relax the newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rules in the nation's 20 largest markets. Under the new rule, a company can own both a newspaper and either a television or radio station in those markets as long as there remain at least eight other independent sources of news. If it is a television station, the rule requires that it cannot be one of the top four.
 Mr. Martin said that the change was a modest, though vital step toward assisting the newspaper industry, which is struggling financially as advertising and readership migrates rapidly to the Internet. ''We cannot ignore the fact the media marketplace is considerably different than when the media ownership rule was put in place more than 30 years ago,'' he said.
 In a second 3-to-2 vote, Mr. Martin joined with the two Democratic commissioners to impose a limit to prevent Comcast, which controls nearly 30 percent of the market, from getting larger. Mr. Martin has been critical of the cable television industry for raising rates faster than the rate of inflation and for failing to offer consumers enough lower-price choices in subscription packages.
 In a series of dissents, the commissioners took issue with Mr. Martin's assessments.
 ''In the final analysis,'' said Michael J. Copps, a Democratic commissioner who has led a nationwide effort against relaxing the media ownership rules, ''the real winners today are businesses that are in many cases quite healthy, and the real losers are going to be all of us who depend on the news media to learn what's happening in our communities and to keep an eye on local government.'' 
 Robert M. McDowell, a Republican commissioner, was sharply critical of the cable restrictions.
 ''The cap is out of date, is bad public policy and is not needed in today's public market,'' he said. He called the cable rule ''archaic industrial policy'' that would surely be struck down by an appeals court, as a similar rule was six years ago. 
 Although Mr. Martin appears to have won a high-stakes battle over some of the most significant policy decisions of his tenure, he has expended significant political capital and made political enemies of powerful industry groups and influential lawmakers.
 For opposite reasons, both rules approved on Tuesday were sharply criticized by industry. John F, Sturm, president of the Newspaper Association of America, called the new cross-ownership rule ''a baby step in the actions needed to maintain the vitality of local news, in print and over-the-air, in all communities across the nation.'' Mr. Sturm said he favored eliminating the cross-ownership ban completely.
 On the other hand, the cable television industry accused Mr. Martin of once again imposing unfair regulations on it. 
 David L. Cohen, an executive vice president of Comcast, said it was ''perverse to see the commission approving huge mergers by the Bell companies while now telling cable companies, who compete toe-to-toe with the Bells, that they may not also grow larger and achieve the same efficiencies.'' 
 Over the last year, the commission has approved a series of proposals over the objections of the cable television industry. Last December, it approved a measure to force municipalities to accelerate the local approval process for the telephone companies to offer video services in new markets. And two months ago, it struck down thousands of contracts that gave individual cable companies exclusive rights to provide service to apartment buildings. 
 Consumer groups, which have long pushed for tighter cable television regulation, criticized the change in newspaper cross-ownership. ''We're disappointed that he relaxed the rule,'' said Gene Kimmelman, the senior lobbyist in Washington for Consumers Union. ''But the new language creating a high hurdle in the small markets, if appropriately implemented, could significantly limit the number of mergers that get through, minimizing the danger to competition and diversity in local news.'' 
 A significant chorus in Congress has been deeply critical of Mr. Martin and repeatedly requested that he delay action on the media ownership vote. On Monday, 25 senators led by Senator Byron Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, sent Mr. Martin a letter in which they vowed to take legislative action to revoke any new rule or nullify Tuesday's vote. 
 But in a letter to lawmakers from Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez, the administration expressed support for Mr. Martin.
 Both the newspaper-broadcast ownership rule and the cable rule are certain to be reviewed by federal appeals courts. Three years ago, a federal appeals panel in Philadelphia struck down a series of deregulatory measures proposed by Mr. Martin's predecessor, Michael K. Powell, including one that loosened the cross-ownership rules. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kevin J. Martin, chairman of the commission. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg A26)
 Protesters being removed from a Federal Communications Commission hearing in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERALD HERBERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE INDUSTRY (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CABLE SYSTEM REGULATION (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%)

PERSON: KEVIN MARTIN (89%); MURRAY D MARTIN (72%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



466 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: It's Edwards the Fighter In the Iowa Homestretch

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Ben Werschkul contributed reporting from Mason City, Iowa.

DATELINE: OTTUMWA, Iowa 

 BODY:
More than 150 Iowans were rustling in their chairs at a community college here the other night, waiting for John Edwards. Mr. Edwards's bus was parked and running outside the door, but it was nearly 45 minutes before he finally made his characteristically late entrance.
 When he did appear, Mr. Edwards strode in as if he were climbing into a boxing ring. For half an hour, he talked about fighting special interests and battling corporations. He urged his audience to ''rise up'' against health care companies and insurance executives. Pugilistic until the end, he loudly told a story of how his father ordered him to go out and ''kick that guy's butt'' after he came home from school with a bloodied nose, suggesting that was a lesson he would carry into the White House as well.
 ''We have an epic fight in front of us, and anybody who thinks that's not true is living in a fantasy world,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''How long are we going to let insurance companies, pharmaceutical companies run this country? Every time this has happened in our country, the American people have risen up and taken action.'' 
 Mr. Edwards, a North Carolina Democrat, almost won the Iowa caucuses in 2004 by introducing, in the final weeks of the contest, a closing argument that drew huge crowds and, polls suggest, rallied supporters to his corner right up until the night of the vote. Now, Mr. Edwards, a former trial lawyer, is offering yet another closing argument to his jury of voters here. And there is evidence -- from the size of his crowds to the decision by an opponent, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, to challenge him more directly in the past few days -- that it may be working. 
 In the process, though, Mr. Edwards is raising questions about his political identity that have followed him throughout this campaign. There is, in this final appeal to Iowa Democrats, no more talk about ''two Americas,'' and barely a whisper of the optimism that distinguished him from the field in 2004 and which he exhibited as recently as a few weeks ago. He has dropped the attacks that he was aiming just weeks ago at Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Washington politicians, and Iraq is an issue that he mentions almost in passing, albeit with fervor.
 Instead, he is issuing a defiant pledge to fight big business, to voters in a state that has been buffeted by national and global economic forces and is still reeling from the closing of Maytag plant in Newton in October. He is accompanied on some of his stops by one of the 3,900 Iowans who used to work there, and points to the closing as evidence of the damage that trade agreements have done to the middle class. In his speech here, he used the word ''fight'' about a dozen times in 25 minutes. And in nearly every appearance, he tells the story of the schoolyard bully, complete with his father's salty counsel. 
 In an interview, Mr. Edwards, a former senator, said his sharp-edged message, which at several stops brought people to their feet as he urged them to ''rise up,'' was barely different from what he told voters when he ran in 2004 or, for that matter, what he was telling them six months ago.
 ''I think the message is very similar,'' he said, sitting in a room off stage at the Center for Performing Arts in downtown Des Moines. ''It's just not couched in 'two Americas.' It's couched in what we need to do to get things done.''
 Yet it was different enough to catch the disapproving eye of the editorial board of The Des Moines Register, whose support in 2004 was a critical factor in his showing here, and which endorsed Mrs. Clinton on Sunday.
 ''Edwards was our pick for the 2004 nomination,'' the editors wrote. ''But this is a different race, with different candidates. We too seldom saw the positive, optimistic campaign we found appealing in 2004. His harsh anti-corporate rhetoric would make it difficult to work with the business community to forge change.''
 Mr. Edwards acknowledged, and rejected, the perception of some voters that he was not genuine, that he was tacking to adjust to changing political winds.
 ''These people don't interact with me,'' he said. ''They are reading it somewhere. When they interact with me, they don't feel that way. I think most Americans believe what I'm saying.'' 
 And he said he did not think his campaign stance would prove counterproductive in Washington or, as one Iowa reporter asked him, off-putting to Iowans. ''I only know what I see in the audience: People respond powerfully to it,'' he said.
 The signs of his progress have been increasingly evident, not least in the attention he is drawing from his rivals.
 Mr. Obama's campaign manager, David Plouffe, questioned Mr. Edwards's ability to continue to run a strong campaign even if he won in Iowa and, should he win the nomination, to prevail in the general election. Mr. Plouffe cited Mr. Edwards's difficulty competing with the other leading Democrats and Republicans in raising money, and his decision to accept federal matching funds and the spending constraints they impose.
 The practical effect would be to limit his campaign's ability to spend money between the primaries and the convention at the end of the summer, although he could make up that shortfall to some degree by relying on the party and outside groups to take on the Republican nominee for him. 
 ''Edwards is really a one-state candidate in terms of his competitiveness right now,'' Mr. Plouffe said.
 Joe Trippi, a senior adviser to Mr. Edwards, said the campaign was confident that a victory in Iowa would bring him enough in contributions to carry him through the nomination. ''We have a plan to execute this,'' Mr. Trippi said. ''Nobody understands that.''
 ''A lot of things have to go right for this to go through,'' he said. ''But so far, it's gone the way we planned for.''
 Mr. Edwards's strength here is also a function of the political operation he has built over five years. Mr. Edwards's aides said he had not one but two precinct captains in 90 of the 99 precincts. They have been going through caucus drills to master the tactic that worked so well for Mr. Edwards in 2004: to quickly recruit caucusgoers who, on the first ballot, supported a rival candidate who gets less than 15 percent of the vote, and is thus eliminated from the competition.
 And he is arguing that he is far more electable than Mr. Obama or Mrs. Clinton, an argument that, like his economic populist pitch, has resonated in the past with Democrats in this state.
 But more than anything, Mr. Edwards's success in these final days appears to rest on the resonance of this fighting-words appeal with which he has now identified his candidacy. And did Mr. Edwards take his father's advice and beat up the schoolmate who pummeled him? 
 His answer was elliptical. ''I'm sure I won some and I lost some,'' he said as an aide brought an end to the interview.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Edwards, campaigning Monday in Davenport, Iowa, has been defiantly pledging to battle special interests and big business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); BOXING (76%); CLOSINGS (74%); CAUCUSES (73%); INSURANCE (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); JURY TRIALS (69%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (68%); LAWYERS (66%); HEALTH CARE (55%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (52%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (73%) IOWA, USA (97%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



467 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: McCain Sees a Need for Mortgage Aid

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA; Mike Luo contributed reporting from North Charleston, S.C., and Jeff Zeleny from Des Moines.

DATELINE: SALEM, N.H. 

 BODY:
Reacting to voters' concerns about the economy, Senator John McCain said Tuesday that he would consider greater intervention by the federal government to limit the fallout of the mortgage crisis if current measures fail.
 Mr. McCain, who is focusing in more detail on issues related to the economy in the windup to primary season, did not specify what further federal intervention might be necessary. But Mr. McCain, a Republican from Arizona, indicated that the government has a role in helping the truly needy, and he likened the current crisis to the savings-and-loan meltdown in the 1980s, which set off an extensive government bailout to soften its effect on the economy.
 Mr. McCain said he was generally opposed to federal intervention. ''Whenever there is government intervention, there are unintended consequences,'' he said. However, he said, this crisis poses such a serious threat to the overall economic health of the nation that he can see the need for even greater steps. 
 Unlike the leading Democrats competing for their party's nomination, the leading Republicans have been largely silent on the mortgage crisis, not addressing it in any great detail. On Tuesday, though, Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, said in South Carolina in response to a question from a reporter that he did not believe there should be a broad federal bailout. 
 Mr. McCain said he was moved to talk about the topic because more voters were expressing anxiety about a host of economic issues, with the mortgage crisis the most immediate. 
 The crisis, which has been rippling through the economy, stems largely from soaring default rates on subprime mortgages by overstretched home buyers. More than two million people took out subprime mortgages in the past two years and face big jumps in monthly payments when their initial teaser rates expire. 
 Analysts expect that at least 20 percent of those loans will end up in foreclosure, which could aggravate a severe downturn in housing market. 
 The Federal Reserve is now scrambling to prevent broader damage, cutting interest rates and creating a new lending program to banks. 
 President Bush announced a voluntary agreement two weeks ago with mortgage servicing companies and institutional investors to freeze interest rates for some subprime borrowers. The agreement would help about 20 percent of the borrowers. 
 Mr. McCain said that, after consulting with Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, he was ''cautiously optimistic'' that the action could stem the bleeding. But he said, the situation was still uncertain.
 ''I don't know how bad it will be,'' he said.
 Mr. McCain's comments on the mortgage crisis came Tuesday as his campaign released a broad set of economic proposals that focused on familiar themes: cutting taxes, slashing spending and reforming entitlement programs. On the same day, an editorial in The Wall Street Journal spoke favorably of his fiscal outlook, a boost for his campaign, with Mr. Romney, a successful businessman, usually getting high marks among Republicans on the economic front.
 Mr. Romney, meanwhile, campaigning in South Carolina, continued to attack Mike Huckabee. With the two are locked in a battle for conservative voters in Iowa, Mr. Romney zeroed in on Mr. Huckabee's record, highlighting more than 1,000 pardons Mr. Huckabee granted as governor of Arkansas.
 At the same time, Mr. Romney's record came under fire, when ABC News reported that his wife had donated $150 to Planned Parenthood in 1994. The network also produced photographs that it said showed him at a fund-raising event for the organization. 
 Mr. Romney, who said he once favored abortion rights but is now convinced that abortion is wrong, said he could not remember the circumstances of the donation and event.
 ''I attend a lot of events when I run for office,'' he said in Columbia, S.C. ''I don't recall the specific event, not a terribly surprising feature.'' 
 On the Democratic side, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, on the final stop of a six-day bus tour, held a meeting with his foreign policy advisers. Mr. Obama is trying to convince voters that he has the judgment to change American foreign policy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain on Monday in Concord, N.H. Mr. McCain has been focusing on issues related to the economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB SILBERBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



468 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: House, 314-100, Passes Broad Energy Bill; Bush to Sign It Today

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Legislation that will slowly but significantly change the cars Americans drive, the fuel they burn, the way they light their homes and the price they pay for food cleared the House on Tuesday by a large margin. President Bush said he would sign it on Wednesday.
 The bill, which passed on a bipartisan vote of 314 to 100, sets higher fuel economy standards for cars and light trucks for the first time in 22 years and requires the annual production of 36 billion gallons of renewable fuels by 2022, a fivefold increase from current ethanol production levels. 
 The measure, the Energy Independence and Security Act, also establishes new efficiency requirements for household appliances and government buildings, and aims to phase out the incandescent light bulb within the next decade. 
 Its passage is one of the largest steps on energy the nation has taken since the oil crises of the 1970s. But its full costs will not be known for years. Critics say it will make cars and trucks less safe and more expensive, divert farmland to costly production of feedstock for ethanol and other synthetic fuels, and raise the price of food because of competition for corn and grain between food producers and fuel refiners.
 Speaker Nancy Pelosi described the bill as groundbreaking because it will significantly increase the efficiency of the nation's autos, reducing oil imports and cutting production of gases that scientists blame for global warming. The bill requires cars and light trucks sold in the United States to meet a fleetwide average of 35 miles a gallon by 2020.
 Passage of the bill redeems a promise Democrats made when they retook control of Congress last January. ''You are present at a moment of change, of real change,'' Ms. Pelosi told her House colleagues before the vote.
 Ms. Pelosi and other supporters of the bill did express disappointment that it does not require utilities to produce a growing share of electric power from renewable sources and that it was stripped of a package of subsidies for wind, solar, geothermal and other alternative energy sources that would have been paid for by billions of dollars in higher taxes on oil companies. Mr. Bush had threatened to veto a bill with those provisions, and the Senate eliminated them before passing the legislation last week.
 ''It could have been stronger,'' said the chairwoman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California. ''It's really unfortunate that we didn't have the renewable electricity standard or the incentives for wind and solar. But we'll fight for those another day.''
 The bill's centerpiece is the requirement for a significant increase in corporate average fuel economy, or CAFE, which has been 27.5 miles a gallon for cars and 22.2 for light trucks, S.U.V.'s and minivans since 1985, when it was raised administratively. Until now, the standard has not been increased by law since 1975.
 Early this year, Mr. Bush proposed an ambitious increase in automobile mileage and a surge in production of ethanol and other alternative fuels. This bill achieves similar ends through different means, and the White House expressed satisfaction.
 ''While the president's alternative fuel standard and CAFE proposal would have gone farther and faster,'' said Dana M. Perino, the White House press secretary, ''we are pleased that Congress has worked together on a bipartisan way that provides the chance for the president to sign a bill that does not include tax increases.''
 The bipartisan National Commission on Energy Policy estimates that the mileage requirement and the biofuels provision combined will reduce projected oil consumption by 2.8 million barrels a day by 2020 and five million barrels a day by 2030.
 The group also says the two measures together will reduce the nation's projected carbon dioxide emissions by 4 percent.
 The Renewable Fuels Association, which represents distillers of alternative fuels and which lobbied vigorously for the bill, said that if the nation could meet the 36-billion-gallon annual production mandate by 2020, roughly one-sixth of projected gasoline consumption would be replaced with fuels based on corn, switch grass, wood chips and other renewable sources.
 ''At that level of consumption, 36 billion gallons of renewable fuels will effectively drive us through the months of January and February,'' the group said in a statement. ''No oil 'til March.''
 The auto industry, particularly American manufacturers that depend so heavily on truck and S.U.V. sales, had resisted the new efficiency standard but came to support it at the prodding of the automakers' leading champion in Congress, Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan.
 Chrysler's president, James E. Press, said he welcomed the new legislation and hoped it would remain the single national standard that auto companies must meet.
 ''Now we get some better clarity where the road goes and how steep the hill to climb is going to be, and we're going to have fun,'' said Mr. Press, formerly Toyota's top executive for North America. ''We're committed to meeting these standards and doing our part.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A signature that sent the bill on its way to the president.
 Speaker Nancy Pelosi celebrated passage with colleagues. At her side was John D. Dingell, who had won automakers' backing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); VETO (79%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ETHANOL (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ALCOHOLS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); ANIMAL FOODS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (75%); SOLAR ENERGY (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (67%); INFRASTRUCTURE (65%); IMPORT TRADE (65%); FOOD INDUSTRY (51%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BARBARA BOXER (59%); JOHN DINGELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



469 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: In Reversal, Fed Acts to Tighten Mortgage Rules

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve, acknowledging that home mortgage lenders aggressively sold deceptive loans to borrowers who had little chance of repaying them, proposed a broad set of restrictions Tuesday on exotic mortgages and high-cost loans for people with weak credit. 
 The new rules would force mortgage companies to show that customers can realistically afford their mortgages. They would also require lenders to disclose the hidden sales fees often rolled into interest payments, and they would prohibit certain types of advertising. 
 Borrowers would be able to sue their lenders if they violated the new rules, though home buyers would be allowed to seek only a limited amount in compensation. 
 ''Unfair and deceptive acts and practices hurt not just borrowers and their families,'' said Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, ''but entire communities, and, indeed, the economy as a whole.'' 
 The new regulations, expected to be approved in close to their proposed form after a three-month period for public comment, amount to a sharp reversal from the Fed's longstanding reluctance to rein in dubious lending practices before the subprime market collapsed this summer.
 The proposed changes, which do not apply to standard mortgages for borrowers with good credit, stopped short of banning all heavily criticized practices in subprime lending and did not go as far as many consumer groups had sought. But they won praise as worthwhile steps from some industry critics who had long complained that the Federal Reserve under its former chairman, Alan Greenspan, persistently ignored signs of trouble.
 ''Reading these proposals today is almost painful,'' said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic Policy Research, a liberal research group in Washington. ''These are all just simple, common sense regulation. Why couldn't Greenspan have done this seven years ago?'' 
 If the measures had been in place earlier, they would have applied to as many as 30 percent of all mortgages made in 2006. 
 Some advocacy groups that had warned for years about reckless practices said the Fed's move was too little and too late.
 ''The Federal Reserve's proposed guidance is riddled with loopholes and exceptions that will undermine its effectiveness,'' said Deborah Goldstein, executive vice president of the Center for Responsible Lending, a nonprofit group in Durham, N.C. ''The proposals fall far short of what was needed, and in some ways fall short of where the industry was already headed.'' 
 The new rules would do nothing to help the hundreds of thousands of people who are either already defaulting on subprime mortgages or are likely to lose their homes when their introductory teaser rates expire and their monthly payments jump by 30 percent or more.
 Soaring default rates among subprime borrowers have already caused a crisis on Wall Street, all but shutting down the subprime mortgage market since August because lenders could no longer raise the cash to make new loans. The Bush administration has pushed for voluntary agreements aimed at avoiding some, but far from all, of the foreclosures expected next year. 
 The American Banking Association praised the Fed's action as ''an important proposal that would make a significant difference in protecting mortgage borrowers.'' But the industry group warned that some provisions might go too far. ''We worry that replacing important lending flexibility with rigid formulas might also limit lending to some creditworthy borrowers.''
 In Congress, leading Democratic lawmakers said the Fed had been too cautious. 
 Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said the central bank showed it was ''not a strong advocate for consumers.'' Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, called the proposal a ''step backward.'' 
 The House recently passed a bill last month that would impose even tougher restrictions on many subprime practices that the Fed addressed on Tuesday. The Senate has not acted on a bill, but Mr. Dodd recently introduced a measure with many of the same goals as the House bill.
 Despite their limitations, the central bank's new proposals would nonetheless cut a wide swath across the nation's fragmented mortgage system. They would govern practices for all mortgage lenders, regardless of whether they are banks, thrift institutions or independent mortgage companies. And they would apply regardless of whether a lender is supervised by federal or state regulators.
 The most important indicator that the Fed wanted to throw down the gauntlet is in how it defined the mortgages that would be subject to special consumer protection.
 Under its existing rules, based on the Home Ownership Equity Protection Act of 1994, the Fed's extra protections applied to less than 1 percent of all mortgages -- those with interest rates at least eight percentage points above prevailing rates on Treasury securities.
 The new rules, by contrast, invoked broader legal authority to apply to any mortgage with an interest rate three percentage points or more above Treasury rates. Fed officials said that would cover all subprime loans, which accounted for about 25 percent of all mortgages last year, as well as many exotic mortgages -- known in the industry as ''Alt-A'' loans -- made to people with relatively good credit scores.
 Under the new rules, such borrowers would have to document their incomes, supply tax returns, earnings statements, bank records or other evidence. Lenders would not be allowed to qualify a person based only on their ability to pay the initial teaser rate. 
 The proposal would essentially end the practice of allowing those with poor credit to apply for ''stated income'' loans, often known as ''liar's loans,'' which do not require borrowers to provide evidence of their incomes and assets. And it would restrict mortgages with future monthly payments beyond those that could be justified by a borrower's projected earnings.
 The Fed proposal would still leave some room for flexibility. Lenders would have to provide ''reasonably reliable evidence'' of a person's income, a definition that Fed officials said would allow small business owners and others whose income may be erratic or difficult to confirm to arrange a subprime mortgage.
 The Fed also refused to prohibit the much-criticized subprime lending practice of big prepayment penalties. Prepayment penalties, which can cost thousands of dollars, often block people from switching to a cheaper mortgage for two years or longer.
 Mortgage lenders argue that prepayment penalties are often essential, because they provide investors with assurance of earning more than just the low teaser rates. But consumer groups have argued that the penalties can trap borrowers in expensive loans and that many home buyers do not properly understand them.
 Under the Fed proposal, lenders would still be allowed to demand prepayment penalties, but the penalties would have to expire at least 60 days before a loan's introductory rate was scheduled to reset at a higher level.
 The new rules would also make it more difficult for lenders to include hidden sales fees, which are usually paid to the mortgage broker. Many subprime lenders tell borrowers they will not have to pay any fees, or even any costs for services like appraisals, but include those fees in what is called a ''yield-spread premium'' on the interest rate.
 The Fed proposal would not prohibit yield-spread premiums but would require that a lender disclose the exact amount of the fees and have the borrower agree to the fees in writing.
 John Taylor, president of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, a housing advocacy group, said simply disclosing the fees was not enough because home buyers were already inundated with a blizzard of disclosure forms to sign and can easily miss the significance of what they are approving.
 Borrowers ''shouldn't need to be a lawyer or financial expert,'' Mr. Taylor said, ''to protect themselves from unfair and deceptive lending.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke, left, chairman of the Fed, said unfair loans had hurt ''entire communities, and, indeed, the economy as a whole.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROL T. POWERS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg. A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); APPROVALS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%); LIBERALISM (63%)

COMPANY: BAKER CO INC (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (66%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (51%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



470 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Economics: The Year in Books, 2007

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
In my column this week, I call ''Overtreated,'' by Shannon Brownlee, the book of the year in economics. The column also mentions a few other books from 2007: ''The Age of Turbulence,'' by Alan Greenspan; ''Falling Behind,'' by Robert H. Frank; ''Supercapitalism,'' by Robert Reich; and ''The Bottom Billion,'' by Paul Collier. 
 Below is a longer list of books you might want to look at. It doubtless leaves off some very good books. If you have suggestions, please e-mail me at leonhardt@nytimes.com, and I'll add to this list.
 Tyler Cowen, one of the authors of the popular Marginal Revolution blog, wrote ''Discover Your Inner Economist.'' Stephen J. Dubner -- of Freakonomics fame -- called the book ''fast, furious, and fun, with great examples of how to apply economic thinking to nontraditional subjects.''
 Mr. Frank, a Cornell professor and contributor to The Times's Sunday Business section, actually wrote two books this year. The other one is ''The Economic Naturalist,'' based on real-world questions posed over the years by his students. He gave a lecture about the book at Google's headquarters in July, which you can watch here. 
 Gregory Clark's ''Farewell to Alms'' is a ''delightfully written'' brief economic history of the world, in the words of The Times Book Review. Mr. Clark, an economist at the University of California, Davis, has posted a long selection of other reviews here. 
 Jonathan Cohn of The New Republic is one of the best health-care writers out there. In his book ''Sick,'' he travels around the country, exposing the problems with today's system and offering ideas for reform. ''The timing of this book is perfect,'' Sally Satel wrote in The Times Book Review.
 In ''Better,'' Atul Gawande my favorite medical writer today, which isn't exactly an original opinion has collected his stories from The New Yorker and elsewhere and added new material, as well. ''Better'' is, in many ways, an economic book.
 Charles McGrath profiled Dr. Gawande in The Times earlier this year.
 As for the books mentioned in today's column:
 You can read the first chapter of ''Overtreated'' here.
 My review of Mr. Greenspan's book is here.
 Mr. Frank's review of Mr. Reich's book is here. 
 Robert Frank of The Wall Street Journal called ''Falling Behind,'' by Cornell's Robert H. Frank, a ''great'' book. Confused by all these Robert Franks? Read on

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (89%); WRITERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (67%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (67%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007



471 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: 93 Banks Place Bids To Borrow From Fed

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve said on Wednesday that it had collected bids from 93 financial institutions in its first auction of short-term credit, a turnout that suggested banks might be more inclined to borrow from the Fed under its auction-based system. 
 Banks have typically feared negative reactions from investors when borrowing directly from the Fed, which some interpret as a sign of weakness. The auction, announced last week, tries to combat that stigma by offering banks the opportunity to borrow directly from the central bank in an anonymous forum and at a lower-than-usual interest rate. 
 The auctions are part of a broader effort by central bankers to increase the nation's credit supply. Banks have been perceived as more reluctant to lend to businesses, consumers and other banks because of the turmoil in the financial markets that has led to billions of dollars in losses for financial firms.
 At the first auction on Monday, banks and other financial institutions were allowed to bid on $20 billion in 28-day loans by offering the highest interest rate they would be willing to pay.
 Winning bids were awarded at a 4.65 percent interest rate, lower than the Fed's so-called discount rate, which normally regulates borrowing from the central bank. The discount rate was lowered to 4.75 percent last week.
 Economists said the auction attracted banks to a line of credit they might normally ignore. 
 ''The stigma that banks had previously assigned to borrowing from the Fed under conditions of duress appeared to have diminished,'' Joseph Brusuelas, chief United States economist at IdeaGlobal, wrote in a note.
 Mr. Brusuelas said that the turnout for the auction suggested that banks were eager to shore up capital but that the problems in the credit market had not yet reached a tipping point.
 ''A broad number of financial institutions remain concerned with year-end refunding, but the quantity demanded does not suggest an impending systemic crash,'' he wrote.
 The Fed received more than $61.55 billion in bids at Monday's auction, three times the available credit. Loans will be issued to the winning institutions on Thursday and mature on Jan. 17.
 The central bank did not disclose the number of winning bids or the size of the awards, which could range from $10,000 to $2 billion. The minimum bid was $10 million, with a minimum bid rate of 4.17 percent. 
 The Fed will hold a second $20 billion auction on Thursday, when it will offer 35-day loans. Additional auctions will take place on Jan. 14 and Jan. 28 with amounts to be announced. Investors who bet on the Fed's actions appeared to take the auction as a sign the bank would be less likely to lower interest rates at its next meeting in January. 
 The Fed's auction on Monday was part of a $34 billion injection of liquidity into global markets. The European Central Bank lent $10 billion in an auction and the Swiss National Bank lent $4 billion, the banks said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007



472 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 840 words

 BODY:
E.P.A. BLOCKS STATE AUTO LAWS The Environmental Protection Agency denied California and 16 other states the right to set their own standards for carbon dioxide pollution from automobiles, declaring that the rules were made moot by the energy bill signed by President Bush. [A1] 
 MORGAN REPORTS A LOSS Morgan Stanley reported the first quarterly loss in its 72-year history, as the company took a $9.4 billion charge on subprime-linked investments. It also said it would sell a $5 billion stake to a Chinese investment fund to shore up its capital. 
 BOND INSURER'S RATING CUT Citing deepening problems in the mortgage market, Standard & Poor's cut the rating of a troubled bond insurer and assigned a negative outlook to four other companies that guarantee debts linked to home loans. The announcement shook an already unsettled credit market. [C1.] 
 A BUSINESS MICROCLIMATE California's Silicon Valley, the wellspring of digital technologies, is itself a collection of remarkably local clusters based on industry niches, skills, school ties and even traffic patterns. It is a microclimate that resists attempts to copy it in other parts of the world. [C1.] 
 CENTRAL ASIA'S SUITORS Central Asia is a potent source of oil and natural gas, and Russia and the United States are competing for the region's energy exports. Russia is investing heavily, posing a challenge to Western companies like Exxon Mobil, Chevron and ConocoPhillips. [C1.] 
 NOT THE DESIRED EFFECT The conference call by Sallie Mae's chief executive, Albert L. Lord, was supposed to reassure investors alarmed by the deteriorating financial health of the student loan giant. Instead, his gruff and at times profane performance baffled investors and sent Sallie Mae stock into a tailspin, plunging 20.7 percent. [C6.] 
 E.U. SETS AUTO EMISSION RULES European Union officials told automakers to make deep cuts in tailpipe emissions of the cars they produce or face fines that could reach billions of euros. The European environment commissioner, Stavros Dimas, above, said the industry's promises to meet emissions reduction targets voluntarily had not yielded the desired results. [C4.] 
 BORROWING FROM THE FED The Federal Reserve said that it had collected bids from 93 financial institutions in its first auction of short-term credit, a turnout that suggested banks might be more inclined to borrow from the Fed under its auction-based system. [C4.] 
 FLIGHTS AT J.F.K. AND NEWARK Federal transportation officials announced agreements at Kennedy and Newark Liberty Airports that will result in fewer peak-hour flights, but more likelihood that flights will leave on time or arrive in time to make connections. [A33.] 
 NO MANIPULATION SEEN IN CHINA The Treasury Department declined again to designate China as a currency manipulator, despite increased pressure from Congress. [C6.] 
 TRIBUNE CHIEF TO STEP DOWN 
 A day before an $8.2 billion deal is expected to take Tribune Company private, Dennis J. FitzSimons said that he would step down as chairman and chief executive as soon as the transaction is done, clearing the way for the real estate billionaire Sam Zell to assume control of the company. [C4.] 
 A GLOSSIER PORTUGAL Tired of being overlooked or brushed off by larger European countries, Portugal has begun an advertising campaign to present a high-tech, glossy image, portraying the country as ''the West Coast of Europe.'' Advertising. [C5.] 
 INVESTORS HEDGING BETS Wall Street ended a volatile session mixed as investors wrestled with a troubling outlook for bond insurers and a $9.4 billion write-down at Morgan Stanley. [C11.] 
 ANALYZING CHARITIES Two former hedge fund analysts are turning their attention to charities, with a company that studies charities in particular fields and ranks them on their effectiveness. Their efforts are shaking up the field of philanthropy. [A16.] 
 PLAN TO FORGO TAX INCREASE Congress gave final approval to a plan that will spare millions of middle-class taxpayers from paying higher taxes in the coming months. The White House welcomed the development and said President Bush would sign the bill. [A1.] 
 STARS AND PICKET LINES The late-night talk show hosts are returning on Jan. 2, but it is uncertain if Hollywood's biggest stars will be willing to cross the striking writers' picket lines to appear on the shows. [B1.] 
 EX-REFCO EXECUTIVE GUILTY
 A former senior executive at Refco pleaded guilty to fraud charges for his role in the collapse of the futures and commodities broker. [C6.] 
 N.Y.U. PULLS AWARENESS ADS The Child Study Center at New York University said that it would halt an advertising campaign aimed at raising awareness of children's mental and neurological disorders after the effort drew a strongly negative reaction. [C2.] 
 the new black The color for 2008? A purplish blue called blue iris, says the Pantone Color Institute of Carlstadt, N.J., in an annual forecast. But not everyone agrees; a competitor to Pantone thinks bamboo, a yellowed green, is the one. [E1.] 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); STUDENT LOANS (68%); EURO (67%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (62%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); SLM CORP (54%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); SLM (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

PERSON: ALBERT L LORD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ASIA (90%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007



473 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Statistics on Children in Newark: Grim, With a Ray of Hope

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
The numbers bear out the conventional wisdom that growing up in New Jersey's largest city can be rough. Each week, the authorities remove an average of 33 children from their homes because of abuse and neglect. Every month, about 150 teenagers are infected with a sexually transmitted disease. One-third of all children here live in poverty.
 But amid the grim litany of statistics released on Wednesday by the Association for Children of New Jersey, a children's advocacy group, there was a handful of encouraging surprises. More young adults are enrolling in college, infant mortality fell 40 percent from 2000 to 2004 and the number of children finding themselves in handcuffs has dropped 27 percent since 2002. 
 To the authors of the report, ''Newark Kids Count 2007,'' the most unexpected finding was that juveniles in Newark are no more likely to be arrested for violent crime than youths in surrounding Essex County, which includes wealthy suburbs, or in New Jersey as a whole. 
 Considering Newark's reputation for lawlessness -- and the national attention it received last summer when four teenagers and two adults were charged with killing three students on a playground. Cecilia Zalkind, the organization's executive director, said she found such statistics refreshingly counterintuitive.
 ''This data shows we're on the right track,'' said Ms. Zalkind, whose organization has been issuing an annual scorecard for Newark since 1993. 
 But during a news conference on Wednesday, the association made it clear that Newark still faces sobering challenges. Although juvenile arrests on all charges have been dropping in recent years, the number of youths apprehended on drug charges jumped 66 percent in 2006, while the number found with weapons did not drop, a signs, officials said, that gang activity had an increasingly pernicious grip on teenagers here. 
 In a trend reflected in cities nationwide, a growing number of young adults are drifting into gangs; the Newark Police Department, for example, has compiled a list of 3,600 suspected gang members, most of them under 25, and during the past year, arrests of teenagers for violent offenses jumped 11 percent compared with 2006. ''There is plenty of cause for concern,'' Ms. Zalkind said. 
 Even the overall decline in juvenile arrests does not necessarily reflect a seismic drop in teenage crime. The report points out that there has been an 8 percent drop in the city's child population in recent years and that the police have stopped arresting youths for fights that do not involve weapons, a policy change that may be reducing arrest figures. (The hope behind that policy, city officials said, was to shield young people from the potentially ruinous effects of the criminal justice system, especially when it involves minor incidents.)
 Behind every bright statistic, it seemed, was a reason for continued hand-wringing. The association found, for example, that the child-poverty rate in Newark has been dropping significantly in recent years -- 40 percent since 2002 -- while incomes were rising. But celebrating such gains is hard when the median household income, of $34,500, is half the state average -- in one of the nation's most expensive regions.
 Mayor Cory A. Booker welcomed the findings, saying the statistics were a useful benchmark for measuring the failures and successes of his administration. He pointed out that during his first year in office, the city had drastically increased the child immunization rate to 75 percent, from 58 percent in 2001, an accomplishment that recently earned the city a commendation from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
 But he said that he was especially dismayed by figures showing that a third of Newark's adult residents do not have high school diplomas and that fewer than 12 percent attended college. ''Our dropout rates are incredibly high,'' Mr. Booker said. ''These children lose the opportunity to fully participate in a knowledge-based global economy.'' 
 The mayor recounted an encounter he had early this week with three teenagers who were walking the streets about 11 p.m. The three boys told him they were no longer in school and when pushed, admitted having no plans for the future. Mr. Booker found the encounter troubling. ''It's not O.K. for children to be walking around at night,'' he said. ''They have to be confronted.'' He added: ''They were not bad kids, but they had fallen through the cracks. We have to show that this is a city that truly loves its children.''

GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Juvenile crime'' Arrests of juveniles have declined in Newark since 2002, but started to rise in 2005. Arrest rates still remain lower than in the state overall. (Source: Association for Children of New Jersey) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); JUVENILE CRIME (89%); GANGS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (89%); ARRESTS (88%); VIOLENT CRIME (88%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TRENDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); CHILD POVERTY (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); HOMICIDE (68%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (58%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (56%); INFANT MORTALITY (55%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007



474 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: $7 Billion Columbia Expansion Gets Green Light

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS and RAY RIVERA; Karen W. Arenson contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The New York City Council cleared the way Wednesday for the largest expansion in the history of Columbia University. The university plans a $7 billion project over the next 25 years that will transform a section of Upper Manhattan now dominated by warehouses and auto body shops into a campus with glass-walled high-rise buildings, tree-lined thoroughfares and student dormitories.
 ''The university's expansion is critical,'' Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff said, ''because the success of this city in the future will be a function of us having a diversified economy, and having science and technology as a key component of that diversity.'' 
 A month earlier than expected, the City Council voted 35 to 5 with 6 abstentions and 5 absences to rezone a 35-acre swath of Harlem from light manufacturing to mixed use. Columbia has said it plans to extend its campus onto 17 of the rezoned acres, bounded roughly by Broadway on the east, Riverside Drive on the west, West 129th Street on the south and West 133rd Street on the north. Columbia now occupies about 36 acres ending about 5 blocks to the south. 
 All but about three buildings will be torn down to make room for the new campus, which Columbia officials said would eventually include many of the university's science and research laboratories. 
 While the rezoning removes the last significant hurdle to the university's expansion, some elements of the plan remain to be settled, including whether the university will seek to use the power of eminent domain to force the removal of commercial property owners who have so far refused to sell to Columbia. 
 City officials said the university has tentatively agreed to spend $150 million as part of a community benefits agreement that will contribute to providing low- to moderate-income housing and expanded educational opportunities. 
 Still, the expansion is bitterly opposed by some in Harlem who have objected to the potential use of eminent domain. Others fear that the residents of some of the last working-class neighborhoods in Manhattan, which lie to the north of the expansion zone, will be displaced by students and administrators who can pay far more than the typical neighborhood resident. 
 ''I'm sure there will be lawsuits coming out of this, but we will continue to try to get Columbia to be a good neighbor,'' said the Rev. Earl Kooperkamp, rector at St. Mary's Episcopal Church, who is opposed to the expansion. 
 The university owns about 90 percent of the private property in the 17 acres. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Con Edison also own some of that acreage. 
 Opponents said they were surprised to learn that the City Council had voted Wednesday even though several council members said they had been told the vote would be in January. 
 ''I don't think we should rush to give Columbia University a Christmas present,'' Councilman Charles Barron said before he voted against the plan. ''We're here to support the people's right to participate in this process.'' 
 Many council members dissented or declined to vote, saying they opposed what they said had been a rushed approval process and the possibility that eminent domain would be used. 
 About two dozen protesters sat in the balcony throughout the hearing. 
 Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn said the plan would solidify the city as one of the world capitals of higher education and hailed the jobs the project is expected to create. ''That's something that is a benefit to our city at any time, but given the dark economic times that are on the horizon is incredibly important right now,'' she said. 
 The university has said the expansion is necessary if it is to remain competitive with its Ivy League peers, including Pennsylvania and Harvard, which are in the midst of expanding or are considering expansions. 
 Only this year Yale acquired a 136-acre pharmaceutical company site near New Haven, including state-of-the-art laboratories, that the university said would hasten its progress in science research by 10 or 15 years. Harvard has begun work on a new science complex on its new 300-acre site in the Allston neighborhood in Boston.
 Columbia has also made a new science complex a priority. It plans to build a center for research on the brain and neurosciences as part of its first phase. Also in the first phase are a new home for its School of International and Public Affairs, a new site for its business school, and one for its School of the Arts. 
 Also as part of that phase, it says it plans to provide open space for the community and the university and a permanent site for the new, university-assisted public secondary school for math, science and engineering.
 Columbia was faced with significant mistrust in the neighborhood, the result of its historically poor relationship with Harlem, including a 1968 battle over the university's plan to build a gymnasium in Morningside Park, which set off violent protests. 
 Several current Columbia administrators, including President Lee C. Bollinger, were students at the university at that time, and said they had made it a point now to involve the community in the university's plans. 
 ''This is a great moment for the university, for the city and we hope for the communities around us,'' Mr. Bollinger said late Wednesday. ''Expansion is a critical requirement for us to remain one of the great universities of the world.''
 The university has said the expansion will create 6,000 jobs. Parking and utilities will be housed underground. 
 During the second phase of the expansion, the university will build housing for graduate students and faculty, as well as lab space for disciplines including biomedical engineering, nanotechnology, systems biology and urban and population studies. 
 Much of the fiercest opposition to the proposal arose out of Columbia's refusal to pledge that the university would not seek eminent domain rights in order to obtain land it does not already own. The school has promised not to request that the state invoke eminent domain for residential buildings, but has refused to make similar promises regarding commercial properties. 
 Councilman Vincent Ignizio, Republican of Staten Island, warned his colleagues: ''Be very concerned about what you do, because the bullets you put in the gun of government today when pointed at somebody else may one day be pointed at you.'' 
 While the remaining property owners in the expansion zone have said they will not sell to Columbia, the university has been in negotiations in recent days with the largest remaining private landowner, Nicholas Sprayregen, owner of Tuck-It-Away Self-Storage. 
 Mr. Sprayregen called the City Council's vote ''anticlimactic,'' and said it would not affect his discussions with the university and the Empire State Development Corporation. He has proposed trading some of the 300,000 square feet in five buildings he owns in the area for some of Columbia's land on the east side of Broadway. 
 ''I have no problem with Columbia building here; I think there's room to share,'' said Mr. Sprayregen. 
 The community benefits agreement that was completed Tuesday night calls for Columbia to grant $150 million to residents of the area during the next 12 years, said Councilman Robert Jackson, the Manhattan Democrat whose district includes most of the expansion area. 
 Of that sum, $76 million would go into a flexible benefit fund to be overseen by a committee of community and Columbia representatives; $50 million would be dedicated to in-kind services, including $30 million toward a school for kindergarten through eighth grade; $20 million would be set asidefor a housing fund; and $4 million would go toward legal services to help those displaced by the development. 
 Despite complaints that the process had been hurried, Mr. Jackson said the rezoning plan had been well studied. 
 The expansion, he said, had been ''discussed, rediscussed, put in the washing machine and the dryer and thrown in the washing machine again and again and again.'' 
 He added: ''There is nothing that has been said that I have not heard myself.'' 
 The local community board, which voted against the Columbia expansion proposal earlier this year, had submitted its own development plan for the area. That proposal highlighted building more low- and moderate-income housing and retaining the area's light industry. 
 The City Council approved both the community board's and Columbia's development plans, although council members acknowledged that the plans appeared to contradict each other.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY WEST 8/ROGERS MARVEL/DILLER SCOFIDIO & RENFRO/QUENNELL ROTHSCHILD/SMWM) (pg. A1) MAP: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY'S LONG-TERM PLAN TO EXPAND (pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ZONING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); MAYORS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (77%); LITIGATION (64%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (63%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (51%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (54%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007



475 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Dept. Declines To Press China on Yuan

BYLINE: By DOW JONES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Treasury Department declined again Wednesday to designate China as a currency manipulator, despite the increasing pressure from Congress.
 In its latest semiannual report to Congress on the currency policies of countries around the world, the department reiterated its complaint that the recent appreciation in the Chinese yuan was ''too limited and modest,'' but said that the government's heavy intervention did not meet the legal definition for currency manipulation. 
 China should ''significantly accelerate'' the appreciation of the yuan's effective exchange rate ''to minimize the risks that are being created for China itself as well as the world economy, of which China is an increasingly critical part,'' the report said.
 China abandoned a strict currency peg in July 2005, but it maintains a trading band around an unspecified basket of currencies that includes the dollar and euro.
 That band has gradually been widened, and the yuan has appreciated 12.1 percent against the dollar since it was de-pegged. It appreciated about 6 percent against the dollar this year. It has strengthened only 3.8 percent against China's major trading partners since July 2005, however.
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. has resisted pressure from members of Congress from both parties to take action against what they claim is a grossly undervalued currency that provides China with an unfair trade advantage.
 Mr. Paulson has instead chosen diplomacy, though he came away from last week's ''strategic economic dialogue'' in China with no new concessions on the currency front.
 Two bills have passed out of Senate committees that would retaliate against China's currency policy, though neither has been brought up for a full vote.
 The Treasury report also said that global economic growth had ''performed exceptionally well'' this year, but that the effect of credit market problems on global capital flows remained difficult to measure.
 The report noted ''steady progress'' in reducing global imbalances, including the United States current-account deficit, which fell to 5.1 percent of gross domestic product in the third quarter of this year after peaking at 6.8 percent of G.D.P. at the end of 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EURO (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007



476 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: A New Year, A New Color. But Are We Blue?

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

 BODY:
AT least one color authority, Pantone, has taken the plunge and announced its favorite color for 2008. To be sure, this news doesn't seem as delectable as People's Sexiest Man Alive or as snugly affirming as Time's Person of the Year. You probably did not even know that chili pepper red was the color for 2007. 
 Nonetheless, Pantone's choice of blue iris, or No. 18-3943, got some news media attention last week, which seemed to be partly the objective of the company, which is based in Carlstadt, N.J. In a statement, Leatrice Eiseman, the executive director of the Pantone Color Institute, said: ''Blue Iris brings together the dependable aspects of blue, underscored by a strong, soul-searching purple cast. Emotionally, it is anchoring and meditative with a touch of magic.''
 Later, in a telephone interview, Ms. Eiseman said the selection process had been very thoughtful, based on various influences, and that indeed the final choice reflected a ''need for thoughtfulness.'' Five individuals were involved in the selection process. ''With blue iris, we felt that it answered several needs, hopes, desires, that kind of thing,'' she said. 
 If that strikes you as hazy, you're not alone. ''It's a little bit on the funny side,'' said Micha Riss, the creative director of Flying Machine, a branding and design firm in New York, whose clients include ESPN and Sky Italia. ''I respect Pantone a lot, but I see them as a technical service. If Helmut Lang were to make such a projection, I would listen.''
 Mr. Lang is, alas, no longer making clothes. Still, designers of his caliber tend to avoid such industrial predictions, on the ground that it leaves them less room to exert their particular influence. After all, where would the world be without Miuccia Prada's beautification of ugly brown, Tom Ford's elevation of candy-floss lilac? If a fashion label can be said to own a color, then shocking pink belongs to Schiaparelli. Red is to Valentino what orange is to Tide.
 The higher-ups in fashion tend to profess a horror of predictions, anyway. It's so prosaic, like In and Out lists. As Alber Elbaz, the designer at Lanvin, characterized the shortcomings of forecasts, in a call to his Paris office: ''We think we can read 'How to Become a Millionaire' or 'Find a Gorgeous Husband in Three Weeks,' but a book is a book is a book. We have to go with intuition.'' He said forecasts are for the mass market, for retailers and manufacturers who want to be sure they have enough blue sweaters in stock next winter.
 Pantone provides standardized palettes for a number of industries, mainly graphics, fashion textiles and interior design. Not surprisingly, Pantone's competitors in the area of forecasting are skeptical of its choice, if not the motive behind it.
 ''It's very good for publicity, and it certainly shows a lot of bravado,'' said Margaret Walch, the director of the Color Association, a forecasting group founded in 1915, when the vast majority of its members were milliners, glove makers and hosiery suppliers. Because consumer tastes and values are under a variety of influences -- economic, environmental, global -- anointing one color isn't all that meaningful, she said. Is there a color she might have picked instead? Ms. Walch laughed lightly, as if to say, ''O.K., I'll play along.'' She answered, ''My color for 2008 is bamboo.'' A yellowed green, chosen from the association's interior palette, she said, it ''represents the stable green that is most on people's minds.'' She said it's similar to a hue called Vineyard, adding: ''I feel it just has a power. You know, these are very insecure times.''
 Before you have a complete freak-out and crawl into your bamboo-colored hole to await the purple dawn, let's pause and consider a few things. There has indeed been a surge of blue on the runways in the last year, beginning last February with Raf Simons's dresses and pantsuits, in an Yves Klein blue, for Jil Sander and extending into the spring 2008 collections with Nicolas Ghesquiere's explosive floral prints for Balenciaga. Mr. Elbaz used a deep lagoon blue in his spring Lanvin show, and one found lighter but no less robust shades in collections by Marni and Chloe, and in the men's lines of Prada and Alexander McQueen. Dolce & Gabbana called its new fragrance Light Blue. And JWT, the advertising and marketing company, just named blue as one of the top 10 trends for 2008, saying that ''blue is the new green,'' particularly as it denotes ecological concerns.
 ''I'm thrilled,'' Terron Schaefer, senior vice president of marketing at Saks Fifth Avenue, said of the blue news. This fall, Mr. Schaefer worked with an Amsterdam-based designer, Pete Paris, on new shopping bags for the spring. As it happens, the bags have a large element of a watery blue.
 Ms. Eiseman of the Color Institute said she gathers information from various sources, including trade shows like the influential Milan furniture fair. From a marketing standpoint, there's plenty of reason to think that blue may have eclipsed green.
 ''I think green is being abused to death,'' said Regis Pean, creative director of Studio Red, a branding and design division of the Rockwell Group, which works with companies like Coca-Cola, McDonald's and Procter & Gamble. ''Everybody wants to be green.'' (Notably, Barneys New York, which is promoting a ''green Christmas.'') For educated consumers, Mr. Pean said, the overuse of green in marketing is increasingly a turn-off.
 There is no doubt that color influences consumer choices, whether it's as durable as a Tiffany blue box, as sharp and crystal clear as an Apple store, or as seasonal (and socially attuned) as Gap's Red campaign.
 ''What if Coke decided to become green?'' said Leslie Singer, the president and chief creative officer of G2 Branding & Design. Well, for one thing, the public would lose a prime visual signpost in the supermarket. ''Color drives the way you navigate through a store,'' Mr. Pean said, pointing out that stores employ what's called an r and K strategy, based on a mathematical equation. Either they flood an aisle with a block of color or they go for selective, standout placement. 
 As Ms. Singer points out, heritage brands like Coke and Burberry aren't really affected by color forecasts. They already have a look and a palette: why confuse matters? For fashion designers the concerns are different. Mr. Elbaz says a color can look one way in a swatch, another in a bolt of cloth, and still another when you cut into it. ''There are three stages and each is different,'' said Mr. Elbaz, who finds that some of his best colors come from cosmetics -- ''because they've been tested on the face.''
 Paradoxically, fashion may not be as responsible for stimulating interest in color as other creative fields -- architecture, furniture design and technology. ''In the fashion business, we're a bit dead at the moment because we sold out to bling,'' said David Shah, a clothing maker and a forecaster based in Amsterdam, whose View publishing company produces magazines on color and retail trends (including one for Pantone). ''The architects and the furniture designers are the new sexy ones.''
 Nonetheless, all these creative forces, along with a desire to have more humor, will feed demand for color, Mr. Shah predicted. ''Color is now seen as an item of luxury,'' he said. Yes, like an orange Hermes box, or a once-humble box of chocolates.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BLUE IRIS: A mix of blue and purple that suggests dependability and magic
CHILI PEPPER: Chosen for its pizazz and sophistication and its hint of ethnic taste
SAND DOLLAR: A neutral color that expresses concern about the economy
BLUE TURQUOISE: Another reversal to a calming shade
TIGER LILY: Acknowledges the hipness of orange, with a touch of exoticism
AQUA SKY: A cool blue meant to restore hope and serenity
TRUE RED: Recognizes the impact of 9/11 with a patriotic hue
FUCHSIA ROSE: A reversal from the previous year, more exciting, more feminine and sexy
CERULEAN BLUE: Chosen for the millennium for its calming zen state of mind. FOR 2008: Clockwise from upper left, designs from the new collections of Balenciaga, Nina Ricci, Jil Sander and Carolina Herrera. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLOCKWISE FROM ABOVE, CHRIS MOORE/GETTY IMAGES
FIRSTVIEW
CHRIS MOORE/CATWALKING/GETTY IMAGES
FIRSTVIEW) (pg. G11)
BLUE IRIS IS IT: If you got to pick, shocking chartreuse might be in, but you didn't get to, now did you? (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIGITAL COMPOSITE COURTESY IMAGE BANK/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. G1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (86%); INTERVIEWS (74%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTERIOR DECORATING (69%); CLOTHING LABELS (68%); FASHION & APPAREL (68%); TEXTILES (63%); RETAILERS (63%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%)

PERSON: MIUCCIA PRADA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007



477 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ENTREPRENEURIAL EDGE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Nanotechnology Near the Point When It's Time to Go Public

BYLINE: By JAMES FLANIGAN

 BODY:
NANOTECHNOLOGY companies, nurtured on billions of dollars in government grants and venture investments through most of this decade, are getting ready to go public. 
 Being near taking such a step is another stage in the evolution of nanotechnology, the science of materials measured at billionths of a meter or one-500th of a human hair. 
 Experts note that nanotechnology-enabled products are already used in industry.
 ''There are 200 commercial products in cosmetics, apparel and sporting goods in which nanotechnology plays a role,'' said Lynn E. Foster, emerging technologies director for the law firm Greenberg Traurig and author of the 2006 book ''Nanotechnology: Science, Innovation and Opportunity.'' He cites clothing with a coating of nanoparticles -- from the Nano-Tex Corporation of Oakland, Calif. -- that repels stains. 
 And increasing numbers of nanotech products are in the offing. Mihail Roco, senior adviser for nanotechnology at the National Science Foundation and an architect of the government's research effort, predicted in an interview on the Web site of the National Nanotechnology Initiative that by 2015 nanotechnology will play a crucial role in $1 trillion worth of products, ''which would require two million workers.''
 Companies in nanotechnology speak of adapting their research to medical innovations, in which nanoparticles would deliver medicine directly to individual cells, and to solar energy, in which nano-enabled photovoltaic coatings would capture and store the sun's energy at a lower cost than today's solar panels. 
 The NanoGram Corporation in Milpitas, Calif., is aiming some of its research efforts toward such solar ambitions. ''We have 58 of our 69 employees working in R.& D. in the clean technology area, including solar power,'' said Kieran Drain, chief executive of NanoGram, which earns revenues by licensing innovations to manufacturers of optical and electronic products. 
 NanoGram has a venture with Nagase & Company of Japan, a manufacturer of light-emitting diode, or L.E.D., screens for digital devices. ''Our nanomaterials enable the screens to emit more light,'' Mr. Drain said. In its 11-year history, NanoGram has spun off or sold operations to other companies in communications and medical electronics. In the last two years, the company has raised almost $27 million in venture capital backing and looks to go public in 2009 ''when we'll have become larger in annual revenues,'' Mr. Drain said. 
 Another company hoping to go public in the near future is Unidym Inc., which works with clusters of carbon nanoparticles that possess extraordinary properties in tensile strength and conduction of electrical current. Sean Olson, vice president for operations and strategy, said Unidym is working with companies that produce the touch screens for cellphone devices, A.T.M.'s and airport check-in terminals. 
 ''Our carbon nanotube technology makes the light-emitting chipsets less brittle and able to emit more light,'' he said. ''Our screens can take a pounding.'' 
 Unidym, based in Menlo Park, Calif., is a subsidiary of the Arrowhead Research Corporation, a public investment company that was founded in 2003 to back small companies engaged in nanotechnology research. Arrowhead, based in Pasadena, Calif., is advised by half a dozen professors at the California Institute of Technology. In March, Arrowhead helped Unidym merge with Carbon Nanotechnologies, a Houston-based firm that was founded by the late nanotechnology pioneer Richard Smalley of Rice University, who won the Nobel Prize for his work. 
 ''Unidym and Carbon Nanotechnologies make a powerful combination for the future of the semiconductor industry,'' said John Miller, vice president business development at Arrowhead. He explained that nanoparticles, working at atomic scales, can produce semiconductors at more infinitesimal levels than current electronic technology and at lower cost than today's manufacturing plants, which typically cost $5 billion to build.
 Arrowhead Research is backed by Fidelity Investments, the mutual fund company, and York Capital Management, a hedge fund company, and other public shareholders. 
 ''As a public company, we can take a somewhat longer-term perspective on earning a return on investment,'' Mr. Miller said. He gave that as a reason Arrowhead was able to combine Unidym with Carbon Technologies. Venture fund investors in Carbon Technologies, which was founded in 2000, ''needed to get their money out,'' Mr. Miller explained. Arrowhead can now reap its own return when it assists Unidym in going public, possibly next year if general market conditions are favorable. 
 The Arrowhead example points up two factors in the recent evolution of nanotechnology. One is the role of universities. In disbursing $8 billion in research grants since 2001, the National Nanotechnology Initiative has worked through 60 or so universities all over the United States. And it is still working through the universities that have been designated as Centers and Networks of Excellence, including the Center for Nanobiotechnology at Cornell University; the Center for Scalable and Integrated Nano-Manufacturing at the University of California, Los Angeles; the Institute for Nanoelectronics and Computing at Purdue University and others. 
 The other factor is the fickleness of financial market opinion. At the beginning of this decade, nanotechnology was greeted with predictions of instant wonders and investment success. But when technological developments seemed to take longer than anticipated, investor enthusiasm cooled and nanotechnology was looked on as an overhyped promise. Now attitudes are becoming positive again, Mr. Foster, the nanotechnology author, said, and ''we'll see many firms coming to the public markets.''
 Indeed, NanoDynamics Inc., a company based in Buffalo, that has developed a nano-enabled fuel cell that generates hydrogen energy at military bases and factories, filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission in May intending to raise $100 million with a public stock offering. It withdrew the registration statement in November because of financial market uncertainties, but is a candidate to go public when markets settle down.
 NanoDynamics had $4.4 million in revenue in 2006 but spent $8.8 million on research that year. Currently the company has a Defense Department grant for fuel-cell research and other financing from the National Institutes of Health for research on infection-resistant medical devices and implants.
 The company needs to raise public money to build manufacturing plants for the products it is planning for the emerging solar power industry, according to its registration with the S.E.C. 
 NanoDynamics, Unidym and Nanogram all presented their stories at a forum on public finance for nanotechnology at Caltech on Dec. 8.
 Clearly, federal and state government support for nanotech research has spawned a lively field of innovation. And giant companies, including General Electric and Hewlett-Packard, are also involved in pursuing the new science. 
 To be sure, questions are also being raised about the risks of unleashing materials of infinitesimal size and unknown properties. The Economist magazine reported recently that some scientists in Britain and America were concerned about possible toxic qualities of nano particles of materials that are harmless at their full size. 
 Asked about potential dangers, Mr. Roco of the National Science Foundation responded that issues of possible adverse effects for air, water and soil are being studied at several of the Nanotech Initiative Centers. Mr. Miller of Arrowhead Research said he believed that ''questions of toxicity will be explored but balanced by the potential benefits for medicine, energy and so many other fields.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A scientist at Unidym in Menlo Park, Calif., inspecting coated substrate used to manufacture touch screens. Unidym uses clusters of carbon nanoparticles to make the substrate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NANOTECHNOLOGY (95%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (79%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (76%); COSMETICS (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (74%); WRITERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (67%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); AIRPORTS (60%)

COMPANY: GREENBERG TRAURIG LLP (83%); NAGASE & CO LTD (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%)

TICKER: 8012 (TSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007



478 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: The Fed's Empty Gun

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Why the Fed Can't Fix It Now'' (editorial, Dec. 16) seems to suggest that more aggressive rate cuts by the Federal Reserve will help the economy. 
 I feel that Americans overborrow and overconsume. We need incentives to save more -- not borrow and spend more. 
 I also feel that buying a home is as much consumption as it is savings, especially when you couple the purchase with a mortgage of 85 percent of the value of the property.
 In any case, it really doesn't matter if the Fed should or should not cut rates. It doesn't have any more bullets. It's like the old Western gunfighter who keeps shooting, hears that fatal ''out of bullets'' click from his gun, and then, out of desperation, throws the gun at his adversary.
 These last rate cuts by the Fed are nothing more than it throwing its empty-bullet gun at our general debt crisis. Like the gunfighter, the next move will be to run for cover. Bill Perlman
 Fairfield, Conn., Dec. 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007



479 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Europe Proposes Binding Limits on Auto Emissions

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
European Union officials told leading automakers on Wednesday to make deep cuts in tailpipe emissions of the cars they produce or face fines that could reach billions of euros. 
 Companies including Volkswagen and Renault immediately promised a fight to weaken the proposed legislation, saying that compliance would be difficult and that it would hurt their competitiveness around the world. 
 But European officials insisted that the legislation was necessary if the region was to continue leading global efforts to reduce greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide. 
 A tough law for car pollution ''demonstrates that the European Union is committed to being a world leader in cutting CO2 emissions and the development of a low-carbon economy,'' the president of the European Commission, Jose Manuel Barroso, said.
 The European environment commissioner, Stavros Dimas, said the industry's decade-old promises to meet emissions reduction targets voluntarily had not yielded the desired results, making the tougher action necessary. 
 The proposed steps are subject to approval by the European Parliament and the 27 member governments, and automakers promised months and possibly years of lobbying. 
 The announcement was the culmination of a year of fierce battles involving the commission, the union's executive arm, and individual carmakers over how to meet a goal of reducing carbon dioxide emissions to 120 grams a kilometer, or 192 grams a mile, by 2012. 
 Ten grams of that reduction would come from the introduction of cleaner fuel and from parts like tires and air-conditioning systems.
 The current average for cars sold in Europe is about 160 grams a kilometer. European carmakers had previously been asked to meet a voluntary target of 140 grams by 2008. 
 The rules would apply to new cars sold in the 200 billion euro ($288 billion) auto market, including those sold by manufacturers based in the United States, Japan and South Korea, like General Motors, Toyota and Hyundai.
 None of the 17 major manufacturers selling cars in Europe, including producers of smaller vehicles like Fiat, currently meet the proposed targets. 
 Automotive industry specialists warned that the measures would come at a substantial cost and that manufacturers were likely to pass on some of those costs to buyers. 
 Compliance will cost producers an average of 1,500 euros ($2,157) to 3,000 euros ($4,314) for each car to pay for efficiency-enhancing technologies, said Sarwant Singh, director of the European automotive practice at the Frost & Sullivan consultancy in London. 
 ''The result is that consumers are just going to have to dish out more money and change their driving behavior in the future,'' Mr. Singh said.
 Mr. Dimas said the average car price would increase about 1,300 euros ($1,870), but the costs would be more than offset by reduced fuel bills.
 German manufacturers have lobbied most forcefully to dilute the legislation, saying they feared that the industry would face huge payouts to compensate for the sales of heavy and polluting cars like the Mercedes-Benz. The manufacturer furthest from meeting the new goal is Porsche, according to European officials. 
 But French companies including Renault and Peugeot, although they rely on lighter and less-polluting vehicles than the German makers, were also wary, saying they feared that the large numbers of cars they produced could incur big fines for even marginal violations of the limit.
 In October, the European Parliament recommended a less stringent limit of 125 grams a kilometer and said the measures should be delayed until 2015, in part, members said, because of intense lobbying by the German auto industry.
 A spokeswoman for Volkswagen, Ines Roessler, said the 2012 deadline was too early, partly because 60 percent of the company's cars for sale that year were already in production. 
 On Wednesday, Mr. Dimas outlined details of the measures that he said should help carmakers adapt to the rules and become more globally competitive as consumers demand that products like automobiles become much more eco-friendly.
 Fines would be phased in over four years rather than imposed at high levels, beginning in 2012. They would start at 20 euros for each excess gram and rise to 95 euros a gram in 2015.
 ''We think this scale of fines cumulatively will be a deterrent, and the correct incentive for the innovations to be done by 2012,'' Mr. Dimas said.
 And in a concession to the German manufacturers, heavier cars will be subject to less onerous fleet-average standards.
 The rules would also allow manufacturers that exceeded the limits to pool their emissions with less-polluting manufacturers -- a provision that could create the basis for an industrywide system of emissions trading.
 The debate Wednesday sharply divided the European Commission. Johannes Laitenberger, a spokesman for Mr. Barroso, said a consensus had been reached, but that a number of commissioners were dissatisfied enough with the result to register their reservations in writing.
 He declined to name the commissioners or describe their reservations, but the European industry commissioner, Gunter Verheugen, a German, has been forcefully pushing for lower fines on vehicle makers so as not to jeopardize the health of the industry.
 Environmental advocates say that transportation has been the worst-performing European sector regulated under the Kyoto Protocol, with emissions having steadily risen in the last two decades.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The European environment commissioner, Stavros Dimas, outlined a rising penalty system to be phased in from 2012 to 2015. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THIERRY ROGE/REUTERS)
 The European Commission wants to limit automotive carbon dioxide emissions, a big obstacle in meeting Kyoto Protocol standards. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAL LANGSDON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (94%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (93%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LOBBYING (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); EURO (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); APPROVALS (73%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (83%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007



480 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Conservative Wins Presidential Election in South Korea

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
Lee Myung-bak, a conservative politician famous for his success in business but dogged by questions about his character, swept to a huge victory on Wednesday in a presidential election dominated by economic concerns.
 Voters cast aside widespread misgivings about Mr. Lee's ethics, betting that he would fulfill his pledge to whip the economy to the heady levels of the 1990s, when growth averaged around 7 percent a year. But Mr. Lee's landslide was tempered by a new investigation directed at him; an indictment would raise questions about the legitimacy of his administration.
 The results on Wednesday reflected voters' deep dissatisfaction with the liberal administration of President Roh Moo-hyun, who is limited to a single five-year term by the Constitution, and his handling of the economy. By turning to Mr. Lee, the candidate of the opposition conservative Grand National Party, South Koreans put bread-and-butter issues ahead of the larger themes of social equality, political change and reconciliation with North Korea that had influenced their votes in the past decade. 
 This time, relations with North Korea or the United States barely registered among voters. But political analysts said Mr. Lee, a pro-business, pragmatic politician not known for taking strong ideological positions, would improve Seoul's strained relations with Washington. As for North Korea, Mr. Lee has said that he will continue the policy of engaging it economically but that he will demand more concessions.
 With 48.7 percent of the total votes, Mr. Lee, who had been leading in opinion polls for months, fell slightly short of his goal of garnering more than half of all votes cast, something no one has accomplished since South Korea began holding democratic elections in 1987. But in returning the Grand National Party to power after 10 years of liberal rule, he won by the largest margin since 1987, with his nearest rival, Chung Dong-young, a candidate allied with Mr. Roh, coming in with only 26.1 percent.
 Still, political analysts and voters interviewed indicated that the numbers did not amount to a strong endorsement of Mr. Lee but reflected the absence of other viable contenders. The campaign attracted little attention in a country where presidential elections have been accompanied by large street rallies. The turnout, 62.9 percent, was a record low.
 ''I voted for Lee Myung-bak even though I think he's a little corrupt,'' said Kim Cho-rong, 21, a college student studying interior design. ''I figured someone who is a little guilty but competent was better for our society than someone who is innocent but incompetent.''
 In recent years, a general economic malaise gripped South Koreans as economic growth slowed to the level of 3 to 5 percent, small and medium-size companies struggled to stay afloat and youth unemployment rose. Mr. Roh appeared out of touch, especially after his efforts to squelch real estate speculation at one point made housing even more unaffordable. Even supporters who credited him with improving ties with North Korea and creating more openness in government turned against him and his party.
 ''I've always voted for liberals, but this time the economy became such a huge issue,'' said Kim Sung-ki, 54, a businessman in Seoul. ''So I decided to take a fresh look.'' 
 Mr. Lee, who turned 66 on Wednesday, is strongly identified with South Korea's high-growth years because he became, at the age of 36, the chief executive of Hyundai Construction and then ran several subsidiaries at Hyundai, a major conglomerate. From 2002 to 2006, he served as mayor of Seoul and became a top presidential contender after completing the restoration of a stream in downtown Seoul.
 But he has long been bedeviled by questions about his ethics. He has admitted to falsely identifying his children as employees to evade taxes, and to registering them at a separate address to send them to better schools. This month, prosecutors cleared him of charges of involvement in a stock manipulation case at a company called BBK, with which he denies any connection.
 But on Monday, a day after a video emerged in which Mr. Lee appeared to claim that he had founded the company, the National Assembly, now controlled by liberal lawmakers, voted to appoint a special counsel to reopen the case. If he is indicted before the transfer of power on Feb. 25, it would create a huge political burden for his administration. As president, he would enjoy immunity from any criminal prosecution unless accused of treason.
 ''His ethical problems could undermine his status as president-elect and eventually affect his ability to govern as president,'' said Hahm Sung-deuk, a political scientist at Korea University. ''On the other hand, he was able to get a big victory and a popular mandate, so that could help him overcome his problems.''
 Political analysts said Mr. Lee, who is known to be pro-American, would help improve relations with the United States. The Bush administration was always wary of Mr. Roh, who was elected in 2002 partly by playing to anti-American feelings at the time. 
 Differences over North Korea -- between the Bush administration's initially tough policy and what it perceived as Mr. Roh's indulgent engagement and coddling of the North -- strained relations even further. Officials on both sides warned privately of the possible end of the countries' security alliance.
 ''Relations of mutual trust have eroded over the years,'' said Han Sung-joo, who served as Seoul's ambassador to the United States from 2003 to 2005 during the Roh administration. ''But I think the new government will be able to restore that trust, though relations have already started improving since the turnaround by the Bush administration on the North Korean nuclear issue.''
 ''Lee Myung-bak has positive views of the United States and is in general very pragmatic, not ideological like the incumbent president,'' Mr. Han added. ''So his policy toward not only the United States, but also North Korea, should be very pragmatic.''
 Mr. Lee has said that he will offer extensive financial assistance to the North if it abandons its nuclear program. He also said he would emphasize economic projects and pledged to raise the North's per capita income to $3,000 within 10 years if it opened up for business.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lee Myung-bak, the president-elect, right, and his wife, Kim Yoon-ok, met the pressWednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PARK JI-HO/YONHAP, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); ETHICS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); INDICTMENTS (70%); INTERIOR DECORATING (50%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (87%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



481 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: As Voting Nears, Romney Shifts Political Narrative

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

DATELINE: GOFFSTOWN, N.H. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney was recounting to his audience here a political fable of sorts, about how he had never expected to get into politics after spending his life in business. The moral is one he has been telling again and again in his final sprint before the first votes of the 2008 presidential campaign are cast.
 ''The skills you have and that you develop in the private sector, whether it be small business or big business, they're desperately needed in government,'' Mr. Romney, the former Massachusetts governor seeking the Republican presidential nomination, told a crowd here Monday.
 The theme has essentially become Mr. Romney's closing argument to voters before the nominating contests, marking a subtle but significant shift from the far more ideological frame that has often been at the forefront of the campaign. The change speaks to the campaign's broader strategy in its final push to slice away supporters from Mike Huckabee in Iowa and bolster Mr. Romney's lead in New Hampshire. 
 ''I do believe that by virtue of my work in the private sector and at the Olympics and as a governor that I'm able to tackle the big problems that America faces,'' Mr. Romney said in a recent interview. ''I think in the final analysis when people go to the voting booths, they're going to ask themselves, given the scale of challenges we have, 'Who can solve the problems in America today?'''
 The focus on Mr. Romney's business acumen -- he is the founder of Bain Capital, a prominent private equity firm -- is in keeping with how almost all the leading Republican candidates have been running to varying degrees on their competence as a way to distinguish themselves from the Bush administration, without distancing themselves from President Bush ideologically.
 Nevertheless, Mr. Romney spent much of the spring and summer focusing more on bolstering his credentials as a conservative champion as he fended off vigorous criticism for his more moderate past. Romney advisers believe they have succeeded in establishing his conservative bona fides, even though lingering questions about his authenticity persist, and are able now to move on to focusing on the next layer of voters. 
 ''If you look now and you ask, 'Is Mitt Romney a conservative?' People would say, 'Yes,''' said Russ Schriefer, one of the campaign's media strategists.
 ''Now as we get closer to the election,'' Mr. Schriefer said, ''I think we need to be focusing more on his experience. What is it about Mitt Romney that makes him unique? What is it that makes him uniquely qualified? He has the experience. He has the experience to manage big things. He's done it before.''
 Ever since Mr. Romney began his presidential bid, his campaign has oscillated between two distinct, some would say contradictory, themes: Mr. Romney as a conservative standard-bearer and him as a pragmatic problem-solving businessman.
 His campaign advisers argue that the themes are complementary, but Mr. Romney's critics say that the businessman theme comes much more naturally to him and that he seized on the staunch conservative message only for political purposes.
 ''These two messages don't necessarily fit under the same strategic umbrella,'' said John Weaver, who ran Senator John McCain's presidential campaign until the summer. ''They're completely different. I think the governor has struggled to carry those two messages.''
 The re-emphasizing of the managerial argument that many originally thought could make Mr. Romney president jibes with the campaign's closing strategy in Iowa and New Hampshire.
 Here in New Hampshire, where a new CNN/WMUR poll shows him holding onto his lead, Mr. Romney's advisers said that their surveys showed him faring well among voters focused on taxes and spending but that he had room to grow among what they called ''economic voters,'' who were concerned about jobs, the country's competitiveness overseas and other economic issues. 
 Sure enough, Mr. Romney made a point in his stump speech here to include, when talking about lessons he derived from business, ''why jobs come and why jobs go'' and his work in ''over 20 countries.''
 In Iowa, Mr. Romney's advisers said it would be difficult for him, at this late stage, to peel off staunch Christian conservatives from Mr. Huckabee, a former Baptist minister, but they said they thought Mr. Romney could win over others who placed more importance on fiscal issues, the economy and immigration. It is one reason Mr. Romney last week unveiled a spiffy new PowerPoint presentation designed more to showcase his corporate competence than to help anyone in the audience follow his points.
 But Mr. Weaver argued that the dual images the Romney campaign had tried to establish were one reason it had struggled to produce a consistent message. In contrast, Mr. McCain's candidacy immediately evokes the Iraq war and his foreign policy credentials; Rudolph W. Giuliani's, his handling of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and his theme of staying on offense against Islamic terrorism.
 ''They're having a hard time having both feet planted on either side of the seesaw,'' Mr. Weaver said of the Romney campaign. 
 Mr. Romney's aides conceded they had struggled at times to inculcate their broader message in voters, in part because they were so busy parrying attacks early on from their opponents, including Mr. McCain's campaign and, later, Senator Sam Brownback's campaign in Iowa. 
 ''It took us a while to get other things put to bed so we could stick to a theme,'' said Tom Rath, a former New Hampshire attorney general and senior adviser. 
 To combat attacks from the right, Mr. Romney introduced a message in May centered on what he called the ''three legs of the conservative stool'' -- meant to unite social, fiscal and foreign policy conservatives behind him -- and spent much of the summer leading into the Iowa Straw Poll expounding on the idea, bringing up his private sector experience only in passing. He also presented a much harder line on immigration as the issue leapt to the forefront of the Republican race and swooped on the issue of same-sex marriage in August when a judge in Iowa ruled unconstitutional the state's ban on the practice.
 The question at this point is whether Mr. Romney jerked the wheel too hard to the right as he now tries to pick up a broader cross-section of voters. In September, the Romney campaign rolled out a new theme of Mr. Romney as a leader capable of bringing change to Washington. But it is a message that the Romney camp has found difficult to stick to amid the daily fluctuations of the campaign. 
 ''It has been hard to get to the essential, the core,'' said Alex Gage, the campaign's strategy director.
 Now Mr. Romney is trying to get down to it before he runs out of time. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mitt Romney, who visited Wednesday in West Des Moines, talks more now about his government and business experience. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007



482 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Portugal Polishes Its Image as the 'West Coast of Europe'

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

 BODY:
FOR Portugal, the signing in Lisbon last week of a treaty to overhaul the governance of the European Union was a ''tipping point,'' said Manuel Pinho, Portugal's minister for the economy and innovation. 
 ''We are the focus of Europe, and even the whole world,'' he said.
 The event did not go entirely smoothly. Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain skipped the ceremony, coming to town later in the day to add his signature. 
 The apparent snub -- Mr. Brown cited a scheduling conflict -- probably had more to do with fear of the euroskeptic Fleet Street tabloids than with any desire to offend the hosts. But to the Portuguese, being brushed off, overlooked or misunderstood by larger European countries is an all-too-common occurrence. Now they are trying to do something about it.
 Last week, as the European Union leaders converged on Lisbon, Portugal started an international advertising campaign aimed at bolstering the country's image. The campaign, one of a growing number of marketing initiatives by countries, states or cities, aims to give one of the oldest countries in Europe a New World high-tech gloss, portraying Portugal as ''the West Coast of Europe.''
 Print and outdoor ads feature well-known Portuguese sports figures like Jose Mourinho, the former coach of the Chelsea soccer team in London, and Cristiano Ronaldo, a star at Manchester United. Other subjects include Miguel Cancio Martins, an architect who designed the Buddha Bar in Paris and the Man Ray restaurant in New York. Their portraits are superimposed on pictures of dramatic Portuguese coastlines.
 Other ads focus on Portugal's strength in environmentally friendly energy production. Mr. Pinho said that 19 percent of the country's power comes from renewable sources like the wind or the sun, putting Portugal in third place in Europe, behind Sweden and Austria.
 That might come as something of a surprise to people who see Southern European countries like Portugal as being rich in history, with a good quality of life, but not necessarily progressive in business or technology, Mr. Pinho said. ''It's better to present a country as a champion of renewable energy than history,'' he said. ''History is the past.''
 The pages of international business magazines are full of government-sponsored advertising. But typically these campaigns are aimed at well-defined audiences like foreign investors or tourists. The former Soviet state of Georgia, for example, has been running ads that make the bold claim that it is a better place to do business than the Georgia in the United States, among other places. 
 The campaign for Portugal is different because, like a corporate brand-building initiative, it aims to improve the general perception of Portugal, rather than focusing on specific attributes for potential investors or travelers, said Joao Wengorovius, chief executive of BBDO Portugal, the ad agency based in Lisbon that created the campaign.
 ''We were trying to move away from the stereotypes and cliches of this kind of advertising,'' he said.
 One campaign conceived in a similar way was the German effort last year, in connection with the soccer World Cup, to brand itself as a ''land of ideas,'' focusing on German technological and cultural innovation.
 For Portugal, Mr. Pinho and Mr. Wengorovius acknowledged, one problem is that many people, even in Europe, have only vaguely formed ideas about Portugal. The tagline, highlighting Portugal's westward orientation, was intended to remind them that the country's coastline is along the Atlantic, not the Mediterranean, unlike other countries in Southern Europe with which it is sometimes lumped in the Northern European consciousness.
 Portugal has found itself the subject of unwanted media attention lately over the disappearance of Madeleine McCann, a 3-year-old British girl who was on vacation with her family last spring. The unsolved case remains a big story for the British tabloids, and there have been reports of declines in tourism from Britain, an important market for Portugal.
 Over all, though, tourism remains strong, Mr. Pinho said. ''This is a tragic case, of course, but it has not affected the numbers,'' he said. ''It's a very peaceful country, a very safe country.''
 The government is spending about $4.32 million on the ad campaign, Mr. Wengorovius said. ''We know that you cannot change the perception of a country just like that,'' he said. ''But this is about trying to put perception closer to reality.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: An ad campaign depicts Portugal as rich in beauty, tradition and environmental technology. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (88%); SOLAR ENERGY (86%); RESTAURANTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); BRANDING (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); ATHLETES (70%); SOCCER (70%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); SPORTS (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (65%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (63%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (63%)

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (54%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (54%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (71%); CRISTIANO RONALDO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (57%) GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (97%); PORTUGAL (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); GEORGIA (65%); AUSTRIA (58%); ENGLAND (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007



483 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1661 words

HEADLINE: A Social Order Shaped By Technology and Traffic

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

DATELINE: ALVISO, Calif. 

 BODY:
Palo Alto Networks is a high-tech start-up with ample financing and ambitious plans. But despite its name, the company has no offices in Palo Alto, Silicon Valley's unofficial capital.
 Instead, it is based about a dozen miles farther south, on the outskirts of San Jose, in Alviso. The company is developing technology to protect computer networks from hackers and misuse, so it chose to be where engineers with networking expertise are clustered: around big companies in the field like Cisco and Juniper Networks.
 Nir Zuk, its founder and chief technology officer, notes that Palo Alto is synonymous with high-tech innovation, and he was living there when he came up with the name. 
 ''But in Silicon Valley, you locate a company where the engineers are,'' he said. ''You would never locate a networking company in Palo Alto.'' 
 Silicon Valley, the wellspring of the digital technologies fueling globalization, is itself a collection of remarkably local clusters based on industry niches, skills, school ties, traffic patterns, ethnic groups and even weekend sports teams. 
 ''Here, we have microclimates for wines and microclimates for companies,'' said John F. Shoch, a longtime venture capitalist. 
 Silicon Valley, home of Stanford and other universities, has long been the model of success for a modern regional economy, and policy makers worldwide have tried to emulate it by nurturing high-tech companies around universities. There have been a few winners, like the semiconductor manufacturing hub in and around Hsinchu Science Park in Taiwan.
 Yet a look at the microclusters within Silicon Valley demonstrates the business relationships, the social connections and the seamless communication that animate the region's economy. It also suggests the human nuance behind the Valley's success and shows why that success is not easy to copy, export or outsource.
 ''These microclusters turn out to be a very efficient way to innovate, to see what works and what fails, and do it extremely rapidly,'' said AnnaLee Saxenian, an expert in regional economies and a professor at the University of California, Berkeley.
 New companies, and emerging industry clusters, seek to build on and tap the skills of older clusters. While there are plenty of exceptions, it is generally true that hardware clusters -- semiconductors, disk drives and network equipment, for example -- are in the South Valley, around San Jose and Santa Clara. The actual manufacturing of hardware, of course, moved to cheaper places years ago. What remains in the Valley is product design and engineering. 
 Moving farther north in the Valley typically means moving farther away from the guts of the machine and climbing up the tiers of computing -- from chips to layers of business and consumer software and then into San Francisco, home to people with online advertising and digital design skills. 
 For start-ups, the location decision can be critical, particularly because of the area's notorious traffic jams. Lately the calculations about traffic, talent and real estate have become trickier because the Valley's economy is surging again, driving up rents and salaries and clogging roads.
 The boom is fueled by the accelerating march of Internet technology into advertising, media and entertainment, and even into company data centers and the traditional software industry. Companies like Google and Facebook are the best known, but a spate of start-ups are in their wake, pursuing both business and consumer markets.
 Yaniv Bensadon, the founder of FixYa, made a major location decision a few months ago. He started his company -- a Web site for technical support and repair suggestions for consumer products, based on users' experiences -- two years ago in Israel. But he moved to the Valley in August to be in the thick of things.
 ''For a consumer Internet company, this is where everything happens,'' he said. ''It's true that things can be done anywhere on the Internet, but at the end of the day it's still a people business.''
 Many recent start-ups are hybrid companies. They combine computing with other fields, so they must tap a variety of skills. 
 Adchemy is a start-up that is still developing its technology and has not yet announced a product; in Valleyspeak, it is in stealth mode. 
 Adchemy's goal is to improve the efficiency of online advertising by using predictive algorithms and other scientific techniques. It already has a team of 50 people, mainly computer scientists and software engineers. They typically live in the Valley, mostly from Palo Alto south. But the company also needs people with advertising and marketing expertise, who are often young and single and prefer to live in San Francisco. 
 So Adchemy is in Redwood City -- just north of Palo Alto, but a 30-minute drive from San Francisco. The choice is important, since the company plans to double or triple its payroll over the next year. ''Recruiting is crucial for us,'' said Murthy Nukala, chief executive of Adchemy. ''There is a real war for talent in this field.''
 Big industry-leading companies tend to become the center of gravity in each cluster: in semiconductors in Santa Clara, it is Intel; in networking in San Jose, Cisco; in database software in Redwood Shores, the giant is Oracle; and of course, in Internet services in Mountain View, it is Google. 
 Then there are the clusters that are based more on personal connections or affiliations than on geography. Stanford, just outside Palo Alto, is perhaps the strongest cluster-generator in the Valley. 
 Stanford students and staff have been behind countless companies in the Valley, from established ones like Hewlett-Packard, Cisco and Sun Microsystems to more recent success stories like Google and VMware. And for decades, Stanford has been a source of ideas and talent for the Valley's venture capitalists, bunched around the Palo Alto thoroughfare Sand Hill Road, the Wall Street of venture capital (and another Valley cluster).
 Navin Chaddha, a managing director of the venture capital company Mayfield Fund, personifies the Stanford network of students, entrepreneurs and venture capitalists. As a Ph.D. student, he developed video-streaming technology that enabled Stanford to put its closed-circuit television programs on the Web. 
 Alumni investors noticed the potential, and Mr. Chaddha and a professor, Anoop Gupta, formed a company, VXtreme, which Microsoft bought in 1997. Its technology became part of Windows. ''If you are using Windows Media Player, you are using our creation,'' Mr. Chaddha said.
 Mr. Chaddha also represents another social cluster in the Valley, the ethnic Indian community. When he and Mr. Gupta needed advice, he said, ''we went back to our roots,'' tapping leaders of the Indus Entrepreneurs, a powerful ethnic Indian networking group. Today, Mr. Chaddha is a senior member of the organization.
 New companies with deep ethnic links -- mainly Indian and Chinese -- are sprouting up in the Valley. Often, ethnic background is but one layer of social relationship. SnapTell, a start-up that seeks to marry image-recognition technology, cellphones and marketing, was founded last year by G. D. Ramkumar and Gautam Bhargava, Indian computer scientists and Valley veterans. The company has 10 employees, six of whom have Ph.D.'s and three of whom are from Stanford. 
 The shared backgrounds, interests and schools make for frictionless communication that fosters rapid innovation.
 Even weekend sports, it seems, become the basis for informal business clusters in the Valley. Start-up ideas or job opportunities often surface on the sidelines of a weekend soccer game or, increasingly, cricket match. Giriraj Vengurlekar, an engineer who lives in Sunnyvale, plays in one of the Valley's cricket leagues, which now has 40 teams. His team, the Centurions, includes employees of Sun Microsystems, eBay, Cisco, Yahoo and other technology companies.
 Last year, Mr. Vengurlekar joined Serus, a start-up that makes software for managing offshore manufacturing operations. The cricket pitch, he finds, is a good place to scout recruits or learn of job openings. ''People don't play cricket to get jobs, but it definitely happens,'' he said. ''Cricket definitely spills over into business.'' 
 There is a certain visual identity to the clusters, and a hint of cultural tension among them. The clearest schism, perhaps, separates Valley dwellers from San Francisco residents.
 The hard core in the Valley jokes that San Francisco, with its Internet advertising and design cluster, has a ''high P.I.B. coefficient,'' for People in Black. The city's companies also have more women than those in the Valley. San Franciscans regard Valley engineers as denizens of a style-free suburban zone for whom being well-dressed means wearing jeans and a T-shirt with a company logo. 
 In recent years, more companies have successfully tapped the pool of people, including engineers, who shun the Valley: Craigslist, Linden Lab, Slide and Twitter. Salesforce.com, a thriving company that sells software as a service over the Internet to business customers, was a pioneer when it chose San Francisco as its base at its start in 1999. 
 San Francisco, said Marc Benioff, the founder of Salesforce and a former Oracle executive, has been ''an incredible recruiting tool and a differentiator when we are competing for talent with our suburban rivals.''
 The Valley residents see themselves as true entrepreneurs, entirely focused and dedicated. Marc Andreessen, 36, the co-founder of three companies in the Valley (Netscape, Opsware and Ning), concedes that San Francisco is generating more start-ups these days. 
 ''But in general, the nerds with minimal social lives like me are well down in the Valley, and the cool kids with the trendy glasses and Prada shoes who like to go to parties are in San Francisco,'' Mr. Andreessen said in an e-mail message. ''You can guess who has the leg up in building companies.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 21, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Thursday about the social networking of technology start-ups in California misidentified the location of the part of Sand Hill Road where Silicon Valley venture capital firms are concentrated. It is in Menlo Park, not Palo Alto.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Giriraj Vengurlekar, an engineer who lives in Sunnyvale, says the cricket pitch can be something of an informal job market.
 Nir Zuk of Palo Alto Networks, with Dave Stevens, right, and Jana Kameda, said, ''You would never locate a networking company in Palo Alto.'' So his start-up is in Alviso, Calif., to the south. (PHOTOGRAPHs BY THOR SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); STARTUPS (89%); COMPUTER CRIME (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (75%); CLIMATOLOGY (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); EXECUTIVES (55%); ETHNIC GROUPS (52%); SPORTS (52%); SPORTS & RECREATION (52%); ETHNICITY (52%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: PALO ALTO NETWORKS INC (84%); JUNIPER NETWORKS INC (57%)

TICKER: PANW (NYSE) (84%); JNPR (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007



484 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Tribune Chief to Step Down as Newspaper Chain Goes Private

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
A day before an $8.2 billion deal is expected to take the Tribune Company private, Dennis J. FitzSimons said Wednesday that he would step down as chairman and chief executive as soon as the transaction was done, clearing the way for the real estate billionaire Samuel Zell to assume control.
 Mr. Zell will take the helm of a business whose finances have become markedly worse this year, and one that will emerge with about $13 billion in debt, prompting analysts and bankers to express concern for its stability. The deal could be completed as early as Thursday, if Tribune's investment banks agree that the company still meets the financial standards they set for it when they signed on last spring. 
 Investors have been skittish about the prospects of completing the stock purchase at the promised price of $34 a share. For months Tribune stock traded at much lower prices, dipping below $25 in August; it closed yesterday at $33.07. 
 Analysts and investors cited Tribune's economic woes, the tightening credit market and a federal rule against common ownership of different major media in a single market as elements that could derail the deal.
 But Mr. Zell and Tribune executives insisted that the financing was firmly locked in, and that the price was not a problem. And steps taken by the Federal Communications Commission in the last three weeks, including Tuesday's vote to relax the rules on cross-ownership, eliminated a major obstacle.
 It had been widely anticipated that Mr. FitzSimons and some other executives would leave after the deal was done; the announcement of his departure was first reported Wednesday by The Los Angeles Times, a Tribune newspaper. 
 Mr. Zell, who will become chairman and may take an executive post, as well, has signaled that he intends to thin out the corporate administration and give individual Tribune properties more autonomy -- a shift from the company's centralized style.
 The company needs ''to hear a single voice from the top,'' Mr. FitzSimons wrote in a message to Tribune employees. He added that the company would be transformed ''out of the glare of the public markets.''
 The deal, announced on April 2, calls for all of the company's stock to be transferred to an employee stock ownership plan, making Tribune nonprofit and tax-exempt. Employees could take direct control of the stock over a number of years, and would benefit if the company thrived, but many of them have expressed skepticism.
 The company had bought back about half the outstanding stock, and will buy the rest when the deal closes. Mr. Zell, 66, will invest a total of $315 million of his own in the deal, gaining warrants to buy about 40 percent of the company's stock in the future.
 Mr. Zell and Tribune have announced plans to sell the Chicago Cubs baseball team and its home, Wrigley Field. But despite many offers, he has said he does not intend to part with the major newspapers like The Los Angeles Times.
 Mr. FitzSimons, 57, who has been with the company since 1982, became president in 2001, chief executive in 2003 and chairman in 2004. 
 He leaves with a total of about $15 million, which includes severance, a ''gross-up'' to cover taxes, and a bonus, in addition to retirement, deferred compensation and other benefits worth more than $4 million, according to an analysis by James F. Reda & Associates, a compensation consulting firm. In addition, he will cash in $19 million in stock, restricted stock grants and stock options that he would receive even if he were not leaving.
 Tribune owns 14 newspapers, including several of the nation's largest, among them The Los Angeles Times, The Chicago Tribune, The Baltimore Sun and Newsday. It also has two dozen television stations, including stations in New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, and a radio station, production studios and other properties.
 In a difficult time for newspaper companies, Tribune has struggled more than most of its peers, despite several rounds of budget cuts in recent years that included deep reductions in newsroom staffs. During the first three quarters of this year, the company's profit fell 53 percent below last year's. Through November, ad revenue in publishing was down 8.5 percent.
 Tribune has struggled to regain its footing since it bought the Times Mirror Company in 2000. It paid an inflated price, $8 billion, and had trouble integrating the two operations.
 Last year, the publisher and the top editor of The Los Angeles Times, which had been the cornerstone of Times Mirror, staged a public rebellion against Tribune, refusing to carry out staff cuts. Both were dismissed. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dennis J. FitzSimons will leave with about $19 million, and $19 million for his stock. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL VELAZQUEZ/CHICAGO TRIBUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOING PRIVATE (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); BASEBALL (60%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (91%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: DENNIS J FITZSIMONS (93%); SAMUEL ZELL (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (64%) ILLINOIS, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (64%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007



485 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-17
 Refugees Return Home To Find Iraq Unprepared
 Tens of thousands of refugees face uncertainties upon returning to Iraq, where the government's inability to manage the uneven reverse exodus has left the most vulnerable in an uneasy, potentially explosive limbo.A1
 A United States marine is at the center of an American military investigation into the death of an Iraqi policeman from what appears to have been a knife fight between the two men at a military base, a military spokesman said.A14 
 Turkey provided the United States with ample warning that it was making an incursion into Iraq this week, American officials said.A16
 House to See C.I.A. Papers 
 The C.I.A. agreed to make documents related to the destruction of interrogation videotapes available to the House Intelligence Committee and to allow the agency's top lawyer, John A. Rizzo, to testify about the matter, Congressional and intelligence officials said.A6
 South Korea Elects President
 Lee Myung-bak, a conservative politician famous for his success in business but dogged by questions about his character, swept to a huge victory in a presidential election dominated by economic concerns.A8
 Israel Cool to Hamas Offer
 Israeli officials reacted coolly to an indirect approach by the Hamas leader in Gaza offering talks on a truce.A3
 Kosovo Status Stumps U.N.
 The Security Council signaled that it would not be able to resolve the status of Kosovo, the breakaway Serbian province. A7
 NATIONALA18-41 
 Plan to Spare Millions From Tax Hike Is Approved
 Congress gave final approval to a plan that will spare middle-class taxpayers from paying higher taxes in the coming months. The White House welcomed the development and said President Bush would sign the bill. A1 
 E.P.A. Rules Against States
 In a decision fraught with profound scientific, legal and political implications, the Environmental Protection Agency denied California and 16 other states the right to set their own standards for carbon dioxide pollution from automobiles. A1 
 Site Created to Rate Charities
 Two hedge fund analysts made six-figure incomes deciding what companies to invest in. Now they are doing the same thing with charities -- but for a lot less pay. They are the founders of GiveWell, which studies charities in particular fields and ranks them on their effectiveness. A18 
 Army Measure is Approved
 President Bush has approved what officials are describing as the most significant realignment of the Army since World War II, signing off on a plan that will keep more troops than previously envisioned in Europe and add large numbers of soldiers to bases in Colorado, Georgia and Texas, Army officials said. A18 
 EDUCATION
 Luring Students to Teaching
 Many programs are trying to attract more top students to the teaching profession using approaches like recruiting at prestigious universities, and offering fellowships and training. A20
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-8
 City Council Approves Columbia's Expansion
 The New York City Council cleared the way for the largest expansion in the history of Columbia University. The university plans a $7 billion project over the next 25 years that will double its size.A1 
 New MetroCard Math
 The board of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority voted to reduce the bonus that riders receive on pay-per-ride MetroCards. The change means many riders will see odd amounts of spare change -- as little as a nickel or a dime -- left over on their MetroCards. If they throw away cards with balances of just a few cents, the authority could get a windfall in unclaimed fares. B1 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-12 
 A First Loss for Morgan
 Morgan Stanley reported its first quarterly loss ever, raising fears that the financial toll would keep mounting from the crisis in the subprime mortgage market. Morgan said it would sell a $5 billion stake to a Chinese investment fund to shore up its capital. C1 
 Bond Insurers at Risk
 Citing deepening problems in the mortgage market, Standard & Poor's cut the rating of one troubled bond insurer and assigned a negative outlook to four other companies that guarantee debts tied to home loans. C1 
 Silicon's Social Networks
 Increasingly, clusters are emerging of industry start-ups, much like the microclusters at Silicon Valley. These clusters are turning out to be an effective way of seeing what works and what fails. C1
 Business DigestC2 
 OBITUARIESB9
 Tom B. Murphy, a colorful and commanding legislator who ruled the House of Representatives in Georgia when Democrats were at the height of their power in the state, he was 83. B9
 EDITORIALA42-43
 Editorials: Slowing the rise in health costs; a pause from death; Qaddafi plays Paris and Madrid; an idea whose time should be past.
 Columns: Gail Collins and Roger Cohen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); HAMAS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY BASES (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); TAX LAW (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); WORLD WAR II (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX INCREASES (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (67%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (67%); LAWYERS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (93%); SERBIA (93%); KOSOVO (92%); EUROPE (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007



486 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 761 words

PERSON: Tom B. Murphy 

HEADLINE: Tom B. Murphy, 83, Dies; a Longtime Power in Georgia

BYLINE: By BRENDA GOODMAN

DATELINE: ATLANTA 

 BODY:
Tom B. Murphy, a colorful and commanding legislator who ruled the House of Representatives in Georgia when Democrats were at the height of their power in the state, died Monday at his home in Bremen, Ga., where he lived all his life. He was 83. 
 The cause was complications of a stroke he suffered in 2004, said Michael L. Murphy, his son. 
 Mr. Murphy's 28 years as speaker of the House, from 1974 to 2002, spanned the terms of five governors: Jimmy Carter, George Busbee, Joe Frank Harris, Zell Miller and Roy Barnes. He was among the longest-serving speakers of any state House of Representatives. 
 ''Governors came and went, but the speaker was always here,'' said Steve C. Anthony, who was Mr. Murphy's top aide from 1981 to 1995. ''He had more of an eye on what would be good for the state regardless of how it affected his political fortunes because he never wanted to be anything but speaker.''
 For more than 40 years, Mr. Murphy, chomping on a cigar and wearing a white Stetson and zip-up Florsheim boots, cut a larger-than-life figure in the Capitol.
 He was fiercely partisan and referred to himself as a ''yellow dog'' Democrat, meaning he would vote for a yellow dog before he would vote for a Republican. For years he was successful in keeping Republicans out of the statehouse even as they were gaining strength throughout the South. His chief means was his influence over redistricting. 
 ''He held off the Republican Party for 20 years,'' said Melvin T. Steely, director of the Georgia Political Heritage program at West Georgia University. ''The Republican Party should have come in by the late '60s or early '70s. But as speaker he could change the rules every two years, and the Republicans just could not get a foothold.''
 For many years Mr. Murphy maintained a successful alliance with black leaders throughout the state, persuading them to help get out the black vote for Democratic candidates.
 During the height of his power, in the 1980s, Mr. Murphy was a kingmaker, helping to propel a political protege, Joe Frank Harris, a state representative from Cartersville, to the governor's office in 1982. He helped Wyche Fowler win a United States Senate seat in 1986.
 In the 1990s, Mr. Murphy locked horns with Newt Gingrich, then the speaker of the United States House of Representatives, by repeatedly redrawing the lines of Mr. Gingrich's district in an effort to dilute his Republican base.
 Addressing the Georgia General Assembly in 1994, Mr. Gingrich acknowledged the efforts of his nemesis. ''The speaker, by raising money and gerrymandering, has sincerely dedicated a part of his career to wiping me out,'' Mr. Gingrich said.
 But Mr. Murphy could not hold off the Republicans forever. In 2002, in the same election that made Sonny Perdue the first Republican governor in Georgia in 130 years, Mr. Murphy was defeated.
 Though he was a country lawyer from the west Georgia town of Bremen, he championed the economic development of Atlanta, pushing through financing for public transportation, a highway system, a convention center and a stadium. He also worked to improve services for children, veterans, the elderly and the disabled.
 His colleagues said that he could kill legislation with a glance and resurrect it with a nod of his head, but that he made time for anyone who came to him for help.
 ''I was his scheduler, and it was a nightmare,'' Mr. Anthony said. ''People would literally come in off the street and ask to see him, and he might spend half an hour with them.''
 By the time Mr. Murphy left office, he had become so well known that the West Georgia University announced plans to recreate his cluttered office as part of its campus museum.
 Thomas Bailey Murphy was born March 10, 1924, in Bremen. His father was the mayor and preached at a Primitive Baptist church on the weekends. Mr. Murphy graduated from Bremen High School and attended North Georgia College in Dahlonega before serving in the Navy in World War II.
 He graduated from law school at the University of Georgia and went on to practice law with his older brother, James, who used a wheelchair because of rheumatoid arthritis. Mr. Murphy would carry his brother up the steps of their law office each day. Mr. Murphy was first elected to the legislature in 1960. His brother died in 1966.
 In addition to his son, Michael, of Bremen, Mr. Murphy is survived by three daughters, Martha Long, Lynn Murphy McAdams and Mary J. Murphy-Oxendine, all of Bremen, and five grandchildren.
 Mr. Murphy was to lie in state on Friday in the rotunda of the Capitol.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Georgia House speaker, Tom B. Murphy, in 1998. He was among the longest-serving House speakers of any state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEATHS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REDISTRICTING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (60%)

NEWT GINGRICH (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%) GEORGIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007



487 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Bank of Japan Holds Its Key Rate Steady

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
The Bank of Japan kept interest rates steady on Thursday in its first unanimous decision since June, after a drop in business confidence signaled that companies were bracing for slower growth. 
 The bank governor, Toshihiko Fukui, and his colleagues voted to leave the benchmark overnight lending rate at 0.5 percent, the lowest among major economies, the bank said in a statement Thursday. One member, Atsushi Mizuno, rejoined the majority after proposing an increase at each meeting since July.
 ''The Bank of Japan seems to be crossing its fingers that global growth won't deteriorate,'' said Izuru Kato, chief market economist at Totan Research Company. 
 Rising prices for oil and raw materials are eroding income just as a slowing American economy has dimmed prospects for global growth. The drop in business sentiment may undermine the bank's contention that rising profits will filter into higher wages and consumer spending, propelling the economy.
 The government also cut its economic growth forecasts on Thursday. Japan's economy, the second-biggest in the world after the United States, will probably expand 1.3 percent in the year ending March 31, slower than a previous forecast of 2.1 percent, the Cabinet Office said. The economy will grow 2 percent next year, less than the 2.1 percent estimated earlier, it said.
 Japan's export growth cooled in November as the slowdown in housing in the United States cut demand for automobiles and construction equipment.
 Exports rose 9.7 percent from a year earlier, the government said, after growth doubled in the previous month. 
 Shipments to the United States declined for a third month, the worst losing streak in more than three years. Japan is depending more on overseas markets just as world growth is appearing to slow. Growth in shipments to Europe and China also slowed last month, today's report showed.
 ''We need to be on guard until the U.S. economy bounces back,'' said Hiroaki Muto, a senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management. ''Japan's economy still needs exports to make up for sluggish domestic demand.''
 Imports rose 13.2 percent in November, the finance ministry said, after climbing 8.6 percent in October, causing the trade surplus to fall 12.2 percent. Analysts had expected an 11.8 percent increase. Shipments to China grew 13.7 percent, the slowest pace since February. Exports to the European Union rose 8.2 percent, the slowest rate since April 2006.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); SHIPMENTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (65%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANK OF JAPAN (90%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



488 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Ways to Lead: Reach Out, or Confront?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman's Dec. 17 column, ''Big Table Fantasies,'' labels as ''unrealistic'' Senator Barack Obama's plan of inclusiveness to address the nation's health care finance problem. Instead, Mr. Krugman claims that the solution must exclude insurance and drug companies, because they are the cause of the problem.
 Many progressives would agree that the wealthy and corporate interests have undue influence over public policy, and that bold action is necessary to minimize that influence and change public policy for the better. 
 But there is no consensus that we should move to a national one-payer health care system, or that we must eschew the benefits of technology and drug innovation to improve health care availability. So it is not clear that the politics of exclusion will produce a solution that works or is desirable.
 F.D.R.'s authoritarian approach may have worked in a crisis, but it is not the only effective leadership style when bold action is called for. Lincoln, Kennedy and Johnson all practiced the politics of inclusion to overcome the ills arising from the factionalism and the special and corporate interests of their time.
 The true test of public policy is its sustainability. Policy change aligned with the interests of all stakeholders is likely to be most sustainable, and thus consistent with Mr. Obama's brand of progressivism. Tim Platt
 Concord, N.H., Dec. 18, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman argues that Barack Obama is naive in proposing that insurance and drug industry representatives be invited to participate in negotiations about the future of health care.
 The ''big table'' is at the heart of our American politic, serving as a place where the arguments of the contenders can be discovered and, in some cases, exposed. Public exposure of unfair practices can in fact be a critical tactic in the battles for progressive causes envisioned by Mr. Krugman.
 Laughlin Phillips
 Washington, Conn., Dec. 17, 2007
 To the Editor: 
 I don't often disagree with Paul Krugman, but his belief that health care reform can be enacted without the participation of the insurance and drug industries is just, well, naive.
 The outcome of negotiations will depend on the relative power of the participants. If enough Democrats are elected so they can pass legislation that allows Medicare to negotiate drug prices and requires insurance companies to enroll all applicants at their best rates, drug and insurance companies will be quite willing to reach an agreement on a fair, cost-effective and sustainable universal heath care system. Michael Wang
 Wilmington, N.C., Dec. 17, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Power, who has it and who wants to keep it -- this is the real issue. Paul Krugman is absolutely right. Every other issue flows from that. That includes the war, the economy, health care, education, immigration, you name it. 
 Until American voters realize this fundamental truth about why their vote should be based on who is willing to challenge entrenched interests, our nation will continue on the path to social and economic stratification. 
 It is disingenuous to believe that those who have consolidated and increased their power during this administration will willingly give it up.
 Inspirational platitudes about reconciliation may appeal to the emotions of the voters, but they do not matter to those who stand to lose influence and control. We need to take a cold, hard look at what is really at stake and choose the candidate with the courage to challenge those who care more about money and power than they do about our country.
 Lucie Skadden
 Houston, Dec. 17, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman seems to be recommending continuing the politics of polarization in health care reform. Hasn't 15 years of this been enough?
 I think Senator Barack Obama is right: Invite the insurance and drug companies to the table. If and when they try to sabotage reform, doctors, nurses, patient advocates, unions, corporate benefit managers and every other interested party will be there to point the finger at the problem. 
 Call me naive if you wish, but with all the cards on the table, insurance and drug companies may just find that their only good choice is to be part of the solution. Michael Benson
 San Francisco, Dec. 17, 2007
 To the Editor: 
 Paul Krugman calls Barack Obama ''naive'' for emphasizing the need for reconciliation. Instead, Mr. Krugman seems to share John Edwards's view that America needs a polarizing figure like F.D.R. to get things done.
 But there may be an alternative explanation for the senator's rhetoric. Perhaps Mr. Obama is simply shrewd enough to know the kind of message he must send to get elected. And that says to me that Mr. Obama, like Roosevelt, knows plenty about politics. 
 David Lefer
 New York, Dec. 17, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman suggests that Senator Barack Obama is being naive by eschewing John Edwards's anti-corporate populism and offering to create a ''big table'' in creating a national health care plan. 
 But historically populism has failed as a unifying national platform in part because Americans tend to dislike ''class warfare.'' Also, policy change is most likely, and most likely to succeed, when it is incremental. 
 The health care industry employs huge numbers of Americans and accounts for about 15 percent of our gross domestic product. The industry has enormous power and would kill any plan it deemed antagonistic. To hope otherwise would be naive. 
 We may not like the profit-based health care system that we inherited, but the best chance for change is bending not breaking. Just ask Hillary Rodham Clinton. Zachary W. Oberfield
 Philadelphia, Dec. 18, 2007

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID SUTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATION (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); MEDICARE (72%); DRUG PRICES (71%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); IMMIGRATION (50%); VOTERS & VOTING (50%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (69%); WILMINGTON, NC, USA (50%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007



489 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: CONGRESS AVERTS HIGHER TAX BILL FOR MIDDLE CLASS

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Carl Hulse, Robert Pear, Edmund L. Andrews and Sarah Abruzzese contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Congress on Wednesday gave final approval to a plan that will spare millions of middle-class taxpayers higher tax bills for 2007. The White House welcomed the development and said President Bush would sign the bill. 
 The tax reprieve postpones for one year only an expansion of the alternative minimum tax, a parallel tax system enacted in 1969 to prevent very wealthy investors from using deductions and tax shelters to avoid paying income tax altogether. The alternative tax has ensnared a growing number of middle-class Americans in recent years because the 1969 law was not indexed to inflation. 
 Without the fix by Congress, some 25 million filers would have had to pay the tax on their 2007 income, up from four million who paid it on 2006 income, according to the White House. 
 The Bush administration took a swipe at Congress, saying that the late action by lawmakers might still cause delayed refunds for up to 38 million filers. 
 The measure would increase slightly the amount of income that is exempt from the alternative tax. For individuals, that means the exempt amount increases to $44,350 in 2007 from $42,500 in 2006. For married couples, the exemption amount climbs to $66,250 from $62,550. 
 The alternative minimum tax requires taxpayers -- generally those who deduct items like high medical expenses and state and local taxes and who claim credits for dependents -- to make separate calculations and pay the one producing the higher figure. 
 The vote on the alternative tax plan came on the final day of the first session of the 110th Congress, which ended with a burst of last-minute legislation including final adoption by the House of a $555 billion budget package.
 But it was the tax plan that gave a discordant note to the last day before the holiday recess. 
 House Democrats angrily approved the bill after giving in to demands by Congressional Republicans and Mr. Bush that the tax cut not be offset by raising other taxes. Democrats started the year by pledging to make up for the $50 billion tax fix with cuts in spending or increases in taxes elsewhere. 
 The Democrats repeatedly tried to get Senate Republicans to back a plan that would have imposed new taxes, particularly on wealthy hedge fund managers, but the Republicans refused. Because the lawmakers did not offset relief from the alternative tax, the national debt will increase by $50 billion. 
 ''The only reason this bill is not paid for is because Republicans almost in lock step in both bodies have prevented us,'' said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader, in one of several furious speeches by Democrats on the House floor. 
 ''We are forced today to recognize that we don't have the votes to pursue the pay-as-you-go principle that we adopted in a bipartisan fashion,'' Mr. Hoyer said. ''I regret this day and this bill.'' 
 The White House, however, cheered the plan. ''We're pleased that today Congress was finally able to pass legislation, without raising taxes,'' the press secretary, Dana Perino, said in a statement. ''The A.M.T. was never intended to hit these middle-class taxpayers, and the last thing they or the U.S. economy needs is a tax increase.'' 
 The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., while thanking the House for approving the bill, warned that there would probably be some delays ''including delays of some refunds.'' 
 Changes in the tax code require substantial work, especially in reprogramming I.R.S. computers. 
 Officials said Wednesday that they could not project how many taxpayers might be affected by delays. Previously the I.R.S. had said that a delay in Congressional action until Christmas could stall as many as 38 million tax returns corresponding to $87 billion in refunds. 
 The I.R.S. said Wednesday that within 72 hours it would post on its Web site revisions to a dozen forms affected by the change. 
 The anger over the tax plan dampened the spirits of Congressional Democrats who earlier in the day had celebrated Mr. Bush's signing of a major energy bill. 
 Party leaders in both chambers held dueling news conferences across Capitol Hill to proclaim themselves winners in the first year of the Democratic-controlled Congress. At the same time, there was ample griping within both parties, signaling that Congress remains deeply divided heading into a hotly contested election year.
 Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other House Democrats boasted that Mr. Bush had signed legislation addressing four of the issues from their Six for '06 platform in last year's elections: raising the minimum wage, adopting the 9/11 Commission's findings, improving college financial aid and setting new energy standards. 
 The Democrats also cheered themselves for passing new ethics and lobbying rules. But they tempered their remarks, saying they could have accomplished far more, were it not for obstruction by the Republican minority, particularly in the Senate, where Republicans often denied Democrats the 60 votes needed to proceed on major bills. 
 ''Last year voters asked us to take America in a new direction,'' Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said at a news conference with Ms. Pelosi and other Democratic leaders. ''Democrats were working every day to bring about that change, and while we have made a down payment on that agenda, there is much left to do.'' 
 At his own news conference earlier in the day, Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, said his caucus had forced the Democrats to compromise if not capitulate altogether on many issues. 
 Most important, Mr. McConnell said, the Republicans stopped Democrats' efforts to shift the course of the Iraq war. ''Senate Republicans were able to hold together to prevent the Congress from either telling the generals how to conduct the war and providing dates certain for surrender,'' he said. 
 There was similar chest-thumping by House Republicans, who boasted that they had thwarted the Democrats at virtually every turn, forcing them, for instance, to accept President Bush's spending limits, blocking an expansion of a children's health insurance program and preventing them from raising taxes to offset relief from the alternative minimum tax. 
 ''The accomplishments that have occurred, in a Congress that is noted for lack of accomplishment, were really on our turf and our terms,'' said Representative Adam H. Putnam of Florida, the No. 3 Republican. ''That is a real story of missed opportunity and lack of achievement on the part of the majority.'' 
 In a sign of Democrats' continuing distrust of Mr. Bush, Mr. Reid said the Senate would hold pro forma sessions throughout the holiday break to prevent the White House from making recess appointments. 
 In other action on Wednesday, the House approved an extension of the State Children's Health Insurance Program through March 31, 2009. The bill fell far short of the expansion of the program that Democrats had sought in recent months but provides enough money to maintain enrollment at current levels. 
 Without the extension, 20 states were at risk of exhausting their money for the program, which insures the children of poor families with incomes too high to qualify for Medicaid. 
 The House also approved a measure strengthening the Consumer Product Safety Commission's authority to enforce safety regulations. 
 In a separate development, a House Special Task Force on Ethics Enforcement, led by Representative Michael E. Capuano, Democrat of Massachusetts, issued a report calling for the creation of an independent ethics panel to review allegations against lawmakers. 
 Senate Republicans refused Wednesday to reauthorize a program that provides financial support and training to people who lose jobs because of foreign competition. The program, which was created in 1962, expires at the end of the year. The House approved a three-month extension last week, but the Senate could not reach a deal before adjourning for the year.
 By far the most frustrated lawmakers were the House Democrats in the fiscally conservative Blue Dog coalition who had battled intensely over the alternative minimum tax. They lashed out at the Republicans in Congress and the White House.
 ''The president, along with Senate and House Republicans, has sent a clear message that he has no interest in reversing the reckless fiscal policies of the past six years,'' Representative Mike Ross, Democrat of Arkansas, said. ''The Blue Dogs have made a promise to the American people,'' Mr. Ross added. ''We refuse to abandon our commitment to fiscal responsibility now or in the future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Congress closed the session with a flurry, then paused for a review. Mitch McConnell, left, the Senate Republican leader, claimed victories, as did Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other Democrats. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIM SLOAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 SUSAN ETHERIDGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); APPROVALS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); MARRIAGE (51%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); STENY HOYER (59%); MITCH MCCONNELL (59%); NANCY PELOSI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007



490 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2717 words

HEADLINE: In His Charity and Her Politics, Many Clinton Donors Overlap

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr., JO BECKER and MIKE McINTIRE; Alain Delaqueriere and Aron Pilhofer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
This article is by Don Van Natta Jr., Jo Becker and Mike McIntire.
 Over the last decade, former President Bill Clinton has raised more than $500 million for his foundation, allowing him to build a glass-and-steel presidential library in Little Rock, Ark., and burnish his image as an impresario of global philanthropy. The foundation has closely guarded the identities of its donors -- including one who gave $31.3 million last year.
 Now, the secrecy surrounding the William J. Clinton Foundation has become a campaign issue as Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton seeks the Democratic presidential nomination with her husband as a prime source of strategy and star power. Some of her rivals argue that donors could use presidential foundations to circumvent campaign finance laws intended to limit political influence.
 Mr. Clinton himself echoed those concerns this fall when he pledged to make public future donors if Mrs. Clinton was elected president. While disclosure is not legally required, failure to do so, Mr. Clinton said, would raise ''all these questions about whether people would try to win favor with her by giving money to me.'' 
 Even so, past donors should remain private, he insisted, ''unless there is some conflict of which I am aware, and there is not.''
 But an examination of the foundation demonstrates how its fund-raising has at times fostered the potential for conflict.
 The New York Times has compiled the first comprehensive list of 97 donors who gave or pledged a total of $69 million for the Clinton presidential library in the final years of the Clinton administration. The examination found that while some $1 million contributors were longtime Clinton friends, others were seeking policy changes from the administration. Two pledged $1 million each while they or their companies were under investigation by the Justice Department. 
 Other donations came from supporters who had been ensnared in campaign finance scandals surrounding Mr. Clinton's 1996 re-election campaign.
 In raising record sums for her campaign, Mrs. Clinton has tapped many of the foundation's donors. At least two dozen have become ''Hillraisers,'' each bundling $100,000 or more for her presidential bid. The early library donors, combined with their families and political action committees, have contributed at least $784,000 to Mrs. Clinton's Senate and presidential coffers.
 The foundation and Mrs. Clinton's political campaigns have been intertwined in other ways. Terry McAuliffe, who led the foundation's fund-raising and sits on its board, is now Mrs. Clinton's campaign chairman and chief fund-raiser. Cheryl Mills plays a similar dual role, sitting on the foundation board and serving as the general counsel to Mrs. Clinton's campaign. And Jay Carson recently traded a communications position at the foundation for a job as her campaign's press secretary.
 As the scope of the foundation expanded from the Clinton library into issues like treating AIDS in the developing world and addressing global poverty and climate change, and Mrs. Clinton moved closer to announcing her candidacy, the pace of giving quickened. Last year, contributions reached $135 million, a 70 percent increase over the previous year. Two-thirds came from just 11 donors.
 The $31.3 million donation, which was previously undisclosed, came from the Radcliffe Foundation run by Frank Giustra, a Canadian who has made millions financing mining deals around the world. Mr. Giustra has become a member of Mr. Clinton's inner circle, joining him on global trips and lending him the use of his private MD-87 jet. 
 For weeks, Clinton Foundation officials had suggested that the $31.3 million contribution listed on its tax return did not come from a single donor. They then said it came from a single source, but declined to identify it. Wednesday afternoon, a representative of Mr. Giustra contacted The Times and acknowledged the Radcliffe contribution.
 This year, Mr. Giustra announced separate plans to give the Clinton Foundation $100 million, plus half of his future earnings from natural resource business ventures, for a joint project to spur economic growth in poor Latin American mining communities. Taken together, the contributions make Mr. Giustra one of the foundation's largest benefactors, if not the single largest.
 The Times's findings are based on tax documents filed by the Clinton Foundation and by groups that contributed to it, interviews with donors and people with direct knowledge of the foundation's activities, as well as federal government records and an analysis of campaign finance data.
 In a statement, the foundation said, ''Donors did not seek, nor did President Clinton give, favors from the federal government,'' adding that most of the contributions came after Mr. Clinton left office. ''President Clinton is grateful for the support the foundation has received from more than 100,000 donors,'' which helped provide AIDS medication for 750,000 people, fight climate change, combat childhood obesity and build heath systems around the world, the statement said. 
 In a separate written response from Mrs. Clinton's campaign, a spokesman, Phil Singer, said, ''Senator Clinton is not involved in the fund-raising or operations of the Clinton Foundation.'' Mr. Singer noted that President Clinton's promise to disclose future donors should his wife become president went beyond what the law required.
 To limit the influence of any single donor, federal election law prohibits foreign donations to presidential campaigns and limits Americans to $2,300 per election. But presidential foundations are free to accept unlimited and anonymous contributions, even from foreigners and foreign governments. Indeed, the Saudi royal family, the king of Morocco, a foundation linked to the United Arab Emirates, and the governments of Kuwait and Qatar have made contributions of unknown amounts to the Clinton Foundation. 
 ''The vast scale of these secret fund-raising operations presents enormous opportunities for abuse,'' said Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, who introduced a bill to force disclosure of presidential foundation donors. The bill passed the House, 390-34, in March but stalled in the Senate. 
 Building a Foundation
 In June 1999, as the Clinton administration wound down, Mrs. Clinton told friends gathered in the White House solarium that wealthy donors had offered to establish a foundation for her. But she was set on running for the Senate in New York. That same month, Mr. Clinton and his chief fund-raiser met for dinner with 40 executives at La Grenouille, a French restaurant in Manhattan. The president had a vision for a charitable foundation that would tackle problems domestic and foreign, several former aides who helped establish the foundation said.
 But first, Mr. Clinton had to raise money for his presidential library, which would ultimately cost $165 million. He found a ready pool of library donors in people and companies with matters before the government, many of them loyal Democratic contributors.
 On October 6, 1999, the charitable arm of the Anheuser-Busch Companies gave $200,000, the first of five payments over five years totaling $1 million, according to records filed by the company's foundation. Less than a month earlier, the company, the country's leading beer maker, had scored a major victory when the Clinton administration's Federal Trade Commission dropped a bid to regulate beer, wine and liquor advertising that critics said was aimed at under-age drinkers.
 Francine I. Katz, a company spokeswoman, said the donation was unrelated to any government action and that its foundation had contributed more than $360 million to a wide array of organizations, including the Bush, Truman and Johnson presidential libraries.
 William A. Brandt Jr., a bankruptcy lawyer in Chicago and prolific Democratic fund-raiser, pledged $1 million in May 1999. At the time, the Justice Department was investigating Mr. Brandt's testimony to Congress about a $10,000 per couple fund-raiser he had held for the president's 1996 re-election campaign. At issue was whether he had lied when he denied promoting it as an explicit opportunity to lobby a top bankruptcy official at the event.
 In August 1999, the Justice Department determined that ''prosecution is not warranted.'' Mr. Brandt, who is now a Hillraiser, did not respond to several phone and e-mail messages.
 Bernard L. Schwartz, another major Democratic contributor who was then chief executive of Loral Space and Communications, gave $250,000 and pledged $750,000 more in 2000. At the time, investigators were trying to determine if Loral had improperly provided satellite technology to China. Under the Bush administration, Loral agreed to pay a civil fine of $14 million to settle the case. Mr. Schwartz, who is now also a Hillraiser, said that his donations were unconnected to Loral's troubles and added that he had contributed to other presidential libraries.
 Familiar Donors
 Toward the end of the Clinton administration, Dr. Richard Machado Gonzalez and his lawyer, Miguel D. Lausell, both major Democratic donors in the 1996 presidential election, were pushing the president to increase Medicare reimbursements to hospitals in Puerto Rico, like the one owned by Dr. Machado. Mr. Lausell pledged $1 million to the library in 1999, eight months before Mr. Clinton proposed increasing Medicare payments to Puerto Rico for the second time in his administration. Dr. Machado gave the foundation $100,000 about six months later.
 In the interim, the president appointed Mr. Lausell to the board of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, which helps American companies with foreign projects. 
 Jeffrey Farrow, who coordinated issues involving Puerto Rico for the president, said the administration felt Medicare unfairly penalized Puerto Rico by paying a lower rate there than in the 50 states. Although Congress rejected the proposed increase, Mr. Farrow said ''they didn't have to contribute the way they did in order to get our attention.'' 
 Both men are supporters of Mrs. Clinton, and Mr. Lausell serves as a senior adviser on Latino affairs. Dr. Machado did not return calls seeking comment, and efforts to reach Mr. Lausell through the campaign were not successful.
 A fledgling telecommunications company, NextWave Wireless, was battling the Federal Communications Commission when library fund-raisers tapped its chief executive and a major investor. NextWave had promised to pay $4.74 billion for cellphone licenses, but when it declared bankruptcy before completing its payments, the F.C.C. threatened to put the licenses up for public auction, which would have ruined NextWave. 
 Over three consecutive days in December 1999, with a decision imminent, the library logged a $100,000 pledge from NextWave's chief executive, Allen Salmasi, and a $100,000 contribution plus a $1 million pledge from Bay Harbour Management, a major investor in NextWave. 
 The agency ultimately repossessed NextWave's licenses, prompting a court battle that the company won. Bay Harbour's co-owner, Douglas Teitelbaum, who declined to comment, never fulfilled his promise to contribute the additional $1 million. Mr. Salmasi did not respond to an e-mail message or to calls to a company spokesman.
 Mr. Clinton also found support for his library among some people who figured in the Democratic fund-raising controversies dating to the 1996 elections that involved White House sleepovers, coffees for big donors and money funneled from the Chinese government. 
 Among them was Farhad Azima, an Iranian-born aviation executive whose involvement in the Iran-contra scandal -- one of his companies flew military equipment to Iran in the 1980s -- prompted the Democratic National Committee to return a $143,000 donation in 1997. The party later accepted the money. Mr. Azima pledged $1 million to the library.
 Another $1 million pledge came from Eric and Patricia Hotung. Mr. Hotung is a Hong Kong businessman who in 1997 was granted a meeting with Mr. Clinton's national security adviser after Mr. Hotung's wife, Patricia, an American, offered $100,000 to the Democrats.
 Nine of the original library donors received presidential appointments to organizations like the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities and the United States Holocaust Memorial Council. In his final days in office, Mr. Clinton appointed two of the donors, the businessmen Mark S. Weiner and Vinod Gupta, to the board of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
 A Joint Effort
 At a Democratic debate in September, when Mrs. Clinton was asked whether the foundation would disclose its donors, she indicated that the decision was not hers. ''Well, you'll have to ask them,'' she replied, referring to the former president and his staff. 
 But Mrs. Clinton's effort to distance herself understates the extent to which the foundation was a joint enterprise from the start. 
 Shortly after the Clintons left the White House, close advisers convened meetings at the couple's Washington home to map out Mr. Clinton's future as a philanthropist.
 Mrs. Clinton played an important role in shaping both the foundation's organization and the scope of its work, said Karen A. Tramontano, a senior adviser in the Clinton White House and the foundation's first chief of staff.
 Advisers also were acutely aware that the foundation's operations -- and any perception of a conflict -- could harm Mrs. Clinton politically. ''She and I would speak frequently,'' Ms. Tramontano said. ''She had a lot of ideas. All the papers that went to him went to her.'' 
 Early on, donations to the library caused perception problems. The day after he left office, Mr. Clinton was embroiled in a scandal over his 11th-hour pardon of the financier Marc Rich, who fled the United States in 1983 to avoid tax evasion and other charges. A Congressional hearing later revealed that the pardon came after Mr. Rich's former wife, Denise Rich, contributed $450,000 to Mr. Clinton's library. 
 That spring, Mrs. Clinton co-sponsored legislation to publicly identify donors to foundations of future sitting presidents. She referred to that legislation in the debate three months ago, although the bill had died in committee. 
 Beyond the revelation of the Rich donation, the names of some other donors emerged after the library opened in November 2004, when a New York Sun reporter found a partial contributor list displayed on a public computer there. The list, with neither amounts nor dates, disclosed donations from the Saudi royal family and other foreign sources. After the Sun story, the computer plug was pulled. 
 As the foundation has evolved into global philanthropy, it has attracted more large donors. Among them are Tom Golisano, an iconoclastic billionaire from upstate New York, who gives the foundation $3 million to $5 million a year, according to Mr. Golisano's confidants; Stephen Bing, a Hollywood producer and a Hillraiser, who contributed stock worth $10,028,614 in 2005; Sir Tom Hunter, a Scottish businessman who began donating $10 million a year in 2006 for economic development in Africa; and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which said it had given or pledged $23,145,677 since 2005, mostly to support AIDS work and an effort to reduce the costs of malaria drugs.
 Throughout, Mrs. Clinton has offered ''good, specific ideas'' to the foundation when Mr. Clinton asks her to attend planning sessions, said Ira Magaziner, a top foundation executive and longtime Clinton adviser. 
 As the presidential campaign got under way, foundation officials began working to ensure that none of their enterprises would have political repercussions for Mrs. Clinton. Brian Byrd, who once worked for the Rockefeller Foundation and is now a lobbyist for arts groups, said that this year he interviewed for a job created to help review attendees to Mr. Clinton's annual conference and make sure charitable pledges were met. 
 ''Part of it was that Hillary was running for president, and they wanted to be sure everything was on the up and up -- that was said to me,'' said Mr. Byrd, who added that he decided he did not want and was not offered the position. ''They wanted to get all their ducks in a row.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Clintons at the dedication of his library in late 2004. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A1)
Bill, Hillary and Chelsea Clinton at the dedication of Mr. Clinton's presidential library in November 2004 in Little Rock, Ark. Library donors have also contributed to Mrs. Clinton's campaigns. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF MITCHELL/REUTERS) (pg. A38)
Frank Giustra, left, runs a group that gave $31 million to the Clinton Foundation
Sir Tom Hunter began donating $10 million a year in 2006
 and Bernard L. Schwartz has pledged $1 million. (pg. A38) CHART: DONATIONS TO THE CLINTON FOUNDATION: Foundation officials emphasize that more than 100,000 donors have given $100 or less. But an analysis by The New York Times of the William J. Clinton Foundation's tax records found that the bulk of the $367.8 million raised through 2006 came from donors giving far larger sums. Since then, the foundation has raised even more money, bringing the total to more than $500 million. (Source: William J. Clinton Foundation's tax records) (pg. A38) Chart showing the sum of money the Clinton Foundation has reached. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); LIBRARIES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); SCANDALS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (70%); LAWYERS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TOM HUNTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (88%) ARKANSAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007



491 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: STOCKS & BONDS: Hesitancy Makes for Mixed Results

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street ended a volatile session mixed on Wednesday as investors wrestled with a troubling outlook for bond insurers and a $9.4 billion write-down at Morgan Stanley. 
 Morgan Stanley, however, managed to get a $5 billion investment from an arm of the Chinese government, and the Federal Reserve said its Monday auction of $20 billion in 28-day credit was met with solid demand -- signs that there is cash out there to help the struggling banking industry recover.
But with just seven trading days left in 2007 and little data to convince Wall Street that the economy is on the upswing, investors hesitated to make any big bets on stocks.
 The stock market rose in early trading but gave back gains after Standard & Poor's lowered its outlook for bond insurers, suggesting that the ratings on the bonds the companies insure may be headed lower. S.& P. cut the credit rating of ACA Financial Guaranty and put Financial Guaranty Insurance, another bond insurer, on watch for a downgrade. Problems with bond insurers, which have guaranteed billions of dollars in mortgage-backed securities, could force banks to take on billions in losses they had insured against.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 25.20, or 0.19 percent, to 13,207.27.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.98, or 0.14 percent, to 1,453, but the Nasdaq composite index added 4.98, or 0.19 percent, to 2,601.01.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 2.07, or 0.27 percent, to 756.13. 
 Treasury bond prices rose as investors sought the safety of government securities. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 23/32, to 101 25/32. Its yield, which moves opposite the price, fell to 4.03 percent, from 4.12 percent.
 Morgan Stanley rose $2.01, or 4.2 percent, to $50.08, after announcing the $5 billion China investment.
 The deal represents China's largest minority stake purchase in an American company, said Richard J. Peterson, a Thomson Financial analyst. The United States markets, though still distressed, are increasingly finding buyers in governments overseas. Recently, Citigroup sold $7.5 billion worth of shares to the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority.
 Central banks have also been working to help bring demand back to the tight credit markets, which froze up over the summer as mortgage defaults spiked. Investors were relieved to see that about one in three American banks that applied for the $20 billion in 28-day credit the Federal Reserve offered Monday received a loan, according to results announced Wednesday.
 Earnings reports were, for the most part, disappointing. General Mills said profit in the most recent quarter edged higher, but the company's results were damped by soaring ingredient costs and other expenses. General Mills fell $1.08, to $57.99.
 Palm Inc., the maker of the Treo and Centro smartphones, said late Tuesday that it swung to a loss in the most recent quarter. Its shares dropped 41 cents, or 6.9 percent, to $5.52.
 The home builder Hovnanian Enterprises also posted a quarterly loss late Tuesday after facing a difficult housing market in the fourth quarter. Its shares fell 96 cents, or 11.4 percent, to $7.44.
 Futures on light crude oil gained $1.16 to settle at $91.24 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange after the Energy Department said inventories of crude and heating oil dropped last week. 

GRAPHIC: Graph: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); BONDS (92%); INSURANCE (91%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (91%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (91%); PALM INC (80%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (63%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE CO (56%); GENERAL MILLS INC (50%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GIS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (80%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (56%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (50%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (50%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (50%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



492 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Body Plans to End Investigation of Contracts

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS 

 BODY:
The General Assembly is preparing to put an early end to an in-house panel that has exposed more than $600 million in tainted United Nations contracts and is currently investigating an additional $1 billion in suspect agreements.
 A budget committee of the General Assembly is scheduled to vote as early as Friday on a resolution that would force the panel to close down its operations in six months.
 The effort to scuttle the panel is not a budget matter so much as a political one, and it represents the continuing suspicion developing countries have about international intervention in their affairs. 
 The fight has been led by one country, Singapore, which contends that a United Nations official from there has been treated unfairly in an investigation. The resolution also recommends that the panel itself be investigated for the way it has treated officials and diplomats.
 In its effort to curtail the task force's work, Singapore succeeded in winning over the powerful Group of 77, an assemblage representing the developing world that has grown over the years to 130 nations.
 The threatened shutdown of what has been a penetrating inquiry comes at a time when the United Nations is still recovering from the findings of mismanagement and corruption in the oil-for-food program made by Paul A. Volcker. Mr. Volcker, a former Federal Reserve chairman, said in the 2005 report that the United Nations suffered from a ''culture of inaction.''
 The six-month cap would effectively finish off the investigative unit, said its director, Robert Appleton, a former assistant United States attorney in Connecticut. Mr. Appleton also served as special counsel to the inquiry into the program under which Iraq was allowed to sell some of its oil, despite United Nations sanctions, to meet the needs of its civilians.
 ''The investigations will obviously cease,'' Mr. Appleton said Thursday, noting that the United Nations currently had no other unit ''to address these matters.''
 ''We have five people who will leave because of the uncertainty, and it is difficult to recruit competent qualified investigators for six-month contracts,'' he said. ''Also, companies will delay and wait us out until we leave.'' 
 Inga-Britt Ahlenius, the under secretary general for internal oversight services, said that letting the task force expire ''would undo the great work that has been accomplished so far and expose the organization to greater risk.''
 The 18-member procurement task force, seven of whose members came from the Volcker inquiry, was created in January 2006 to pursue irregularities in United Nations purchasing that had arisen in the earlier investigation.
 United Nations officials have generally been supportive of the effort, noting approvingly that the investigation is one they created themselves. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon has said he supports full financing for the panel, though he added that ultimately the decision was the General Assembly's.
 Some of the task force's work involves cases of graft and corruption in the developing world that many delegates do not want the United Nations looking into, but the major cases, according to investigators, involve large multi-national entities with teams of New York lawyers defending them.
 Its findings that 10 significant instances of fraud and corruption had tainted contracts worth $610 million was published in The Washington Post on Tuesday.
 Ms. Ahlenius told the budget committee last month that the panel's work had been thorough and effective. She listed more than 300 accusations examined, 22 reports issued on 63 individual cases, 250 cases still open and 31 vendors disbarred as well as corruption discovered in several United Nations missions and large contracts abroad.
 United States prosecutors used the task force's work to help convict Sanjaya Bahel, a former United Nations procurement officer, on fraud and bribery charges for steering $100 million in contracts to an Indian company in exchange for cash and deals on Manhattan luxury apartments.
 The current argument is not an economic one. The task force is asking the committee for $4.9 million for the whole year, an amount that would almost surely be offset by the amount of reimbursed and repatriated money the United Nations would receive from the outcomes of the task force's work. It has already identified $25 million in misappropriated money. 
 The case that led Singapore to try to shut down the panel involves Andrew Toh, who has been in various forms of suspension and paid leave after questions were raised two years ago about the leasing of two Peruvian helicopters for a peacekeeping operation in East Timor.
 This October, Mr. Toh was cleared of charges in that case but found negligent in not properly declaring his financial assets for 2004 and 2005 and not cooperating with the task force. Mr. Toh contends that he was denied legal counsel by the task force. The task force said that Mr. Toh was not entitled to it under United Nations practices.
 Singapore contends that the panel is engaging in unfair tactics in trying to preserve itself. Kevin Cheok, the country's deputy ambassador, complained to the budget committee on Monday.
 ''Anyone who voices concern about the behavior of the procurement task force has been painted as somehow being pro-corruption or anti-reform,'' Mr. Cheok said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); CORRUPTION (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



493 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2699 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
AROUND TOWN
 Museums and Sites
 HOLIDAY PARTIES If it weren't for the cabs, New York on Christmas Eve would feel as underpopulated as it does in ''I Am Legend.'' There's no big parade here, and many institutions that schedule interesting activities close up shop, presumably so that you can spend time with friends and family, listen to a beatific choir or participate in the contact sport known as last-minute shopping. But for those seeking an escape from G-rated holiday entertainment, a few parties have arrived to bring you real cheer. 
 On Monday two events conceived as alternatives to the gargantuan Jewish singles affair called the Matzo Ball are back by popular demand. Heebonism, a creation of Heeb Magazine, is a party that's essentially ''a bunch of wild and crazy Jews running around -- and non-Jews too,'' said Brian Abrams, a writer who says his official position at Heeb is dreidel hustler. In addition to sets by D.J. Krowd Pleezr and others, the thousand or so who are expected to attend can take part in Christmas carol karaoke and strip dreidel, a variant on the dreidel game that Mr. Abrams says involves shedding garments instead of chocolate. (Above, Heebonism 2006 at Bed in Chelsea.) 
 On the same night, Jewltide returns to Southpaw in Park Slope, Brooklyn. This year D.J. Rekha will be spinning bhangra, and Cosmo Baker will take care of the hip-hop. Bhangra and hip-hop for the holidays? ''We're trying to pull together an interesting cross-cultural party to be open to anybody looking for a good time,'' said Aaron Bisman, the president and chief executive of JDub Records, which organizes the event. Not that the evening is totally nontraditional -- it starts with Chinese food (egg rolls and won ton) and a movie (''Wet Hot American Summer''). 
 And in case you want to get an early start on the fun, on Saturday D.J. Harvey plays a Disco Christmas set at Love. How this Ministry of Sound veteran will tie disco to Christmas remains to be seen, but it's safe to say that the music will be a little more up-tempo than ''The Little Drummer Boy.'' (Heebonism, 9 p.m., the Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, knittingfactory.com; $20 in advance; $25 at the door. Jewltide, 8 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, jdubrecords.org; $10 in advance, $15 at the door. Disco Christmas, 10 p.m., Love, 179 Macdougal Street, Greenwich Village, 212-477-5683, musicislove.net; $10.) MONICA DRAKE 
 AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West and 79th Street. Through Jan. 1, the annual Origami Holiday Tree, decorated in the theme of ''Fantastic Creatures: Mythic and Real,'' and two outdoor dinosaurs in holiday decorations. Through Jan. 6, ''Mythic Creatures: Dragons, Unicorns and Mermaids.'' Among other exhibitions, ''H2O = Life'' and ''The Butterfly Conservatory: Tropical Butterflies Alive in Winter,'' both through May 26. Timed tickets to ''H20 = Life,'' ''Mythic Creatures'' and ''The Butterfly Conservatory,'' as well as tickets to Imax movies, include museum admission. (212) 769-5100 or (212) 769-5200. Tickets: $22; $16.50 for students and 60+; $13 for 12 and younger. Suggested general admission: $15; $11 for students and 60+; $8.50 for children. Supersaver tickets, including museum and Rose Center admission, the Hayden Planetarium space show (''Cosmic Collisions'') and all special exhibitions: $30; $23 for students and 60+; $19 for 12 and younger. Open daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. Holiday hours: Wednesday through Dec. 30, 10 a.m. to 6:45 p.m.; closed Christmas Day. amnh.org. 
 MERCHANT'S HOUSE MUSEUM, 29 East Fourth Street, East Village. Through Jan. 7, ''Deck the Halls: A Mid-19th-Century Holiday Celebration,'' a display of period holiday decorations. (212) 777-1089; merchantshouse.com. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, noon to 5 p.m. Closed Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, New Year's Eve and New Year's Day. $8; $5 for students and 65+; free for members and under 12. 
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. Through Dec. 31, ''The Glory Days: New York Baseball 1947-1957,'' a display of balls, bats, uniforms and other memorabilia, with video presentations and special events. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; closed Christmas Eve, Christmas Day and New Year's Day. (212) 534-1672; mcny.org. Suggested admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+; free for children under 12 and for everyone on Sundays, 10 a.m. to noon; $20 for families. 
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 2 West 77th Street, Manhattan. Through Aug. 10, ''French Founding Father: Lafayette's Return to Washington's America,'' a multimedia exhibition with a video display and items associated with Lafayette. Through April 13, ''Here Is New York: Remembering 9/11/01,'' an exhibition of photographs, artifacts and oral histories documenting the terrorist attack. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; to 8 p.m. on Fridays. Closed Christmas Eve, Christmas Day and New Year's Eve. (212) 873-3400; nyhistory.org. $10; $7 for educators and 65+; $6 for students; free from 6 to 8 p.m. on Fridays; free at all times for children under 12. 
 NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM, Gallery Annex, Grand Central Terminal, adjacent to the stationmaster's office. Through Jan. 13, the sixth annual Grand Central Holiday Train Show. Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Sundays, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Christmas Eve, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.; closed Christmas Day and New Year's Day; Dec. 29, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (212) 878-0106. Free. 
 Gardens
 NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN, Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx. Through Jan. 13, the Holiday Train Show, which includes more than 140 replicas of New York City landmarks. Saturday and Wednesday through New Year's Eve, 6 to 9 p.m., ''Holiday Nights at the Garden'' features caroling and refreshments and entry to the train show; admission to the train show and ''Holiday Nights'' is $20; $18 for students and 62+; $7 for 2 to 12; free for under 2. Open Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Christmas Eve, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.; closed on Christmas Day. Tram tours daily, every 20 minutes. (718) 817-8700. nybg.org.
 Events
 A CHRISTMAS CAROL, an ensemble telling of the Dickens classic, with music, at the TBG Arts Center, 312 West 36th Street, Manhattan, third floor. Presented by Personal Space Theatrics, Friday at 8 p.m. and Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m. $20; $17 for students and children. personalspacetheatrics.org. 
 ANNUAL DISPLAY OF THE CHRISTMAS TREE AND NEAPOLITAN BAROQUE CRECHE, at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, with ceremonies at 4:30, 5:30 and 6:30 p.m. on Fridays and Saturdays, and at 4:30 p.m. on Sundays, Tuesdays through Thursdays and on Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve. Through Jan. 6. Museum hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, and Sundays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 9:30 a.m. to 9 p.m.; closed Mondays but open on Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Closed Christmas Day and New Year's Day. $20; $15 for 65+; $10 for students; free for children under 12 and members. (212) 535-7710; metmuseum.org.
 ANNUAL WEST VILLAGE CAROLING WALK, led by the West Village Chorale, Friday at 7 p.m., meeting at the Church of St. Luke in the Fields, 487 Hudson Street, south of Christopher Street, West Village.; lyric sheets provided. (212) 517-1776; westvillagechorale.org. Free. 
 BROOKLYN HEIGHTS JEWISH FILM FESTIVAL, concludes on Saturday at 8 p.m., with a screening of the documentary ''Creating Harmony: The Displaced Persons Orchestra from St. Ottilien,'' at Congregation B'nai Avraham, 117 Remsen Street, Brooklyn Heights. Appearing will be Sonia Pauline Beker, author of ''Symphony on Fire: A Story of Music and Spiritual Resistance During the Holocaust,'' which provided inspiration for the film, directed by John J. Michalczyk. (718) 596-4840, Ext. 15. $5. 
 BROOKLYN HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 128 Pierrepont Street, Brooklyn Heights. Through December 2008, ''In Our Own Words: Portraits of Brooklyn's Vietnam Veterans,'' an exhibition of life-size portraits and audio clips. Through Dec. 30, ''Sacred Hearts: A Journey of Italian Catholics in the Borough of Churches,'' an exhibition of photos, articles and letters. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Closed Christmas Day and New Year's Day. $6; $4 for students with ID and 62+; free for children under 12 and members. (718) 222-4111; brooklynhistory.org.
 CHILDREN'S CHRISTMAS PAGEANT, with live animals, on Christmas Eve at 3:30 and 5 p.m. at the Church of the Heavenly Rest, Fifth Avenue at 90th Street, Manhattan. (212) 289-3400; heavenlyrest.org. 
 HOLIDAY SHOPS AT BRYANT PARK, Avenue of the Americas at 42nd Street. Holiday sale. Monday through Friday, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturday, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Sundays 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Through Dec. 30.
 GRAND CENTRAL HOLIDAY FAIR Through Dec. 29, in Vanderbilt Hall, Grand Central Terminal. Holiday hours: Friday, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Christmas Eve, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.; closed Christmas Day; Wednesday through Dec. 28, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Dec. 29, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (212) 340-2345. 
 HOLIDAY GIFT SHOPS On the plaza at St. Bartholomew's Church, Park Avenue at 50th Street, and inside the Whitehall Street Ferry Terminal, Lower Manhattan. Both daily, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., through Monday. 
 LITURGICAL READINGS, MUSIC AND DANCE, Christmas Eve at 5 p.m. at the Madison Avenue Baptist Church, 30 East 31st Street, Manhattan. (212) 685-1377; mabcnyc.org. Free. 
 MESSIAH, the Handel oratorio, Friday at 2 p.m. and Saturday at 8 p.m., by the New York Philharmonic, with the New York Choral Artists and soloists, at Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center. $26 to $102. (212) 875-5656. 
 URBAN PARK RANGERS Saturday at 1 p.m., a walk in Fort Greene Park, Brooklyn, meeting at the Visitors' Center, reachable from Myrtle Avenue and Washington Park. Sunday at 1 p.m., a visit to the Hallett Nature Sanctuary in Central Park, meeting at the Gapstow Bridge at the Pond, 62nd Street, west of the East Drive. Christmas Eve, from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 4 to 7 p.m., ''Mountie Mondays at Bryant Park,'' with members of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, near the ice skating rink in Bryant Park, between 40th and 42nd Street, and Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas; also on New Year's Eve, same time. Free. nyc.gov/parks. 
 WINTER SPECTACULAR: A CELEBRATION OF JERUSALEM IN MUSIC AND ART, Christmas Day, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., at Yeshiva University Museum, Center for Jewish History, 15 West 16th Street, Flatiron district. With workshops, performances and exhibitions. (212) 294-8330; yumuseum.org. $12; $8 for children ($8 and $5 for members). 
 Walking Tours
 BERNIE'S NEW YORK WALKING TOURS Christmas Day, ''Flatiron District/Ladies Mile: Retail Palaces of a Bygone Era,'' meeting on the southwest corner of Avenue of the Americas and 18th Street. (718) 655-1883. $10. 
 BIG ONION WALKING TOURS Christmas Eve at 1 p.m., a ''Pre-Christmas Stroll in Greenwich Village,'' with stops at the Jefferson Market Library, Washington Square Park and the Church of St. Luke in the Fields, for a reading of Clement Clarke Moore's ''A Visit From St. Nicholas,'' meeting on the northeast corner of Seventh Avenue South and Christopher Street. Christmas Day at 10 a.m. and 1 p.m., the ''17th Annual Christmas Weekend Jewish East Side Tour,'' meeting on the southeast corner of Essex and Delancey Streets. (212) 439-1090. Each, $15; $12 for 63+; $10 for students and New-York Historical Society members. 
 CENTRAL PARK CONSERVANCYWeekend tours of Central Park. Saturday at 1 p.m., ''Manhattan Adirondacks,'' a scenic walk through the north woods, the Central Park designers Olmsted and Vaux's vision of the Adirondack Mountains, meeting at the Charles A. Dana Discovery Center, inside the park at Fifth Avenue and 110th Street. Sunday at 11 a.m., ''Seneca Village'' covers one of the earliest communities of black property owners, meeting at the southeast corner of Central Park West and 85th Street. centralparknyc.org. Free. 
 EAST VILLAGE TOURS.COM Saturday and Sunday at 11 a.m., ''East Village 101,'' meeting at the Astor Place Cube at East Eighth Street, between Lafayette Street and Fourth Avenue. Saturday and Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Gangsters, Murderers and Weirdos,'' meeting at the northwest corner of Second Avenue and Houston Street, Lower East Side. (646) 810-2576. Each, $15; $13 for Lower East Side residents, 65+ and students.
 DR. PHIL: NEW YORK TALKS AND WALKS Saturday night at 7 and Sunday through Christmas Day at 1:30 p.m., ''Christmas Ghosts,'' in search of Edgar Allan Poe, Peter Stuyvesant and others, meeting in front of Fire Patrol Station No. 2, 84 West Third Street, West Village. Sunday, Christmas Eve and Christmas Day and Wednesday at 10:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m., the 12th annual Jewish Talk and Walk of the Lower East Side, which includes stops at synagogues and food shops, meeting in front of the Economy Candy Store, 108 Rivington Street. (888) 377-4455. Each, $15, credit card; $20, cash. 
 HARLEM HERITAGE TOURS Friday and Saturday at 1 p.m., ''Harlem Renaissance Walking Tour,'' with stops at noted cultural locations, meeting on the northwest corner of 135th Street and Malcolm X Boulevard, Hamilton Heights; $25. Christmas Day at 10:30 a.m., a Harlem Gospel Walking Tour will begin with a gospel church service and include a stop at the Apollo Theater, meeting at the Harlem Heritage Tourism and Cultural Center, 116th Street and Malcolm X Boulevard; $39. (212) 280-7888; harlemheritage.com. 
 HARLEM HOLIDAY SHOPPING WALKING TOUR Saturday at noon, features stops at local shops, meeting at 129 West 130th Street, Hamilton Heights. Reservations: (212) 690-1687. $25. 
 LOWER EAST SIDE CONSERVANCY Christmas Day at 11:30 a.m., a walking and noshing tour of the Lower East Side, meeting in front of Chasam Sofer, 10 Clinton Street. Reservations: (212) 374-4100, Ext. 1. $25; $23 for 62+, students and children. 
 METRO TOUR SERVICE Friday through Christmas Eve at 2 p.m., visiting the holiday displays in Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill, Brooklyn. Meets in front of the Marriott Hotel, Adams and Tillary Streets, downtown Brooklyn; (718) 789-0430. $25. 
 NYC DISCOVERY TOURS Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m., ''A Victorian Christmas'' visits Gramercy Park, the Flatiron district and Chelsea. Saturday and Sunday at 5:15 p.m., ''Historic Greenwich Village Taverns at Christmas.'' Meeting places and reservations: (212) 465-3331. Each, $15 (drinks not included on the tavern tour).
 NOSHWALKS Friday night at 6:30, a walk through Dyker Heights, Brooklyn, to see the holiday lights (with snacking), meeting at the Mona Lisa Bakery, 1476 86th Street. Reservations: (212) 222-2243. $35; $32 for subscribers.
 OUTDOORS CLUB Saturday at 10:30 a.m., an eight-mile walk in Queens that includes Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, the Queens Botanical Garden and Kissena and Cunningham Parks, meeting near the token booth of the 111th Street stop on the No. 7 train; (718) 435-4994. Sunday at 5 p.m., a walk in Dyker Heights, Brooklyn, to see the holiday lights, meeting in Brooklyn on the corner of 86th Street and Fourth Avenue (on the same block as Century 21); (212) 348-5344. Each, $3. 
 ROCK 'N' ROLL WALKING TOURS Wednesday through Dec. 29 at 1 p.m., noted rock locations in the East Village, meeting on the southwest corner of Ninth Street and Third Avenue. Led by Bobby Pinn. (212) 209-3370; rockjunket.com. $25. 
 STREET SMARTS N.Y. Saturday at 2 p.m., ''Christmas in Old Chelsea,'' meeting in front of theFlatiron Building, Fifth Avenue and West 23rd Street. Sunday at 2 p.m., ''A Village Christmas,'' a tour of the architecture and history of the West Village, meeting at the Washington Arch. (212) 969-8262; streetsmartsny.com. Each, $10.
 URBAN TRAIL CONFERENCE Two Queens tours. Sunday at 1:20 p.m., a snow-shoeing walk in Fort Totten, meeting in Queens in front of Macy's, 136-50 Roosevelt Avenue. Christmas Day at 11 a.m., a six-mile walk in Udall's Cove Preserve, meeting at the Q12 bus stop on Roosevelt Avenue (past Old Navy). urbantrail.org. Each, $3; walkers should bring a MetroCard for bus fare. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); MUSIC (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); HISTORY (73%); HIP HOP CULTURE (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); RAP MUSIC (69%); WRITERS (69%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



494 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: South Korea's Next Leader Says He'll Chide the North

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
The South Korean president-elect, Lee Myung-bak, who said during his campaign that he intended to get tough with North Korea, declared Thursday that he would not hesitate to criticize its authoritarian government. 
 Although North Korea's Communist government made no public comment on Thursday about Mr. Lee's election on Wednesday, North Korea was expected to react harshly. Aides to Mr. Lee acknowledged that there could be at least a temporary chill in the cross-border flow of trade and investment that the departing president, Roh Moo-hyun, had painstakingly nourished. 
 ''I assure you that there will be a change from the past government's practice of avoiding criticism of North Korea and unilaterally flattering it,'' Mr. Lee said at his first news conference as president-elect. ''The North's human rights issue is something we cannot avoid in this regard, and North Korea should know it.'' 
 Mr. Lee is to be sworn in on Feb. 25, ending a decade of liberal South Korean policies that led to a lessening of tensions with North Korea, but often caused friction with the United States and Japan, especially over how to address the North's nuclear arms program and its human rights abuses. 
 Mr. Lee won the election on Wednesday with 48.7 percent of the vote, a shade less than the 48.9 percent Mr. Roh won five years ago riding on the sentiments of young, nationalistic and often anti-American voters. But Mr. Lee's 22.6 percentage point margin of victory over his closest rival, Chung Dong-young, in a crowded race of 10 candidates, was the biggest in a half-century. 
 Mr. Lee, a former Hyundai chief executive, won largely on the voters' belief that he could help revive the economy. On Thursday, he pledged to end an ''antimarket and antibusiness atmosphere.'' 
 The new approach in Seoul was expected to improve relations with the United States and Japan, which had sometimes been critical of Mr. Roh's conciliatory ''sunshine policy'' toward North Korea.
 It also means that North Korea could lose what has been its most reliable source of food and other aid in recent years. If North Korea reneges on its promise to disable its nuclear arms program by the end of this year, the United States is likely to ask South Korea to apply pressure on North Korea, a step the Roh administration had been reluctant to take. 
 Mr. Lee's victory was welcome news for those South Koreans who believe that Mr. Roh and his predecessor, Kim Dae-jung, did not put enough pressure on North Korea to bring home thousands of people who South Koreans believe were kidnapped by North Korea during and after the Korean War, from 1950 to 1953. 
 ''For the past 10 years, we have been crossing our fingers for this day to come,'' Lee Mi-il, president of the Korean War Abductees Family Union, said, referring to the new leadership. 
 President Bush called on President-elect Lee on Thursday to congratulate him on his election and to invite him to Washington once he is inaugurated, said Na Kyong-won, a spokeswoman for Mr. Lee. The president-elect accepted the invitation. ''It is my wish to strengthen bilateral ties with the United States,'' Ms. Na quoted Mr. Lee as telling Mr. Bush. ''I will do my best to resolve the North Korean nuclear problem through cooperation and a strengthened relationship with the United States.'' 
 Japan's prime minister, Yasuo Fukuda, who took office three months ago, said he hoped to ''cooperate closely'' with Mr. Lee. 
 Relations between South Korea and Japan, its past colonial master, remain rough despite thriving trade ties. Mr. Roh and two predecessors of Mr. Fukuda, Junichiro Koizumi and Shinzo Abe, often clashed over issues related to Japanese wartime aggression, and both sides were accused of playing to their nationalistic home audiences. 
 ''In this election, the Korean people opted for pragmatism over ideology,'' Mr. Lee said. 
 He indicated that he would do something Mr. Roh had avoided: vigorously raise nuclear issues during talks between the Koreas. Such talks, including an October meeting between Mr. Roh and Kim Jong-il, North Korea's leader, have resulted in numerous joint projects aimed at helping the North's crippled economy.
 ''The most important thing is for North Korea to get rid of its nuclear weapons,'' Mr. Lee said. ''Serious economic exchanges between the two Koreas can only start after the North dismantles its nuclear weapons.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); KOREAN WAR (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



495 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Around Town

 BODY:
AROUND TOWN
 Museums and Sites
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. Through Dec. 31, ''The Glory Days: New York Baseball 1947-1957,'' a display of balls, bats, uniforms and other memorabilia, with video presentations and special events. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; closed Christmas Eve, Christmas Day and New Year's Day. (212) 534-1672; mcny.org. Suggested admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+; free for children under 12 and for everyone on Sundays, 10 a.m. to noon; $20 for families. 
 Events
 A CHRISTMAS CAROL, an ensemble telling of the Dickens classic, with music, at the TBG Arts Center, 312 West 36th Street, Manhattan, third floor. Presented by Personal Space Theatrics, Friday at 8 p.m. and Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m. $20; $17 for students and children. personalspacetheatrics.org. 
 ANNUAL DISPLAY OF THE CHRISTMAS TREE AND NEAPOLITAN BAROQUE CRECHE, at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, with ceremonies at 4:30, 5:30 and 6:30 p.m. on Fridays and Saturdays, and at 4:30 p.m. on Sundays, Tuesdays through Thursdays and on Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve. Through Jan. 6. Museum hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, and Sundays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 9:30 a.m. to 9 p.m.; closed Mondays but open on Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Closed Christmas Day and New Year's Day. $20; $15 for 65+; $10 for students; free for children under 12 and members. (212) 535-7710; metmuseum.org.
 ANNUAL WEST VILLAGE CAROLING WALK, led by the West Village Chorale, Friday at 7 p.m., meeting at the Church of St. Luke in the Fields, 487 Hudson Street, south of Christopher Street, West Village.; lyric sheets provided. (212) 517-1776; westvillagechorale.org. Free. 
 BROOKLYN HEIGHTS JEWISH FILM FESTIVAL, concludes on Saturday at 8 p.m., with a screening of the documentary ''Creating Harmony: The Displaced Persons Orchestra from St. Ottilien,'' at Congregation B'nai Avraham, 117 Remsen Street, Brooklyn Heights. Appearing will be Sonia Pauline Beker, author of ''Symphony on Fire: A Story of Music and Spiritual Resistance During the Holocaust,'' which provided inspiration for the film, directed by John J. Michalczyk. (718) 596-4840, Ext. 15. $5. 
 CHILDREN'S CHRISTMAS PAGEANT, on Christmas Eve at 3:30 and 5 p.m. at the Church of the Heavenly Rest, Fifth Avenue at 90th Street, Manhattan. (212) 289-3400; heavenlyrest.org. 
 MESSIAH, the Handel oratorio, Friday at 2 p.m. and Saturday at 8 p.m., by the New York Philharmonic, with the New York Choral Artists and soloists, at Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center. $26 to $102. (212) 875-5656. 
 URBAN PARK RANGERS Christmas Eve, from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 4 to 7 p.m., ''Mountie Mondays at Bryant Park,'' with members of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, near the ice skating rink in Bryant Park, between 40th and 42nd Street, and Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas; also on New Year's Eve, same time. Free. nyc.gov/parks. 
 WINTER SPECTACULAR: A CELEBRATION OF JERUSALEM IN MUSIC AND ART, Christmas Day, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., at Yeshiva University Museum, Center for Jewish History, 15 West 16th Street, Flatiron district. With workshops, performances and exhibitions. (212) 294-8330; yumuseum.org. $12; $8 for children ($8 and $5 for members). 
 Walking Tours
 BIG ONION WALKING TOURS Christmas Eve at 1 p.m., a ''Pre-Christmas Stroll in Greenwich Village,'' with stops at the Jefferson Market Library, Washington Square Park and the Church of St. Luke in the Fields, for a reading of Clement Clarke Moore's ''A Visit From St. Nicholas,'' meeting on the northeast corner of Seventh Avenue South and Christopher Street. Christmas Day at 10 a.m. and 1 p.m., the ''17th Annual Christmas Weekend Jewish East Side Tour,'' meeting on the southeast corner of Essex and Delancey Streets. (212) 439-1090. Each, $15; $12 for 63+; $10 for students and New-York Historical Society members. 
 EAST VILLAGE TOURS.COM Saturday and Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Gangsters, Murderers and Weirdos,'' meeting at the northwest corner of Second Avenue and Houston Street, Lower East Side. (646) 810-2576. $15; $13 for Lower East Side residents, 65+ and students.
 DR. PHIL: NEW YORK TALKS AND WALKS Sunday, Christmas Eve and Christmas Day and Wednesday at 10:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m., the 12th annual Jewish Talk and Walk of the Lower East Side, which includes stops at synagogues and food shops, meeting in front of the Economy Candy Store, 108 Rivington Street. (888) 377-4455. $15, credit card; $20, cash. 
 HARLEM HERITAGE TOURS Christmas Day at 10:30 a.m., a Harlem Gospel Walking Tour will begin with a gospel church service and include a stop at the Apollo Theater, meeting at the Harlem Heritage Tourism and Cultural Center, 116th Street and Malcolm X Boulevard; $39. (212) 280-7888; harlemheritage.com. 
 HARLEM HOLIDAY SHOPPING WALKING TOUR Saturday at noon, features stops at local shops, meeting at 129 West 130th Street, Hamilton Heights. Reservations: (212) 690-1687. $25. 
 LOWER EAST SIDE CONSERVANCY Christmas Day at 11:30 a.m., a walking and noshing tour of the Lower East Side, meeting in front of Chasam Sofer, 10 Clinton Street. Reservations: (212) 374-4100, Ext. 1. $25; $23 for 62+, students and children. 
 METRO TOUR SERVICE Friday through Christmas Eve at 2 p.m., visiting the holiday displays in Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill, Brooklyn. Meets in front of the Marriott Hotel, Adams and Tillary Streets, downtown Brooklyn; (718) 789-0430. $25. 
 NYC DISCOVERY TOURS Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m., ''A Victorian Christmas'' visits Gramercy Park, the Flatiron district and Chelsea. Meeting places and reservations: (212) 465-3331. $15. NOSHWALKS Friday night at 6:30, a walk through Dyker Heights, Brooklyn, to see the holiday lights (with snacking), meeting at the Mona Lisa Bakery, 1476 86th Street. Reservations: (212) 222-2243. $35; $32 for subscribers.
 OUTDOORS CLUB Saturday at 10:30 a.m., an eight-mile walk in Queens that includes Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, the Queens Botanical Garden and Kissena and Cunningham Parks, meeting near the token booth of the 111th Street stop on the No. 7 train; (718) 435-4994. $3. 
 ROCK 'N' ROLL WALKING TOURS Friday at 1 p.m. and Saturday at 11 a.m., noted rock locations in the East Village, meeting on the southwest corner of Ninth Street and Third Avenue. Led by Ron Colinear. (212) 209-3370; rockjunket.com. $25. 
 STREET SMARTS N.Y. Saturday at 2 p.m., ''Christmas in Old Chelsea,'' meeting in front of the Flatiron Building, Fifth Avenue and West 23rd Street. (212) 969-8262; streetsmartsny.com. $10.
 Information about events to be considered for inclusion in Spare Times can be sent to weekend@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); CHRISTMAS (92%); CALENDARS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSIC (89%); FILM (77%); FESTIVALS (77%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (74%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (67%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (66%); FILM DIRECTORS (66%); HOLOCAUST (61%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (61%); WRITERS (60%); DISPLACED PERSONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



496 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Ruling Puts California in a Bind

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
The decision by the Environmental Protection Agency to block California's air quality standards for motor vehicles evoked angry responses from state officials on Thursday and the threat of a court battle.
 But it also left California in a bind.
 Officials here must now look elsewhere for millions of tons of carbon-dioxide reductions to meet its self-imposed mandate for curbing heat-trapping gases like carbon dioxide. And by law, the motor vehicle industry is where they must look. 
 The state enacted legislation last year requiring a cutback of 173 million tons of carbon dioxide by 2020, and officials had counted on the cutbacks in vehicle emissions for 18 percent, or about 31 million tons, of the total. 
 Even when the emission reductions associated with the new federal gasoline-mileage standards are taken into account, the state is about several million tons short, thanks to the E.P.A.'s decision, according to a spokesman for the California Air Resources Board. But the Legislature had prepared for the possibility when it passed last year's Global Warming Solutions Act. 
 Mary Nichols, the chairwoman of the Air Resources Board, which writes the state's air pollution regulations, said in an interview: ''We are going to get them from motor vehicles one way or another. I expect we will win our lawsuit and get them from'' the regulations that the Bush administration just blocked. 
 ''If not,'' Ms. Nichols said, ''we will pursue other ways to get these tons in ways that don't derive from the Clean Air Act,'' and therefore do not require a federal waiver. 
 But none of those ways are likely to be easy, cheap or popular. 
 No decisions have been made, Ms. Nichols emphasized, but she said some options being considered included imposing fees or penalties to be paid by auto manufacturers selling cars that fail to meet specified requirements. Alternatively, she said, the state might fall back on the authority the federal government granted it more than a decade ago to create electric cars. Perhaps that authority could be used to wring emission cuts from new cars. 
 Ms. Nichols said Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger told her in conversations on Thursday that ''we should applaud'' Congress and the president for the fuel-economy standard that just became law. ''But,'' she added, ''it has nothing to do with the problem of global warming. The two things are in different worlds.''
 Others spoke even more sharply.
 ''Californians will realize again that maybe it's time to secede from the Union,'' said Hal Harvey, environment director for the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation. 
 ''This is the first time that federal government has attacked California rather than agreeing with it'' on air pollution standards, said V. John White, a longtime clean-energy lobbyist in Sacramento. ''They have become a hostile force as opposed to a partner. They are an enemy, and they prefer the interests of the auto industry over the interests of the health of our people and state.''
 If the E.P.A. denies the waiver, California has three options, said Barton H. Thompson Jr., the co-director of the Woods Institute for the Environment at Stanford University.
 ''One, you sue,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''Two, you look for a legislative fix that would require Congress to clarify'' that the Clean Air Act allows the state to regulate greenhouse-gas emissions from tailpipes. ''Three, you wait for the next administration.''
 ''You are not going to get any relief from the courts any faster than that,'' he added.
 A lag of a year or two in carrying out the California standards represents a significant saving for the automobile industry, Mr. White, the clean-energy advocate, said. ''This is fundamentally about delaying investment,'' he said.
 Jim Marston, a climate policy expert with Environmental Defense, said the industry might have second thoughts. ''The automobile manufacturers may have violated the rule about be careful what you wish for,'' Mr. Marston said. ''California is serious about its numbers. You can't get there if the biggest single source is exempted.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 1, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 21 about California's response to a decision by the Environmental Protection Agency to block the state from imposing new standards on greenhouse gas emissions from tailpipes misattributed a quotation. It was Terry Tamminen, the former environmental adviser to Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who said, ''Californians will realize again that maybe it's time to secede from the Union.'' The comment was not by Hal Harvey, environment director for the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A California law sets limits on vehicle emissions to reduce levels of carbon dioxide. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID PAUL MORRIS/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (94%); AIR QUALITY (91%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); LITIGATION (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%)

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



497 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Arrogance and Warming

 BODY:
The Bush administration's decision to deny California permission to regulate and reduce global warming emissions from cars and trucks is an indefensible act of executive arrogance that can only be explained as the product of ideological blindness and as a political payoff to the automobile industry. 
 The decision, announced Wednesday by Stephen Johnson, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, overrode the advice of his legal and technical staffs, misconstrued the law and defied both Congress and the federal courts. It also stuck a thumb in the eyes of 17 other state governors who have grown impatient with the federal government's failure to regulate greenhouse gas emissions and wanted to move aggressively on their own.
 The Clean Air Act of 1970 gave California authority to set its own clean air standards if it first received a federal waiver. The law also said that other states could then adopt California's standards. In 2004, California asked permission to move ahead with a law requiring automakers to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from new cars and light trucks by 30 percent by 2016. That would require improvements in fuel economy far beyond those called for in the energy bill signed this week. 
 Over the years, California has made 50 waiver requests to regulate smog-forming pollutants and other gases and has never been denied. This was the first request involving emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, which the Bush administration has steadfastly refused to regulate. 
 For three years, the E.P.A. also hid behind the argument that it had no authority over carbon dioxide emissions because carbon dioxide was not specifically identified as a pollutant under the Clean Air Act. The Supreme Court demolished that argument last April. Subsequent court decisions have upheld the states' authority to set their own standards while refuting the auto industry's assertions that meeting the California standards would be technologically and economically impossible.
 Undeterred, industry tried to insert language in the energy bill that would have gutted E.P.A.'s authority to regulate carbon dioxide and, thus, its authority to grant California its waiver. Congress refused. The automakers also sought relief from the White House and Vice President Cheney. The result of all these machinations was Mr. Johnson's decision on Wednesday and the ludicrous reasoning that accompanied it.
 One of Mr. Johnson's arguments was that a ''national solution'' to carbon dioxide emissions was preferable to a ''confusing patchwork of state rules.'' A national solution is precisely what the administration has refused to offer. And the California rule -- once in force there and in 17 other states -- would in fact constitute a uniform standard covering nearly half the car market. That is why the automakers lobbied so fiercely against it. 
 It has been hard enough to trust Mr. Bush's recent assertions that he has finally gotten religion on climate change. It all seems like posturing now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); EMISSIONS (92%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AIR QUALITY (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); AIR POLLUTANTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); SMOG (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); BLINDNESS (72%); GOVERNORS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



498 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 790 words

PERSON: Bill Strauss 

HEADLINE: Bill Strauss, Parodist of Public Figures, Is Dead at 60

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Bill Strauss, a founder of the singing satirical troupe Capitol Steps, whose response to any political disaster of the last quarter-century was to find out whether it rhymed with anything, died Tuesday at his home in McLean, Va. He was 60.
 The cause was pancreatic cancer, his wife, Janie Strauss, said. 
 Begun in 1981, Capitol Steps is widely known for lampooning policy makers and other public figures to the tunes of popular songs. (''Here's to You, Reverend Robertson,'' ''How Do You Solve a Problem Like Korea?,'' ''What a Difference DeLay Makes.'')
 The troupe was formed as a modest, nonprofit lark by Mr. Strauss and two Washington colleagues, Elaina Newport and Jim Aidala. (All three were aides to Senator Charles H. Percy, Republican of Illinois.) It is now a $4 million-a-year business, touring the country and recording widely. The group's 29 albums include ''O Christmas Bush'' (2006), ''First Lady and the Tramp'' (1999), ''Sixteen Scandals'' (1997) and ''Fools on the Hill'' (1992).
 A lawyer and policy expert by training, Mr. Strauss never set out to be a public parodist. As an aide to Mr. Percy, he was also chief counsel of the Senate Subcommittee on Energy, Nuclear Proliferation and Government Processes, which does not rhyme with anything in the English lexicon. But in 1981, Mr. Strauss gave a Memorial Day party that erupted into a jam session, with guests lampooning the foibles of the Reagan administration in song. A small group gelled; most members were, like Mr. Strauss, Senate staff members.
 They gave their first performance at Senator Percy's office Christmas party. They awoke the next morning and found to their dazed relief that they were all still employed, and Capitol Steps was born. (The name honors the spot where Rita Jenrette, the former wife of Representative John W. Jenrette, said they had engaged in a marital pastime.)
 Today, Capitol Steps comprises two dozen singers, half ex-Capitol Hill staff members, half professional performers. It is resolutely bipartisan, skewering Republicans and Democrats with equal abandon. No branch of government is immune, as this ode to a Supreme Court justice illustrates. (For those singing along at home, remember ''Maria,'' from ''West Side Story''):
 Sca ... li ... a.
 I wish I had one more Scalia.
 If two were on the court,
 Then no one would abort again.
 William Arthur Strauss was born on Feb. 5, 1947, in Chicago and reared in Burlingame, Calif. In 1963, as a junior in high school, he worked as a page in the United States Capitol. He earned a bachelor's degree in economics from Harvard in 1969, a law degree from Harvard and a master's from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, both in 1973. That year, Mr. Strauss became a policy aide in what was then the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. He later worked at the Energy Department before joining Senator Percy's staff in 1979.
 In 1984, Mr. Strauss decided to take Capitol Steps professional. He worried whether he could make a go of it, but the Fates, a historically nonpartisan group, thoughtfully supplied him with Gary Hart, Oliver North, Dan Quayle, Clarence Thomas and assorted Kennedys and others.
 The greatest godsend, Mr. Strauss and his colleagues said often in interviews, was Monica Lewinsky. To her, Capitol Steps owes its Motown number ''My Momma Told Me: You'd Better Sleep Around.''
 Mr. Strauss also originated Dirty Lies, the troupe's popular Spooneristic sendup of political discourse. (''I am crot a nook.'') As reviewers often remarked approvingly, dies sound even lirtier when scrambled.
 Besides his wife, the former Janie Kamps, whom he married in 1973, Mr. Strauss is survived by his mother, Suzanne Barclay Strauss of San Francisco; four children, Melanie Yee of McLean, Va.; Victoria Hays of Fairfax City, Va.; Rebecca Strauss of Washington; and Eric, of Reston, Va.; a brother, Stephen, of Tirana, Albania; and one grandchild.
 He was a co-author of eight books about American history and society, among them ''Generations: The History of America's Future, 1584 to 2069'' and ''Millennials Rising: The Next Great Generation'', both written with Neil Howe. In 1999, Mr. Strauss helped found the Critics and Awards Program for High School Theater, which trains students around the country to be theater critics.
 In 1989, Mr. Strauss described in an Associated Press interview the effect that political change could have on someone in his line of work. Take, for instance, the death in 1985 of the Soviet leader Konstantin U. Chernenko.
 ''When Chernenko died, everybody said, 'Oh, my God, what does this mean for world peace?' '' Mr. Strauss said. ''But when I heard the news, I said, 'Oh, my God, what rhymes with Gorbachev?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Strauss, right, and Mike Tilford of Capitol Steps in a 1997 performance at the John Houseman Theater in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); CHRISTMAS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); CANCER (57%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Music

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



499 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: To Our Health, in the New Year

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''I Am Not a Health Reform,'' by David U. Himmelstein and Steffie Woolhandler (Op-Ed, Dec. 15):
 While the authors make a compelling economic argument for a single-payer health care system, they do not address a fundamental underlying question: why should a government provide health care for its citizens? 
 I believe that the answer to that question rests on two notions. 
 First, we need to accept the idea that a right to good health is essential in a democratic society. Pursuing democracy's noble goals of life, liberty and happiness is problematic for people dealing with serious health care problems.
 Second, we must put aside the idea that our health care system responds to ''market forces.'' Patients needing critical care cannot bargain for the best deal. 
 When I had a heart attack several years ago, I was in no position to ask my cardiologist if he was inserting the least expensive stent into my blocked artery.
 Rivers Singleton Jr.
 Newark, Del., Dec. 15, 2007
 The writer is an associate professor of biological sciences and English at the University of Delaware.
 To the Editor:
 There are alternative ways to achieve universal health insurance coverage besides a single-payer health care system. Germany and the Netherlands, for example, have used employer and individual mandates for decades to assure that all citizens have access to health care. 
 Individuals and families are subsidized if they are unable to pay for insurance, and the mandates in those nations are enforced by law and peer pressure. 
 In the United States, even a less-than-perfect ''mandate model'' would be better than the status quo. 
 Alan B. Cohen
 Boston, Dec. 17, 2007
 The writer is executive director of the Boston University Health Policy Institute.
 To the Editor:
 As a physician in a state in which all of its citizens are now supposed to have health insurance, I am continually dismayed at the number of individuals I see who do not have health insurance or whose ''insurance'' plans barely cover anything. 
 And among those lucky enough to have reasonably good health insurance, I am constantly confused by the various insurance plan rules about how often I can see patients or what drugs I can prescribe. 
 The single-payer plan that David U. Himmelstein and Steffie Woolhandler put forward would not only cost less than our current expenditures on health care and simultaneously cover everyone, but it would also be far simpler for both patients and physicians to navigate. 
 Why can't the leading Democratic candidates muster the courage to propose real health reform that will save lives, time and money -- and in addition that would be the most equitable of all options -- instead of rehashing proposals that have never resulted in universal coverage and haven't done anything to rein in the costs of health care?
 We have single-payer armed services, fire prevention and road maintenance. Aren't we long overdue for single-payer universal health care? 
 J. Wesley Boyd
 Needham, Mass., Dec. 15, 2007
 To the Editor:
 David U. Himmelstein and Steffie Woolhandler present several important cases in which states that have tried to put into effect health insurance plans based on an employer or individual mandate have failed both to restrain costs and to cover the uninsured. 
 We agree that the crux of this failure lies in the fact that ''reliance on private insurers makes universal coverage unaffordable.''
 Private insurance companies waste billions of dollars a year on marketing and administrative costs that do nothing to improve the quality of our health care. Physicians and hospitals are forced to waste money on staff hired solely for the purpose of filling out endless forms required by multiple insurers used by their patients.
 That is why we are convinced, and numerous studies have shown, that a single-payer national health system is the most efficient, cost-effective way to provide universal coverage. It is time our elected officials stopped treating health care as a commercial commodity and recognized it as a public good. We all suffer if we all do not have access to quality, affordable health care. 
 Peter Pepper
 New York, Dec. 15, 2007
 The writer is president of The Workmen's Circle/Arbeter Ring, an organization dedicated to community, Yiddish culture and social justice.
 .
 To the Editor:
 Your compelling Op-Ed article cites the overwhelming evidence that the Democratic front-runners' ''mandate model'' for health care won't work. 
 In 1999, we wrote a single-payer bill in Connecticut. We argued that despite being the insurance mecca, Connecticut -- small and wealthy -- was a good place to experiment with this, following the example of Social Security, which began in one state. Alas, despite popular support here for a publicly financed insurance plan, such an experiment was apparently too dangerous for the insurance industry.
 What is truly dangerous is the vise grip corporations have on our candidates, hence our policies. Consequently, third parties like the Green Party, which advocates publicly financed elections and single-payer health insurance, are, like Dennis J. Kucinich, not given a hearing.
 It appears that until our political system is transformed, neither will our health care system. Justine McCabe
 John Battista
 New Milford, Conn., Dec. 15, 2007
 The writers are, respectively, a clinical psychologist and a psychiatrist.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER O. ZIERLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); WRITERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); CARDIOLOGY (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (73%); HEART DISEASE (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) DELAWARE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); GERMANY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



500 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 703 words

 BODY:
WITHHOLDING DRUG STUDIES New evidence shows that the drug makers Merck and Schering-Plough have conducted several studies of their cholesterol medicine Zetia that raise questions about its risks to the liver, but the companies have never published the results. 
 Genentech appears to have resolved a dispute with doctors that will allow Avastin to continue to be used to treat eye disease. [C4.] 
 SALLIE MAE DELAYS REPURCHASE The parent of Sallie Mae, which for years profited from placing large bets on its own stock going up, is facing a possible loss of more than $1 billion because the bet has gone drastically wrong. Now it has negotiated a two-month delay in the deadline for coming up with the money for the stock repurchase. [C1.] 
 FUTURE OF TWO WALL ST. CHIEFS James E. Cayne and John J. Mack, the chiefs of Bear Stearns and Morgan Stanley, have each presided over announcements of steep losses this week and forgone bonuses. Now the question is, should they be allowed to stay at their perches of power? [C1.] 
 ADDING UP CHINA'S OUTPUT Should China be treated differently because it may not be so rich after all? That is one of the central questions raised by new calculations from the World Bank that suggest that the Chinese economy may not be as large as previously thought. [C1.] 
 China's steel production now exceeds that of Germany, Japan and the United States combined. But its steel mills contribute to China's surging emissions of sulfur dioxide and carbon dioxide. [A1.] 
 BOND INSUROR'S SHARES FALL Shares of the nation's biggest insurer of financial risk, MBIA, fell 26 percent after it disclosed that it was guaranteeing billions of dollars of the kind of complex debt that unnerved the credit market this summer. [C6.] 
 I.R.S. OPPOSES AUDIT CUTBACKS The Internal Revenue Service has criticized proposed legislation that would scale back audits of wealthy taxpayers in the United States Virgin Islands, saying that the bill would ''significantly affect'' the agency's efforts to combat offshore tax fraud. [C2.] 
 MONEY FOR WHISTLE-BLOWER 
 A former drug sales representative who became a whistle-blower has been awarded $1.6 million for bringing a drug marketing fraud to light, despite efforts by the government to prevent him from receiving the money. [C2.] 
 GRIM 2008 FOR PARTS SUPPLIERS Hundreds of auto parts suppliers are anticipating the year ahead to be one of the ugliest ever, as automobile sales are projected to fall to the lowest level in a decade. Market Place. [C7.] 
 CAMPBELL SOUP SELLS GODIVA Campbell Soup Company agreed to sell its Godiva Chocolatier unit to Yildiz Holding of Turkey for $850 million. Campbell decided to sell Godiva, which it acquired in 1967 and built into a worldwide phenomenon, to focus more on its traditional business of soups and snacks. [C2.] 
 RUSSIA SIGNS GAS PIPELINE DEAL Russia signed a deal with the Central Asian republics of Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan to build a natural gas pipeline along the Caspian Sea, a move that analysts said could strengthen Russia's monopoly on energy exports from the region. [C5.] 
 E.U. AIRLINE EMISSIONS LAW European Union governments have scaled back a proposed law that would regulate emissions from any airline with takeoffs or landings in Europe. [C5.] 
 AIR PASSENGER RIGHTS In a victory for air travelers, a federal judge in Albany upheld a state law that would penalize airlines that fail to provide adequate services to passengers trapped on the tarmac for more than three hours.[C3.] 
 STEWART AND COLBERT RETURN Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert will return to their shows on Comedy Central on Jan. 7, two months after production was suspended because of a writers' strike. [C3.] 
 ZELL IS NOW CHIEF AT TRIBUNE The Tribune Company completed its transition into a privately held operation, and Sam Zell, the chief executive, announced a new set of directors and managers and declared that the troubled company would look to raise revenue more than cut spending. [C4.] 
 APPLE RUMOR SITE SETTLES 
 A Web site for rumors about Apple and its new products, which had been frequently sued by the company for publishing trade secrets, has agreed to shut down after reaching a settlement. [C3.] 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (88%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (86%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); SALES FORCE (72%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); BONDS (69%); TAX AUDITS (67%); TAX FRAUD (67%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (67%); SALES PROJECTIONS (64%); TAX AUTHORITIES (62%); LEGISLATION (62%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (60%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (92%); GODIVA CHOCOLATIER INC (81%); CAMPBELL SOUP CO (80%); SLM CORP (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (92%); MRK (NYSE) (92%); CPB (NYSE) (80%); SLM (NASDAQ) (57%); MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (81%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (81%); SIC5441 CANDY, NUT, & CONFECTIONERY STORES (81%); NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (80%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (80%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%)

PERSON: JOHN J MACK (53%); JIMMY CAYNE (53%); JAMES E CAYNE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



501 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: With Detroit Downbeat on 2008, Its Suppliers Are Singing the Blues

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
CARMAKERS expect 2008 to be challenging, at best, but hundreds of automotive parts suppliers are anticipating the year ahead to be one of the ugliest ever.
 Overall sales in the United States are projected to fall below 16 million vehicles next year, the lowest level in a decade, as a housing slump, high oil prices and weak consumer confidence deter car shoppers. Slow sales will mean less demand for parts at a time when many suppliers are already suffering from years of heavy losses or eroding profit margins.
 The outlook for suppliers, the nation's largest manufacturing sector, worsened recently when Detroit automakers said that they did not plan to counter the softening market with bigger discounts, even if the country slipped into a recession. 
 Suppliers employed about 654,000 people in the United States in 2006, down from a peak of 840,000 at the beginning of this decade, according to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. That is still considerably larger than the automakers' American payrolls.
 During the 2001 recession, huge sales and no-interest financing deals kept assembly lines humming for the automakers and suppliers. But those incentives devastated carmakers' profits and vehicles' resale values, so General Motors, Ford Motor and Chrysler are trying to move away from that strategy.
 ''What's going to be different about this time is that the automakers are signaling they won't continuously prop up sales,'' said Erich Merkle, an analyst with the consulting firm IRN in Grand Rapids, Mich. ''It's not a sustainable climate going forward.''
 Suppliers will probably feel more pressure as the automakers try to cope with declining sales by asking for price reductions on parts. That would be on top of the price cuts that suppliers have already reluctantly agreed to, with the assumption that those prices could rebound when the market picks up. But that has not happened yet.
 Investors have battered suppliers' share prices as a result. Shares of ArvinMeritor, based in Troy, Mich., and one of the largest parts makers in North America, fell below $10 this month for the first time in seven years, from a high of $23.65 in the summer.
 TRW Automotive Holdings in Livonia, Mich., set a 52-week low of $21.38 on Wednesday. Superior Industries International, based in California, and Stoneridge, based in Ohio, also set 52-week lows this week, while the Detroit-based American Axle and Manufacturing hit an 11-month low.
 Shares of Lear, Tenneco and Magna International have also fallen sharply.
 Last week, Jonathan Steinmetz, an automotive analyst with Morgan Stanley in New York, reduced his 2008 earnings estimates for every supplier that he covers and said there was potential for further deterioration.
 ''The cuts reflect recent production schedule changes at G.M., Ford and Chrysler and the expectation of more to come,'' Mr. Steinmetz wrote in a note to clients. ''We emphasize companies with non-Detroit Three business, strong balance sheets, geographic diversification, reasonable valuation, and healthy dividend yields.''
 Not all suppliers are facing a gloomy future. Some, including BorgWarner in Auburn Hills, Mich., and Johnson Controls in Milwaukee, have continued to post sizable profits despite -- and in some cases as a result of -- the overall industry climate. 
 ''There will actually be some suppliers that will benefit and do very well in 2008, because some of their competition is going away,'' Mr. Merkle, the IRN analyst, said.
 Among those that have already shut down is Collins & Aikman, a Michigan company that made automotive cockpit modules, floors, acoustic systems and instrument panels; it was dissolved in 2007. It had 14,000 employees in 2005, when it filed for bankruptcy protection after sales plunged and losses mounted. (The company's former chief executive, David A. Stockman, a budget director for President Ronald Reagan, was indicted in March on charges of accounting fraud.) 
 Numerous other suppliers, including Delphi, Dana and Dura Automotive Systems, have operated under bankruptcy protection. A study last spring by the consulting firm BBK found that a third of the biggest North American suppliers were financially troubled and predicted that an additional 22 percent could become significantly distressed by mid-2008.
 W. Patrick Dreisig, a lawyer with Butzel Long in Detroit who specializes in the automotive industry, said that the longer the supply industry remained in turmoil, the more the gulf between healthy and unhealthy suppliers would widen.
 ''The weaker suppliers can only lose money for so long before they need to file for some sort of protection,'' Mr. Dreisig said. ''The weaker suppliers are going to be acquired or go out of business and the stronger suppliers will get stronger.''
 For many companies, he says, the goal is merely to remain open with the hope that the market will eventually improve.
 ''If they can just survive it until it stabilizes and then grow after that,'' Mr. Dreisig said, ''they may have achieved something very successful.''
 William J. Kohler, a lawyer with Butzel Long and a former general counsel for Johnson Controls' automotive business, said suppliers had increasingly been taking measures to protect against bankruptcy filings by their customers. Some now request payments more often to reduce the amount they would be owed in a bankruptcy filing, and others have considered selling their accounts receivables to a third party that would assume the risk of collecting that debt.
 Butzel Long has been involved in several transactions in which a supplier bought an unwanted, noncore operation from an automaker or larger supplier, with the stipulation that the company would receive a steady flow of profitable parts orders from the seller for several years.
 The suppliers are struggling at a critical time for all three Detroit automakers, which are trying to return to profitability. Their path would become more difficult as more suppliers fail, causing parts shortages and other problems that can ripple through the industry. 
 ''The automakers' long-term viability,'' said Mr. Merkle, the IRN analyst, ''is still heavily dependent on a vibrant and healthy supply base.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Collins & Aikman had 14,000 employees making a variety of auto parts, in 2005. The company was dissolved in 2007. Its former chief executive was indicted in March on fraud charges. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLLINS & AIKMAN, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (94%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); RECESSION (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (90%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); HOLDING COMPANIES (69%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); MAGNA INTERNATIONAL INC (61%); MERITOR INC (58%); AMERICAN AXLE & MANUFACTURING HOLDINGS INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); TRW AUTOMOTIVE HOLDINGS CORP (52%); SUPERIOR INDUSTRIES INTERNATIONAL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); MGA (NYSE) (61%); MG (TSX) (61%); MTOR (NYSE) (58%); AXL (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%); TRW (NYSE) (52%); SUP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (58%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS336340 MOTOR VEHICLE BRAKE SYSTEM MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3625 RELAYS & INDUSTRIAL CONTROLS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (72%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



502 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Shut Out in Kyrgyzstan Elections, Opposition Party Vows Protests

BYLINE: By DAVID L. STERN

DATELINE: BISHKEK, Kyrgyzstan 

 BODY:
Leaders of this former Soviet republic's main opposition party vowed nationwide protests Thursday after government officials announced final election results that excluded the party from Parliament. 
 President Kurmanbek Bakiyev called the election three years ahead of schedule to break a stalemate with the previous Parliament, which was dominated by the opposition. The deadlock choked economic growth and destabilized this small, mountainous nation of five million, which is home to the main American logistical hub for supplying and moving troops into Afghanistan, as well as to a Russian air base. 
 Voting was Sunday, and the new Parliament convenes Friday. When preliminary results were published Monday, it appeared that Mr. Bakiyev's party, Ak Zhol, had won all the seats under the complex election rules, which included requirements that a party win at least 5 percent of the total vote and cross certain regional thresholds to be eligible for any seats in Parliament. 
 The Supreme Court struck down some of the requirements this week. But the Central Election Commission said Thursday that the opposition party, Ata Meken, had failed to meet one of the requirements that remained.
 The commission said the party had not received support from at least one-half of 1 percent of the electorate -- or about 600 votes -- in the city of Osh and was therefore barred from Parliament.
 At the same time, the commission announced that the Social Democratic Party and the Communist Party, which are considered sympathetic to the government, had met the 5 percent minimum, even though preliminary results, with 95 percent of the vote counted, showed that both had failed to do so.
 Thus, the election commission said, three parties qualified to enter the new Parliament: Ak Zhol, with 71 seats; the Social Democrats, 11 seats; and the Communists, 8 seats. 
 Mr. Bakiyev said the election was ''one of the cleanest in recent times,'' according to local news agencies. But Ata Meken leaders, supported by hundreds of local and international election observers, said the vote had been spoiled by widespread violations. 
 On Thursday a State Department spokesman, Sean McCormack, said the United States ''is seriously concerned about the conduct of the Dec. 16 parliamentary elections in the Kyrgyz Republic.''
 Kubat Baibolov, an Ata Meken leader, said the party had polled more than enough votes in Osh and would begin a legal case and a nationwide series of protests. 
 Mr. Baibolov said some Ata Meken candidates had begun a hunger strike, and around 20 demonstrators had already been detained here in the capital. 
 Kyrgyzstan is considered to have the most fractious political culture among the former Soviet states of Central Asia. Mass protests in 2005 forced the president at the time, Askar Akayev, to flee the country and brought Mr. Bakiyev to power. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (89%); ELECTION LAW (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ELECTION MONITORING (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (61%); SUPREME COURTS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (54%)

PERSON: KURMANBEK BAKIYEV (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KYRGYZSTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



503 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: Class-Action Cases Rise, Fueled by Subprime Troubles

BYLINE: By KAREN DONOVAN

 BODY:
The subprime mess is turning out to be a boon for class-action lawyers.
 Litigation stemming from the housing crisis is driving an increase in class-action filings, according to a study to be released Friday by the NERA Economic Consulting company. Through Dec. 15, filings were up 58 percent from 2006, according to the study. 
 A total of 198 class actions were filed this year through Dec. 15, and 38 of them were securities class actions related to subprime mortgages. No shareholder class actions related to subprime loans were filed in 2006, according to the report.
 ''There is no question,'' said Gerald H. Silk, of Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann, that the subprime market has led to an increase in litigation. His New York firm has class actions pending against the subprime lenders Fremont General, Accredited Home Lenders and American Home Mortgage Investment.
 Stuart M. Grant of Grant & Eisenhofer, a firm in Wilmington, Del., said, ''All you are seeing now is the low-hanging fruit.'' His firm has a shareholders' derivative lawsuit pending against Countrywide Financial, the mortgage giant.
 Class-action filings, excluding subprime cases and those stemming from the backdating of stock options, have increased almost 40 percent from 2006. Average settlements have also jumped, to $33.2 million from $22.7 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASS ACTIONS (96%); LITIGATION (93%); SUBPRIME LENDING (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); STOCK OPTIONS (75%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (75%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (70%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%); ACCREDITATION (53%)

COMPANY: BERNSTEIN LITOWITZ BERGER & GROSSMANN LLP (83%); AMERICAN HOME MORTGAGE INVESTMENT CORP (56%); SIGNATURE GROUP HOLDINGS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (56%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (56%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (52%) DELAWARE, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



504 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: New York Condos Lure Deal-Seeking Europeans

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
The sidewalks of Manhattan are crammed this month with European tourists on shopping sprees, picking up gifts that cost far less in the United States than they do at home because of the weak dollar. But they are not just crowding into boutiques and department stores. Some are also shopping for condominiums.
 ''There's bargains to be had,'' said Kerry Miller, a public relations executive who with her husband, Marty, a disc jockey, was working through her Christmas gift list by buying sweaters at Abercrombie & Fitch and makeup at MAC, as well as touring 32 apartments. The Millers, from Malahide, Ireland, a suburb of Dublin, searched for a one-bedroom condo. They made an offer for $700,000 on one apartment in the meatpacking district and are waiting to hear back from the seller. 
 While natives remain wary about real estate and worry about bonuses and the economic climate, foreign tourists are keeping brokers busy with their eagerness to buy up Manhattan apartments, which many see as investments.
 ''The exchange rate is like a gift from God for Europeans,'' said Danielle Grossenbacher, the broker for Coldwell Banker Hunt Kennedy who showed the Millers around. ''Everybody is feeling they have an opportunity to purchase a piece of Manhattan.''
 These buyers are transforming a traditionally slow month for Manhattan real estate brokers at a time when brokers nationwide are struggling to sell homes. This year, Manhattan brokers are waking before dawn to talk by phone with European buyers about amenities and closing costs and working late advising foreign buyers in town on the best places to shop for gadgets and clothes.
 The number of foreign buyers has doubled in the last two years, according to data from the research firm Radar Logic. In just the last 18 months, they have bought one-third of all new condos that were up for sale, said Jonathan J. Miller, an executive vice president at Radar Logic and its director of research. 
 ''We'd have had difficulty absorbing the elevated level of new development coming on the market without foreign buyers,'' Mr. Miller said. ''They are a key source of demand for new development.''
 Donna Olshan, a Manhattan broker, said that in December she typically received calls only from a few Wall Street bankers who had gotten their bonus numbers. This month, she said, a record number of foreign buyers have called, sent e-mail messages and shown up at her office shopping for real estate.
 ''We're seeing a flurry of foreign activity from Britain, France and Italy, looking to spend their pounds and euros,'' Ms. Olshan said.
 Foreign buyers are helping shield Manhattan from the housing slowdown that has plagued the rest of the nation and are providing a ready market for thousands of newly built condominiums. They like condos for the amenities and flexible rules that allow renting the apartments as investments. That many units are in neighborhoods that are not traditionally residential like Midtown and the financial district does not seem to bother the shoppers. They like that those neighborhoods are well known.
 Diane Ramirez, president of the real estate brokerage Halstead Property, said foreign buyers would make up about 20 percent of the firm's sales transactions in 2007 in terms of dollars spent compared with nearly 15 percent in 2005. Ms. Ramirez said that five years ago, there were no apartments for foreign buyers because the market was made up mainly of co-ops whose owners would not welcome them into their buildings. 
 Real estate brokers project that foreign buyers will continue their shopping sprees for condos and clothes through the new year with the expectation that the dollar will continue to weaken.
 Jonathan Fletcher, who works in information technology, and Aine Marshall, a dentist, came to Manhattan from London to buy a $1 million investment property. Mr. Fletcher, who is considering buying in the financial district, where he believes there is opportunity for appreciation, plans to put down his deposit money first and wait for the dollar to weaken more before paying for the entire apartment. Even if he does not buy an apartment, the savings from shopping in the United States covered the cost of the trip, he said. They spent a total of $8,000 on clothes, a camera and a $5,000 drum set that would have cost about double back home. 
 Foreign buyers often purchase quickly because they largely view these apartments as investments like a bond or a stock. Dorothy Somekh, a Halstead broker, said that in an afternoon a Belgian couple she represented bought a $1.7 million two-bedroom condo at the Sheffield in Midtown to rent out for about $7,500 a month. After the couple signed the contract, they headed to Abercrombie & Fitch to shop for clothes for their daughters.
 ''They're not really sophisticated investors,'' Ms. Somekh said. ''But they thought, 'Where else can I put my money?''' 
 Anne Marie Moriarty, a Corcoran broker, recently coordinated her meetings with an Italian buyer, Roberto Lorenzon, around his family's shopping schedule. She showed him some apartments after his trip to Gap Kids for his son and daughter. She met Mr. Lorenzon, a financial adviser, at Victoria's Secret while he waited for his wife to finish her shopping. While Mr. Lorenzon had a deal fall through on a $1.3 million penthouse in Murray Hill, he will visit again in January.
 ''She was all about the stores, and he was all about the condos,'' Ms. Moriarty said. ''All of the hours were arranged around shopping.''
 But Mr. Lorenzon said that in this ''very favorable period'' for investing and buying in New York, he had bought clothes, a neck massager, a digital picture album and toys for his children.
 Of course, a busy shopping season means that Manhattan brokers are running out of time to buy family gifts. Ms. Moriarty, who has worked every day for six straight weeks, has resigned herself to shopping with the last-minute crowds. By the weekend, she said, her British, Irish and Italian buyers will ''be home with their presents.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cathleen Carmody, a Manhattan real estate broker, showed an apartment to Jonathan Fletcher and Aine Marshall of Ireland. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RETAILERS (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (84%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (84%); AFT (FRA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (57%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (92%); EUROPE (91%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



505 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Russia Signs Deal for Gas Pipeline Along Caspian Sea

BYLINE: By JUDY DEMPSEY

 BODY:
Desperate to meet growing domestic and European demand, Russia signed a deal Thursday with the Central Asian republics of Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan to build a natural gas pipeline along the Caspian Sea, a move that analysts said could strengthen Russia's monopoly on energy exports from the region. 
 The deal was signed in the Kremlin by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and President Nursultan A. Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan during a conference call with President Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov of Turkmenistan. 
 Mr. Putin, who visited both countries several times over the last two years to clinch this deal, said on Russian national television that the agreement would contribute to ''strengthening the European energy security.''
 Russia supplies more than a quarter of Europe's gas needs; several Eastern European countries are almost completely dependent on Russia for natural gas. 
 Gazprom, Russia's state-owned energy monopoly, has had to seek new and expensive suppliers, mostly in Central Asia, to fulfill its export contracts in Europe while also supplying its domestic market, which has rapidly expanded because of the surge in consumer spending and economic growth.
 ''The reality is that Russia is not investing enough in its own gas infrastructure and has not enough of its own gas to supply Europe and its domestic market,'' said Andrew Monaghan, director of the Russian Research Network at the Defense Academy of the United Kingdom. 
 Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan have also been wooed by the United States and the European Union, seeking access to the region's gas fields. 
 The United States has been trying to persuade Central Asian nations to build a pipeline under the Caspian Sea, bypassing Russia and Iran. But that proposal has been held up by a dispute over the status of the Caspian Sea among the countries that border it, including Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Iran and Russia.
 The European Union, too, has been trying to diversify its suppliers and its routes, mainly via the Caspian Sea, by building the Nabucco gas pipeline, the union's most ambitious infrastructure project. 
 That project envisions a pipeline stretching about 2,000 miles from Turkey through the Balkans and Central Europe into Austria. Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan and Iran, which hold the largest reserves, would feed gas into the pipeline. 
 European officials played down the Russian accord Thursday, saying there was still enough gas in Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan to fill the Nabucco pipeline. 
 Still, some analysts said the new deal could undermine Europe's ambitions. 
 ''Russia has always been trying to block Nabucco,'' said Peter Kaderjak, director of the Regional Center for Energy Policy Research in Budapest. ''But what is interesting about this deal is that it took so long, and it needed Putin to push it through. It just shows how much Russia needs extra gas supplies, and it is willing to pay for it.'' 
 Aleksei Miller, chief executive of Gazprom, spent many months negotiating for Turkmen gas. He signed an agreement last month, but only after agreeing to the demands of Mr. Berdymukhammedov for a higher price. Analysts said this was a clear signal that Turkmenistan was independent enough from Russia to set its own terms and confident enough to use its energy resources as leverage.
 Starting in January, Russia will pay $130 for 1,000 cubic meters, or 35,000 cubic feet, of gas from Turkmenistan; this year it paid $100. In the second half of 2008, the price will rise to $150 for 1,000 cubic meters. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, right, and Kazakhstan's president, Nursultan A. Nazarbayev, made a deal for gas supply. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VLADIMIR RODIONOV/PRESIDENTIAL PRESS SERVICE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (70%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (70%); GAZP (RTS) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (70%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (70%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (70%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (70%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (70%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CASPIAN SEA (94%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); EUROPE (98%); KAZAKHSTAN (94%); ASIA (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (94%); TURKMENISTAN (94%); AZERBAIJAN (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); HUNGARY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); AUSTRIA (57%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



506 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Denial of California Bid on Emissions Should Have Been Foreseen

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and MICHELINE MAYNARD; John M. Broder reported from Washington, and Micheline Maynard from Detroit.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration's decision to deny California the right to regulate greenhouse gases from vehicles exploded like a grenade here and in California. But it was hiding in plain sight for weeks.
 The ruling was foreshadowed in White House letters, floor statements by members of Congress, public arguments from automobile industry officials and hints from the Environmental Protection Agency.
 Stephen L. Johnson, the environmental administrator, announced the decision on Wednesday, the day President Bush signed the first major change in vehicle mileage standards passed by Congress in 32 years. 
 Mr. Johnson said the new law made the proposed California standards unnecessary.
 Addressing criticism that the White House had dictated the agency's decision, Mr. Bush emphasized on Thursday that the ruling had been made solely by Mr. Johnson, a 27-year employee of the agency. Mr. Johnson also said he had acted on his own.
 The ruling answered the pleas of industry executives. They reluctantly accepted the fleetwide standard of 35 miles a gallon by 2020, the centerpiece of the energy bill, but feared even tougher rules under the proposed California standard. Those rules would have required a fleet average of 36 miles a gallon by 2016.
 Automobile executives specifically cited apprehension over the California rules at meetings in October and November with Vice President Dick Cheney, other top White House officials and influential members of Congress.
 The White House, in a letter last week to lawmakers, said the energy bill should set a ''single national regulatory standard,'' rather than allowing states to set their own rules.
 Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat and longtime ally of the auto industry, said in a floor statement that he was voting for the fuel efficiency measure based on assurances that it would not be ''undercut'' by future rules from the environmental agency on emissions of heat-trapping gases like carbon dioxide. 
 The agency's decision faces legal challenges and Congressional reviews, and a new president could reverse it. But, for now at least, automakers gained something from the administration that they could not have obtained from Congress or the courts. 
 They have blocked California and other states from creating what Mr. Johnson repeatedly called a ''patchwork of state rules'' for fuel efficiency and for the carbon dioxide produced by every internal combustion engine. 
 Under the Clean Air Act, the automakers have for decades chafed under separate, tougher state standards for other tailpipe emissions like those that cause smog. 
 The industry pushed for the new ruling as part of its overall lobbying on the energy bill, which also calls for a huge increase in ethanol and other biofuels over 15 years. 
 In meetings in October with Mr. Cheney and sessions with White House staff members, auto executives made clear that they were concerned not just about the fuel economy measures in the bill but also about the California proposal for stricter emissions standards.
 California developed rules in 2004 to reduce tailpipe emissions of carbon dioxide and other pollutants that scientists say contribute to global warming. The state applied to Washington in December 2005 for a waiver from the Clean Air Act to let it apply the tougher standards. Eventually, 16 states joined the application for the exception. 
 Since 1970, such waivers have been routinely granted more than 50 times involving tailpipe pollutants that foul the air in some states more than in others. But none faced the political atmosphere surrounding the California proposal, which dealt with a gas that affects the world climate, not that of a particular state. 
 The environmental agency had two hearings on the waiver and received more than 100,000 comments. Insiders said the technical and legal staffs at the agency were never asked for formal analyses of the California plan, and no documentation was released with the ruling, as has been routine in waiver cases.
 Senator Barbara Boxer, the California Democrat who leads the environment committee, said she believed that the administration never intended to grant the state's request. Ms. Boxer said Mr. Johnson refused to meet her on the question and evaded questions about White House pressure at a hearing before her panel.
 She said the signing of the energy bill on Wednesday provided Mr. Johnson convenient timing and a rationale to reject the waiver.
 ''They used the energy bill -- I'd say misused it -- as a way to justify what they wanted to do all along,'' Ms. Boxer said.
 Other lawmakers and environmental advocates expressed suspicion that the decision had been made weeks or months ago and pointed to White House statements raising questions about the fuel-economy measure as it moved through Congress. 
 The White House expressed concerns that the bill did not clarify the relative roles of the environmental agency and the Transportation Department, which regulated mileage rules.
 A White House official, speaking on background last week, said it was critical that the new standard not be supplanted by a new program from the environmental agency or the states. 
 ''If Congress says they have to meet 35 by 2020, that's what it should be,'' the official said. ''Not what it should be until someone says it's something different.''
 Although the California rule would have addressed just emissions of heat-trapping gases, it would in effect be a fuel economy standard, because the main way to cut emissions is to cut fuel use.
 Auto company executives told the White House and sympathetic members of Congress that they feared that the fuel economy standards and the California waiver would force them to reduce emissions and raise fuel economy on a faster timetable than the energy bill that became law.
 ''We had California, and we had all these other issues colliding into that,'' said a senior auto company official who insisted on anonymity. He called the California situation ''one of our worry beads.''
 Executives at two companies said they did not know the precise timing of the decision until Wednesday afternoon, when the White House made courtesy calls to members of Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); BIOMASS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SMOG (78%); LOBBYING (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BIOFUELS (68%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (67%); ALCOHOLS (63%); ETHANOL (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CARL LEVIN (58%); DICK CHENEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



507 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Blindly Into the Bubble

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
David Brooks is off today.

 BODY:
When announcing Japan's surrender in 1945, Emperor Hirohito famously explained his decision as follows: ''The war situation has developed not necessarily to Japan's advantage.''
 There was a definite Hirohito feel to the explanation Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, gave this week for the Fed's locking-the-barn-door-after-the-horse-is-gone decision to modestly strengthen regulation of the mortgage industry: ''Market discipline has in some cases broken down, and the incentives to follow prudent lending procedures have, at times, eroded.''
 That's quite an understatement. In fact, the explosion of ''innovative'' home lending that took place in the middle years of this decade was an unmitigated disaster. 
 But maybe Mr. Bernanke was afraid to be blunt about just how badly things went wrong. After all, straight talk would have amounted to a direct rebuke of his predecessor, Alan Greenspan, who ignored pleas to lock the barn door while the horse was still inside -- that is, to regulate lending while it was booming, rather than after it had already collapsed.
 I use the words ''unmitigated disaster'' advisedly. 
 Apologists for the mortgage industry claim, as Mr. Greenspan does in his new book, that ''the benefits of broadened home ownership'' justified the risks of unregulated lending.
 But homeownership didn't broaden. The great bulk of dubious subprime lending took place from 2004 to 2006 -- yet homeownership rates are already back down to mid-2003 levels. With millions more foreclosures likely, it's a good bet that homeownership will be lower at the Bush administration's end than it was at the start.
 Meanwhile, during the bubble years, the mortgage industry lured millions of people into borrowing more than they could afford, and simultaneously duped investors into investing vast sums in risky assets wrongly labeled AAA. Reasonable estimates suggest that more than 10 million American families will end up owing more than their homes are worth, and investors will suffer $400 billion or more in losses.
 So where were the regulators as one of the greatest financial disasters since the Great Depression unfolded? They were blinded by ideology.
 ''Fed shrugged as subprime crisis spread,'' was the headline on a New York Times report on the failure of regulators to regulate. This may have been a discreet dig at Mr. Greenspan's history as a disciple of Ayn Rand, the high priestess of unfettered capitalism known for her novel ''Atlas Shrugged.'' 
 In a 1963 essay for Ms. Rand's newsletter, Mr. Greenspan dismissed as a ''collectivist'' myth the idea that businessmen, left to their own devices, ''would attempt to sell unsafe food and drugs, fraudulent securities, and shoddy buildings.'' On the contrary, he declared, ''it is in the self-interest of every businessman to have a reputation for honest dealings and a quality product.''
 It's no wonder, then, that he brushed off warnings about deceptive lending practices, including those of Edward M. Gramlich, a member of the Federal Reserve board. In Mr. Greenspan's world, predatory lending -- like attempts to sell consumers poison toys and tainted seafood -- just doesn't happen.
 But Mr. Greenspan wasn't the only top official who put ideology above public protection. Consider the press conference held on June 3, 2003 -- just about the time subprime lending was starting to go wild -- to announce a new initiative aimed at reducing the regulatory burden on banks. Representatives of four of the five government agencies responsible for financial supervision used tree shears to attack a stack of paper representing bank regulations. The fifth representative, James Gilleran of the Office of Thrift Supervision, wielded a chainsaw.
 Also in attendance were representatives of financial industry trade associations, which had been lobbying for deregulation. As far as I can tell from press reports, there were no representatives of consumer interests on the scene.
 Two months after that event the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, one of the tree-shears-wielding agencies, moved to exempt national banks from state regulations that protect consumers against predatory lending. If, say, New York State wanted to protect its own residents -- well, sorry, that wasn't allowed.
 Of course, now that it has all gone bad, people with ties to the financial industry are rethinking their belief in the perfection of free markets. Mr. Greenspan has come out in favor of, yes, a government bailout. ''Cash is available,'' he says -- meaning taxpayer money -- ''and we should use that in larger amounts, as is necessary, to solve the problems of the stress of this.''
 Given the role of conservative ideology in the mortgage disaster, it's puzzling that Democrats haven't been more aggressive about making the disaster an issue for the 2008 election. They should be: It's hard to imagine a more graphic demonstration of what's wrong with their opponents' economic beliefs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); FORECLOSURE (75%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); HOUSING BUBBLE (71%); FOOD MISLABELING (66%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (65%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); BEN BERNANKE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



508 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1354 words

HEADLINE: Republican Unity Trumps Democratic Momentum

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It was a picture-perfect start for Nancy Pelosi as she took the speaker's podium last January in her tailored aubergine suit surrounded by children to emphasize her singular status as the first woman, mother and grandmother to lead the House.
 What Ms. Pelosi did not know, as she beamed at her fellow Democrats cheering their return to power, was that the glum Republicans witnessing the tableau would remain persistently unified against her and her ambitious new majority in the legislative year ahead. 
 Defying expectations and surprising even themselves, Republicans were able to slow and sometimes halt Democratic momentum by refusing to break with President Bush and his war strategy, no matter how unpopular, and by resisting social initiatives, no matter how appealing. 
 ''What is interesting to me is how the Republicans have stuck with the president,'' said Ms. Pelosi, of California, looking back on her history-making first year capped by the president signing an energy bill that she declared as a top priority from the start. ''I didn't foresee that.'' 
 Republicans say their unity was inspired by what they saw as Democratic overreaching on policy, bolstered by a fundamental belief that a Congressionally forced withdrawal from Iraq would be disastrous, and stiffened by attacks on vulnerable members from outside advocacy groups. 
 Holding together, they exerted their influence in three main areas: a children's health care bill, domestic spending and, first and foremost, the war in Iraq. Time and again, even when a few of their number defected, they refused to provide the votes needed to challenge the president's handling of the war. As a result, the final House vote of the year handed Mr. Bush another $70 billion for combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, much to the frustration of Democrats who had begun 2007 with enormous expectations.
 ''I was much more hopeful and optimistic that we would be able to do more to bring a new direction to this war, with our majority in the House and Senate,'' said Representative John Lewis, the Georgia Democrat often viewed as the conscience of the party.
 As they left the Capitol, Congressional Republicans took the view that they had been able to leverage their minority status to a degree even they had not thought possible.
 ''A year into 'the wilderness,' our Republican team has scored legislative and political victories that no one -- no one -- could have predicted a year ago,'' Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader, wrote in a confidential memorandum distributed to Republican House members.
 Democrats predicted that Republicans would pay a steep price in 2008 for their conduct in 2007 while Democrats would take advantage of their own victories on kitchen-table issues like worker pay and education costs. 
 As they face the voters in a presidential election year, Republicans will have to explain their loyalty to Mr. Bush's war policies when polls have been clear for months about public dissatisfaction with the war. Even the relatively positive military trends that some see in Iraq have not, so far, produced much in the way of social stability there.
 Democrats will remind voters at every turn that Republicans fought the expansion of health insurance for children and higher federal spending on biomedical research, college aid and an entire spectrum of federal programs. 
 ''Many are paying and will continue to pay a price, but they are standing by the president and their most conservative base,'' said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate. ''The general polling across the country suggests this will not work in November.''
 As Democrats asserted their new power at the start of the year, they raced ahead in the House with a series of initiatives on the minimum wage, higher education, terrorism, health care and energy, often with solid bipartisan support, giving hope that they might be able to attract Republicans. 
 But the early action also foreshadowed problems that would hinder the new majority all year: the Senate, with its minority-empowering rules, was not on the same hurry-up schedule, and House Republicans bristled at what they considered heavy-handed treatment. ''Overreaching and the exclusion of Republicans -- that formula equals a lack of results,'' said Representative Dave Camp, Republican of Michigan.
 The first serious collision with Republicans and Mr. Bush came in the spring when Democrats first tried to condition $120 billion in war spending on a deadline for withdrawal. Initially they were able to push the measure through with minimal Republican support, but when it was vetoed, they fell far short of the margin needed for an override. 
 Unwilling to be accused of depriving the troops of funds, they stripped the withdrawal provision. It was a pattern repeated throughout the year. At different points, Republicans seemed poised to bolt from Mr. Bush on the war -- and other issues -- but held firm.
 On another national security issue, Democrats caved to administration pressure on terror surveillance before a summer break. Ms. Pelosi allowed the House to approve a temporary extension of a wiretapping program even though she considered the proposal constitutionally flawed and felt that the White House had dishonestly accused Democrats of impeding surveillance. ''That was a sad day,'' she said. ''Sometimes it is just a fight where we don't have a similar platform.'' 
 The solidarity of House Republicans was also on display in a long-running fight over proposals to expand the Children's Health Insurance Program, a top priority for Ms. Pelosi and other Democratic leaders. On Sept. 28, one day after a child health bill cleared Congress for the first time, Democrats mapped out a strategy to override Mr. Bush's promised veto.
 Democrats and their allies held rallies, broadcast television commercials and made hundreds of telephone calls. They focused initially on 15 House Republicans, many from swing districts and suburban areas. They predicted that most of these lawmakers would switch sides and support the bill. But none did.
 As the spending bills that finance federal agencies stalled, partly because of a long Senate immigration debate that ended without producing major legislation, Republicans joined Mr. Bush in insisting that Democrats not exceed the White House's spending limit. Democratic leaders, who by and large earned their spurs on the appropriation committees, kept waiting for Mr. Bush to cut a deal. But the White House was spoiling for a fight. 
 ''The president as we all know, I can verify this for sure, has been eager all year to veto bills sent to his desk,'' Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, the No. 2 Republican, said Thursday.
 Though Democrats had to settle for Mr. Bush's spending figure, they rewrote parts of the $555 billion spending package to suit their own priorities. And they said that by passing the budget measure, they succeeded where Republicans could not in 2006, while depriving Republicans of the clash they wanted.
 Heading into 2008, Republicans say they know they cannot campaign without a more positive agenda than simply thwarting Democrats. Republicans say they are putting together their own proposals on health care and the economy to present to the public. 
 ''I think it's incumbent upon us to provide solutions to their concerns,'' Mr. Boehner said, ''but solutions built on our principles.''
 Democrats have their own plans. Ms. Pelosi and others say they will revisit elements of the energy legislation that they had to jettison to get the new law enacted. They will have a health care push and major economic legislation to counter the possibility of a looming recession. They will keep the pressure on over Iraq, though the speaker indicated that she might focus more on policy questions and less on money for troops. 
 And Democrats will try to paint Republicans as the problem. ''But for the president and the Bush Republicans in the Senate,'' said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, ''we could have accomplished so much more.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Democrats were happy, and hopeful, when Nancy Pelosi took the speaker's podium as Congress began last January. Republicans were determined, which, as it turned out, was more important. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE ROSE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); IRAQ WAR (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); JOHN LEWIS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



509 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: City Urged to Restore Stop On Extension of No. 7 Train

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Two years after the Far West Side was rezoned for large-scale development, a growing number of elected officials, environmentalists and community groups are questioning the city's and state's plans for the area. 
 The city has set aside $2.1 billion for the extension of the No. 7 line from Times Square to the Javits Convention Center and the West Side railyards, the rights to which the Metropolitan Transportation Authority plans to auction off for high-rise residential and commercial development. But in an effort to stay within the budget, the city recently eliminated one of two stops along the 1.1-mile extension from the current tunneling contract. 
 Representative Jerrold Nadler; the city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr.; and other officials said in a Dec. 19 letter to Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff that it was ''imperative'' that the city build that subway station, at 10th Avenue and 41st Street, as part of the extension, work on which began last month. Not doing so, they said, would ''represent a failure to the area's growing residential population'' and ''puts at risk several million square feet of potential commercial and residential development.'' 
 Those officials suggested financing the station by diverting money from projects that could be put on hold temporarily, like building a tree-lined boulevard between 10 and 11th Avenues, from 34th to 39th Streets. Those projects are part of the city's larger vision for rebuilding the Far West Side.
 ''We're not going to give up on this,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, who initiated the letter. ''Any urban planner would tell you that residential and commercial development follows mass transit. It will not only open up the northern end of the Far West Side, but also north of 42nd Street, where there is no mass transit either.''
 The letter was also signed by State Senator Tom Duane; Kathleen Treat of the Hell's Kitchen Neighborhood Association; Gene Russianoff of the Straphangers Campaign; Betsy Gotbaum, the public advocate, who is expected to run for city comptroller; and Representative Anthony Weiner, who, like Mr. Thompson, will probably run for mayor next year.
 The letter brought a quick retort from City Hall. ''It's time for Senator Schumer and his colleagues in Albany and Washington to step up to the plate with adequate capital funding for the M.T.A., so that they have the resources to provide the rest,'' said John Gallagher, a spokesman for the Bloomberg administration.
 At a hearing Thursday about progress on a variety of West Side projects, Mr. Doctoroff said that the city had never planned to build the subway station at 10th Avenue and 41st Street in the first phase of the tunneling project. At the same time, officials said that the city was trying to bring down the cost of building the station, which could run more than $400 million. 
 Mr. Doctoroff also said that the city had proposed splitting any expenses beyond the $2.1 billion budget for the subway extension with the transportation authority. The two sides have yet to come to an agreement on cost overruns.
 The hearing was sponsored by Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, who also signed the letter. He said the Far West Side represented the ''last great visionary opportunity'' for development in Manhattan, but he bemoaned the long-stalled $1.8 billion expansion of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center and the ''controversial'' financing for the subway.
 Mr. Brodsky also questioned whether the transportation authority would ever get the money it needed for its capital budget from the pending sale of development rights over the West Side railyards. He suggested that it might make more sense to create a public authority that could finance and coordinate the West Side projects.
 Mr. Doctoroff acknowledged some missteps, but vigorously defended the progress in redeveloping the West Side. ''What you have is enormous success in planning and execution,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''This is about the transformation of a forlorn area into one of the most vibrant commercial, residential and cultural areas of Manhattan.''
 As for the subway, he said it was necessary to attract development. Commercial developers have said the same thing, but residential builders have been active for some time on the West Side and do not see the extension as critical.
 Patrick J. Foye, co-chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, acknowledged that the convention center expansion plan that he inherited from a previous administration was ''dead.'' He said it was unworkable and $1 billion more expensive than had been previously stated.
 The plan was devised by Charles A. Gargano, the top economic development official in the Pataki administration, and Mr. Doctoroff. Yesterday, Mr. Doctoroff conceded that most of the proposed expansion plans do not make ''a lot of economic sense.''
 Mr. Foye said he hoped to complete a yearlong review in January and announce a plan to refurbish the existing Javits Center and to build a very modest amount of new exhibit and meeting space. ''We inherited a mess,'' he said.
 Lee Sander, executive director of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, said he expected the authority's board to select a winning bid for the railyards in March. Plans call for the development of 12 million square feet of residential and office buildings and retail space over the yards.
 But Richard Ravitch, a former chairman of the transportation authority, testified that he was ''dubious whether this process will produce any money for the M.T.A.'s current capital plan.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The West Side railyards, where 12 million square feet of residential and commercial space is planned. Officials said two subway stations on the 7 line are ''imperative'' to development there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); ZONING (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (52%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); JERROLD NADLER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



510 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Huckabee, Back in Iowa, Brings Christmas Message

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

DATELINE: DIKE, Iowa 

 BODY:
He came to town this week dressed in a dark pinstriped suit and cowboy boots, advocating lower taxes, death to the Internal Revenue Service and restoration of the words ''Merry Christmas'' and ''Jesus Christ'' to the American lexicon.
 And Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor and Baptist minister who rose to the first tier of Republican presidential candidates on the strength of his Christian bona fides, was received by supporters as he returned to Iowa this week like the second coming of Santa Claus.
 At rallies, they posed their red-sweatered children on his knee for photographs, as if he were the man in the red suit at the mall. They gave him standing ovations when he said the words they wanted to hear. 
 ''I know this is probably a very controversial thing, but may I say to you, Merry Christmas!'' Mr. Huckabee told an audience of 200 in Marshalltown on Thursday morning, as the crowd rose to its feet. 
 Clearly delighted over a controversy set off by a recent campaign advertisement in which he says ''what really matters'' this time of year is not the presidential campaign but ''the celebration of the birth of Christ,'' Mr. Huckabee has missed no opportunity in his speeches to his core supporters of evangelical voters to utter those words, underlining the Christ part.
 ''What's wrong with our country, what is wrong with our culture, is that you can't say the name Jesus Christ without people going completely berserk,'' Mr. Huckabee told a crowd in Dike, a tiny farm town about 80 miles northeast of Des Moines, where people also stood to applaud.
 Whatever unease politicians may stir when they invoke Christmas among non-Christians does not seem to apply here. The hegemony of Christianity is as undisputed and unbroken as the landscape is flat. The notion of controversy over it is viewed as political correctness gone wild or, at best, a terrible misunderstanding.
 Still, while appealing openly to his core audience as someone who says he is driven ''by convictions, not just positions,'' Mr. Huckabee has been careful to delimit the role he sees for faith in public life. An elected official's faith ''is not something like a sweater that you put on and take off as a convenience,'' he told the same audiences. ''But should I be able to force it on somebody else? Of course not.''
 People who have been coming to Mr. Huckabee's rallies are mainly Christian activists. But among them are also awed young voters like Eric Crawford, 25, the manager of a coffee shop in Ames who went to a rally, waited patiently in line for 30 minutes before reaching Mr. Huckabee's outstretched hand and then stood there, staring at the man of the hour.
 ''How you doing?'' Mr. Huckabee said, smiling a toothy grin already labeled so Jim Nabors-like that their names appear in about 600 Google matches.
 The child of a farming region where success is built more on regularity and repetition, Mr. Crawford seemed startled by Mr. Huckabee, the embodiment of Big Momentum.
 ''Just want to say you got my vote,'' Mr. Crawford said before moving off.
 He told a reporter later he was surprised at how ''normal and regular'' Mr. Huckabee seemed. ''Funny, too.'' 
 On the campaign trail, Mr. Huckabee is a polished performer who can be funny, endearingly self-deprecating and acute enough to move his audience to tears when he wants. With a voice that toggles between Tom Bodett's comforting sound and Paul Harvey's friendly authority, Mr. Huckabee speaks without notes and is never at a loss for a memorable phrase. (''We should put wingtips on the ground before we put the boots on the ground,'' he says, describing how he would wage foreign policy. ''We should be able to tell the Saudis we no more need their oil than we need their sand,'' he says, describing his energy policy.)
 But he does not light up a room the way some charismatic politicians, like a Barack Obama, might. He warms it up.
 ''I would say he's more personable and congenial than anything else,'' said Howard Taylor, 52, a community college instructor in West Des Moines. ''He's the candidate who believes certain things the way I do, and for the same reasons I do. He doesn't have to be electrifying.''
 Somehow, the very lack of magnetism and fieriness has become one of the hallmarks of Mr. Huckabee's campaign persona. He is the social conservative who is ''not mad at anybody,'' the Christian who does not rail against ''happy holiday'' cards issuing from the White House, but just puts on a red sweater and makes a campaign advertisement with ''Silent Night'' playing in the background.
 ''I believe he's not looking at polls, like some of these other politicians do, Hillary Clinton especially,'' said Doug Butler, 48, a Marshalltown executive. ''If he wants to say 'Merry Christmas,' well he's going to say it. This controversy is ridiculous.''
 Mr. Huckabee's stock message is slightly more God-friendly in Iowa, somewhat more tax-averse in New Hampshire, but at the core it is always the same: that he, Mike Huckabee, is a man of faith. That he is the first in his family to have graduated from high school. That as one who has known economic hardship, he believes people care far less about the ''left and right'' of politics than they do about the ''up and down'' of economic mobility. 
 It is pretty much Reagan-era stuff, only funnier. He says Medicare obligations, if not ''fixed,'' will lead to financial ruin, but he makes the point by saying, ''Wait till all these aging hippies find out they'll get free drugs for the rest of their lives.''
 His appeal is mainly to people who like the idea of ''a man of convictions,'' not one who behaves like a conventional, pandering politician. But there are times when even the purest of truth-speakers must bow before the demands of a campaign for the highest office.
 ''Who is your favorite author?'' Aleya Deatsch, 7, of West Des Moines asked Mr. Huckabee in one of those posing-like-a-shopping-mall-Santa moments.
 Mr. Huckabee paused, then said his favorite author was Dr. Seuss.
 In an interview afterward with the news media, Aleya said she was somewhat surprised. She thought the candidate would be reading at a higher level.
 ''My favorite author is C. S. Lewis,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mike Huckabee, who is leading in Iowa polls, leaving the Waterloo Center for the Arts on Thursday in Waterloo, Iowa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (93%); RELIGION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL HUCKABEE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (95%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



511 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: FedEx Earnings Fall; High Fuel Costs Blamed

DATELINE: MEMPHIS 

 BODY:
The package courier FedEx reported on Thursday that its second-quarter profit fell 6 percent from a year ago, largely because of high fuel costs, lower demand for freight shipments and a sluggish American economy. 
 Growth overseas tempered the effects of the economic slowdown in the United States and helped FedEx, which owns the world's largest cargo airline, meet its lowered earnings expectations for the quarter. But its forecast profit for the current quarter was below Wall Street estimates.
 Its shares fell $1, to $93.63. 
 FedEx earned $479 million, or $1.54 a share, for the three months ended Nov. 30 compared with $511 million, or $1.64 a share, a year ago.
 The company lowered its expected earnings for the second quarter last month to a range of $1.45 to $1.55, down from $1.60 to $1.75. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial predicted earnings of $1.50 a share on their own lowered expectations.
 Revenue rose 6 percent to $9.45 billion, from $8.93 billion last year. Analysts were expecting revenues of $9.32 billion.
 ''The domestic economy is hurting in a number of ways, and some of those ways are hitting FedEx pretty hard,'' an analyst at Edward Jones, Dan Ortwerth said. ''They're still expanding their business globally, getting real traction, and they're still taking market share in the home delivery business here in the United States.''
 The outlook for the United States economy remains poor, but ''we don't think that the United States is going to see an economic meltdown,'' the chief executive, Frederick W. Smith, said. ''We don't think there is going to be strong growth in the U.S. economy, and that's what our forecast is built around.''
 For the third quarter, the company expects to earn $1.15 to $1.30 a share, compared with $1.35 a share a year ago. Analysts polled by Thomson Financial expect a profit of $1.37 a share.
 Less-than-truckload shipments for the FedEx Freight segment fell 6 percent from the same period last year because of the economic slowdown, the company said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); AIR FREIGHT (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (94%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (94%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (94%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (94%)

PERSON: FREDERICK W SMITH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



512 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: I.R.S. Says Bill Would Aid Tax Fraud in Virgin Islands

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
The Internal Revenue Service has criticized proposed legislation that would scale back audits of wealthy taxpayers in the United States Virgin Islands, saying that the bill would ''significantly affect'' the agency's efforts to combat offshore tax fraud. 
 The agency outlined its concerns in a letter dated Nov. 9 to Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the ranking Republican on the Finance Committee. Mr. Grassley, who has made offshore tax havens a priority, oversaw legislation last year that tightened tax breaks in the Caribbean territory.
 In the 13-page letter, a senior I.R.S. official wrote that the agency was auditing 279 individuals -- most of them wealthy United States citizens -- who claim tax breaks for living and working in the Virgin Islands. 
 The individuals include 18 people who work for hedge funds, the letter said, adding that another 80 people were being investigated by the I.R.S.'s criminal division and that 21 had been referred to the Justice Department for prosecution.
 Much of the scrutiny -- and the agency's ability to collect back taxes, penalties and interest -- could grind to a halt if proposed legislation to give the I.R.S. three years to question returns filed by Virgin Islands residents becomes law, according to the letter's author, Kathy K. Petronchak. Ms. Petronchak heads the I.R.S. division that oversees small businesses and self-employed persons.
 New rules enacted last year allow the I.R.S. to question tax filings by Virgin Islands residents as far back as it wants. 
 By contrast, the agency has three years to audit tax returns filed by mainland residents, except in cases involving fraud.
 Ms. Petronchak wrote that 260 of the Virgin Islands residents being audited -- or 93 percent of the 279 total -- have questionable tax activities that go back more than three years. 
 The letter, which is buried in a link on Mr. Grassley's Web site, is a response to legislation proposed by Representative Charles B. Rangel, a Democrat of New York, to reinstate the three-year time limit for questioning filings by Virgin Islands residents. 
 The letter is significant in part because it signals that some hedge fund managers are being audited, and because it tags a Virgin Islands economic development program as a source of tax abuses.
 Through the program, which is intended to aid economic development, the Virgin Islands offers tax breaks for people who live at least 183 days a year on the islands and run a business there. 
 The program has come under intense Congressional scrutiny because many residents actually spend most of their time in the United States and claim the tax breaks. 
 Tax breaks claimed under the economic development program have so far exceeded $373 million, Ms. Petronchak's letter says, adding that the I.R.S. did not know how much of that may have been fraudulently claimed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX AUDITS (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AUDITS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); WRITERS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (79%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



513 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLICY POINTS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Toys Redux

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FALCONE

 BODY:
About that pledge to ban toys imported from China. ...
 Soon after the words suggesting a ban came out of Senator Barack Obama's mouth on Wednesday, his presidential campaign was qualifying his statement. On Thursday, a spokesman said that any ban was meant to apply only to toys containing lead, and that it could be accomplished in part by sending American inspectors to China. 
 Mr. Obama, a Democrat of Illinois, has introduced a bill to require the Consumer Product Safety Commission to ban toys that contain more than trace amounts of lead.
 Still, the Chinese government was not happy with Mr. Obama's remarks, and a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry on Thursday called them ''unwise,'' according to the Xinhua news agency. ''China attaches great attention to product quality,'' said the spokesman, Qin Gang. 
 Carla Freeman, a professor at the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University and an expert on China, said a ban on all toy imports from China would be ''unfeasible and economically unsound'' since it would affect workers in the United States. And rather than sending in inspectors at a time when relations with China are delicate, Professor Freeman said, more responsibility should fall on American corporations to work with Chinese suppliers to ensure product safety.
 In the wake of recent toy scares, ''corporations are generally interested in ensuring the high quality of their products,'' she said. MICHAEL FALCONE 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); TOYS & GAMES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); LEAD (72%); LEGISLATION (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION (57%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007



514 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CHOKING ON GROWTH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3885 words

HEADLINE: China Grabs West's Smoke-Spewing Factories

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN and MARK LANDLER; Joseph Kahn reported from Handan, China, and Dortmund, Germany, and Mark Landler from Dortmund. Jake Hooker and Ma Yi contributed reporting from Beijing and Handan, and Sarah Plass from Dortmund and Frankfurt.

DATELINE: HANDAN, China 

 BODY:
When residents of this northern Chinese city hang their clothes out to dry, the black fallout from nearby Handan Iron and Steel often sends them back to the wash.
 Half a world away, neighbors of ThyssenKrupp's former steel mill in the Ruhr Valley of Germany once had a similar problem. The white shirts men wore to church on Sundays turned gray by the time they got home.
These two steel towns have an unusual kinship, spanning 5,000 miles and a decade of economic upheaval. They have shared the same hulking blast furnace, dismantled and shipped piece by piece from Germany's old industrial heartland to Hebei Province, China's new Ruhr Valley.
 The transfer, one of dozens since the late 1990s, contributed to a burst in China's steel production, which now exceeds that of Germany, Japan and the United States combined. It left Germany with lost jobs and a bad case of postindustrial angst. 
 But steel mills spewing particulates into the air and sucking electricity from China's coal-fired power plants account for a big chunk of the country's surging emissions of sulfur dioxide and carbon dioxide. Germany, in contrast, has cleaned its skies and is now leading the fight against global warming.
 In its rush to re-create the industrial revolution that made the West rich, China has absorbed most of the major industries that once made the West dirty. Spurred by strong state support, Chinese companies have become the dominant makers of steel, coke, aluminum, cement, chemicals, leather, paper and other goods that faced high costs, including tougher environmental rules, in other parts of the world. China has become the world's factory, but also its smokestack.
 This mass shift of polluting industries has blighted China's economic rise. Double-digit growth rates have done less to improve people's lives when the damages to the air, land, water and human health are considered, some economists say. Outmoded production equipment will have to be replaced or retrofitted at high cost if the country intends to reduce pollution.
 China's worsening environment has also upended the geopolitics of global warming. It produces and exports so many goods once made in the West that many wealthy countries can boast of declining carbon emissions, even while the world's overall emissions are rising quickly.
 The Ruhr Valley city of Dortmund, where ThyssenKrupp once made steel, still suffers from high unemployment because of the loss of jobs to lower-cost countries like China. But Germans can buy Chinese-made iPods, washing machines and cargo ships at prices that, because of lax pollution controls, do not reflect the toll on the environment. And the outsourcing of polluting industries has given them cleaner air and water. 
 ''It seems to me that China is making all the mistakes that we made in the 19th century,'' said Wilhelm Grote, an environmental regulator in Dortmund, who recalls washing his father's car as a child, only to see it immediately blanketed by soot. ''They will find it is much more expensive to fix up later than to do it right from the start.''
 Having ignored the environmental consequences of its industrial binge for years, the Communist Party leadership now says it is determined to develop a cleaner economic model. Beijing has tried to enforce ambitious -- though so far unmet -- targets to improve energy efficiency and reduce emissions.
 Officials say they are especially concerned about the environmental burden of producing more than $1 trillion of goods each year for sale overseas. Of China's total carbon emissions, which by some estimates now exceed those of the United States, just over a third are incurred in the course of making products for foreign consumers, according to the International Energy Agency, an energy policy and research group in Paris.
 The country's central planning agency recently barred purchases of some used industrial equipment from abroad, requiring companies to install newer energy-efficient systems. It has canceled many incentives devised to promote exports, especially for companies that guzzle energy and pollute heavily. Officials have warned companies that breaking environmental laws will cost them their export licenses.
 ''Some enterprises are abusing the environment to lower export prices,'' Chen Guanglong, a Ministry of Commerce official, said in announcing a crackdown on polluters this fall. ''They sell their products abroad, but the pollution is left at home.''
 There are few signs, however, that Chinese officials have real regrets about becoming the world's hub of heavy industry. Investment in new plants and equipment for steel, aluminum and cement has risen sharply even as central planners warn that the sector will get less state support. China's steel exports to the European Union are expected to double this year from the record set in 2006.
 Three hundred miles south of Beijing, the city of Handan is both a beneficiary and a victim. Hangang, as the local steel mill is called, is a government favorite, having received permission to list its shares on the stock market and expand production. That is despite the fact that, like many of China's largest steel companies, it is in a crowded city. 
 Residents on the west side of Handan live in a miasma of dust and smoke that environmental authorities acknowledge contains numerous carcinogens. After public protests, the company agreed to pay an annual ''pollution fee'' to compensate some neighbors.
 The Ruhr gets a different kind of subsidy. Germany and the European Union have committed nearly $22 billion to transform the region into a center of education, technology and tourism. Bulldozers are remaking ThyssenKrupp's old steel mill into a terraced hillside community, with shops, restaurants and single-family homes surrounding a man-made lake. 
 A Faltering Leap Forward
 Hangang was created by an act of Mao. In 1958, the Chinese leader spurred his people to sacrifice everything, including their pots and pans, in China's first attempt to become a steel superpower. He called the campaign the Great Leap Forward.
 Handan, an ancient but neglected city on the parched plains of southern Hebei Province, had two advantages: rich veins of coal and iron ore and easy access to a major north-south railway line.
 ''The ancient city of Handan must be rejuvenated as a capital of steel,'' Mao proclaimed. 
 So next to the Handan railway station, just west of the city's urban center, authorities erected a triumphal gate crowned with statues of heroic workers reaching for the sky. Inside, coking, sintering and smelting plants churned out crude iron and steel.
 In economic terms, Hangang was not markedly more successful than the rest of the Great Leap Forward, which led to mass famine. It survived for decades on state subsidies, providing benefits for its 30,000 workers but making low-quality ferrous metals that earned poor returns.
 In the 1990s, Hangang came under pressure to turn a profit. Its managers decided to start making sheet metal, for home appliances and cars, as well as their usual output of construction materials. That required a major upgrade.
 Backed by state bank loans and a listing on the Shanghai stock market, Hangang embarked on an overhaul. But its ambitions far exceeded its budget. The company needed a cheap and radical solution to transform the mill.
 The answer came from Europe, especially from the Ruhr Valley. The Ruhr had been the engine room of German industry since the mid-19th century. It was rich in coal and Prussian zeal. 
 The region's big steel groups, Thyssen, Krupp and Mannesmann, forged the weapons for Germany's armies and later the sheet metal for its automobiles.
 But by the 1960s, Germany's industrial golden age had begun to wane. Miners had to dig deeper to extract coal, which became uneconomical. Taxes and labor costs rose, while reunification subjected West German companies to subsidized competition from the East. Steel mills also came under heavy government pressure to install the latest environmental and efficiency controls.
 ''In the 1980s, we still had a dream that it was just a temporary slump and we would grow strong again,'' said Michael Schwarze-Rodrian, director of the Ruhr Business Development Agency. ''But pressures were too great. Our time had passed.''
 Thyssen and Krupp merged their steel operations in 1997 and consolidated production in Duisburg, on the Rhine.
 The Dortmund steel mills, called Phoenix, which had been among Germany's largest since before World War II, were slated for closure, and probably the scrap heap.
 That is, until Hangang got word that it could buy a relatively sophisticated German blast furnace for a small fraction of what a new one would cost.
 ''The reshuffle of the world steel industry gave Hangang this opportunity,'' Liu Hanzhang, chairman of Hangang, told local media after he bought the Phoenix furnace in 1998. ''Some people think we are a low-tech steel mill. We will become first-class.''
 Germans did not have to dismantle their own industrial patrimony. Hangang sent workers to Dortmund. They labeled every part of the seven-story furnace, then disassembled it and packed it in thousands of wooden crates for the long voyage to the port of Tianjin.
 ''They worked day and night,'' said Erwin Schneider, a spokesman for ThyssenKrupp. ''They could never have done it that fast if they were governed by German labor laws.''
 It was not the only such case. Hangang alone spent $800 million importing new and used equipment, according to company literature. It purchased a used ladle furnace and billet caster from Societe Metallurgique de Normandie in France. It bought another secondhand blast furnace and a sinter machine from Arbed in Luxembourg.
 Other Chinese companies flocked to the European fire sale, stripping Dortmund of its assets. 
 ThyssenKrupp sold the remaining parts of the Phoenix plant to Shagang Group, a privately run steel mill on the Yangtze River, in 2000.
 And in 2003, 400 Chinese workers traveled to the Ruhr Valley and dismantled the Kaiserstuhl coking plant in Dortmund, which had been built only a few years earlier to meet exacting European environmental standards.
 It now belongs to Yankuang Group, a coking company in Shandong Province.
 A Loud and Dirty Business
 Belching and thundering 24 hours a day, the coking, iron and steel works at Hangang cover four square miles and resemble a working museum of the industrial age. Its oldest coal-powered furnace, with its corroded, protruding shoots and shafts, might have belonged to Andrew Carnegie. The newest, part of a big expansion, uses waste heat to generate power, a technology that saves energy.
 The European castoffs fell somewhere in between. It took Hangang several years to integrate this equipment into its patchwork of production lines. The Phoenix plant was christened No. 7 blast furnace. The Normandy and Luxembourg machines became part of the No. 3 steel works.
 Facing stiff competition in China's overcrowded steel industry, Hangang still does not consistently make a profit. But the shopping spree did send production surging. In the decade after 1996, its output rose 350 percent. 
 Shimmering yellow and raging red, Hangang's flare stacks burn off waste gases and inflame the night sky. A fleet of diesel locomotives hauling coal shakes the farmhouses and apartment buildings that hug the plant's outer walls. For Handan's 8.5 million residents, and especially the tens of thousands who live in the plant's immediate shadow, the complex is a noisome, noxious, money-spinning, job-creating leviathan.
 Tian Lanxiu climbs to the roof of a neighbor's home in Mengwu Village to survey the expanse of Hangang beyond. In the gray horizon she points out the No. 7 blast furnace -- ''the one the West Germans come to fix.'' Nearby is a cooling plant that hisses white steam, and a coking facility that oozes yellow exhaust. 
 Ms. Tian said she and other villagers learned to cope with Hangang's emissions. People do not eat outdoors, she said, to avoid having black briquettes flake their rice. If her children cannot fall asleep at night, she stuffs their ears with cotton.
 Some people in Mengwu have died young, she said, often of heart disease or cancer. She has no evidence to connect their deaths to the steel mill, but says she has few doubts herself. ''Hangang knocks 10 years off people's lives,'' she said. ''We all want to live longer. We're growing more aware.''
 Hangang officials declined several requests to discuss production and environmental controls. But the company has said in domestic news media interviews that, along with the upgrading of its production facilities, it has installed pollution-control equipment and improved the area's environment.
 Government officials in Handan also declined to discuss the plant. But a 2006 study by the city and Tianjin University found abnormally high levels of chemicals of the benzene family attached to coal dust particulates around Handan.
 Airborne concentrations of benzopyrene, a byproduct of coking that some studies have linked to lung cancer, were just below the level measured in two of the country's most polluted industrial areas, Lanzhou and Taiyuan, and 100 times the levels measured in London, the study said.
 Hangang officials once considered moving their older, more heavily polluting production lines farther west of the city. Local environmental officials told state news media in 2005 that if the steel mill did move part of its operations, sulfur dioxide levels in Handan would drop 65 percent. Hangang ultimately elected not to move its older facilities, several people who work at the mill said, because the cost was prohibitive. Instead, Hangang and Shanghai-based Baoshan Iron and Steel teamed up to build another steel mill at the new site. Hangang's old plant remains in operation.
 People who live near the plant have staged scattered protests about its pollution for years. The police have intervened and arrested some protesters. But the company has also sought to defuse unrest by giving jobs and other benefits to area residents.
 Two years ago, Ms. Tian and a group of mostly older women sat on railroad tracks leading into Hangang and unfurled a banner that said, ''Don't darken our skies.'' Their sit-in blocked a train. They demanded that Hangang arrange for them to move far from the plant, Ms. Tian said.
 Hangang declined to do so. But it later agreed to pay them a subsidy in lieu of moving, which the villagers call a ''pollution fee.''
 On a wall along the village street, officials have pasted strips of baby-blue rice paper listing the names of the heads of each household and its pollution payment. Ms. Tian said she recently collected her third annual installment, totaling $140.
 The Dream and Curse of Steel
 China surpassed the United States to become the world's largest steel producer 10 years ago. Since then, steel production in both the United States and Germany has barely budged, while China has left them in the dust. Its mills have increased their output fivefold over the decade, to about 38 percent of the world's total. 
 That is a realization of Mao's dream. But steel has also proved a curse. China has 77 large steel mills like Hangang, and hundreds of smaller rivals. They have so much excess capacity that production of some basic steel products has become unprofitable at home and abroad. Worse, steel pollutes more than any other industry in China, perhaps in the world.
 Despite a government-mandated efficiency drive, steel will use 11 percent more power this year than last, fully one-tenth of the country's total energy supply, according to the China Iron and Steel Association.
 Along with aluminum and cement, steel is the biggest reason China added 90 gigawatts of generation capacity this year, the third year in a row in which it will increase its power output by more than the total capacity of Britain. About 85 percent of those new power plants burn coal. 
 The International Energy Agency, which had predicted as recently as a few years ago that China's carbon emissions would not reach those of the United States until 2020, now thinks China took the lead this year.
 Chen Kexin, an economist with China's Ministry of Commerce, said weak environmental laws and still inexpensive power, even more than low labor costs, had enabled Chinese steel makers to undercut prices elsewhere. ''The shortfall of environmental protection is one of the main reasons why our exports are cheaper,'' Mr. Chen said. ''This is hardly an 'edge' that we should be proud of.''
 In fact, Beijing has begun to discourage steel exports. It not only eliminated export tax rebates on many steel products in April, but also slapped an export surcharge on some. Officials expect export growth to slow.
 But Mr. Chen said China now so dominated the international steel trade that any drop in its exports would raise prices abroad, keeping local steel competitive. ''It could take years to restore a more normal trade balance,'' he said.
 The transfer of pollution to China also complicates international efforts to cut greenhouse gas emissions and agree on a plan to succeed the Kyoto Protocol, an issue that will be under discussion for the next two years. 
 One apparent benefit of China's industrial rise is that developed countries have slowed or cut their carbon emissions, a political and environmental boon as pressure to combat climate change has increased. Even the United States, which has declined to set limits on carbon emissions, has recently shown slight declines. But the gains are illusory. 
 A study by researchers at Carnegie Mellon University found that if all the goods that the United States imported between 1997 and 2004 had been produced domestically, America's carbon emissions would have been 30 percent higher.
 A separate study for the European Parliament examined the transfer of steel production to China from Germany. It found that China's less efficient steel mills, and its greater reliance on coal, meant that it emitted three times as much carbon dioxide per ton of steel as German steel producers.
 From Beijing's perspective, its exports of steel and other ''carbon-intensive'' products provide one more reason -- along with its still moderate per capita emissions and its low standard of living -- for rejecting mandatory caps on carbon emissions. Rich countries, it says, should cut their own emissions sharply and transfer technology so that China will not pollute as much as those countries did when they had their industrial booms.
 Some leading environmental economists agree. ''The footprint of the rich countries is very large because they lay claim to resources in other countries,'' said R. Andreas Kraemer, director of the Ecologic Institute for International and European Environmental Policy in Berlin.
 He and other experts say wealthy countries may have to reduce their consumption as well as their production of carbon in the future. That would oblige them to count what they import from China and elsewhere. 
 But that idea is notional, while heavy industry's shift to China is inexorable.
 Germany is China's mirror image. Polluting factories have migrated abroad. Coal mining has withered. Since 1990, Germany has reduced its annual carbon emissions by 19 percent. 
 The Greening of Germany
 Its transformation dates to the 1970s, with the first attempts to limit lead in gasoline. But it gained momentum in 1980 with the founding of the Green Party, the first environmental party to gain national prominence in Europe. In 1986, prodded partly by the Chernobyl nuclear disaster, West Germany established a ministry dedicated to protecting the environment. It had plenty to do. Germany's forests had been badly damaged by acid rain from factories in the Ruhr. The Rhine River, which flows past the western edge of the Ruhr Valley, was devoid of marine life.
 German reunification in 1990 saddled the country with East Germany's low-grade brown coal plants, the dirtiest in Europe. Germany cleaned up the East, shutting down many low-efficiency factories, and achieved sharp reductions in carbon emissions.
 Reunification also produced a new generation of green political leaders. Chancellor Angela Merkel, an eastern German physicist, entered national politics in 1994, when Helmut Kohl, then the chancellor, named her environment minister. Mrs. Merkel, who earned the nickname the ''climate chancellor,'' has pushed multilateral agreements to reduce carbon emissions despite stern resistance from the United States to mandatory cuts. 
 On Dec. 5, her government passed legislation to reduce Germany's emissions by an additional 40 percent by 2020. ''Germany wants to set an example,'' she said.
 Dortmund and other Ruhr cities never fully recovered jobs lost to China's new titans of steel. The unemployment rate in the city still hovers around 15 percent, 50 percent higher than the national average.
 Walter Schwalen, a 68-year-old former steelworker, points out the window of his second-floor walk-up to a yawning black pit where the Phoenix blast furnaces once roared.
 He said he watched from his window as a team of Chinese workers dismantled and packed up his old workplace in 1998. ''I thought, 'Our poor Germany,''' he said. ''One company after another is closing. Germany is finished.'' 
 Yet, the Ruhr region is also a laboratory for how an industrial economy can make the transition to a post-industrial era. Once a byword for grit and grime, where drivers turned on their car headlights midmorning to see through the haze of coal smoke, it has been designated a European capital of culture for 2010.
 In Essen, a depleted coal mine has been converted into a museum and performing-arts center. In Bochum, a 105-year-old gas-fired power plant is now used as a concert hall, its vaulted roof providing professional-quality acoustics.
 The Ruhr is coming to grips with another legacy of its polluted past: the Emscher, a 52-mile long river that suffered the indignity of being turned into an industrial waste canal at the end of the 19th century. Germany now plans to spend $7 billion to bring it back to life. Subterranean pipes will ferry wastewater to treatment plants, returning the river to a natural state. It will be flanked by parkland, the spine of a 248-mile Industrial Heritage Trail for tourists.
 Dortmund, which in 1960 had 40,000 people working in steel mills, now has barely 3,000. But there are 12,000 new jobs in information technology and 2,300 in nanotechnology, which took root here in the last five years. The region, which once had no universities, now has six, as well as eight colleges, with a total enrollment of 160,000 students. 
 Even the Phoenix site is rising again. The city has left two old blast furnaces there as the corroded centerpiece of what they hope will be an outdoor performing-arts complex. The government is spending $500 million to dig up soil and remove chemical residues from a half-century of steel making, clearing the way for a lake, a housing development and an office park for start-up companies.
 ''It took three generations to do this to the environment,'' said Mr. Schwarze-Rodrian of the Ruhr Business Development Agency. ''I think it's reasonable that it will take a generation to fix.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A worker took a break recently at a blast furnace of a steel plant in Handan, China. Residents live in a miasma of smoke. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
THE LEVIATHAN NEXT DOOR: Tian Lanxiu on a neighbor's roof next to the Hangang steel mill in Handan, China. ''Hangang knocks 10 years off people's lives,'' she said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
THE PHOENIX HAS FLOWN: Walter Schwalen saw the dismantling of Dortmund's Phoenix plant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS GLOGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A26) CHART: Shifting Steel Making, and Pollution, to China: China's steel production has increased exponentially since the 1980s. But as its output increased, so did its carbon emissions. In contrast, Germany has remained stable in both areas. (SOURCES: International Iron & Steel Institute
 Energy Information Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (91%); EMISSIONS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); OUTSOURCING (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); PARTICULATE MATTER (72%); AIR QUALITY (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); POWER PLANTS (67%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (67%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (67%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (61%)

COMPANY: THYSSENKRUPP AG (85%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (59%)

TICKER: TKA (FRA) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); SIC3534 ELEVATORS & MOVING STAIRWAYS (85%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); HEBEI, CHINA (91%) CHINA (99%); GERMANY (95%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



515 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: A Buyout for Manager of Drug Trials

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
The private equity arm of JPMorgan Chase, One Equity Partners, agreed on Friday to sell its stake in Quintiles Transnational, a big manager of clinical drug trials, to the company's chief executive and other buyout firms. 
 Two buyout firms, Bain Capital and TPG Capital, teamed with the chief executive, Dennis B. Gillings, to take control, while the 3i Group, a British private equity firm, will take a significant stake in the deal. Temasek, the Singapore government's sovereign wealth fund, will remain an investor.
 Though Friday's announcement did not specify a price, people briefed on the matter said it was more than $3 billion. 
 That would mean a substantial windfall for One Equity, which sponsored the company's $1.7 billion buyout in 2003. That deal was also made in conjunction with Mr. Gillings.
 Quintiles, which also provides nurses and sales services to drug companies, was founded by Mr. Gillings, who is also its chairman, in 1982. At the time, Mr. Gillings was a professor of biostatistics at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, serving as a pharmaceutical consultant on the side.
 The company took advantage of drug companies' efforts to outsource their clinical trials work and grew through a series of acquisitions. It went public in 1994.
 But Quintiles was hard hit in the economic slowdown earlier this decade, with its stock falling nearly 50 percent. Mr. Gillings first offered to buy the company in 2002 for $1.3 billion, but was rejected. After raising his bid by $400 million, he and One Equity prevailed in a crowded auction.
 Quintiles, based in Research Triangle Park, N.C., has more than 19,000 employees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); 3I GROUP PLC (58%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); TPG CAPITAL LP (58%); QUINTILES TRANSNATIONAL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); III (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (73%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2007



516 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Nightmare Before Christmas

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
Gail Collins is off today.

 BODY:
Christmastime is bonus time on Wall Street, and the Gucci set has been blessed with another record harvest.
 Forget the turbulence in the financial markets and the subprime debacle. Forget the dark clouds of a possible recession. Bloomberg News tells us that the top securities firms are handing out nearly $38 billion in seasonal bonuses, the highest total ever.
 But there's a reason to temper the celebration, if only out of respect for an old friend who's not doing too well. Even as the Wall Streeters are high-fiving and ordering up record shipments of Champagne and caviar, the American dream is on life-support. 
 I had a conversation the other day with Andrew Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union. He mentioned a poll of working families that had shown that their belief in that mythical dream that has sustained so many generations for so long is fading faster than sunlight on a December afternoon. 
 The poll, conducted by Lake Research Partners for the Change to Win labor federation, found that only 16 percent of respondents believed that their children's generation would be better off financially than their own. While some respondents believed that the next generation would fare roughly the same as this one, nearly 50 percent held the exceedingly gloomy view that today's children would be ''worse off'' when the time comes for them to enter the world of work and raise their own families.
 That absence of optimism is positively un-American. 
 ''These are parents who cannot see where the jobs of the future are that will allow their kids to have a better life than they had,'' said Mr. Stern. ''And they're not wrong. That's the problem.''
 Record bonuses on Wall Street at a time when ordinary working Americans are filled with anxiety about their economic future are signs that the trickle-down phenomenon that was supposed to have benefited everyone never happened.
 The rich, boosted by the not-so-invisible hand of the corporate ideologues in government, have done astonishingly well in recent decades, while the rest of the population has tended to tread water economically, or drown.
 A study released last month by the Pew Charitable Trusts noted that ''for most Americans, seeing that one's children are better off than oneself is the essence of living the American dream.'' But for the past 40 years, men in their 30s, prime family-raising age, have found it difficult to outdistance their dads economically.
 As the Pew study put it: ''Earnings of men in their 30s have remained surprisingly flat over the past four decades.'' Family incomes have improved during that time largely because of the wholesale entrance of women into the work force.
 For the very wealthy, of course, it's been a different story. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the after-tax income of the top 1 percent rose 228 percent from 1979 through 2005.
 What seems to be happening now is that working Americans, and that includes the middle class, have exhausted much of their capacity to tread water. Wives and mothers are already working. Mortgages have been refinanced and tremendous amounts of home equity drained. And families have taken on debt loads -- for cars, for college tuition, for medical treatment -- that would buckle the knees of the strongest pack animals.
 According to Demos, a policy research group in New York, ''American families are using credit cards to bridge the gaps created by stagnant wages and higher costs of living.'' Americans owe nearly $900 billion on their credit cards.
 We're running out of smoke and mirrors. The fundamental problem, the problem that is destroying the dream, is the extreme inequality pounded into the system by the corporate crowd and its handmaidens in government.
 As Mr. Stern said: ''To me, the issue in America is not a question of wealth or growth, it's a question of distribution.''
 When such an overwhelming portion of the economic benefits are skewed toward a tiny portion of the population -- as has happened in the U.S. over the past few decades -- it's impossible for the society as a whole not to suffer.
 Americans work extremely hard and are amazingly productive. But without the clout of a strong union movement, and arrayed against the mighty power of the corporations and the federal government, they don't receive even a reasonably fair share of the economic benefits from their hard work or productivity. 
 Instead of celebrating bonuses this Christmas season, too many American workers are looking with dread toward 2008, worried about their rising levels of debt, or whether they will be able to hang on to a job with few or no benefits or how to tell their kids that they won't be able to help with the cost of college.
 It's not the stuff of which dreams are made. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (74%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (67%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (56%); CHANGE TO WIN (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2007



517 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Everyday Items, Complex Chemistry

BYLINE: By AMY SCHOENFELD

 BODY:
Holiday shoppers this season may still worry if the toys they buy contain lead after more than 10 million children's products were recalled this year for that reason.
 But some scientists are urging consumers to focus on a different problem: the lack of hazard information on the thousands of chemicals in everyday products.
 ''We have enormous gaps in our understanding of how these chemicals affect health and the environment.'' said Michael P. Wilson, a public health scientist at the University of California, Berkeley. ''And where we do have information, we see cause for concern.'' 
 The effects of human exposure to chemicals in consumer products are difficult to ascertain and are subject to dispute. As a result, there is a growing gap in the ways governments regulate chemicals. The European Union, Canada and California, for example, are restricting the use of some chemicals before the science on their hazards is absolutely clear; the federal government is not.
 For retailers and manufacturers, conflicting requirements in the global marketplace pose a challenge. Companies have two choices: make products with potentially harmful ingredients for some countries and not others or meet the strictest standards in all markets. Increasingly companies are choosing to conform to the most restrictive rules rather than wait for any scientific consensus.
 Scientists are just beginning to see how long-term exposure to chemicals affects humans throughout a lifetime. Studies by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention show that traces of hundreds of chemicals flow through the blood and urine of humans, but the center cautions that their presence does not mean that they cause harm.
 Scientific research shows that thousands of chemicals in consumer products have toxic effects, but many of these studies are focused on higher levels of exposure. Less is known about the low but regular doses from everyday products in the home, like emissions from furniture glues and the absorption of cosmetics through the skin. 
 Industry scientists and many federal regulators say these exposures are harmless. They say that they are going to great lengths to make sure products are safe for intended uses. 
 ''The bottom line is that there isn't widespread evidence that exposure to consumer products is causing public health problems,'' said Mike Walls, director of government affairs at the American Chemistry Council.
 The United States has held on to its original 30-year-old chemical regulatory systems, which make it difficult for agencies to ban chemicals or require industry testing. While the government has worked with the industry on a voluntary basis to study as many 2,000 chemicals and phase out certain ones, it has required the study of only 200 chemicals and restricted the use of only 5 since 1976.
 But that approach is being challenged by some experts who say that risks remain and that action may be necessary even when the evidence is not clear-cut.
 ''There's this expectation that science can solve everything, but science can't ever meet these expectations,'' said Joel Tickner, director of the chemicals program at the Center for Sustainable Production at the University of Massachusetts, Lowell. ''For some chemicals we may never be certain that they cause harm.''
 The European Union is following this precautionary approach. It recently adopted regulations that have allowed it to restrict hundreds of chemicals and require the industry to test most chemicals sold on the market.
 Industry officials insist that the policies in Europe will exact a great economic cost. But many scientists, including some in government and the chemical industry, argue that Washington is taking the wrong path, allowing exposure to some products that are restricted in the European Union, Canada and even several American states.
 Some retailers are working to avoid this double standard, choosing to adopt the restrictions of the European Union for products sold in the United States. And in some rare cases, companies are limiting certain chemicals even before Europe does.
 Dell is one of the few. The company is planning to phase out brominated flame retardants in the plastics of its products by 2009, including one known as deca that is restricted only in Sweden, Maine and Washington. 
 ''We don't regionalize,'' said David Lear, the company's director of environmental affairs. ''We are doing this because this is where our customers want us to go.''

GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Chemical Rules'' Here are six common products containing chemicals that are subject to conflicting rules around the nation and the world. (GRAPH BY AMY SCHOENFELD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ILLUSTRATION BY ARTHUR E. GIRON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMISTRY (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); CHEMICALS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); PRODUCT RECALLS (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); HUMAN EXPOSURE ASSESSMENT (78%); CHILDREN (78%); RETAILERS (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); LEAD (73%); COSMETICS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2007



518 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: The High Cost of Education

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''Too Costly for Even the Well-to-Do'' (editorial, Dec. 19), you mention that the cost of education at private universities has outstripped inflation and family incomes. 
 To demonstrate the point, consider that when I started attending Harvard in 1959, the annual tuition was $1,200; it rose $100 a year, to $1,500 for my senior year. 
 While Harvard generously provided me with a scholarship for tuition, I also had a summer job fighting forest fires for the Forest Service out of Missoula, Mont., my hometown. During each of those summers I earned just about the same amount as the Harvard tuition, which I used to pay my room, board and fees. 
 Of course, during the fire season we put in a lot of time-and-a-half overtime, but can anyone find a widely available summer job that would pay the cost of a Harvard tuition in 2007?
 Gordon Noel
 Portland, Ore., Dec. 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (88%); FOREST FIRES (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOULA, MT, USA (74%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (50%) OREGON, USA (74%); MONTANA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2007



519 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S ONLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Do-It-Yourself Music Stardom

BYLINE: By DAN MITCHELL

 BODY:
THE former Talking Head, David Byrne, interviewed Thom Yorke of Radiohead for Wired about Radiohead's online-album experiment. Interestingly, though, a companion piece by Mr. Byrne, about how artists should navigate the troubled and chaotic music industry, is getting the most attention (wired.com). 
 The economics of falling costs are transforming the music industry, just as they are transforming the Web business. ''Now an album can be made on the same laptop you use to check e-mail,'' Mr. Byrne wrote. And thanks to digitized music, distribution ''is pretty much free.'' 
 The musician and composer Brian Eno told Mr. Byrne that the big record companies were ''entirely on the defensive now.''
 ''The only idea they have is that they can give you a big advance -- which is still attractive to a lot of bands just starting out. But that's all they represent now: capital.''
 And capital is easier to come by now than it was a few years ago. This phenomenon, more than anything, presents the greatest challenge to an industry that is desperately clinging to power and directing a huge effort toward combating music piracy. 
 Wired's package, which includes audio interviews with Mr. Yorke and Mr. Eno, barely mentions piracy. Besides having their power drained by shifting economics, large record companies ''aren't doing well because they put out terrible records for years and years and kept raising the price of those terrible records,'' said Mac McCaughan, a founder of the independent label Merge Records.
 By Mr. Byrne's count, there are six major options for musicians, ranging from letting labels and industry pros take care of their business functions to going off the grid ''where the artist does nearly everything.'' The ''totally D.I.Y. model is certainly not for everyone,'' he wrote, ''but that's the point. Now there's choice.''
 Newer artists, though, still need the support of record companies, said Jess Harvel on the Idolator blog (idolator.com). ''It may be a vestigial need that will seem silly in a few decades, but it's still there for the time being.''
 GRAPHIC DEPICTION Fans of charts and graphs will love the BBC's look at the subprime crisis. The visuals depict how the mortgage industry's structure changed before the problems started, the impact of the problem on a single city (Cleveland), and the huge bank losses. The rightward side of a line graph showing the drop-off in home prices in the United States is steeper than a typewritten backslash (bbc.co.uk).
 WEB SITE, OR DRUG? ''One thing that Web 2.0 companies and prescription drug makers have in common is their nonsensical product names,'' according to ''Andrew,'' a user of the quiz-rendering site Quibblo.com. His quiz presents 40 names, and users must decide whether each is a Web company or a pharmaceutical product. Most respondents -- 90 percent -- thought that Digitek was a Web outfit; it is a heart medicine. And 62 percent thought Lovento was a drug; it's a social network site.
 WHAT TO LEAVE OUT Many of HR World's ''25 Things You Should Never Put on a Resume'' may seem laughably obvious. But as anyone who has sifted through stacks of job queries will tell you, they are also laughably common (hrworld.com).
 So, refrain from including ''What You Hated About Your Last Boss or Co-Workers.'' Also, sarcasm is not a good idea. ''Resumes and the interview process are not appropriate outlets to release your offbeat irony,'' HR World's editors advise. DAN MITCHELL 
 Complete links are at nytimes.com/business. E-mail: whatsonline@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (DRAWING BY ALEX EBEN MEYER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (93%); CELEBRITIES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ONLINE PIRACY (78%); WEB 2 (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); HOME PRICES (64%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); CREDIT CRISIS (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2007



520 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Ruling Lets Antigua Be Pirate To Punish U.S. in Trade Fight

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER and GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
In an unusual ruling on Friday at the World Trade Organization, the Caribbean nation of Antigua won the right to violate copyright protections on goods like films and music from the United States -- an award worth up to $21 million -- as part of a dispute between the countries over online gambling.
 The award follows a W.T.O. ruling that Washington had wrongly blocked online gambling operators on the island from the American market at the same time it allowed online wagering on horse racing. 
 Antigua and Barbuda had claimed damages of $3.44 billion a year. That makes the relatively small amount awarded Friday, $21 million, something of a setback for Antigua, which had been struggling to preserve its gambling industry.
 The United States argued that its behavior had caused $500,000 damage.
 Yet the ruling is significant in that it grants a rare form of compensation: the right of one country, in this case Antigua, to violate intellectual property laws of another -- the United States -- by allowing it to distribute copies of American music, movie and software products.
 ''That has only been done once before and is, I believe, a very potent weapon,'' said Mark Mendel, a lawyer representing Antigua, after the ruling. ''I hope that the United States government will now see the wisdom in reaching some accommodation with Antigua over this dispute.''
 Though Antigua is best known for its pristine beaches and tourist attractions, the dozens of online casinos based there are important to the island's economy as its second-largest employer.
 By pressing its claim, trade lawyers said, Antigua could set a precedent for other countries to sue the United States for unfair trade practices, potentially opening the door to electronic piracy and other dubious practices around the world.
 Still, carrying out the ruling will prove difficult, the lawyers say. 
 ''Even if Antigua goes ahead with an act of piracy or the refusal to allow the registration of a trademark, the question still remains of how much that act is worth,'' said Brendan McGivern, a trade lawyer with White & Case in Geneva.
 ''The Antiguans could say that's worth $50,000, and then the U.S. might say that's worth $5 million.'' He predicted that ''the U.S. is going to dog them on every step of the way.'' 
 The United States has aggressively fought Antigua's claims. 
 A W.T.O. panel first ruled against the United States in 2004, and its appellate body upheld that decision a year later. In April 2005, the trade body gave the United States a year to comply with its ruling.
 That deadline passed with little more than a statement from Washington that it had decided it was in compliance.
 From the start, the United States asserted that it had never intended to allow free cross-border gambling or betting. Those activities are restricted in the United States, though some form of gambling is legal in 48 states.
 In May, the United States said it was rewriting its trade rules to remove gambling from the jurisdiction of the W.T.O.
 Washington has agreed on deals with the European Union, Canada and Japan to change the treaty but not with several other nations, including Antigua. 
 On Friday, the United States trade representative issued a stern warning to Antigua to avoid acts of piracy, counterfeiting or violations of intellectual property rights while talks continue.
 The trade office said such behavior would ''undermine Antigua's claimed intentions of becoming a leader in legitimate electronic commerce, and would severely discourage foreign investment'' in the country. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Mendel, representing Antigua, urges new approaches.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED MERZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COPYRIGHT LAW (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); GAMING (90%); LAWYERS (89%); COPYRIGHT (78%); ONLINE PIRACY (78%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (78%); DAMAGES (77%); CASINOS (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); TRADEMARKS (67%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (65%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (64%); BEACHES (64%); HORSE RACING (55%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (52%)

COMPANY: WHITE & CASE LLP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); SWITZERLAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2007



521 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Just What Is the E.P.A. Protecting?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''E.P.A. Says 17 States Can't Set Greenhouse Gas Rules for Cars'' (front page, Dec. 20):
 By denying California and 16 other states the right to set their own carbon dioxide emission standards, the Environmental Protection Agency has shown its disregard for public safety and its unabated allegiance to some of the largest polluters in the world. 
 The E.P.A. and the auto industry are sharing identical talking points. Both the auto industry and the E.P.A. speak of the ineffectiveness of a ''patchwork'' of regulations. But more than half of all automobiles would have fallen under these tailpipe emission regulations. If anything, it would have been a ''patchwork'' of states that were not taking bold steps to curb climate change. 
 The E.P.A. and the Bush administration are pandering to auto industry interests while the quality of our air and the health of our communities hang in the balance. The E.P.A. would rather play politics than provide pathways to healthy communities. 
 It's time that the E.P.A. live up to the P in its name and protect our future, not corporate interests. 
 Nick Magel San Francisco, Dec. 20, 2007
 The writer is the director of Global Exchange's Freedom From Oil Campaign.
 To the Editor:
 In response to the Environmental Protection Agency's rejection of California's and 16 other states' requests for Clean Air Act waivers, David McCurdy, president of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, said, ''A patchwork quilt of inconsistent and competing fuel economy programs at the state level would only have created confusion, inefficiency and uncertainty for automakers and consumers.'' 
 As someone in her 20s, I have to say that I'm a lot more concerned about the ''confusion'' and ''uncertainty'' that will be caused by drought, rising sea levels and other adverse effects of global warming that my generation will have to deal with long after Mr. McCurdy is gone. 
 While I appreciate that Mr. McCurdy is looking out for my needs as a consumer, I wish he and the automakers would look out for my needs as a human being on planet Earth by producing vehicles that don't pollute the environment. 
 Christine R. Fry San Francisco, Dec. 20, 2007
 To the Editor:
 The objections of the Environmental Protection Agency and the automobile industry to allowing states to set their own emission standards can be summed up as a desire to avoid ''a confusing patchwork'' of individual state standards instead of one national one.
 There is an obvious solution that would address these objections. If the E.P.A. were to adopt the California standard, there would be one national standard and no ''confusing patchwork'' of individual state rules.
 If the E.P.A. and the automobile industry don't like this simple solution, then perhaps they should state with more care and accuracy their real objections to the state emission standards. 
 Stewart Palmer New York, Dec. 20, 2007
 To the Editor:
 If we've learned nothing else during the last seven years of the Bush presidency, we should at least know that we can count on this administration's reflexive support for shortsighted business interests above all. 
 Even the beloved states' rights fall behind the corporate goal of delaying greenhouse gas emission standards as long as possible.
 One hopes that consumers will force the issue by purchasing vehicles that meet the rejected standards, if not for the environment's sake, then for the fact that that such vehicles save money by burning less fuel. 
 David Schwartz Baltimore, Dec. 20, 2007

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SAM FRIEDMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); AIR QUALITY (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (77%); WRITERS (73%); QUILTS & QUILTING (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2007



522 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-CHART; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: The State of Iraq: An Update

BYLINE: By JASON CAMPBELL, MICHAEL O'HANLON and AMY UNIKEWICZ. 
Jason Campbell is a senior research assistant at the Brookings Institution in Washington. Michael O'Hanlon is a senior fellow at Brookings. Amy Unikewicz is a graphic designer in South Norwalk, Conn.

 BODY:
AS 2007 comes to close, how should we understand the situation in Iraq? Are we witnessing the greatest American military comeback late in a war since Sherman's march to the sea in 1864? Or is Iraq still a weakly governed and very violent place where sectarian reconciliation is starkly absent? 
 The problem for American policymakers, troops and voters is that both these situations are simultaneously real. Iraq's security environment is considerably improved, with security at its best levels since early 2004. This is largely thanks to the surge-based strategy of Gen. David Petraeus and the heroic efforts -- and sacrifice -- of so many American and Iraqi troops and police officers (more Americans have died in Iraq in 2007 than in any previous year, though death rates have dropped greatly in the last few months). But Iraq's political environment and its economy are only marginally better than a year ago. High oil prices have helped the latter, but violence and rampant corruption remain huge problems.
 The number of trained Iraqi security forces steadily rises. It had better, since American troop levels are scheduled to drop to pre-surge levels by summer, although the new strategy, with its emphasis on protecting the civilian population, is to continue. Given Iraq's fragile sectarian relations and weak institutions, the likelihood is that further American troop reductions will have to be slow and careful if the progress is to continue.

GRAPHIC: CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (75%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2007



523 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-1
 Review Finds C.I.A. Kept Tapes From 9/11 Inquiry
 Despite repeated requests for documents from the Central Intelligence Agency relating to interrogations of Qaeda suspects, the Sept. 11 commission was never sent videotapes depicting those interrogations, according to a review of classified documents by former commission members. The tapes were later destroyed by the agency.A1
 A judge said he would not rule immediately on whether to hold a judicial inquiry into the destruction of the C.I.A. videotapes.A12 
 48 Die in Pakistan Bombing
 A suicide bomber killed 48 people inside a crowded mosque in northwestern Pakistan as they celebrated one of Islam's major holidays with the country's former interior minister, state-run media reported.A1
 Terrorism Arrests in Belgium
 The Belgian authorities detained 14 people they described as Islamic extremists, saying they planned to use explosives to free a Qaeda sympathizer jailed for plotting an attack on an American air base.A12
 Castro Absent at Ceremony
 Dispelling speculation that he would leave his hospital bed after 17 months, Fidel Castro did not show up at the inauguration of a revamped oil refinery, which went on without him. A3
 Japan Delays Whale Hunt
 Japan, under pressure from the United States and Australia, is delaying plans to kill 50 humpback whales for scientific research as part of its already contentious annual whale harvest in waters near Antarctica.A10
 NATIONALA14-23 
 Wildlife-Related Crashes Increase, Report Shows
 Wildlife-related crashes are a growing problem on rural roads nationwide. The accidents increased 50 percent from 1990 to 2004, based on the most recent federal data, according to the Western Transportation Institute at Montana State University. A14 
 Giuliani Lightens Schedule
 Rudolph W. Giuliani scaled back his weekend schedule in New Hampshire as he recovered from the illness that led him to be hospitalized overnight this week for what his aides called ''flu-like symptoms.'' A21 
 170 Years for Kidnapper
 A man who is already serving 74 life sentences in state prison for kidnapping two boys and holding one of them for four years was sentenced to 170 years in federal prison. A16 
 Terrorism Adviser Leaves
 For more than four years, Frances Fragos Townsend, President Bush's departing chief terrorism adviser, has worked at the center of contentious anti-terrorism programs, but unlike other battle-scarred West Wing colleagues, she is leaving with barely a scratch. A23 
 SCIENCE/HEALTH
 Layoffs at Fermilab
 The Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, the nation's premier center for plumbing the mysteries of the universe in the tiniest bits of matter, is planning to lay off more than 10 percent of its employees in the coming months, the result of impending budget cuts. A16 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-6
 Conviction Is Overturned In Long Island Murders
 A New York State appeals court overturned the convictions of a Long Island man imprisoned 17 years for the grisly murders of his parents in 1988. The decision cited the ''cumulative effect'' of new witnesses and extensive new evidence that point to other suspects as the real killers. A1
 Bruno Quits Finance Firm
 Joseph L. Bruno, the New York Senate majority leader, has resigned from his job at a financial firm three weeks after it was revealed that the company manages tens of millions of dollars for labor unions in and around his district. B13 
 Religion Journal B6
 Neediest Cases B6
 BUSINESS DAYC1-9 
 Airline Service Revamps
 Passengers are not the only ones unhappy with flying. Employees are fed up, too -- with pay cuts, increased workloads and management's miserly ways, which leave them to explain to passengers why flying has become such a miserable experience. A1 
 Stocks Rally on Mixed News
 Stock markets surged on Friday, but two economic reports seemed to temper the outlook for the long term. C1 
 Recalled in Name Only
 Thousands of toys have been recalled this year because of safety concerns. Despite that, many of the toys may still be in the hands of consumers. C1 
 Business DigestC2 
 OBITUARIESC10
 Frank Capra Jr.
 A television producer and director who never wanted to go into his father's business but found in the end he could not resist its pull, he was 73.
 EDITORIALA34-35
 Editorials: Weakening Pakistan; the price of food safety; information con game; buy this sweater, save a seal.
 Column: Bob Herbert

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); WHALING (90%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); SENTENCING (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); WILDLIFE (87%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); ARRESTS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); ISLAMIC HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); RELIGION (75%); PRISONS (72%); OCEANOGRAPHY (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); SCIENCE FUNDING (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (65%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%); LAYOFFS (63%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (60%); MURDER (57%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); BUDGETS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (92%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (66%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); ANTARCTICA (79%); BELGIUM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2007



524 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Sums It Up for Viewers in 2 States

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, began running the following new 30-second advertisement in New Hampshire on Thursday and in Iowa on Friday.
 Producer Clinton campaign media team 
 TITLE ''Make It Happen''
 THE SCRIPT ''I'm Hillary Clinton, and I approve this message. I've seen what change takes. It doesn't happen because you want it to or because you hope for it. You have to work for it. I have 35 years' experience making change. For kids, for troops, for families. This election isn't about choosing change over experience. Change only comes with experience. And with a war to end and an economy to fix, we've never needed change more, or the strength and experience to make it happen.''
 ON THE SCREEN Mrs. Clinton speaks directly to the camera, her face in close-up. Phrases occasionally appear on screen to elaborate on her themes: ''Health insurance for 6 million kids,'' ''body armor,'' ''adoptions made easier for families,'' ''end the war'' and ''middle-class tax relief.''
 ACCURACY As first lady, Mrs. Clinton was a champion of expanding federal health insurance for children, and she also promoted adoption and worked in the White House and the Senate to make it easier to adopt children. She voted to authorize the war in Iraq in 2002 and defended the invasion early on, but now forcefully opposes the war. In the Senate, she has pressured the Pentagon and become a leading voice to ensure that American troops have body armor. As president, she says, she would raise taxes on wealthy Americans but provide tax relief for middle-income families.
 SCORECARD The message is a synthesis of the remarks Mrs. Clinton makes at almost every campaign event, so they reflect her campaign's belief that voters want change and a strong, experienced leader. Mrs. Clinton is a familiar presence in American politics, and ''change'' is not the first word that comes to mind about her for many voters, but her team is trying to change that. The Iraq war is deeply unpopular with Democratic voters in Iowa and New Hampshire, and taxes are a bete noire for many voters in New Hampshire, which has no state income tax, so Mrs. Clinton is emphasizing issues that will resonate in those two states. Her staff describes the advertisement as a summary of her current positions. Her ''closing argument'' commercial, in which she will make her final pitch to voters before the Iowa caucuses on Jan. 3 and the New Hampshire primary on Jan. 8, is still to come.
 PATRICK HEALY 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ADOPTION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FAMILY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); IRAQ WAR (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); CAUCUSES (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (75%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); INCOME TAX (66%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2007



525 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: A License For Local Reporting

BYLINE: By RODERICK P. HART, ALEX S. JONES, THOMAS KUNKEL, NICHOLAS LEMANN, JOHN LEVINE, DEAN MILLS, DAVID M. RUBIN and ERNEST WILSON

 BODY:
JOURNALISTS are instinctively libertarian, at least when it comes to journalism. We like the conversation about journalism and the federal government to begin and end with a robust defense of the First Amendment. That's why journalists have not been leading participants in the debate over the Federal Communications Commission's regulation of broadcasting, even though the future of our profession and its public mission is at stake.
 But our profession needs to cast its reluctance to discuss broadcast regulation aside, and to let its voice be heard, loud and clear -- on behalf of local reporting. The outcome of F.C.C. policy that matters most to us is not who owns what, but how much news gathering goes on. 
 On Tuesday, the F.C.C., in a close vote, decided to relax its rule against one company owning both broadcast and newspaper properties in a single market. Kevin J. Martin, the F.C.C. chairman, has offered a journalistic justification for this move: broadcast profits would help pay for the substantial news-gathering staffs at newspapers. 
 But local television and radio stations should be doing their own news gathering, rather than merely serving as support systems for news gathering by newspapers. Besides, if Mr. Martin were really so passionate about news gathering, he wouldn't have restricted the F.C.C.'s action to media properties in big cities. Don't small-town news organizations need help, too?
 For a quarter-century, the F.C.C. has steadily moved toward the deregulation of broadcasting. This seems to have had the effect of reducing the resources available for original broadcast reporting, especially about public affairs. 
 There have been salutary countervailing trends -- the Internet is great for opinion journalism and for broadening public access to information, though not very good yet as an economic support system for news gathering -- but television and radio stations generally have smaller news staffs today than they did in the era before deregulation. That represents a real loss for American democracy.
 As deans of journalism schools, we are devoting our working lives to the proposition that honest, aggressive, well-trained reporters and editors will be a powerful force for good in society. In broadcasting -- still a heavily regulated industry and one in which some of the best news for journalism in recent decades has come through public-policy interventions like the creation of public radio and public television -- we do not believe that the market can be absolutely trusted to provide the local news gathering that the American system needs to function at its best.
 The F.C.C. ought to treat a broadcast licensee's commitment of resources to original local reporting on public affairs as a key factor in its decisions about regulatory issues. Companies should be required to make a persuasive case that they will increase their commitment to local reporting if they get what they want -- whether they aspire to own broadcast properties and newspapers in the same market; or, thanks to the onset of digital television, to turn every channel they control into several channels; or to expand their national market share in broadcasting or cable television. 
 For decades, holders of broadcast licenses had to make frequent, detailed arguments for their fitness to have their licenses renewed. They had to demonstrate a commitment to original reporting and to airtime for local public affairs.
 The F.C.C. has always been lenient about renewing broadcast licenses, but it meant something that licensees had to go through a demanding renewal process. Now license renewal is so effortless it is known as ''postcard renewal.'' Even the pretense that there is a connection between the grant of a broadcast license and a promise to report on one's community is all but gone.
 This week's moves by the F.C.C. are only the beginning of a contentious period in which Congress, the courts and other interested parties will vigorously discuss a range of issues involving the regulation of newspapers, cable television and broadcast television that will affect the future of journalism. Journalists, as advocates for local reporting, must become forceful participants in the debate.
 -- Roderick P. Hart, dean of the University of Texas journalism school; Alex S. Jones, director of Harvard's Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy; Thomas Kunkel, dean of the University of Maryland journalism school; Nicholas Lemann, dean of the Columbia Journalism School; John Levine, dean of the Northwestern journalism school; Dean Mills, dean of the University of Missouri journalism school; David M. Rubin, dean of the Syracuse school of public communications; and Ernest Wilson, dean of the University of Southern California school of communication. 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 29, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on Dec. 22 about local reporting by broadcast stations misspelled the name of a writer. It is John Lavine, not Levine. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); NEWS REPORTING (91%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (77%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (76%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (76%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (76%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); TRENDS (71%); PUBLIC RADIO (66%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%)

PERSON: KEVIN MARTIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2007



526 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: In Helicopter or Hummer, Kenya Contender Dazzles

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

DATELINE: SUSWA, Kenya 

 BODY:
At the sound of the copter blades, a thousand Masai tribesmen crane their necks upward. 
 It is as if their savior is dropping from the sky. 
 ''Railaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!'' they yell.
 The tribesmen turn into a stampede, hollering and poking their gnarled wooden clubs in the air.
 An enormous cloud of dust swallows the copter as it lands. Out comes Raila Odinga, one of Kenya's most flamboyant politicians, a man who when he is not buzzing over the savannah in a helicopter is being chauffeured around in a red Hummer, who favors purple suits, whose son's name is Fidel Castro and who may very well become Kenya's next president.
 The election is Thursday, and for months most polls have predicted that Mr. Odinga, 62, will unseat President Mwai Kibaki, though some recent surveys show the president catching up, with the race too close to call. 
 Mr. Kibaki, 76, is vintage old guard. He is from Kenya's dominant tribe, the Kikuyu; he has been a member of Parliament since Kenya's independence in 1963, and he is a reliable friend of big business and the United States (his campaign ads are even red, white and blue). 
 Mr. Odinga seems different. For starters, he is Luo, one of the country's largest tribes, but one that many Kenyans say has never gotten its due. Although Kenya has one of the most mature democracies in Africa, many Kenyans still vote along tribal lines. 
 Kenya's 37 million people are split among some 40 distinct ethnic groups. And unlike many politicians who would rather not acknowledge tribal frictions, Mr. Odinga is confronting them head on and has made inclusion and an end to discrimination the cornerstones of his campaign.
 ''Ethnicity is the disease of the elite,'' he says, adding that throughout Kenya's history, money, land and opportunity have been sprinkled around unequally, based on tribe.
 But it is not as if Mr. Odinga is working class. His father was one of Kenya's first limousine liberals, a businessman and former vice president who, despite his vast wealth and land holdings, espoused socialist values. The Odingas were clearly fond of the Eastern bloc, and when it came time for college, young Raila was sent to East Germany, where he earned a degree in mechanical engineering. 
 ''You know, in the 60's, those days of imperialism, when you had the Americans in Vietnam, in Cambodia,'' he said, laughing, ''it was very fashionable to be leftist!'' He even played left wing in soccer.
 After Mr. Odinga returned to Kenya, he became an opposition leader, when it was incredibly dangerous to do so. In 1982, he was accused of plotting a coup against the president at the time, Daniel arap Moi and spent eight years in jail, where he was beaten and tortured.
 Since then, his Marxist politics have mellowed, though he still talks a big proletarian game. He promises to focus on poverty, unemployment and corruption.
 The big question is, if he wins how much will Kenya change? The economy has been humming along, with a growth rate around 7 percent and a billion-dollar-a-year tourism industry. And there is peace, which is nothing to sneeze at in a neighborhood that includes war-racked Somalia, Sudan and Congo.
 Macharia Gaitho, a managing editor at The Daily Nation, Kenya's biggest newspaper, does not think Mr. Odinga will disrupt that stability. ''I see a Jekyll and Hyde character,'' Mr. Gaitho said. ''He can set himself up as a populist leader who responds to the masses. But on the other level he is very pragmatic. He is a businessman, with ties across all ethnic lines.''
 But some voters, especially Kikuyus, argue that Mr. Odinga profits from tribalism as much as he rails against it.
 ''Even if Kibaki could have improved this economy by 80 percent, believe you me, the people in Raila's tribe, they would not vote for him, because they are kinsmen,'' said Andrew Macharia, who is running for a city council seat in the capital, Nairobi. ''It's a sorry state that our politics are tribal-based.''
 The president's inner circle has accused Mr. Odinga of making promises he cannot keep. Amos Kimunya, the finance minister, dismissed Mr. Odinga's economic plans as ''domonomics,'' a play on the Swahili word for mouth and meaning something like ''talk economics.'' Mr. Odinga's proposals ''will cause debt to balloon, interest rates and inflation to rise,'' Mr. Kimunya wrote in a recent opinion piece.
 The neck-and-neck race between Mr. Odinga and Mr. Kibaki shows how far Kenya's democracy has come from just a decade ago, when it was still under the grip of Mr. Moi, who has been widely criticized as a dictator and who is campaigning for Mr. Kibaki. 
 Today, there is a free press, 2,548 candidates running for Parliament and genuine issues separating the leading parties, like strong central government versus federalism. Electoral politics here are not saddled by the deep cynicism that dogs Nigeria, Africa's most populous democracy, or the one-party rule of South Africa, the continent's most developed country. 
 Mr. Odinga, who has been a member of Parliament for the last 15 years, has taken full advantage of Kenya's open system and used his flair for appealing to the masses to reel in millions of Kenyans who feel marginalized by the Kikuyu elite. He has also charmed many Muslims upset at the Kibaki government's crackdowns in Muslim areas as part of its counterterrorism campaign.
 ''The best way to explain this is not who is popular but who is so unpopular,'' said Chweya Ludeki, a political science professor at the University of Nairobi. ''Raila's harvesting from Kibaki's unpopularity and the perception that the president has favored his ethnic group.''
 Though the cabinet includes members of many tribes, the ministries that matter -- like defense, justice, finance and internal security -- are all run by Kikuyus. The government's response has been that it hires the most qualified people. 
 Many of Mr. Odinga's supporters are worried that these politicians might try to steal the election. Already the government's own human rights commission accused Mr. Kibaki's party of using public resources, like government planes and vehicles, for campaign events. 
 There have also been some cheap shots. Even Mr. Odinga's foreskin was thrown into the fray. Circumcision is a rite of passage in many tribes, including the Kikuyu, but not the Luo. If a man is not circumcised, the whisper campaign goes, then he is not a real man.
 Still, Mr. Odinga draws thousands of fans to his rallies.
 ''Roads! Electricity! Water!'' Mr. Odinga belted out.
 The crowd roared. It was a jostling mass of orange -- orange hats, orange T-shirts, orange shopping bags, even orange shukas, the signature cloaks Maasai herders wear. Orange is the official color of Mr. Odinga's party, the Orange Democratic Movement, and Nalanju Punyua, a woman selling sodas, said Mr. Odinga looked fabulous in it.
 ''Raila's absolutely beautiful,'' she said. ''He's a very strong man. He could walk all the way from here to Narok.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Masai supporters of Raila Odinga cheering at a campaign rally in Suswa for the Kenyan politician who hopes to become president. Mr. Odinga, left, addressing his backers in Suswa. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVELYN HOCKSTEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); ETHNICITY (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); COUPS (60%); TORTURE (50%)

PERSON: MWAI KIBAKI (71%); FIDEL CASTRO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENYA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); CAMBODIA (79%); AFRICA (77%); VIET NAM (71%); GERMANY (66%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2007



527 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: A Brisk Business in Selling Hope by the Wick

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
Hispanics have long lighted them for loved ones and for luck. But devotional candles are increasingly kindled by anyone with a wish or a prayer, and as a result, they are now a lucrative and growing niche in the $2 billion candle market in the United States.
 ''The reason why these kinds of candles fly off the shelf is they have a job to do,'' said Neil Foley, professor of Hispanic history and culture at the University of Texas, Austin. ''You find marijuana in your daughter's drawer, a bill is due, your son is arrested -- you burn a candle to your favorite saint to help you out.'' 
Devotional candles not only illuminate home altars and shrines they have also become an integral part of makeshift memorials for missing children, victims of violent crimes and soldiers killed in Iraq.
 During uncertain economic times especially, Mr. Foley said, ''desperate people, whether they are Hispanic, Anglo, African-American, Catholics, Pentecostals or Jewish Buddhists, burn candles because it can't hurt and, who knows, it might help.''
 The candles -- also known as prayer, novena and semana candles -- burn year round in many households but are especially popular near the holidays. Their manufacturers say sales have increased 15 to 20 percent annually since 2002.
 Mary Flood Nugent, a mother of six children and a community activist in Houston, has several devotional candles burning in her fireplace, with images of St. Jude or the sacred heart printed on their glass containers. ''I have a lovely salmon pink one going now for my friend who is starting treatment for breast cancer,'' Ms. Nugent said. 
 There are only a handful of manufacturers of prayer candles, including the Reed Candle Company of San Antonio; Bright Glow in Pomona, Calif.; the Continental Candle Company in Compton, Calif.; and Indio Products of Rancho Dominguez, Calif., serving what they variously estimated as a $100 million to $300 million market.
 Family-owned and mostly Hispanic businesses, many report rebuffing recent buyout offers from outside investors. ''I get approached every week about selling,'' said Sister Schodts Reed, president and chief executive of the Reed Candle Company. The company, founded by her father-in-law in 1937, reported sales of $24 million last year. 
 The origin of devotional candles is a matter of some dispute. Ms. Reed said her father-in-law, Peter Doan Reed, was the inventor, coming up with the idea of filling an 8 1/2-inch-tall glass with enough wax to burn seven days and with pictures of saints printed on the containers. ''The candles were intended as an extension of people's prayers'' that would burn longer than the small votives, she said. 
 Others in the industry, however, credit an unnamed monk in Germany with the idea or said that devotional candles evolved from wax-filled milk bottles.
 The newest entrant to the market -- the St. Jude Candle Company in Houston -- was financed by a group of private investors and began production in March. ''We see it as an underserved sector with a tremendous potential for growth,'' said William A. Grimsley, the company's president and chief financial officer. He has helped start or turn around several companies, among them Arena Brands, which makes Lucchese boots and Stetson hats. 
 St. Jude has already taken market share from its competitors, he said, by signing several deals with regional grocery stores like HEB and grocery store distributors like Associated Wholesale Grocers. 
 Prayer candles with pictures of saints or claiming to bring love, luck or money are distributed primarily through grocery and discount stores including Wal-Mart and Dollar Stores. They are also through many independently owned religious stores as well as botanicas, which sell herbs and ointments as well as candles. 
 ''The majority of our business is candles,'' said Donna Escamilla, manager of Stanley Drugs, a onetime drugstore and now a busy botanica in Houston that often has lines snaking out the door. ''The most popular ones are for love, to cause a breakup or for protection against your enemies.'' 
 Botanicas often coat prayer candles with special oils and herbs for extra potency. The price of such dressed candles is $12 to $25, far higher than candles found on grocery store shelves, which cost $1 to $5, depending on the sophistication of the pictures, whether they are scented and how much wax they contain and hence how long they will burn. 
 ''We focus on botanicas and religious stores because the profit margins are much higher,'' said Martin Mayer, president of Indio Products, which he said had nationwide sales last year totaling $12 million. One of his company's best sellers is a candle depicting Jesus Malverde, a Mexican folk hero known as the narco saint and thought to protect drug smugglers.
 While margins are slimmer for candles sold to grocery stores, the other major makers of prayer candles said it was nonetheless a lucrative business. Though none would disclose profits, they said they were doing well despite the rising price of wax, which is made from petroleum. 
 ''Religious candles are the No. 1 turning category, outselling everything else we offer,'' said Kirk Zehnder, a spokesman for Mercado Latino, a distributor of Hispanic grocery items to stores like Wal-Mart and Albertsons. To meet the demand, Mercado Latino acquired Continental Candle in 1991 and transformed it from a struggling supplier of candles to the restaurant industry into a maker of devotional candles, with annual sales exceeding $20 million. 
 People who buy devotional candles tend to buy them as routinely as milk and toilet paper. ''They are a staple,'' said Ms. Reed of Reed Candle. In keeping with the eternal-flame concept and Hispanic cultural tradition, many people do not allow candles on their home altars to extinguish without lighting a replacement, Mr. Foley at the University of Texas said. And since most altars have several candles burning that need replacing every five to seven days, Mr. Zehnder said, ''You do the math; it's a lot of candles.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mary Flood Nugent with her daughters, Ann, left, and Dorothy, light devotional candles at their home in Houston. Ms. Nugent said she was burning a candle for a friend undergoing breast cancer treatment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); NOVELTIES & ORNAMENTS MFG (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (79%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (79%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); CANNABIS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); FAMILY (76%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (73%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); HISTORY (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); VIOLENT CRIME (70%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (69%); EXECUTIVES (60%); BREAST CANCER (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (76%); GERMANY (64%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



528 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; NOVELTIES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: The Television Screen, Sliced Ever Thinner

BYLINE: By ANNE EISENBERG. 
E-mail: novelties@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IMAGINE a television set so thin that you could roll it up and carry it in your briefcase. It's not as far off as you might think. 
 The Sony Corporation is now selling a futuristic TV in Japan that is only about one-eighth of an inch thick -- that's one notch on a tailor's tape measure.
 The new televisions, which began arriving in Japanese stores this month , have an 11-inch screen and cost 200,000 yen (almost $1,800), said Jon Reilly, a product marketing manager at Sony Electronics. 
 The sets replace the bulky backlighting of typical LCD televisions with a thin film that glows with colors even when viewed from the side. In January, Sony will announce the United States release date and pricing, Mr. Reilly said. 
 The Sony TV, called the XEL-1, owes its saturated colors and superlative slimness to the emerging technology of organic light-emitting diodes, or OLEDs.
 OLED (pronounced OH-led) displays are produced not by the fluorescent bulbs of LCDs, but by organic chemicals deposited on film that shine brilliantly when a current passes through them.
 The Sony sets are the first mass-produced flat-panel TVs in the world to use this technology, said Paul Semenza, vice president for display research at iSuppli, a market research firm in El Segundo, Calif. Other companies have shown prototypes of TVs. Smaller OLED panels are in use in some cellphones and portable video players.
 OLEDs can produce extraordinary displays, Mr. Semenza said. ''The thinness and visual quality are stunning,'' he said.
 But OLEDs pose no imminent threat to the increasing popularity of LCD televisions. ''LCD manufacturers have tens of billions of dollars invested in the current process,'' he said, and that money can lead to LCDs with thinner profiles and crisper images that crowd out OLED competitors.
 ''LCDs are growing fast, and basically taking over the market,'' he said. About 76 million LCD televisions will be sold worldwide this year, and about 99 million next year, iSupply predicts. By 2011, sales of 165 million LCD sets are forecast. In contrast, he said, only about 13,000 of the new OLED televisions will be sold in 2008.
 Consumers can buy a 50-inch LCD television for roughly the same price as the much smaller Sony OLED, he said, largely because of economies of scale. 
 But OLEDs may gradually become more popular, said Paul Gagnon, an analyst at DisplaySearch, a market research firm in Austin, Tex. ''There's speculation that beyond 2015, OLEDs could advance to become a creditable threat to the LCD flat-panel business,'' he said.
 OLEDs have some technical advantages. LCDs typically use white light that is filtered into primary colors and remixed. ''You lose some of the breadth of the color spectrum that you see in the natural world,'' Mr. Semenza said of the process. ''But OLEDs, depending on the materials and processes, produce highly saturated individual colors that are then combined to make this broad color spectrum and wide viewing angle.''
 OLEDs also have the potential to be produced cheaply.
 ''The materials emit their own light,'' he said, ''so you don't need the back or side lights of LCDs, or theoretically all of the color filters.'' 
 Small OLED panels are already starting to catch on in mobile displays in Asia, said Chris Chinnock, president of Insight Media, a market research firm in Norwalk, Conn. ''The OLED displays on mobile phones have the same advantages as the TV -- wide viewing angles, great colors and thinness,'' he said. ''All of those factors are very attractive if you are going to run TV and video on cellphones.'' 
 The semiconductor technology of light-emitting diodes is traditionally based on inorganic materials like silicon. In the new, parallel electronic universe of OLEDs, though, carbon-based organic materials provide the glow. Pioneering work in the technology was done in the 1950s by Martin Pope, now an emeritus chemistry professor at New York University. Sony displayed one of the new televisions at a recent symposium in honor of Professor Pope's classic work. ''I was amazed,'' he said. ''I couldn't believe that engineers could do that from my experiments with little jars and bottles.''
 ANOTHER pioneer in the field, Alan Heeger , a professor at the University of California, Santa Barbara, who with others won a Nobel prize in chemistry in 2000 for work on plastics that can conduct electricity, was also delighted with the new TVs. He's looking forward to yet more development, ''when we can have the thin films of today on a flexible substrate'' rather than the present glass substrates, so that the TVs can be rolled up and tucked into a backpack. 
 When that happens, pocket TVs could become as ubiquitous as P.D.A.'s. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At left, a sideways view of a Sony television with a screen one-eighth of an inch thick. The picture uses OLEDs, or organic light-emitting diodes, an emerging technology. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (93%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (91%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (75%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%); ORGANIC CHEMICALS (52%)

COMPANY: SONY CORP (93%); SONY ELECTRONICS INC (57%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) JAPAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



529 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET MAKER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Navigating a Tricky Year, Hands On

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
FOR years, one of the fiercest arguments in the investment business has been over whether it pays to bet on actively managed mutual funds or to sit back and go with low-cost funds that replicate the performance of market benchmarks like the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
 In 2007, each side has been able to claim victory because the glass has been half-full: according to Morningstar, exactly half of all actively managed diversified United States stock funds have beaten the S.& P. 500. 
 More notable, however, is how the funds that have beaten the averages for years have repeated that outperformance in 2007, avoiding land mines like the subprime collapse and shrugging off high levels of market volatility and persistent fears of a recession. 
 ''Everybody says, 'Why go to active managers?' But there are active managers who tend to beat the market most every year,'' says Bill Rhodes, chief investment strategist at Rhodes Analytics, an investment research firm in Boston. And when the market behaves the way it has this year, it tends to bring out the best in those top performers.
 Robert E. Turner, a mutual fund manager based in Berwyn, Pa., is a classic example of this phenomenon. His flagship Turner Core Growth fund is up nearly 23 percent in 2007, versus the modest 4.7 percent gain of the S.& P. 500. And over the last five years, Turner Core Growth has enjoyed an average annual gain of 16.6 percent, again handily outperforming the indexes as well as most other large-capitalization growth funds.
 Looking back over what has turned out to be a stunning year for him, if not the overall market, the soft-spoken Mr. Turner readily acknowledges that it hasn't been easy. ''Every year has issues, but there are periods when the trauma is heightened,'' he says with characteristic understatement.
 What has made 2007 especially tricky -- but has given skilled money managers a chance to strut their stuff -- is the wildly divergent performance of different market sectors. For example, financial stocks are down 20 percent, but tech stocks are up 10 percent. And even within these groups, performance has hardly been predictable. Consider tech: while Apple has surged, Dell has swooned.
 Whether it has been the sector or the stock, Mr. Turner has managed to shine. He loaded up on Apple, as well as on Google and Intel, and avoided Dell. Even more impressive, he managed to put 20 percent of his fund into the financial sector without getting steamrolled by the mortgage mess.
 Not only did he avoid the obvious casualties like Countrywide Financial and other mortgage companies, he also steered clear of the banks and brokers that were eventually caught in the wake of the subprime fallout, like Citigroup and Bear Stearns. Instead, he focused on high-quality insurers like Aon and Aflac and exchange plays like the CME Group, owner of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
 Mr. Turner says he also benefited because the growth stocks he favors typically come into vogue when the economy slows. ''Any time there is economic distress,'' he says, ''investors make a mass scramble for those stocks that are still growing.'' 
 Mr. Turner doesn't expect that to change anytime soon. While he doesn't foresee a recession in 2008 -- despite headlines that suggest it's practically inevitable -- he concedes that overall economic growth might come in at 1 percent next year, versus 3 to 4 percent in 2007. 
 Nevertheless, Mr. Turner is surprisingly optimistic about the stock market. Despite what he calls the ''wildly negative'' sentiment out there, he's convinced that the market isn't on the edge of a precipice. 
 ''I don't want to appear happy-go-lucky, but the fears have been exaggerated,'' he says. ''Unemployment is still 4.7 percent, productivity is booming, and the stock market is trading at about 15 times next year's earnings.''
 That's a pretty reasonable multiple, he adds, especially when compared with the bubble years of the late 1990s and early part of this decade, when average price-to-earnings multiples stood closer to 30. ''The surprise next year won't be to the downside,'' he predicts confidently. ''It'll be to the upside, with the Nasdaq outperforming the S.& P. and the Dow.''
 That's no guarantee, of course, but if the market doesn't live up to Mr. Turner's expectations, at least his long-term record suggests that his fund will be well positioned, no matter what comes to pass in 2008. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert E. Turner's investment firm manages the Turner Core Growth Fund, which is up nearly 23 percent this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE MERGEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); INSURANCE (72%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (62%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); INTEL CORP (51%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



530 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: In Defense of Town Houses

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Your article ''Town House Living: The Untold Story'' (Dec. 9) did not fully represent my views regarding family life in a town house, as well as my own personal experiences. 
 While I did in passing mention some minor problems, my primary perspective is that the rewards and challenges of town house ownership match the depth and height of the building. 
 Indeed, I emphasized that town house living is essentially a boon for families -- a basic point of view that seems to have been lost in the final version of the piece. Ann Maloney, M.D. 
 Manhattan
 To the Editor:
 Your reporter must have done a lot of searching to find so many disgruntled town house owners. Surely, there must be some contented town house owners. Or did her results spring from the fact that she limited her investigation to Manhattan? Here in Brooklyn one finds only smiles on the faces of our brownstone homeowners. 
 And about those lengthy stairs: Town house owners may find it worthwhile to investigate the possibility of installing one of those miniature elevators that fit in an old dumbwaiter shaft, or electric ''stair climbers'' that make it possible for people with aging legs to negotiate stairs without strain. 
 I am lucky, in my own house, to have an antique Inclinator with leather seats, circa 1936, that transports me in luxury and almost silently from floor to floor.
 Everett H. Ortner 
 Chairman
 Brownstone Revival Coalition 
 Park Slope, Brooklyn 
 To the Editor:
 Your article contains a quotation from a real estate agent: ''People do not grow up with the American dream of living in an apartment.'' 
 My husband and I, and thousands like us, always dreamed of living in a full-service building in a good neighborhood, and we cannot think of a better way to live. The time, energy and money we have saved by having a super and staff is surely part of the great American dream. Vivienne Koreto 
 Manhattan 
 Another Look
 At Teardowns
 To the Editor: 
 Living in Teaneck, N.J., where there are a lot of teardowns, I found your article ''The Heart of Teardown Country'' (Dec. 16) very informative and interesting. One thing was not mentioned that impacts resale value, and that is property taxes. Teaneck is already known for very high property taxes, but when someone expands, doubles the size or tears down a home, the taxes shoot up. 
 Our town had the property taxes reassessed this year and there was a Web site where you could go parcel by parcel and see what the property taxes were. 
 It was not unusual for their yearly local tax burden to be in the $20,000 range. One house had property taxes approaching $80,000. When the time comes to resell their homes, I wish these families the best of luck and hope that the economy is strong.
 Debra Brill 
 Teaneck, N.J. 
 An Appreciation
 Of 'The Hunt'
 To the Editor: 
 I'm writing to thank you for the less-than-perfect hunts that you have featured lately -- from the one with the dirty apartment to the couple who finally found the perfect place, only to break up shortly after moving in. These realistic stories have made the column even more interesting. 
 Some of my favorite columns have been on boomers or seniors who have decided to move to New York and what they have discovered. As a boomer myself, and a native of Brooklyn who left New York more than 30 years ago, I find them fascinating. 
 My husband and I love visiting New York, but I am grateful to return to the Philadelphia suburbs where it is both quieter and more affordable. 
 Lenore H. Forsted 
 Wynnewood, Pa. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); FAMILY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



531 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; FEEDING THE POOR; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Food Pantries See a Surge in Demand

BYLINE: By DIANA MARSZALEK

DATELINE: Greenwich 

 BODY:
 AMID this holiday season, food pantries in lower Connecticut are reporting a surge in the number of residents seeking a decent meal.
 Some food providers in Fairfield County -- from well-heeled towns like Greenwich to more urban areas like Stamford and Norwalk -- say the demand is twice that of last year. 
 ''I have had to turn people away,'' said Joyce Gumbus, who oversees the 164 Wilson Memorial Food Pantry in Stamford. The pantry is providing groceries for up to 400 people a week, compared with 200 a week last year, Ms. Gumbus said. 
 ''There were times I went home and wanted to cry,'' she said.
 Ms. Gumbus is not alone.
 Kate Lombardo, executive director of the Food Bank of Lower Fairfield County, said the 100-plus agencies that receive food through her organization were reporting higher numbers than ever. In Norwalk, for example, the Christian Community Action food pantry, open five mornings a week, Monday through Friday, often draws 30 to 35 families a day, many more than its limit of 24 families. Three years ago, the average was 15 families a day, said its director, Christi Pope.
 In Stamford, the Greater Emmanuel Apostolic Church Assemblies of the World's pantry served about 1,000 families this year, and up to 500 last year, said Valerie Brown, who oversees the effort.
 ''At Thanksgiving time, my pantry ran completely dry,'' she said.
 And in Greenwich, where the United Way estimates there are up to 3,000 households (which usually have at least three members) in need, the Neighbor to Neighbor food pantry distributed 169,406 meals in its 2006-7 fiscal year, ending in June. 
 For the Food Bank, the clearinghouse for some of the pantries' food, that translates into some difficult challenges, like providing Thanksgiving turkeys for 6,000 families this year, versus 3,000 in 2006. It means handling about 500 tons of food annually, 161,000 pounds of which were distributed in November alone, Ms. Lombardo said.
 ''The need has doubled in the last year,'' she said. ''And we don't expect it to get better anytime soon.''
 Food pantry directors cite several factors behind the increase in demand, from the rising cost of necessities like rent and gasoline, to stagnant wages and persistent unemployment in some areas of the state. 
 Many of the newcomers are members of the working poor, including working families that don't have enough to make ends meet, agency directors said. 
 ''When the average Connecticut worker is paid $9.17 an hour and it costs $29 an hour to live here, it takes two or three jobs to just to make ends meet,'' Ms. Lombardo said, citing figures from End Hunger Connecticut, a Hartford-based organization. 
 The average two-bedroom apartment in the Fairfield area rents for $2,200 a month, she said, but individuals working several jobs in the community, often while raising children, do not necessarily have the time or ability to live elsewhere.
 ''Every wealthy community has pockets of poverty which provide services, whether it's mowing the lawn or raking the leaves, to those who can afford it,'' Ms. Lombardo said. ''In every restaurant, there is someone in the back cleaning and peeling the potatoes.''
 Pantry workers also say they are sporadically seeing white-collar workers who cannot keep up with expenses after losing a job. One woman, for example, recently visited the Wilson Memorial Pantry after her husband lost his job, leaving limited resources to pay a hefty mortgage and related expenses, Ms. Gumbus said. 
 ''This really stunned me,'' she added.
 Regardless of circumstances, it is not easy for anyone to be in a food pantry line, said Ms. Lombardo, a former legal and compliance officer for Goldman Sachs whose family received assistance during her childhood.
 ''When you have children and are supposed to be a parent and provider, it's very humiliating to ask for help,'' she said.
 While food pantries normally distribute bags of groceries that are meant to provide a family with three meals a day for a set amount of time, usually three days to a week, Neighbor to Neighbor in Greenwich redesigned its pantry to give recipients some choice in the process.
 Though smaller than a corner grocer, Neighbor to Neighbor is designed much like a store, with food stocked on shelves and in refrigerators and freezers. Clients, who are allotted food based on family size, are able to select food their families will eat within given categories, meaning they have more control over planning meals, said the program director, Mary de Barros.
 One woman, a former visiting nurse whodid not want to be identified, has used Neighbor to Neighbor for several years. She said she found compassion at the pantry after a disabling injury ended her career.
 Nonetheless, Ms. Lombardo, of the Food Bank, stressed how hard it was for individuals to seek help. ''We want people to know that it is here and it's real and you don't have to look hard to find it,'' she said. ''Living in poverty is a very difficult thing to do.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: MAKING A DIFFERENCE Above, Sue Drexler, left, and Sue Golden bag food at the Neighbor to Neighbor pantry in Greenwich. Left, Mary Aguerra gets food at the pantry. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN FARLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); THANKSGIVING (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); RELIGION (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NEIGHBOR TO NEIGHBOR (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



532 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Tattered Standard of Duty On Wall Street

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WITHOUT trust, there can be no free-market capitalism. Capitalism took root in Europe when wealthy families had excess income to invest, and they entrusted their money to managers who would treat their funds with due care.
 Such standards of care required that those handling someone else's money behave with extreme rigor and honesty. The standards, which came to be known as fiduciary duty, were the same duty a court required of, say, a trustee dealing with the property of a widow or a child. 
 Trustees always had to behave with the interests of the trustor uppermost -- there could be no conflict of interest or even the appearance of one. Every relevant fact about an investment and a trusteeship had to be disclosed. As the law came to be interpreted in the United States, the trustee had to disclose every fact or belief that might influence an intelligent, reasonable investor. 
 These laws were codified in state and federal courts after revelations of stock market corruption before and during the crash of 1929. There could be no material deception and no ''scheme or artifice to defraud.'' The investor's interests always had to be superior to those of the investment bank, financial adviser or broker. 
 For a good long time after World War II, the laws of fiduciary duty were observed. But by the 1980s, the law started to break down in a major way. There had been small scandals in the 1950s and '60s. But by the end of the 1980s, the Drexel Burnham/Michael Milken junk-bond scandals had exploded, revealing that deception was routinely practiced against the buyers of junk bonds. 
 Then came the closely related savings-and-loan scandals, leaving taxpayers defrauded in a major way. Then we weathered the high-tech scandals of the late 1990s, in which the bluest of the blue-chip brokerage firms and investment banks placed excessive valuations on companies that they peddled to investors. These investors were often in a trustor-trustee relationship, they suffered losses on a scale never before seen and yet almost no one was punished.
 Now, we have the collateralized mortgage obligations and their attendant losses in the subprime mortgage mess. The problem is a familiar one: basic hocus-pocus about what the securities were worth. Of course, there was boilerplate in all of the offerings saying that anything could happen. But that boilerplate is so ubiquitous, and covers so much, that it has come to mean nothing. What did mean something was the name of the underwriter selling the securities. If it was a big name, a name redolent of power and antiquity, a buyer could assume that it could be trusted. 
 Of course, as we know now, that turned out to be wrong. 
 The biggest of the big names were among the most aggressive in betraying their clients' trust, as I see it. Some of the biggest names were selling securities that they -- apparently -- barely understood themselves. In so doing, they exposed their buyers, and their stockholders, to immense losses. (Think Merrill Lynch, Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers and many others.) Other major players, including Goldman Sachs, were aggressively shorting the very same sort of products they were underwriting.
 Now, Goldman can spin this as ''risk management'' and insist that it was doing it to protect its stockholders. (Remember, though, that Goldman's lushly compensated traders and executives get a far larger share of the pie than we pitiful stockholders do.) But selling short the same securities or very similar ones that they were peddling to the clients is extremely hard to reconcile with basic fairness.
 Goldman asserts that it did nothing wrong in its handling of C.M.O.'s, saying that most of the entities that bought them were highly sophisticated and capable of making their own investment decisions. Goldman declined to show me a list of its large buyers. It also offered no opinion on what its duties might be to small investors who were ultimately exposed to the C.M.O.'s it sold to larger entities. 
 Goldman emphatically says its short sales and similar trades were normal hedging operations. The firm declined to show me a chart of the scale of its short sales over the past several years.
 After talking to Goldman, I was very impressed with how sure it is of its position. The people there are the ultimate salesmen. But the enviable and phenomenal self-assurance of any one investment bank is not the point. The point is this: Don't expect the securities firms, or the securities laws, to help clients who suffered huge losses.
 BASICALLY, a crossroads was passed in the Drexel/Milken scandals. Although hundreds and perhaps thousands of men and women were profiting from misconduct, only a few people, including Mr. Milken himself, went to prison. And even he emerged from prison a very rich man (and by what I see here in Los Angeles, a model citizen).
 Today, in the midst of the mortgage mess, we see people breaching their fiduciary duty and getting away with it. A few may lose their jobs and wander off to a wealthy retirement. But the ordinary stockholders of the banks and mortgage companies are staggered. Entities that sought a marginally better return on their money and were sold exposure to the C.M.O.'s are pauperized because of the losses. And there are reports that Wall Street is expecting $38 billion in bonuses this year.
 I keep hearing well-meaning people say that America is not a nation if it doesn't have control over its borders. But are we a nation if there is no meaningful restraint on what people can do with an offering statement and a computer screen inside our borders? We surely cannot remain a republic under law if there is no law except the axiom from ''Richard II'' that ''they well deserve to have, that know the strong'st and surest way to get.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHILIP ANDERSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (74%); CORRUPTION (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (72%); SAVINGS & LOANS (71%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (64%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (64%); SUBPRIME LENDING (63%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (60%); WORLD WAR II (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MILKEN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



533 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3188 words

HEADLINE: This Is the Sound of a Bubble Bursting

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

DATELINE: Cape Coral, Fla. 

 BODY:
 TWO years ago, when Eric Feichthaler was elected mayor of this palm-fringed, middle-class city, he figured on spending a lot of time at ribbon-cuttings. Tens of thousands of people had moved here in recent years, turning musty flatlands into a grid of ranch homes painted in vibrant Sun Belt hues: lime green, apricot and canary yellow. 
 Mr. Feichthaler was keen to build a new high school. He hoped to widen roads and extend the reach of the sewage system, limiting pollution from leaky septic tanks. He wanted to add parks.
 Now, most of his visions have shrunk. The real estate frenzy that once filled public coffers with property taxes has over the last two years given way to a devastating bust. Rather than christening new facilities, the mayor finds himself picking through the wreckage of speculative excess and broken dreams. 
 Last month, the city eliminated 18 building inspector jobs and 20 other positions within its Department of Community Development. They were no longer needed because construction has all but ceased. The city recently hired a landscaping company to cut overgrown lawns surrounding hundreds of abandoned homes.
 ''People are underwater on their houses, and they have just left,'' Mr. Feichthaler says. ''That road widening may have to wait. It will be difficult to construct the high school. We know there are needs, but we are going to have to wait a little bit.''
 Waiting, scrimping, taking stock: This is the vernacular of the moment for a nation reckoning with the leftovers of a real estate boom gone sour. From the dense suburbs of northern Virginia to communities arrayed across former farmland in California, these are the days of pullback: with real estate values falling, local governments are cutting services, eliminating staff and shelving projects. 
 Families seemingly disconnected from real estate bust are finding themselves sucked into its orbit, as neighbors lose their homes and the economy absorbs the strains of so much paper wealth wiped out so swiftly.
 Southwestern Florida is in the midst of this gathering storm. It was here that housing prices multiplied first and most exuberantly, and here that the deterioration has unfolded most rapidly. As troubles spill from real estate and construction into other areas of life, this region offers what may be a foretaste of the economic pain awaiting other parts of the country.
 Cape Coral is in Lee County, across the Caloosahatchee River from Fort Myers. In the county, a tidal wave of foreclosures is turning some neighborhoods into veritable ghost towns. The county school district recently scrapped plans to build seven new schools over the next two years. Real estate agents and construction workers are scrambling for other lines of work, and abandoning the area. As houses are relinquished to red ink and the elements, break-ins are skyrocketing, yet law enforcement is resigned to making do with existing staff.
 ''We're all going to have to tighten the belt somehow,'' says Robert Petrovich, Cape Coral's chief of police.
 FLORIDA real estate has long been synonymous with boom and bust, but the recent cycle has packed an unusual intensity. The Internet made it possible for people ensconced in snowy Minnesota to type ''cheap waterfront property'' into search engines and scroll through hundreds of ads for properties here. Cape Coral beckoned speculators, retirees and snowbirds with thousands of lots, all beyond winter's reach.
 Creative finance lubricated the developing boom, making it easy for buyers to take on more mortgage debt than they could otherwise handle, driving prices skyward. Each upward burst brought more investors -- some from as far as California and Europe, real estate agents say. 
 Joe Carey was part of the speculative influx. An owner of rental property in Ohio, he visited Cape Coral in 2002 and found that he could buy undeveloped quarter-acre lots for as little as $10,000. Nearby, there were beaches, golf courses and access to the Caloosahatchee River, which empties into the Gulf of Mexico. 
 Builders were happy to arrange construction loans, then erect houses in as little as six months. Real estate agents promised to find buyers before the houses were even finished. 
 ''All you needed was a pulse,'' Mr. Carey said. ''The price of dirt was going up. We took that leap of faith and put down $10,000.''
 Backed by easily acquired construction loans, Mr. Carey's investment allowed him to buy three lots and top off each with a new home. He flipped them immediately for about $175,000 each, he recalls. Then he bought more lots, confident that Cape Coral and Fort Myers -- the county seat across the river -- would continue to blossom. From 2000 to 2003, the population of the Cape Coral-Fort Myers metropolitan area grew to nearly 500,000 from 444,000, according to Moody'sEconomy.com.
 ''Jobs were very plentiful,'' Mr. Carey said. ''The construction trade was up, stores were opening up, and doctors were coming in. It kind of built its own economy.''
 In 2003, Mr. Carey became a real estate agent. The next year, he opened a title company. Then he teamed up with seven others to open a local office for Keller Williams Realty, the national realty chain. They hired 40 agents. 
 By 2004, the median house price in Cape Coral and Fort Myers had shot up to $192,100, according to the Florida Association of Realtors -- a jump of 70 percent from $112,300 just four years earlier. In 2005, the median price climbed an additional 45 percent, to more than $278,000.
 Lots that Mr. Carey once bought for $10,000 were now going for 10 times that. During the best times back in Ohio, he once earned about $100,000 in a year. At the height of the Florida boom, in 2005, he says he raked in $800,000. ''If you just got up and went to work,'' he says, ''pretty much anybody could become an overnight millionaire.'' 
 National home builders poured in, along with construction workers, roofers and electricians. But as a kingdom of real estate materialized, growth ultimately exceeded demand: investors were selling to one another, inflating prices. When the market figured this out in late 2005, it retreated with punishing speed.
 ''It was as if someone turned off the faucet,'' Mr. Carey said. ''It just came to a screeching halt. When it stopped, people started dumping property.''
 By October this year, the median house price was down to $239,000, some 14 percent below the peak. That same month, he and his partners shuttered his real estate office. In November, he closed the title company. On a recent afternoon, he went to his old office in a now-quiet strip mall to take home the remaining furniture. He was preparing to move to the suburbs of Atlanta.
 While speculators may find it easy enough to pack up and move on, they are leaving behind an empire of vacant houses that will not be easily sold. More than 19,000 single-family homes and condos are now listed on the market in Lee County. Fewer than 500 sold in November, meaning that at the current rate it would take three years for the market to absorb all the houses.
 ''Confusion abounds because nobody knows where the bottom is,'' says Gerard Marino, a commercial Realtor at the Re/Max Realty Group in Fort Myers.
 Commercial builders are unloading properties at sharply reduced prices, sometimes even below construction costs, which further adds to the glut. 
 ''It's our goal to clear out the inventory,'' James P. Dietz, the chief financial officer of WCI Communities, a Florida-based home builder, said in an interview two weeks ago. ''We have to generate cash to make payroll.'' Last week, Mr. Dietz announced he would leave WCI at the end of this year to pursue a career in the vacation resort business.
 AT Pelican Preserve, a gated community set around a 27-hole golf course in Fort Myers, WCI has halted building, leaving some residents staring at mounds of earth where they expected to see manicured lawns. Half-built condos sit isolated in a patch of dirt, cut off from the road.
 ''It bugs the hell out of my wife,'' says Paul Bliss, 61, whose three-bedroom town house is next to a half-built home site. ''She looks out and sees that concrete slab.''
 But the builder makes no apologies. ''There was such a falloff in demand that it made no sense to build new units,'' says Mr. Dietz, adding that the pause in construction ''doesn't in any way detract from the property.''
 Throughout Lee County, a sense of desperation has seized the market as speculators try to unload property or lure renters. On many lawns, a fierce battle is under way for the attention of passers-by, with ''for rent'' signs narrowly edging out ''for sale.''
 In Cape Coral, foreclosure filings in the first 10 months of the year reached 4,874, more than a fourfold increase over the same period the previous year, according to RealtyTrac, an online provider of foreclosure information.
 Elaine Pellegrino and her daughter, Charlene, see no way to avoid joining that list.
 Seven years ago, Ms. Pellegrino and her husband bought their three-bedroom house in northwestern Cape Coral for $97,000, without having to make a down payment.
 The land was mostly empty then. But as construction crews descended and a thicket of new homes took shape, values more than doubled. The Pellegrinos' mailbox brimmed with offers to convert that good fortune into cash by refinancing their mortgage. They bit, borrowing against the inflated value of their home to buy two businesses: an auto repair shop and a lawn service.
 ''We were thinking we were on the way up,'' Ms. Pellegrino says.
 But last December, Ms. Pellegrino's husband died unexpectedly, leaving her with the two businesses, both deeply in debt, and $207,000 she owed against her home, which is now worth about $130,000, she says.
 Disabled and 53 years old, Ms. Pellegrino does not work. She says she lives on a $1,259 monthly Social Security check. Her daughter, a college student, receives $325 a month for child support for one child. Charlene Pellegrino has been looking on the Web for office work for months, but with so many people being laid off, she has come up empty, she says. They have not paid their mortgage in four months.
 ''What can we do?'' Charlene Pellegrino asks, as dusk nears and her driveway lights glow into a void. The rest of the block lies in shadows, with little light emanating from surrounding homes. 
 ''We're probably going to lose the house,'' she says.
 But not anytime soon. The Pellegrinos have joined a new cohort offered up by the real estate unraveling: they are among those waiting in their own homes for the seemingly inevitable. The courts are so stuffed with foreclosures that they assume they can stay for a while.
 ''We figure we have at least six months,'' Elaine Pellegrino says. ''We haven't heard a thing from the bank for a long time.''
 AS construction and real estate spiral downward, the unemployment rate in Lee County has jumped to 5.3 percent from 2.8 percent in the last year. With more than one-fourth of all homes vacant, residential burglaries throughout the county have surged by more than one-third.
 ''People that might not normally resort to crime see no other option,'' says Mike Scott, the county sheriff. ''People have to have money to feed their families.''
 Darkened homes exert a magnetic pull. ''When you have a house that's vacant, that's out in the middle of nowhere, that's a place where vagrants, transients, dopers break a back window and come in,'' the sheriff adds.
 The county's Department of Human Services has seen a substantial increase in applications for a program that helps pay rent and utility bills for those in need. Half the applicants say they have lost jobs or seen their work hours reduced, said Kim Hustad, program manager.
 At Grace United Methodist Church in Cape Coral, Pastor Jorge Acevedo normally starts aid drives this time of year for health clinics in places like India and Africa. This year, the church is buying Christmas presents for about 50 children in the congregation, many who are are in families suffering through job losses.
 At Selling Paradise Realty, a sign seeks customers with a free list of properties facing foreclosure and ''short sales,'' meaning the price is less than the owner owes the bank. Inside, Eileen Rodriguez, the receptionist, said the firm could no longer hand out the list. ''We can't print it anymore,'' she says. ''It's too long.''
 In late November, more than 2,600 of the 5,500 properties for sale in Cape Coral were short sales, says Bobby Mahan, the firm's owner and broker. Most people who bought in 2004 and 2005 owe more than they paid, he says. ''Greed and speculation created the monster.''
 As much as anything, the short sales are responsible for the market logjam. To complete a deal, the lender holding the mortgage must be persuaded to share in the loss and write off some of what is due. ''A short sale is a long and arduous process,'' Mr. Mahan says. ''Battling the banks is horrendous.''
 Kevin Jarrett is stuck in that quagmire. In 1995, freshly arrived from Illinois, he put down $1,000 to buy a house in Lehigh Acres, in eastern Lee County.
 Three years later, Mr. Jarrett left his mental health-counseling job and began selling real estate. He bought progressively nicer homes, keeping the older ones to rent, while borrowing against the rising value of one to finance the next.
 Mr. Jarrett acquired a taste for $100 dinners. He bought a powerboat and a yellow Corvette convertible. (In a photograph on his business card, Mr. Jarrett sits behind the wheel, the top down, offering a friendly wave.) Last summer, he paid $730,000 for a 2,500-square-foot home in Cape Coral with a pool and picture windows looking out on a canal.
 But Mr. Jarrett hasn't closed a deal in three months. He is on track to earn about $50,000 for the year, he said. Yet he needs $17,000 a month just to pay the mortgages, insurance, taxes and utility bills on his four properties -- all worth less than half what he owes. Rental income brings in only about $3,500 a month.
 Mr. Jarrett has not paid the mortgage on two of his properties in six months and is behind on the others as well, he says. His goal is to sell everything, move into a rental and start over.
 He is supplementing his income by selling MonaVie, a nutritional juice that retails for $45 a bottle. He recently dropped health insurance for his family, saving about $680 a month. He is applying for a state-subsidized health plan that would cover his 9-year-old daughter. ''I'm in survival mode,'' he says.
 Many others are in similar straits, and the situation has had a ripple effect on the local economy. Scanlon Auto Group, a luxury car dealer, says it has seen its sales dip significantly -- the first time that's happened in 25 years. Rumrunners, a popular Cape Coral restaurant with tables gazing out on a marina, says its business is down by a third, compared with last year.
 Furniture dealers are folding. Hardware stores are suffering. At Taco Ardiente in Lehigh Acres, business is down by more than three-fourths, complains the owner, Hugo Lopez. His tables were once full of the Hispanic immigrants who filled the ranks of the construction trade. The work is gone, and so are the workers.
 AT the state level, Florida's sales tax receipts have slipped by nearly one-tenth this year, and by 14 percent in Lee County. That is a clear sign of a broad economic slowdown, said Ray T. Kest, a business professor at Hodges University in Fort Myers.
 ''It started with housing, the loss of construction jobs, mortgage companies, title companies, but now it's spread through the entire economy,'' Mr. Kest says as he walks a strip of mostly empty condo towers on the riverside in downtown Fort Myers. ''It now has permeated everything.'' 
 In recent years, Bishop Verot Catholic High School in Fort Myers had raised as much as $200,000 by selling goods at a dinner auction. Michael Pfaff, a Cape Coral mortgage broker, used to donate a weekend cruise on his 40-foot catamaran. But Mr. Pfaff's business has all but disappeared, and he recently sold the boat. This year, the school canceled the auction and is deferring building maintenance.
 The county school district's decision to cancel construction of new public schools reflects a broader diminishing of resources. Developers have to pay so-called impact fees to the district to help fund new facilities. Two years ago, the district took in $56 million in such fees. Next year, it expects only $25 million.
 New schools are no longer needed anyway, says the schools superintendent, James W. Browder. Many families connected to construction and real estate have moved away, so school enrollments are growing more slowly than expected. This could generate a snowball effect all its own: the new schools were to cost as much as $60 million each to build, so canceling them could mean further job cuts for the already reeling building industry.
 Mr. Browder points out an upside of the housing downturn: Hiring people has become easy. In recent years, the school system struggled to find bus drivers, given the abundance of jobs at twice the pay driving dump trucks in home construction. ''Now, we get 14 applicants for every job,'' he says.
 The county government depends on property taxes for a third of its general funding. Since taxes are assessed based on the previous year's real estate values, it has yet to feel a dent. But agencies are under significant pressure to pare back in anticipation of a dip in next year's funds.
 Tax-cutting advocates cheer this prospect. Governments have gotten fat on the boom, they say. A constitutional amendment facing Florida voters in January would expand tax caps for many residences statewide.
 ''All the local governments were drunk with money,'' says Mr. Kest, the finance professor. ''Now, they're going to have to cut back and learn how to manage.''
 But local officials counter that they are already being forced to contemplate significant changes that could affect everyday life. The county's public safety division, which operates ambulance services, says it could be obliged to cut staff. The county's Natural Resources Department recently delayed a $2.1 million project to filter polluted runoff spilling into the Lakes Regional Park -- a former quarry turned into a waterway dotted by islands and frequented by native waterfowl.
 People who were priced out of the earlier boom here could wind up the winners. ''We had an affordable-housing crisis,'' says Tammy Hall, a Lee County commissioner. ''The people who were here for a fast buck are gone. You're going to see normal people go back into that housing.''
 When Andrea Drewyor, 24, moved to Cape Coral from Ohio this year to take a teaching job, she found a brand-new two-bedroom waterfront duplex in a gated community with a fitness center, a swimming pool and a Jacuzzi -- all for $875 a month in rent.
 At night, most of the units around her are dark. The developer can moan. 
 Not Ms. Drewyor.
 ''I like not having a lot of people living here,'' she said. ''This place is awesome.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Charlene Pellegrino, left, and her mother, Elaine, at their home in Cape Coral, Fla. They fear the house will be put in foreclosure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILLIPPE DIEDERICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. BU7)
 A model home in Cape Coral, Fla. In the wake of the real estate bust, the area is facing falling home values, foreclosures, municipal cutbacks and the loss of jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILLIPPE DIEDERICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. BU1) GRAPH: THE RIPPLE EFFECT: Lee County, Fla., whose largest city is Cape Coral, has been hit hard by the collapse of the housing market. Along with the declines in home sales and prices have come declines in major consumer purchases and in construction and business investment, as well as an increase in crime. (Sources: Florida Association of Realtors, Florida Legislature Office of Economic and Demographic Research, Lee County Sheriff's office) (pg. BU7) Graph showing the collapse of the housing market. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); MAYORS (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (88%); HOUSING BUBBLE (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); WATER POLLUTION (75%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); FORECLOSURE (72%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT MYERS, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



534 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: Stopping at 10 Just Seems Wrong

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
BY the end of next week, the number of movies reviewed in The New York Times in 2007 will top out somewhere around 640. The traditions of movie criticism decree that I select 10 as the year's most worthy candidates for immortality (or at least future Netflix rental). Everyone knows that this is an arbitrary and subjective exercise -- that's part of the fun of it -- but this year I've found it especially difficult to commit to so narrow and exclusive a list. 
 That is partly because I liked so much of what I saw. I know it's hard to believe, but during the past 12 months I sometimes went two or three weeks in a row without finding anything to mock, deflate or be disappointed by, and my inner curmudgeon was frequently elbowed aside by a wide-eyed, arm-waving enthusiast. 
 It also seemed, though, perhaps more than in other years, that the movies I liked did not entirely stand alone. It is, of course, inevitable that many of those 640 should arrange themselves in clusters and patterns of genre and theme. But apart from this kind of obvious sorting, even some of the more idiosyncratic and original films seemed to be carrying on a serendipitous conversation with one another, about the aesthetic possibilities of the medium and also about its ethical obligation to illuminate some aspect of human experience. 
 So apart from the top two entries, the list below consists of pairs (and in one case a trio) of films that complete, complement, contradict or otherwise engage each other. Taken alone each film on the list is in some way exemplary, but each is also enriched and complicated by its companion. The twinned selections might work as double features, or as possible alternatives (if not x, then maybe y); above all they demonstrate the vitality and mutability of this impossibly fertile art form. It's a big world, and we can never have too many movies. 
 1.Cristian Mungiu's ''4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days,'' won the Palme d'Or at Cannes and is the latest evidence of the recent flowering of Romanian cinema. Mr. Mungiu's film, which will open in New York in January but which can't wait for my 2008 list, derives some of its power from its charged subject matter: It's about the ordeal of life under Communism and also about abortion. But what makes this a great movie is the mighty combination of Mr. Mungiu's ruthless, formal discipline, the unaffected naturalism of the performances (especially Anamaria Marinca's) and a moral honesty that goes far beyond what we usually think of as realism.
 2.''Ratatouille,'' for its part, dispenses with realism altogether, but like ''4 Months'' it still demonstrates a bracing integrity in its commitment to the highest ideals of art. Among these, of course, is the pursuit of pleasure, something Brad Bird, the writer and director, both rewards and defends. As he did in ''The Incredibles,'' Mr. Bird makes a passionate, somewhat contrarian case for excellence in a world (and a medium) that all too often tolerates and celebrates mediocrity. He also, not incidentally, puts us critics in our place, which is at the table with everyone else, in thrall to the new and ruled less by reason than by memory and desire.
 3. Violence, vengeance, motiveless evil: these are on the verge of becoming movie cliches, but genuine, rigorous pessimism about human nature still has the power to shock. And when wedded to the kind of creative daring displayed by Paul Thomas Anderson in ''There Will Be Blood'' and Tim Burton and Stephen Sondheim in ''Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street,'' misanthropy can attain a jarring, revelatory intensity. As men driven by greed and grief, Daniel Day-Lewis (in ''Blood'') and Johnny Depp (in ''Todd'') are two of the most charismatic and terrifying movie monsters in recent memory.
 4. The lives of popular musicians are irresistible to ambitious actors, Hollywood hacks, hip documentary makers and soundtrack marketers. Todd Haynes's ''I'm Not There'' and Julien Temple's ''Joe Strummer: The Future Is Unwritten'' can thus be seen as acts of resistance, upending cliches and matching the mystery and magic of their subjects with inventive visual and narrative techniques. Mr. Temple's documentary about the leader of the Clash is more straightforwardly biographical than Mr. Haynes's fractured fantasia on the life of Bob Dylan, but both films discover new and bracing ways to write history in sound and image.
 5. Every political documentary has a point of view, but too many are content simply to affirm the presumed beliefs of a narrow, self-selecting (and usually liberal) audience, and too few grasp the difference between stating an opinion and making an argument. Two exceptions stood out this year. Charles Ferguson's ''No End in Sight,'' a devastating and dispassionate chronicle of American folly and hubris in the early months of the war in Iraq, is perhaps not partisan enough to satisfy those who opposed the war from the start, but for just that reason it poses a profound intellectual challenge to the war's supporters. It is the movie I would most want my conservative friends to see. Meanwhile ''Terror's Advocate,''Barbet Schroeder's detailed, unsparing portrait of the French lawyer Jacques Verges, is especially necessary viewing for those on the left who still harbor romantic ideas about political violence as a morally attractive response to oppression, real or imagined.
 6.''12:08 East of Bucharest'' is the first feature from the Romanian director Corneliu Porumboiu; ''Live-in Maid'' is the debut of Jorge Gaggero, from Argentina. They tell simple, almost anecdotal stories of ordinary people at the mercy of historical events. In ''12:08'' a singularly undistinguished television panel of provincial Romanians squabbles about the revolution of 1989; in ''Live-in Maid'' the relationship between a Buenos Aires lady and her maid is strained by economic turmoil. Mr. Porumboiu's sensibility is more overtly comic than Mr. Gaggero's, but both filmmakers show remarkable sensitivity and self-confidence, and in their low-key, observant ways each achieves something close to perfection.
 7. We talk a lot about freedom -- in life, in art, in politics -- but what does it look like? You can find one set of answers in the restless, beautiful images of the American landscape in Sean Penn's ''Into the Wild,'' and another in the landscapes of memory and fantasy explored in Julian Schnabel's ''The Diving Bell and the Butterfly.'' Both films, based on the lives of real people, dwell on themes of liberation, and both filmmakers demonstrate an independence of spirit that helps to make their stories exhilarating as well as sad.
 8. There will always be a place, and an eager audience, for melodramas of awakened conscience, in which a cynical, complacent or downright malignant character taps into an unexpected reservoir of decency. These films answer a need to believe that goodness can flourish in bleak times and against long odds, and their sentimental humanism is part of their appeal. It can always be argued that the real world is grayer and more nuanced than the East Germany depicted ''The Lives of Others'' or the corporate arena of ''Michael Clayton.'' But these movies, the directorial debuts of Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck (''Lives) and Tony Gilroy (''Clayton''), work as intelligent, earnest fables of individual heroism, anchored in lead performances -- George Clooney's as the fixer in ''Clayton'' and Ulrich Muhe's as the Stasi officer in ''Lives'' -- of extraordinary gravity and conviction.
 9.''The Savages,'' written and directed by Tamara Jenkins, and Sarah Polley's ''Away From Her,'' based on a story by Alice Munro, both deal with the indignities of old age. They are also about the vagaries and difficulties of long-term love, between the squabbling siblings (Philip Seymour Hoffman and Laura Linney) in Ms. Jenkins's film and the married couple (Julie Christie and Gordon Pinsent) in Ms. Polley's. There is scarcely a moment of exaggeration or unearned sentiment in either film, and between them they feature some of the best acting of the year.
 10.''Knocked Up'' enjoys the distinction of being the most intensely argued about movie of the year, as well as one of the funniest. Its send-up of sexual confusion in early adulthood was topped only by ''Superbad,'' its younger, more anxious brother. The sharp, complicated feminism of ''Juno'' stands as both a complement to and an implicit critique of those boy-centered pictures. My wish for 2008 is that Diablo Cody, who wrote ''Juno,'' and Judd Apatow, the writer-director of ''Knocked Up'' and producer of ''Superbad,'' collaborate on a hilariously naughty comedy promoting proper condom use.
 HONORABLE MENTIONS''Lady Chatterley,''''Into Great Silence,''''Starting Out in the Evening,''''Before the Devil Knows You're Dead,''''No Country for Old Men,''''The Band's Visit,''''Charlie Wilson's War,''''Bamako,''''Zodiac.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cristian Mungiu's ''4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days,'' above with Anamaria Marinca, second from right, is among A. O. Scott's favorite films this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IFC FIRST TAKE AND RED ENVELOPE ENTERTAINMENT)
 In ''Ratatouille'' Brad Bird oversaw an animated film that slyly makes a case for artistic excellence in the face of mediocrity. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE DISNEY COMPANY AND PIXAR ANIMATION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (89%); ETHICS (65%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (58%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (58%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



535 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: The Coats and Dresses and Shirts of Utopia

BYLINE: By Mark Jacobs

 BODY:
Rogues Gallery: The recycled T-shirts that are at the core of the Rogues Gallery men's-wear line are sorted, processed, printed and reworked in a warehouse in Portland, Me., by a crew whose backgrounds have little to do with fashion. ''People who gravitate to the project don't really fit in at proper, standard organizations,'' says the Rogues designer, Alex Carleton, a former visual merchandiser for Ralph Lauren who left New York City in search of a heartier lifestyle. ''There's no superficiality, just kids who like to get dirty and listen to loud music and spill paint and dye shirts and make products.'' The Rogues aesthetic is an amalgamation of New England coastal life: the sludgy seascape, the local Slayer fans, Stephen King's American gothic (he was born in Portland) and the woodsy communal feasts Carleton holds in the backyard of his weathered fisherman's cottage. ''People talk about how men's wear is cleaning up,'' says Carleton, who will open the line's first store on the city's waterfront in February. ''Maybe in the urban bubble, but when you get away from that, guys are still grungy. That's interesting to me.'' 
 Alabama Chanin ''I'm as proud of this system as I am of the designs,'' says Natalie Chanin, the woman behind Alabama Chanin, a line of richly embroidered recycled shirts and dresses that are cut, painted and sewn by hand in rural Florence, Ala. Her stitchers, some of whom quilted alongside her grandmothers, are part of a cottage-industry style of manufacturing in which people work out of their homes. ''These ladies can take care of parents or children, or have regular full-time jobs, and stitch in their spare time,'' she says. ''When I was in design school, I would never have told you in a million years that I would be busying myself with labor law,'' she adds. But it hit her that the clothes she envisioned were influenced by her past. ''And if I wanted to get these shirts sewn, the best thing to do would be to come home and find people who knew how to quilt.'' Chanin's headquarters are a pine-paneled office in a brick ranch house that she rents from her aunt; from its windows, she can see the house her grandfather built and where she grew up. 
 Freecity Inspired by alternative communities like the Earthship colonies in New Mexico and the Tassajara Zen Mountain Center in California, freecity was willed into existence by Nina Garduno, whose day job is vice president of Ron Herman, the exclusive Los Angeles retailer. Garduno sums up her hybrid character thusly: ''I'm attracted to an Hermes bracelet, which I hate myself for, and I'm attracted to the commune.'' She says she ''fought'' not buying the bracelet but ultimately did succumb, though it has since been lost. The freecitysupershop, located in a Malibu strip mall between a nail salon and a dry cleaner's, is both Garduno's creative outlet and the retail outlet for the screen-printed clothes, hand-painted terra-cotta bells and customized bicycles created in the nearby freecity workshop. The ''one-man-band bike'' shown here was presented to Garduno by her staff as ''an offering'' for the opening of a supershop exhibition called ''In musicandlove vibrationsandcolor.'' ''For me, it's not fashion, even though I know people buy it as fashion,'' Garduno says of her clothing line. ''What they're really buying is authenticity.''
 Freemans Sporting Club Taavo Somer, the founder of Freemans Sporting Club -- a collection of determinedly masculine, old-school men's wear -- spends a lot of time in tents. There's the custom-built Civil War re-enactment tent that contains his showroom, located upstairs from Freemans Restaurant and the Freemans Sporting Club store and barbershop on the Lower East Side of Manahattan. The tent was duplicated for Sporting Club camping trips that are meant to stoke the embers of manly self-sufficiency often left unattended by New York's service economy. ''You don't want to be the helpless one in any scenario,'' Somer says. ''The clothing harkens back to the '30s, '40s and '50s, when men knew how to do things.'' The next outing will see the realization of a massive 10-gallon French coffee press operated by a giant tree-branch lever, the ultimate outdoor accessory for the urbane Freemans Boy Scout. Naturally, Somer's production is all-American: suits and ties are made in Brooklyn, outerwear in Manhattan, dress shirts in Newark and jeans in Kentucky. ''I'm American, I want to look like an American guy and I want my clothes to be made in America,'' Somer says. ''No offense to China.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN KURLAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); CHILDREN (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (71%); RETAILERS (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (63%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) ALABAMA, USA (91%); MAINE, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



536 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Officials Report Mold in a Leonardo Collection

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: MILAN 

 BODY:
Leonardo da Vinci's Codex Atlanticus, the largest bound collection of his drawings and writings, has been infiltrated by mold, Italian scholars said Friday.
 The extent of damage to the Codex -- an assemblage of 1,119 pages of drawings and writings dating from 1478 to 1519 on topics ranging from flying machines to weapons, mathematics to botany -- is not yet known, but the mold is not spreading, they said. 
 But officials appealed for aid in restoring and conserving the Codex, saying it would be highly expensive and that there were no public funds for the project.
 Msgr. Marco Navoni, a historian at the Biblioteca Ambrosiana in Milan, where the documents are housed, said Friday, ''We need to find sponsors to come forward to help pay for analysis to establish the necessary therapy, and then do the treatment.''
 The Codex, which consists of 12 leather-bound volumes, is kept in a vault at the Biblioteca Ambrosiana where temperature and humidity are constantly monitored. The mold was first identified in April 2006 by Carmen Bambach, a curator of drawings at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, and confirmed by conservation experts from the Florence-based state conservation institute, Opificio delle Pietre Dure.
 Until more scientific analysis is done, the cause of the mold will remain unclear, said Cecilia Frosinini, the deputy director of the Opificio.
 She said the mold could be the result of several factors, including exposure during any exhibition or study, or the unintended consequence of a restoration that began in 1968 and ended in 1972.
 The Codex Atlanticus, so named because it was originally compiled as a single volume of miscellany comparable to an atlas, is the largest collection of Leonardo's sheets. Formed at the end of the sixteenth century by the sculptor Pompeo Leoni, it is viewed by some scholars as a treasured but lamentable compilation, given that Leoni dismembered some of Leonardo's notebooks to create it. 
 Over the centuries it has offered rich insights not only into Leonardo's art, but also into his fascination with science, technology, architectural projects and urban planning.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); HISTORY (75%); EXHIBITIONS (72%); BOTANY (71%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (70%); CITY LIFE (66%); CITIES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



537 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2008 FORD FOCUS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Same Small-Car Stew, Stirred and Reheated

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
WHETHER you've been bad or good, I can tell you what you're not getting this Christmas: a new Focus from Ford's European workshop. 
 The Focus that Americans are receiving definitely beats a fruitcake. But it is a warmed-over version of the Focus that's been around since 2000, rather than Europe's vastly fresher (and admittedly pricier) Focus that shares its mechanical recipe with the sophisticated Mazda 3 and Volvo S40. 
 For people who expected the new Focus to saddle up against the best compact cars -- including the Mazda 3 and the Honda Civic -- it's hard to hide the disappointment. Especially because the original Focus proved that Detroit could design a fully competitive small car when it wasn't busy chasing the latest S.U.V. hussy. 
 One last gripe, and then I'll play with the toy I've got: for whatever reason, the kids at Mazda and Volvo seem to get all the good stuff at Ford, while the parent company takes the leftovers. 
 Also gone is the Focus hatchback model, always the coolest of the breed; and the optional 2.3-liter engine that was Focus's remaining draw for enthusiast buyers. What's left is a serviceable and frugal -- if sleepy -- sedan and coupe, intended to keep budget buyers coming and rental counters humming. 
 While the styling seems timid to a fault -- check out those faux cooling vents glued to the front fenders, as bogus as a temporary tattoo -- the car itself is improved. I drove a top-of-the-line Focus SES for a week, a sedan that started at $16,995 and rose to $20,200 with options including heated leather seats, antilock brakes and a six-disc audio system with Sirius Satellite Radio. 
 The compact Ford also included the new Sync system, developed by Ford and Microsoft, that's standard on the SES model and a $395 option on other versions, including the lowest-priced ($14,695) Focus S coupe. The Bluetooth-based Sync allows hands-free operation of cellphones, iPods, other music players and U.S.B. storage drives, via voice commands or steering wheel buttons. For now, Sync is exclusive to Ford, Lincoln and Mercury models, and it's easily the Focus's most engaging new feature. 
 After a quick one-time set-up, the Focus wirelessly uploaded my phone's address book. As I called out either names or phone numbers, the computer helpmate with a female voice -- Ford calls her Samantha -- placed the calls and played them through the audio system. The system proved savvy at recognizing even hard-to-pronounce names, and it is fluent in both North American Spanish and Canadian French. 
 Sync usefully managed my iPod, following commands to play specific songs, albums, artists, genres or playlists. The Focus, however, has only a fairly small L.E.D. display atop the dashboard, so it couldn't display a list of an album's songs; if you don't know the titles to say aloud, you basically have to advance track by track until you find what you want. (Pricier Ford products with full navigation screens can display more information.) 
 The system also converts incoming text messages to fairly natural-sounding speech, even translating pop abbreviations like LOL. Drivers can choose among 15 preset text replies, or forward the message to another number. I experienced a few minor voice-recognition glitches, but nothing like the old days of five years ago, when you'd find yourself threatening the computer loudly enough to merit a restraining order. 
 All in all, Sync gives the likes of BMW something to mull over: A $15,000 Ford that integrates phones and audio devices better than a $90,000 7 Series sedan. 
 In performance and execution, the Focus is decidedly less cutting-edge. On the plus side, the Ford rides smoothly and its strengthened chassis makes it noticeably more quiet inside. The pleasing steering, always a strong point of the Focus, remains. Front seats are improved over the glute-numbing chairs of the outgoing model, with better contouring and firmer support. And the blue-lighted gauges are readable and handsome.
 Yet even the pricey SES model's stitched leather seats and metal-look trim couldn't overcome the impression of cost-cutting: The glovebox door whangs open. A poorly finished trunk has an awkwardly high liftover and no useful handhold on its lid. The headliner feels as crushable as a styrofoam cooler, and it's covered in the stingy fabric that engineers disparagingly call mouse fur. The headlamps put out a weak and diffuse beam in either low or high setting. The steering wheel tilts but does not telescope. And while side and curtain air bags are standard fare, there are no rear head restraints.
 The 2-liter, 140-horsepower 4-cylinder engine gets the job done, but together with the cushy suspension and less-than-grippy tires, the car offers little of the pep or engaging handling of some others in its class. With a mere four-speed automatic (a five-speed manual is available), the engine spends more time in its rackety upper ranges. Wind it up and bend the Ford into a turn, and its message is clear: ''Hey, whaddaya think I am, a Mustang? I'm basic transportation, so quit messing around.''
 Yet if the Focus is a common grunt in a field of more highly decorated small cars, it can certainly stretch a ration of gas: A steady highway march returned a stellar 36 miles a gallon, topping the federal mileage rating. (The E.P.A. pegs fuel economy at 24 m.p.g. in town, and 33 on the highway, with the automatic.) Over a week, my Focus delivered an impressive 29 m.p.g. in combined city and highway travel. 
 Over all, it's hard to see this Focus as more than a place holder, an economy car whose basic platform will be 12 years old -- an eternity by current standards -- by the time Ford brings a true all-new version here in 2011. 
 Yes, it's obvious that the European-version Focus can't be sold cheaply enough to be the mainstream version here. But it is less clear why Ford can't sell modest numbers of the acclaimed Euro model as a sporty halo car to pump up the lineup -- just as Honda offers an Si version of its Civic and Volkswagen creates a GTI from the Rabbit.
 In an era of $3-a-gallon gas and fever-pitch concerns about carbon dioxide emissions, it's clear that there's a growing market for premium (and potentially more profitable) small cars. Ford will have nothing to offer beyond models from Volvo and Mazda.
 But forget all that: this Focus is good enough for Ford, so it has to be good enough for Ford's customers. Even setting aside sporty compacts, Toyota will roll out its 2009 Corolla next year, a formidable redesign of its own relentlessly mainstream economy car.
 So while they wait for 2011 to arrive, Ford's chief executive, Alan Mulally, and its chairman, William Clay Ford Jr., have time to ponder a question: Do they think Toyota will be satisfied with ''good enough''? 
 INSIDE TRACK: Fiddling while Dearborn burns.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CALLING CARDS: Sync reads messages and manages MP3 players, above. Nonfunctional fender vent, below, is an affectation (pg. AU4)
 COST CUTTER: Latest Focus (sedan above, coupe below) is economical. (pg. AU1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); SEDANS (89%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (85%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (85%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (71%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (70%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); VOICE RECOGNITION (64%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (64%); SATELLITE RADIO (62%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (50%)

COMPANY: MAZDA MOTOR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: 7261 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); SIRI (NASDAQ) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (53%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%); NORTH AMERICA (78%); EUROPE (73%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (73%); CANADA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



538 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 0; Sports Desk; IN-BOX; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Honor Among Whom?

 BODY:
To the Sports Editor:
 Re ''Petrino's Departure Is Particularly Disturbing,'' Dec. 18: The case of Bobby Petrino's resignation from the Atlanta Falcons demonstrates the absurdity of the football builds character notion that we have heard for many years. 
 I feel a bit of sympathy for Arthur Blank and the Falcons, but wasn't Blank part of the process?
 Before Petrino could go to the Falcons, he had to break a 10-year contract, which he did with Blank's encouragement. You would think that would have told the Falcons something. John Shea
 Lansdowne, Pa.
 To the Sports Editor:
 The N.F.L. and Division I football are businesses. There was no betrayal in the Bobby Petrino case. 
 He did what teams do all the time. It may be ruthless, but it isn't personal. The president of Arkansas knows it; N.F.L. owners know it.
 It is good for the college players as well. They should be disabused early in life of the notion that they are anything other than chattle, both in the eyes of the colleges that use them for the advancement of their athletic programs and the employers that hire them after college, whether that employer is IBM or the Atlanta Falcons. 
 The sooner today's students understand that, the better they will be able to cope with the new globalized economy.
 David Valachovic
 Albany

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter; Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (68%); GLOBALIZATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA FALCONS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%)

PERSON: ARTHUR M BLANK (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%) GEORGIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



539 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Manhattan's Year of Building Furiously

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
LET'S take a minute to pat ourselves on the backs.
 For decades I've been whining about how far New York has slipped behind other world cities in the support of serious architecture. While Abu Dhabi, Shanghai, Beijing and even Paris have been pushing the boundaries, churning out one adventurous building after another, our city was wallowing in a swamp of pseudohistoricism and corporate mediocrity that -- to skeptics like me, at least -- threatened to transform it into a dull theme park for the superrich.
 But this year the city may finally have turned a corner. In the past nine months alone New York has witnessed the unveiling of nearly half a dozen major architectural landmarks. Frank Gehry's headquarters for IAC/InterActiveCorp along the West Side Highway, Jean Nouvel's luxury residential building in SoHo, Bernard Tschumi's Blue Building apartments on the Lower East Side and Renzo Piano's tower for The New York Times may not rank as these architects' greatest works. But they are serious architecture nonetheless, in an abundance the city hasn't seen in decades. 
 And they will soon be joined by some outright gems. Ground has been broken on Mr. Gehry's Beekman Tower, whose crinkly, titanium facade will rise more than 70 stories over downtown; Mr. Nouvel's 75-story luxury tower next to the Museum of Modern Art in Midtown promises to be the most mesmerizing addition to the skyline since the Chrysler Building in 1930.
 What is more, this flowering was complemented by some architecture exhibitions with provocative subject matter and fine scholarship, defying the common wisdom that architecture's popular appeal in mainstream culture is somehow a sign of its growing superficiality. A Gordon Matta-Clark retrospective at the Whitney Museum and ''Piranesi as Designer,'' an elegant little show at the Cooper-Hewitt, showed that architecture's current obsession with deep psychological forces is part of a historical continuum.
 The Museum of Modern Art's architecture and design department meanwhile seems to have new energy now that Barry Bergdoll has taken over as chief curator. In July it opened the hauntingly gorgeous ''Lost Vanguard: Soviet Modernist Architecture, 1922-32,'' documenting the decay of buildings from one of the most vibrant periods in 20th-century architecture.
 But the revelation of 2007 was ''Robert Moses and the Modern City,'' staged concurrently at the Queens Museum of Art, the Museum of the City of New York and the Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery at Columbia University. A complex portrait of the man who ruled New York's urban development for more than half a century, the show made a strong case that Moses' vast infrastructure and slum clearance projects were a nuanced mix of good and bad, as opposed to the outright evil depicted in other accounts. By invoking his legacy, the show raised pointed questions about today's planning strategies, especially the government's diminished role in shaping the public realm.
 Like most fairy tales New York's embrace of architecture has a dark side. If many of these shows pointed up our rich architectural past, they also served to remind us that the majority of today's projects serve the interests of a small elite. And this trend is not likely to change any time soon. The slow death of the urban middle class, the rise of architecture as a marketing tool, the overweening influence of developers -- all have helped to narrow architecture's social reach just as it begins to recapture the public imagination. From this perspective the wave of gorgeous new buildings can be read as a mere cultural diversion.
 Additionally, New York is about to embark on a handful of vast developments that could alter its character more than any projects since the 1960s. Twenty-five million square feet of commercial space is planned for Midtown. Madison Square Garden and the woeful Knicks may relocate to the site of the James A. Farley Post Office building, which was supposed to be a grand site for a new Penn Station. An enormous expansion of the Columbia University campus into Harlem has enraged local residents. And let's not forget ground zero, a black hole of political posturing, cynical real estate deals and outright stupidity. 
 To date, there is little sign that intelligent design will play a major role in any of those projects. On the contrary, every revision heightens our creeping awareness that when serious money is at stake, business will be as usual.
 But it's the holidays. Cheer up. Drink some eggnog. There will be plenty to worry about in the new year. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Past, present, future: Museums exhibited architectural-based art like Gordon Matta-Clark's ''Splitting 32'' (1975), left
the streetscape was invigorated by structures like Frank Gehry's offices for IAC/InterActiveCorp, above
and plans for the skyline included Jean Nouvel's proposed tower in Midtown, far left. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEAN NOUVEL)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH FROM COLLECTION OF JANE CRAWFORD AND BOB FIORE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CITIES (72%)

COMPANY: IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (70%)

TICKER: IACI (NASDAQ) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (70%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (70%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); EAST CHINA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



540 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; CONNECTICUT; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: We Must Stop Failing Our Children

 BODY:
Researchers at Haskins Laboratories in New Haven say that 95 percent of all children can learn to read relatively easily, regardless of whether they are rich or poor, bright or burdened with a low I.Q. This is no empty statement; the nonprofit institute has been at the forefront of scientific research on speech, language and literacy for decades. 
 But because the brain is programmed for speech, not for reading, educators must use a teaching approach based on proven research to make sure our children learn to read. Since Connecticut's teachers are among the best educated and highest paid in the country, this should not be a problem. 
 Think again. More than half of Connecticut's fourth-grade students are unable to read at or above proficiency, as measured by the latest National Assessment of Educational Progress. The Connecticut Mastery Test reading scores are more encouraging, but in 2007 still showed 43 percent of fourth graders unable to read at goal (a standard somewhat lower than the national test's proficiency level). These dismal scores on both the national and state tests have remained more or less constant for 10 years. 
 This is Connecticut's unacceptable status quo. Our students' inability to read well has become a crisis, one that, if left unresolved, will hamper them for the rest of their lives. If children do not become competent readers by age 9 -- when most are in fourth grade -- it is far more likely that they will read poorly as adults. Eventually, a less literate work force will hurt the state's economy. 
 Let's be clear about this: The children are not failing us. We are failing them. 
 The overall reading scores are bad enough. But even more frightening are the reading scores for minorities and the poor. This year, less than 20 percent of either African-American or Hispanic fourth graders in Connecticut scored at reading proficiency on the national test. And just 13 percent of low-income fourth-grade students were proficient in reading, compared with 52 percent from higher-income families.
 Again, the 2007 Connecticut Mastery Test scores are higher, but not by much. 
 These numbers motivated the commissioner of the state Department of Education, Mark McQuillan, to hold a statewide meeting about reading at the end of November. He brought together educators and administrators from every school district in the state to discuss what could be done to improve reading. To his credit, he highlighted these same worrisome test scores in a detailed presentation. The forum, held in Waterbury, was the setting for passionate and honest debate. 
 But now what? Holding a meeting is no substitute for action, as the state has learned too well over the years. After all, the Legislature's Joint Committee on Higher Education held its own meeting about reading last January. Based on suggestions from that gathering, the committee unanimously passed a proposal that would have required teacher candidates to pass a stand-alone test in reading to become certified in teaching students at the third-grade level or below. The proposal then went to the Education Committee and was never heard from again. 
 Similarly, seven years ago, a state panel wrote a thorough report called the Blueprint for Reading Achievement. It outlined changes needed in teachers' development to ensure student reading success. The report was widely praised and has mostly collected dust ever since. 
 Some teachers and education schools believe they are being unfairly blamed for students' inability to read. And the issue is indeed complicated and not simply a matter of teaching. Many poor students, who are disproportionately from minorities, come from environments in which they are less likely to have many books at home and more likely to have parents too exhausted from working several jobs to read to them regularly. Others live in homes where English is rarely spoken. As many as one-quarter of the state's children show up for kindergarten unprepared, with no preschool experience at all. They have an uphill climb because there is nothing natural about the ability to read. It is not automatic. 
 But neither is the ability to teach reading, which requires sophisticated ability to help children decode words and develop a phonetic awareness. In a study performed by Jule McCombes-Tolis at Southern Connecticut State University and Richard Feinn at Yale, less than 50 percent of Connecticut teachers surveyed could identify core reading competencies or knew at what age children should have comprehension and reading accuracy skills. 
 Yet this is not surprising. State law requires undergraduate education majors to take a mere two courses in reading in order to teach, and one of those could be a general literature course, a requirement that even the biggest teachers union here, the Connecticut Education Association, says is inadequate. Teacher certification requires just a general knowledge of reading. The upshot is often-frustrated educators who want to help their students but who were not taught the skills. 
 Despite the low reading scores in Connecticut, there are few signs that any group is taking responsibility. State colleges as well as the University of Connecticut have not moved to require their education majors to take more courses in reading, especially since the state does not require them to do so and there is, as yet, no stand-alone test in reading for which education students must prepare in order to teach. At the same time, the state Education Department is loath to force the issue. 
 In short, nobody wants to move first. Connecticut is not called the Land of Steady Habits for nothing. But the state cannot afford to sacrifice its children to a life of near-illiteracy while its officials, educators and politicians all wait for consensus to emerge. 
 The state Department of Education should ask the Legislature to require elementary education students who intend to teach the lower grades to take a test in the science of reading instruction. It should also require more than two courses in reading for education majors. The Education Committee should be responsible enough to hold hearings and vote on the proposals. 
 The state should also pay for current teachers to get additional training in research-based methods of reading instruction, and take steps to encourage school leadership on this issue. Any teacher, even a great one, cannot close the reading gap without support from the school principal. Principals need to foster a team approach in which successful reading instruction becomes the priority in our schools. 
 Teachers cannot turn around this situation alone. They need our help. If they do not get it, Connecticut will continue to fail its children. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (78%); FAMILY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (75%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



541 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 5088 words

HEADLINE: The African Front

BYLINE: By JOSHUA HAMMER. 
Joshua Hammer spent six years in Africa as bureau chief for Newsweek. He is writing a book on German colonialism in Africa.

 BODY:
One hot, cloudless afternoon in October, I sat in the members' salon of the Kenyan Parliament as the guest of Joseph Lekuton, an M.P. from the desolate bush country to the east of Lake Turkana. Around us a dozen other Kenyan politicians sat in comfortable armchairs, sipping tea from silver services and gliding from English to Swahili to tribal languages and back again. The decor -- dark wood paneling, white concrete pillars and a flying-saucer-like brass-and-steel chandelier -- suggested both the Soviet Politburo and a Las Vegas lounge in the Rat Pack era. Lekuton (pronounced LEH-koo-tone), an animated man in his late 30s, had dropped by to catch up on developments in the country's election campaign. On Dec. 
27, Kenyans are voting, for the first time since 2002, to choose a new president and Parliament; Lekuton was in the capital raising money and trying to decide whether to throw his lot in with the government coalition or with the main opposition party. (Kenya's parties are fluid, and continuous maneuvering takes place during a campaign season.) Lekuton, a rising political star, was being wooed by both sides, which put his constituents in a state of considerable anxiety. The election, meanwhile, was promising to be the most democratic and unpredictable in Kenya's history: polls showed President Mwai Kibaki slipping behind the challenger, Raila Odinga, a former political prisoner. The prospect of an incumbent president caught in a genuine electoral contest -- a nearly unprecedented event in Africa -- excited Lekuton. ''There's never been anything like this in Kenyan politics,'' he told me. 
 But along with this democratic opening have come social stresses that Lekuton could not have anticipated when he entered public life. His association with America, where he has spent most of the past 20 years, is becoming a burden: his Muslim opponent, Abubakar Godana Harugura, has not shied away from asserting his Islamic identity, and Lekuton has found himself backing into the political role of a so-called antifundamentalist. And both men have discovered that this West-vs.-Islamism political drama attracts money in a way that rural development, say, never could. It's now possible that Lekuton's remote constituency will become embroiled in an ideological conflict that might just as easily have passed it by.
 The son of nomadic cattle herders in Kenya's far north, Lekuton has compiled a three-decade-long winning streak. After finishing Catholic missionary school, he won a full scholarship to St. Lawrence University in upstate New York and earned a master's degree in international education policy at Harvard. He spent the next 10 years teaching American history at the Langley School in northern Virginia; wrote an autobiography for young people, ''Facing the Lion,'' published by National Geographic; then came home in the spring of 2006 to run for Parliament in a special election following the death in a plane crash of a serving M.P. Partly on the strength of his U.S. connections (he was only the second person in his constituency to attend college in the United States), Lekuton narrowly defeated the M.P.'s widow, and in his first year in office compiled an impressive record. He channeled public funds to construct schoolrooms and boreholes for wells, lured Western development agencies to his constituency, mediated between ethnic groups in the region that have been clashing over livestock-grazing rights and access to water and distributed some of his ample salary to pay school fees and health-care costs for the indigent. (Kenya's Parliamentarians earn one million shillings in salary and perks, or $16,000 a month, making them among the highest-paid legislators in the world.) Despite Lekuton's successes, he faces a very serious challenge from Godana Harugura.
 A 38-year-old engineer and the former chief of the roads department of Marsabit District (which includes Lekuton's constituency), Harugura had no political experience. What he does seem to have is access to money and influence, in part because he comes from one of the area's most important clans and thus can count on the built-in support a network like that provides. Just as important, perhaps, is that Harugura is also a convert to fundamentalist Islam -- he began reading the Koran in college in Nairobi, joined the Islamic student union there and adopted the Islamic name Abubakar around the time of his graduation. After announcing his candidacy this past spring, Harugura reportedly raised money from Muslims along Kenya's volatile border with Somalia by promising to ''reclaim'' the region for Islam -- and by attacking Lekuton for inviting Christian development groups into the area. He hinted darkly that Lekuton's decade in the Washington area had made him subservient to U.S. interests and potentially hostile to Islam. 
 Earlier, in Lekuton's apartment, I was introduced to three college students from Harugura's home village, Kargi, who told me that Harugura's austere manner, obeisance to Islamic law, Islamic dress, proselytizing and questionable connections had earned him the mocking nickname Al Qaeda. Indeed, in the view of some of Lekuton's supporters the election was shaping up to be a proxy confrontation between the West and Islam -- a clash of civilizations in the Kenyan bush. Lekuton himself, however, was more reticent about the perils posed by ''Engineer,'' as Harugura is commonly called in the north. ''I've not seen his manifesto,'' he told me as we sat in the Parliamentary lounge. ''The assumption is that with strong religious views, he's bound to step on people's toes. We'll know more as he continues campaigning.''
 I asked Lekuton whether it was true, as I'd been told, that Harugura had been recruiting aggressively among the young people of the area and had sponsored some of them at Islamic schools, or madrassas, in other cities in Kenya, including Thika and Mombasa. 
 ''Yes, I've heard that,'' Lekuton said cautiously.
 ''Are these madrassas that preach a radical message? Along the lines of the madrassas in Pakistan?'' I asked.
 ''I'm sure they are strict.'' Lekuton leaned forward. ''Look, we have religious freedom in Kenya. You do what you want. What I'm saying is that in order to have a society that is developing with democratic principles, we need sober minds.'' 
 These are some of the most extraordinary and unsettling times in Kenya's postindependence history. The country is in the middle of a boom, its 5.7 percent annual growth rate among the highest in Africa. Shopping malls and office towers are rising in nearly every corner of Nairobi; S.U.V.'s and luxury cars fill the streets, and the traffic has gotten bad enough to invite comparisons with Bangkok. Kenya's tourism industry has been highly sensitive to both domestic and international terrorism but is now flourishing. And while the country is still plagued by corruption, tribalism and poverty, the one-party rule that gripped Kenya for four decades -- first under Jomo Kenyatta, then under President Daniel arap Moi, who voluntarily stepped down in 2002 after 24 years in power -- has given way to one of Africa's liveliest multiparty systems. 
 At the same time, militant Islam has also found a foothold. A sizable, largely poor Muslim population concentrated along the coast -- and proximity to the volatile states in the Horn of Africa, including Somalia and Sudan -- have made Kenya especially vulnerable, in the views of counterterrorism experts, to the call for jihad. Since the early 1990s, the mosques of Mombasa and other towns have resonated with militant Islamic rhetoric. Radical imams have preached violence against Westerners, attacked the Kenyan government as the lackey of the United States and Israel and called for the implementation of Shariah. Members of the Qaeda cells that blew up the U.S. embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, on Aug. 7, 1998, were recruited in mosques near the Indian Ocean beaches where hundreds of thousands of Western tourists flock each year. Kenya is ''a good place'' for militant Islamists to blend in, I was told by Al Amin Kimathi, the director of the Muslim Human Rights Forum in Nairobi, which accuses the Kenyan government of discrimination against the country's roughly four million Muslims (in a total population of 37 million). He added, only half in jest: ''Even Osama bin Laden could hang around here. He could land at the airport, spread some money around and he'd be walking.''
 This Islamization of politics cuts more than one way. When I caught up with Lekuton in Nairobi, he had just finished a two-week fund-raising tour of the United States, where he played up the threat of Engineer Harugura at cocktail parties attended by wealthy businessmen and old African hands. Reluctantly at first, but with more conviction as the tour progressed, he raised alarms about the prospect of a devout Islamist taking charge of a remote corner of the country filled with jobless, poor youths -- and not far from the border with Somalia, with its tattered militia operating under the banner of the fundamentalist Islamic Courts Union. Could backing Lekuton be a preventive move, fending off the Talibanization of an otherwise obscure corner of Africa? 
 ''The area is poor, rural, forgotten, and that makes it vulnerable,'' I was told by Kathleen Colson, a Vermonter who first met Lekuton at a summer program run by St. Lawrence University in 1990 and who frequently visits his district as director of a U.S.-based nonprofit that does microenterprise development there. Colson says that U.S. fund-raisers encouraged Lekuton to focus on his opponent's Islamic identity in order to appeal to Jewish communities, among other potential donors. ''He has been hesitant,'' she added, ''but now he says, 'Bring it on.' '' Whitney Tilson, a New York money manager who spent part of his childhood in Tanzania and who introduced Lekuton to friends and colleagues in Manhattan, says that Lekuton, while not at all hostile to Islam, was quite specific about the threat posed by Harugura. ''He said: 'Here's what I know. He's pretty hard-core. He won't shake hands with women. I've seen food trucks going up to my district saying, 'Gift from the Embassy of Saudi Arabia.' In Kenya people will vote for whoever gives you your last meal, and I could have a bigger fight on my hands than I anticipated.' '' 
 But it was not clear in Nairobi whether the alarms were solidly grounded or more a bit of marketing. (Lekuton said he hoped to raise $120,000 in the U.S. for his re-election campaign but fell about $20,000 short; he raised $200,000 for his 2006 run.) Harugura and his supporters insist that he is a victim of the post-9/11 syndrome: the fear that anyone with a beard who wears a skullcap and prays five times a day is a potential terrorist. They deny that he has raised any money from Middle Eastern Islamic organizations, say he has put together a strong plan for economic development in the constituency and point out that a large number of Christians support him. And since more than three-quarters of the population is Christian, Harugura contends that his Islamic identity is not going to win him many extra votes. Lekuton, they charge, was manipulating American fears about the ''Islamic threat'' to raise cash -- and Harugura was an innocent victim of religious profiling.
 One morning just before the campaign began, I dropped by Lekuton's spartan apartment in the Hurlingham neighborhood of Nairobi, which was filled with two dozen constituents who had camped there. Lekuton keeps the place as a pied-a-terre for days when Parliament is in session; he spends most of his time in north Kenya, and the apartment had the feel of an undergraduate crash pad. A Samburu tribeswoman swathed in bracelets and beaded necklaces sat on a battered couch, chatting with a camel-herding Rendille tribesman with distended earlobes. Three shabbily dressed college students clutched tuition bills; they were hoping that Lekuton would pay their school fees, which, for all three, totaled 73,000 Kenyan shillings -- about $1,100 -- for the winter semester. (After Lekuton's parents lost their cattle herd in a drought, his high-school tuition was picked up by President Daniel arap Moi, who was in the stands when Lekuton kicked the winning goal in a soccer match. Lekuton explained to me that he pays poor students' fees routinely: ''Without education, you can't have democracy.'') A pair of would-be councilmen seeking Lekuton's endorsement sprawled in front of the TV, channel-surfing between Al Jazeera and ''The King of Queens.'' Lekuton's wife, Sophia -- whom he met in the early 1990s while he was working in a Kenyan bank before college and she was attending high school -- had just arrived from a month's visit to the United States and held the couple's 6-month-old son, Keena, in her lap. (They also have twin 14-year-olds, Biko and his sister Janice, and a 10-year-old daughter, Sharon, all of whom attend private schools in Kenya.) 
 Lekuton was fast asleep in his bedroom, trying to recover from a bad cold he picked up during days of round-the-clock meetings with the leaders of the Kenyan African National Union Party, a key part of the government coalition, run by Uhuru Kenyatta, the son of Kenya's founding president. Presiding over the scene in his absence was Ahmed Kura -- a short, stocky man of 24, Muslim by birth, who serves as Lekuton's driver, aide-de-camp and principal spokesman. (He is also Lekuton's brother-in-law.) Kura has been close to Lekuton for more than a decade, during which time, he told me, he has watched alarming changes creep into Kenya's far north. Kura recalled that when the news of 9/11 arrived in Marsabit, the main town in Lekuton's district, ''people were celebrating. Some Muslims were saying, 'They deserved that.' They felt that so many Muslims are being harassed in the world. This was a taste of revenge.'' The imams in the area, he told me, ''had the sense that Americans are our enemies. I argued with them after 9/11. I said: 'Not every person in America is bad. How many died that day? Do you think God loves such a thing? If that is what Islam is, then I don't think that God can be fair.' Their response was, 'You are not a strong Muslim.' '' 
 It wasn't always like this, Kura insisted. Religious identities in the northern bush have tended to be both relaxed and fluid; Kura's parents were raised as Muslims, descendants of herdsmen from the Rendille tribe who were introduced to Islam by Somali traders before Kenya gained independence in 1963. Kura grew up a Muslim, though he liked to drink a Tusker beer or two with his dinner, and he seldom prayed or attended mosque. His sister, Sophia, became a Christian after attending a missionary school near Marsabit. ''In our community almost nobody identifies himself according to religion,'' he told me. The defining loyalties, he said, were to ''clan and tribe.'' 
 That was changing, he said, and he partly blamed Engineer Harugura for the hardening of attitudes. Harugura first attracted attention in the area a decade ago, when he began constructing roads as the chief district officer for the Ministry of Roads and Public Works, based in Marsabit. ''He'd be working there in his Land Rover, going out on the roads,'' Kura told me. ''He gave out a lot of jobs.'' Harugura's ascetic behavior rankled many people, Kura said. He wouldn't shake women's hands; he refused to allow people into his car who were smoking cigarettes or chewing khat -- the leafy stimulant that is widely chewed in Somalia and northern Kenya. Besides encouraging local youth to attend madrassas and overseeing the construction of mosques, he had reportedly bankrolled a so-called Muslim village, near Kargi, where 20 families had settled. It was unclear where the money came from, though Kura claimed that the source was a Saudi charity. ''He's trying to create a Muslim society up there,'' he said. Last year, the Engineer moved to Hardera, a gritty town on the Somali border, to become the region's public-works chief. The area is populated almost entirely by ethnic Somalis, many of whom supported the radical Islamists who had just seized control of Mogadishu and who were angry at what they regard as U.S. machinations to unseat them with Ethiopian help. After announcing his candidacy for Kenya's Parliament, Kura told me, Harugura addressed an outdoor gathering of Somali Muslims in Hardera. ''He told the Somalis: 'There is a Christian I am fighting against. I want to bring about an environment where all are Islamic, because our people are lost.' '' Kura put me on his cellphone with Aron Lesiantam, a Lekuton supporter who worked for Food for the Hungry, a Christian aid agency in Marsabit. He supported Kura's claim that Harugura was being financed by Somalis from the Northeastern Province. ''They believe that Harugura is the person to bring back the Rendille tribe from Christianity,'' Lesiantam said. ''And he has promised that during the first five years, he will have mosques built in every urban center we have in this constituency.''
 It was the simultaneous bombings in 1998 of the U.S. embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam -- attacks that killed 224 Kenyans, Tanzanians and Americans and injured 4,000 more -- that awakened U.S. officials to the dangers posed by militant Islam in East Africa. In the years since, the Horn of Africa, and Kenya in particular, has become a locus of U.S. counterterrorism. The programs include the East African Counter-Terrorism Initiative, set up in 2003 at a cost of $100 million, and the Combined Joint Task Force-Horn of Africa, a contingent of U.S. Marines and Special Forces based at Camp Lemonier in the coastal African nation of Djibouti. The area has also become, perhaps partly in response, a centerpiece of the global strategy of Osama bin Laden, who last year urged jihadis to take over Somalia.
 One prime target of U.S. counterterrorism forces in the region for nearly a decade -- and an example of just how virulent locally brewed jihadism has become -- is Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, who was indicted for planning the 1998 embassy bombings and, according to the F.B.I., has had a hand in nearly every terrorist act in the Horn of Africa since. A native of the Comoros Islands, Mohammed received training in Al Qaeda camps in Afghanistan and Somalia in the 1990s and settled on the Swahili coast of Kenya. After the embassy attacks, Mohammed regrouped with other terrorist cell members on the island of Pate, married into a local family, taught at a madrassa and started a local soccer team called Kabul. (It competed with the island's other team, known as Al Qaeda.) During this period, he recruited a cell of eight other militants from mosques along the Swahili coast. On Nov. 28, 2002, two suicide bombers from Mohammed's cell, according to the F.B.I. and the Kenyan police, attacked the Paradise Hotel near Mombasa, killing 13 people; almost simultaneously, other cell members tried to shoot down an Israeli chartered jetliner with shoulder-fired missiles. The attackers purportedly took refuge in the immediate area, then fled by motorized dhow, a traditional sailing craft, to Somalia. 
 By early 2004, the Kenya Anti-Terrorist Police, trained and financed by the United States, were raiding mosques and detaining suspected radicals all along the Swahili coast. Fazul Abdullah Mohammed's next stop was Somalia, where radical Islam was establishing its strongest beachhead in the Horn of Africa. Mohammed reportedly became a high official in the Islamic Courts Union, a loose affiliation of Shariah courts that were in control of much of the southern part of the country in 2005. In 2006, the Islamic Courts Union militia defeated a coalition of U.S.-backed secular warlords in the capital, Mogadishu, began implementing Shariah law there and subsequently consolidated control across most of Somalia. Ethiopia, which shares American alarm about the spread of fundamentalist Islam in Africa, moved troops into Somalia and, late in December 2006, backed by U.S. Special Forces, sent 4,000 troops into Mogadishu. Fazul Abdullah Mohammed escaped the onslaught and fled. Hundreds of fighters and other supporters of the I.C.U. crossed the border into Kenya; between Jan. 2 and 31, 2007, Kenyan police officers rounded up 152 of these men and women from 21 countries, including the United States, Great Britain, Yemen and Sudan. Then, in the controversial practice known as extraordinary rendition, 85 were placed on three chartered aircraft and flown to Mogadishu and Baidoa, where they were turned over to the Ethiopian Army. According to Muslim human rights groups in Kenya, those flown out of Kenya included 18 native-born Kenyans, one of whom was transferred to Guantanamo; the rest remain under house arrest in Addis Ababa. The renditions have become a rallying cry for Kenya's opposition parties and, for many Kenyan Muslims, a symbol of how their government has grown beholden to American policy. (''We are held to have been intimately involved in all of this, which we were not,'' a U.S. diplomat told me.)
 Anti-Western sentiment had begun creeping into the mosques of northern Kenya well before 9/11, Ahmed Kura told me. In the 1990s, the Kuwaiti-backed African Muslim Agency financed the construction of mosques throughout the countryside, including one in Kargi, Harugura's home village, and in Korr, a trading town near Lake Turkana. The African Muslim Agency's stated agenda has been to strengthen Islam by spreading the teachings of the Koran, as well as to build hospitals, schools and mosques. But terrorism experts have seen a darker agenda in the group's good works: according to U.S. investigators, money raised by the charity has gone to finance jihadi groups, including Al Itihaad al Islamiya (A.I.A.I.), a radical Islamic organization, now defunct, that was based in Somalia and led by Sheik Hassan Dahir Aweys (who was linked to Al Qaeda and later became a leader of the Islamic Courts Union). A.I.A.I. was declared a terrorist organization by President Bush two weeks after 9/11. 
 At 3 one afternoon, Godana Harugura entered the lobby of the slightly down-at-the-heels Hotel Boulevard, a popular spot for young American backpackers and budget tourists. Harugura looked youthful, with a white knit cap and a wispy black beard, his dark eyes framed behind square, wire-rimmed glasses. Unsmiling, he offered me a limp handshake, then suggested we sit in the hotel's outdoor coffee shop. He had assembled eight supporters to join us, including Al Amin Kimathi, the Human Rights Forum director, an imposing man in his 40s with a white skullcap, gray beard and white dishdasha. 
 Harugura told me that he became a devout Muslim during his four years at college in Nairobi in the 1990s, when an Islamic-consciousness movement was sweeping the youth of a number of African cities. ''At the university they have a library, when you sit and you read and you learn about how to practice your religion -- how to fast, how to pray, how to improve your character,'' he told me. ''With the student union, Muslim student groups, sometimes you meet, you attend rallies, and if you have free time, you slowly build up. I could interact with Muslim students, and slowly I started practicing the religion. Now my father is praying five times a day, too.'' 
 Harugura told me that my conversations with Lekuton's people had filtered back to him, and he was angry about what he had heard. He denied that people in the area had associated him with Al Qaeda, jokingly or otherwise, calling it part of Lekuton's disinformation campaign. ''Only Joseph Lekuton does this,'' Harugura said. ''He'll tell one of his former supporters, 'Oh, so you've gone over to work for that Al Qaeda fellow.' '' He said that simply mentioning his name in conjunction with the terrorist group was inflaming passions among his supporters. ''This is hurting me as an individual and at the national level,'' Harugura went on. ''Coming on the heels of these rendition issues, it is very sensitive. Next time maybe somebody will be stopping me and picking me up for being Al Qaeda.'' I asked Harugura whether it was true that he was accepting money from Somalis or from fundamentalist Islamic groups, including the Kuwaitis and Saudis, and he shook his head vigorously. ''You know very well that no Muslim organization can give a shilling. Even children's aid programs have been shut down by the Americans since 9/11. No shilling can come from the Arab world to Kenya. It's so difficult to even have collected 500 shillings.'' Five hundred Kenyan shillings is about $8.
 ''So how do you plan to fund your campaign?'' I asked.
 He shrugged. ''It's a campaign based on words, not finances. Politics is mainly speaking and visiting people. That's what I do. I talk to the elders on the ground, and they go around in my absence and talk for me. I'll get somebody who has a car, and perhaps I can contribute a little petrol to go around.'' Lekuton, he charged, was ignoring the area's economic problems -- the barter-based pastoral system had been devastated by chronic drought and was no longer viable, he told me -- and relying on handouts to win people's votes. The Engineer had little doubt about where the bulk of Lekuton's cash was coming from: ''Lekuton is a teacher at Langley School. That is C.I.A. headquarters. He's raising funds right in the heartland of the U.S. intelligence community.'' There is no connection between the Langley School and the C.I.A., although they are near each other in Virginia.
 One of Harugura's supporters, a young man who identified himself only as Sakapo, weighed in with his own account of how Lekuton had exploited his Americanized identity to win over his consituency's naive, uneducated population. ''He was staying in America all his life, he was moving around in a convoy of vehicles and he portrayed himself as a multimillionaire,'' the man said. ''He created an impression that he is a moving World Bank, and he told the Rendille people that once he is elected the whole American financial world will develop the area. 'I will make your village New York' is what he said.'' 
 Later I met with Al Amin Kimathi in his office on the second floor of the Jamia Mosque, Kenya's largest, a multidomed complex in the heart of the congested city center. An affable former journalist for Kenya's Nation newspaper and a member of the dominant Kikuyu tribe, Kimathi converted to Islam about 15 years ago. ''The Muslim community has never been given a fair shake in this country,'' he told me. Kimathi had just returned to his office after an overnight vigil at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, where he'd been fighting the deportation of a Dutch Somali who was ''one of the big guns'' in the Islamic Courts Union. (Kimathi lost that battle -- Kenyan immigration officers shoved the man aboard a charter flight back to Somalia before dawn.) In Kimathi's view, ''only some of the leaders'' of the Islamic Courts Union were Al Qaeda sympathizers. The renditions -- along with frequent police sweeps on the Swahili coast -- had become an emotional issue in the presidential race. Islamic outrage had placed the incumbent, Kibaki, on the defensive and provided Raila Odinga with a tool to rally the support of Kenya's Muslims -- who, traditionally, have not voted as a bloc but may now begin doing so. Earlier in the week, the national papers had front-page photographs of both presidential candidates wearing traditional Muslim dress and attending Eid al-Fitr celebrations marking the end of Ramadan.
 Kimathi told me that he'd met Harugura a few years back when he ''tried to identify Muslim professionals who would work on human rights issues -- enlightening people about Islam, eliminating pressure. I brought in Harugura.'' Kimathi acknowledged that Harugura was trying to spread Islam through northern Kenya. But, he asked, what was wrong with that? Harugura was no jihadi, he insisted. Moreover, he claimed, several ethnographers had established that the Rendille tribe -- to which both Harugura and Lekuton belonged -- was ''originally'' Muslim settlers from Somalia or Ethiopia. Now many were yearning to return to their Islamic roots. ''There has been that hunger,'' Kimathi told me, adding that his aim is to ''reclaim the population.'' 
 Muslims' anger toward America can only help. ''What is creeping into Kenyan psyche is [anger] at American people themselves,'' he said. ''We wonder, How they can go on supporting this regime that is brutalizing people like this?'' I asked Kimathi if Americans have reason to fear an Islamic awakening in the Kenyan north. ''They have reason to fear,'' he replied. ''But their means of combating the awakening is wrong. The hard manner with which they come down on so-called 'radical Islam' does not quell it; it actually propels it higher.''
 Both Harugura and Lekuton gave the impression of being caught up, not unlike Kenya itself, in a political narrative that didn't entirely make sense to them or fit their reality but that they were nonetheless unable to escape. Soon I was caught in it, too, as rumors spread in the north claiming, among other things, that I was representing the C.I.A. and that Harugura had been arrested and taken from the country. There was no truth in any of it, but clearly the introduction of an American reporter into an already volatile election campaign had unanticipated effects. Back in the States, Lekuton had skillfully played to American insecurities to raise cash for his campaign. But what played so effectively there had backfired badly in Kenya, with its vulnerable and already agitated Muslim population. Harugura had then exploited Lekuton's own quasi-Western identity to rally his supporters. 
 It all seems likely to get worse. Lekuton had decided to run with the governing coalition -- which was coming under greater pressure for not standing up more to the American anti-terror agenda. President Kibaki was facing a tide of anger over renditions and falling further behind in the polls. The government's unpopularity would only play into the hands of the opposition, and Harugura's campaign was growing stronger. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: West vs. Islam?: On a wall of political posters, the ''antifundamentalist'' Lekuton (far left) faces off against Harugura, the so-called Islamist.
The Incumbent Lekuton in the driveway to his pied-a-terre in Nairobi.
 The Constituency A mosque in northern Kenya, in Lekuton and Harugura's district. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GUILLAUME BONN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HISTORY (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (68%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (66%); RELIGION (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (50%)

PERSON: MWAI KIBAKI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) KENYA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



542 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET CHECKING IN; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Hotels Discover The Brooklyn Vibe

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

 BODY:
THE surge of hotel development in New York City over the last two years is starting to appear a bit ''frothy'' to some industry watchers. 
 ''We had someone here make a list of every hotel development project announced in the five boroughs, and she stopped counting at about 60 and probably missed another 20 or so,'' said Thomas McConnell, a senior managing director of Cushman & Wakefield's hospitality group. ''Whether or not they're all going to come to fruition is another matter. It's a little frothy.''
 But in a place like Brooklyn -- with 2.5 million people and less than 1,000 hotel rooms -- is the addition of nearly 2,000 more rooms to the downtown area an indication of an overheated market or merely a way to fill a need? 
 Mr. McConnell chooses the second explanation.
 ''Brooklyn, depending on where and when, does seem to be underserved,'' he said. 
 Developers are making the same calculation. According to the Downtown Brooklyn Partnership, 1,973 rooms will be added to the market by 2010. They will include a Cambria Suites Hotel at 75 Schermerhorn Street, Sheraton and Aloft projects at Willoughby Square, a Hyatt Place on Nevins Street, a Holiday Inn Express also on Schermerhorn, and a Hotel Indigo. All are in various stages of development. 
 These projects will end a relatively dry spell in hotel development in the area. It has been almost 10 years, in fact, since the Marriott at the Brooklyn Bridge opened in the MetroTech development center downtown, the first full-service hotel to open in Brooklyn in more than 60 years. The hotel, which underwent a major expansion about a year ago, was developed and is operated by Muss Development. ''They came out of nowhere and on a comparative basis, the Marriott was instantly successful,'' Mr. McConnell said.
 But it wasn't an easy ride.
 ''Getting financing for a hotel in Brooklyn was like trying to place a pork in a kosher butcher shop,'' said Joshua L. Muss, principal of Muss Development. ''There was a lot of skepticism at the time.''
 So Muss and its development partner, the Leucadia National Corporation, also included 30,000 square feet of meeting and banquet space, just in case there wasn't enough demand for the hotel rooms alone. 
 But demand has since exceeded expectations, with occupancy rates averaging about 80 percent each year since the hotel opened, comparable to occupancy rates throughout New York City, according to Smith Travel Research in Hendersonville, Tenn., which tracks the hotel industry. Last year, Marriott built a 24-story tower adjacent to the existing hotel, adding 280 guest rooms and bringing the total to 656.
 ''In 1985, Times Square Marriott Marquis opened, and people thought the company was crazy,'' said Kathleen Duffy, a spokeswoman for New York City Marriott Hotels. ''They thought the same thing when Marriott Brooklyn Bridge opened in 1998. Yet both have done exceedingly well. So we're surprised there hasn't been more hotel development in Brooklyn -- until now.'' 
 A groundbreaking ceremony was held this month for a Hotel Indigo at the site of an old V.I.M. jeans store on Duffield Street between Willoughby Street and the Fulton Mall, with 164 rooms and 15,000 square feet of commercial space. 
 Indigo is a boutique brand of the InterContinental Hotels Group. Management will be handled by Graves World Hospitality, a relative newcomer to the hotel management business, a result of a joint venture announced in November 2006 between Graves Hotels Resorts of Minneapolis and the German management company Worldhotels for a full-service operation that caters to the rapidly expanding boutique and independent hotel market. The developer and owner of the property that will become the Indigo, however, is V3 Hotels, a Brooklyn-based newcomer to the industry; the company is led by Ben Nash, a Crown Heights native. 
 ''When we saw this Brooklyn property, we liked the location and what's going on downtown,'' said Mr. Nash, who is 25 and also the owner of PCS Wireless, the cellphone distributor. ''And I've always wanted to do something in Brooklyn that is financially viable that also gives back to the community, so we approached the city to see if there are any synergies.'' 
 Mr. Nash says V3 is working with the Brooklyn Workforce1 Career Center, a training center for the state Labor Department, and the Downtown Brooklyn Advisory and Oversight Committee, which provides workplace assistance, on career development and hiring for the hotel's staff. He hopes the relationship will pay off in the long run as the company develops other properties in Brooklyn, acknowledging that this project has been a bit of a guinea pig. 
 ''Ben has a lot of energy,'' said Jim Anhut, senior vice president for brand development at the InterContinental Hotels Group, who attended the groundbreaking. ''What I appreciate about his style, he gets the demographic, the ethos of the brand. We love to be in culture spheres, areas that are redeveloping, that have an eclectic mix of residential, commercial, arts and restaurants, areas where there is a vibe. Brooklyn has become a destination unto itself. It's kind of a head-scratcher why there hasn't been more hotel development.''
 Indeed, not only is the hotel industry still going strong, but downtown Brooklyn in particular is having an explosion of development over all -- an estimated $9.3 billion spread over 57 projects, according to the Downtown Brooklyn Partnership, which is helping to coordinate all the projects, of which the hotels are only a small part.
 ''Traditionally, visitors to New York would only think of Manhattan below 96th Street,'' said Joe Chan, the president of the partnership. ''But that is not true anymore because of the economic renaissance of Brooklyn over the past 10 years. Holistically, the development of nearly 2,000 hotel rooms is just one piece of the puzzle -- evidence that Brooklyn is growing in a comprehensive way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben Nash, left, is developing a Hotel Indigo, one of several new hotels planned for Brooklyn. The hotel, renderings below, will have 164 rooms and 15,000 square feet of commercial space. Indigo is a boutique brand of the InterContinental Hotels Group. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABOVE, RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
BELOW LEFT, LESSARD DESIGN ASSOCIATES
 BELOW RIGHT, KARL FISHER ARCHITECT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (95%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LODGING (78%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (73%); MEAT STORES (61%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (85%); LEUCADIA NATIONAL CORP (63%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (57%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (85%); LUK (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (85%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (57%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



543 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3648 words

HEADLINE: In a Force for Iraqi Calm, Seeds of Conflict

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN and DAMIEN CAVE; Stephen Farrell contributed reporting from Baghdad, Saab al-Bor and Iskandariya.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
The thin teenage boy rushed up to the patrol of American soldiers walking through Dora, a shrapnel-scarred neighborhood of the capital, and lifted his shirt to show them a mass of red welts across his back.
 He said he was a member of a local Sunni ''Awakening'' group, paid by the American military to patrol the district, but he said it was another Awakening group that beat him. ''They took me while I was working,'' he said, ''and broke my badge and said, 'You are from Al Qaeda.''' 
 The soldiers were unsure of what to do. The Awakening groups in just their area of southern Baghdad could not seem to get along: they fought over turf and, it turned out in this case, one group had warned the other that its members should not pay rent to Shiite ''dogs.'' 
 The Awakening movement, a predominantly Sunni Arab force recruited to fight Sunni Islamic extremists like Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, has become a great success story after its spread from Sunni tribes in Anbar Province to become an ad-hoc armed force of 65,000 to 80,000 across the country in less than a year. A linchpin of the American strategy to pacify Iraq, the movement has been widely credited with turning around the violence-scarred areas where the Sunni insurgency has been based.
 But the beating that day was a stark example of how rivalries and sectarianism are still undermining the Americans' plans. And in particular, the Awakening's rapid expansion -- the Americans say the force could reach 100,000 -- is creating new concerns.
 How, when thousands are joining each month, can spies and extremists be reliably weeded out? How can the men's loyalty be maintained, given their tribal and sectarian ties, and in many cases their insurgent pasts? And crucially, how can the movement be sustained once the Americans turn over control to a Shiite-dominated government that has been wary, and sometimes hostile, toward the groups?
 Despite the successes of the movement, including the members' ability to provide valuable intelligence and give rebuilding efforts a new chance in war-shattered communities, the American military acknowledges that it is also a high-risk proposition. It is an experiment in counterinsurgency warfare that could contain the seeds of a civil war -- in which, if the worst fears come true, the United States would have helped organize some of the Sunni forces arrayed against the central government on which so many American lives and dollars have been spent.
 In interviews with Awakening groups in 10 locations -- four interviewed during a week in Anbar, and six groups in and around Baghdad interviewed over several days -- it was evident that the groups were improving security in their areas. But it is also clear that there is little loyalty, in either direction, between the Sunni groups and the Shiites who run the government.
 The Americans are haunted by the possibility that Iraq could go the way of Afghanistan, where Americans initially bought the loyalty of tribal leaders only to have some of them gravitate back to the Taliban when the money stopped.
 Col. Martin Stanton, chief of reconciliation and engagement for the Multinational Corps-Iraq, said the military had no illusions about the Awakening members' former lives or the reasons for what appeared to be their change of heart.
 ''These weren't people who were struck by a lightning bolt or saw a burning bush and came over to this side of the Lord,'' Colonel Stanton said. ''These were people who last year were being hammered from two different directions: by Al Qaeda and by us. It was probably a distasteful choice to make back then because, after all, they viewed us as invaders, and they probably still do, but it was a survival choice and they made it.''
 Though the Americans obtain biometric data on every Awakening group member to try to screen out known insurgents, the government and many Shiite citizens say they fear that the movement has spread so quickly that it is impossible to keep track of who has signed up for it. And while government officials are somewhat willing to accept the tribal character of the Awakening groups in Anbar Province, they are leery of the new ones in and around Baghdad, which have more Baathists from the era of Saddam Hussein in their leadership and are active in more mixed neighborhoods. 
 ''Many people believe this will end with tens of thousands of armed people, primarily Sunnis, and this will excite the Shiite militias to grow and in the end it will grow into a civil war,'' said Safa Hussein, the deputy national security adviser and a point man on the Awakening program for Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki.
 Still, the government has made only the most halting steps toward rapprochement with the Awakening groups, even those who have been fighting insurgents for months in their neighborhoods.
 And for the Americans who helped create and nurture the movement, the initial excitement has been tempered by the challenge of managing a huge, and growing, force where many of the men have shadowy pasts.
 ''It's the case with any franchise organization,'' said Maj. Gen. John R. Allen, the deputy commander in Anbar Province. ''Sooner or later you lose control over the standards.''
 Anbar Province
 In the summer of 2005, the Abu Mahals needed help. A tribe of notorious smugglers by the Syrian border, they were being pushed out of their own area by a competing tribe that had struck a deal with Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, the homegrown extremist group that American intelligence officials say is led by foreigners. 
 Some of the tribe's men had been insurgents, killers of American marines, but the border was an out-of-control no man's land. So when the tribe proposed an alliance, the Americans decided to give it a try. Weapons and training flowed to the tribe, the extremists were pushed back on their heels -- and the Awakening was born. 
 Nearly two years later, after several important tribes around Ramadi joined, the Awakening movement in Anbar has grown to adolescence, acting at once capable and delinquent. 
 New offices are opening all over the province, marking their presence with yellow satin flags, armed guards and sheiks aiming to start a national political party. 
 Legitimacy has come with formal employment. Sheiks who signed up early on gave the Americans names of people they wanted hired as police officers, and the provincial force now numbers 24,000, up from 5,200 in June 2006. That is still short of the Marines' demand for 30,000, but the government has also agreed to a jobs program for 6,000 civil servants.
 Attacks in the province, meanwhile, are at roughly a tenth of what they were last year, according to military figures. And in cities like Ramadi that were once largely beyond American control, construction clatter and the slosh of wet concrete has replaced the snap of gunfire.
 But as the movement has spread east through Anbar, two responses have emerged: an intense pride in the hard-fought peace, and a sometimes violent scramble for rewards, credit and power. 
 The fall brought a major setback. In September, a suicide bomber killed Sheik Abdul Sattar Buzaigh al-Rishawi, also known as Abu Risha, the Awakening's charismatic leader, only days after he had met with President Bush. And while his brother Ahmed has stepped forward, American commanders say he has yet to unify the groups under a nationalist banner. 
 With Abu Risha gone, ''it's not quite as clear it's a patriotic movement,'' General Allen said.
 The Americans, meanwhile, are handing out hundreds of million of dollars in aid and reconstruction funds -- $223 million to Ramadi and its surrounding areas alone since February. As a result, a dizzying number of sheiks have stepped forward in recent months claiming to be important leaders who fought Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia and now deserve money, water plants, new schools and hundreds of jobs for their relatives. 
 Just to keep track, many American company commanders now travel with thick packets of pictures identifying what one marine described as Anbar's competing teams: ''fake sheiks, little sheiks and big sheiks.''
 The Americans, having embraced tribalism to pacify the area, are now having to deal with its consequences. The tribes of Anbar are ancient and secular -- many predate Islam -- but old rivalries and suspicions have not been erased by steady salaries. 
 In Ramadi, the provincial capital, the American military set up the police stations to be run and staffed by members of the neighborhoods' dominant tribe. Though unified against Islamic insurgents, two of the police stations were involved in a shootout with each other a few weeks ago. And loyalty to sheiks sometimes trumps loyalty to the law, allowing tribal leaders to commandeer members of the police or army to give them personal protection. 
 On one recent afternoon, Second Lt. Stephen Lind, a member of a Marine company patrolling south Ramadi, discovered a handful of armed Iraqi soldiers standing guard outside a sheik's spacious home -- defying a rule that bans the Iraqi Army from the city. 
 ''What are you doing here?'' Lieutenant Lind asked one of the men. 
 They had arrived a day after the sheik had an argument with the local police commander. 
 ''The sheik told us to come,'' the man said. As he spoke, a pickup truck filled with a half-dozen others drove out of the compound, and a glance inside showed several more, milling about, their red berets and weapons clearly visible. 
 Neither the Iraqis nor Lieutenant Lind expressed surprise. ''He has a lot of power,'' Lieutenant Lind said, walking back to a joint security station a few blocks away. ''That's how the city rolls right now.''
 American commanders later sought to play down the significance of the sheik's use of the army, noting that he was an assassination target, and that the troops stayed for only about 36 hours. Col. John Charlton, commander of the First Brigade Combat Team, Third Infantry Division, which oversees Ramadi and its surrounding area, also said there were plans to start moving policemen to new stations to dilute the tribal concentrations -- a proposal that some local sheiks said they would be likely to resist. 
 The standoff, though, underscored the Awakening's long-term challenge. The American military has empowered a group of unelected leaders and is now involved in the difficult task of integrating them into a democratic system new to them, to create bonds with a Shiite-led government they do not respect or acknowledge as legitimate.
 The Marines have already begun to draw down troop numbers in the province. But with the clock ticking, it remains unclear what the Awakening will become and whether the tribes will stick together or segregate. Nor is it clear whether Iraq's government will ever meet the tribes' demands, which range from the simple (more electricity, water and jobs) to the extreme (a wildly disproportionate share of the seats in the Parliament). 
 In interviews with more than a dozen sheiks in the province, along with police officers, local leaders and imams, not one expressed any trust in the government of Prime Minister Maliki. ''They are working only for the Shiites,'' said Mahmoud Abed Shabeeb, who acknowledged that 130 members of his tribe were policemen, paid by the Shiite-led Interior Ministry in Baghdad. ''Everyone knows that.''
 Baghdad
 Only a few months ago, the Sunni neighborhood of Fadhil was virtually a no man's land, shelled relentlessly by Shiite militias, its walls gouged with shrapnel and its streets pooled with sewage because city workers were afraid to enter. Now the neighborhood seems to be waking after a long sleep. Several teahouses reopened in December after being shuttered for months, and old men sat outside on wooden boxes, apparently no longer afraid of neighborhood militants or attacks by outsiders. 
 The newfound confidence is attributable in large measure to the Fadhil Awakening Council, formed just four weeks ago. Wearing red-checked kaffiyehs and black leather jackets with guns jutting out underneath, the Awakening guards patrol the neighborhood with a casually menacing air.
 They are led by Adel Mashadani, a burly former member of Saddam Hussein's Special Republican Guard, unabashed about his former insurgent ties. He boasts that he turned the ''National Iraqi Resistance Council of Iraq into the Fadhil Awakening Council.'' 
 While Mr. Mashadani is ready to look past his former enmity to work with the Americans, he draws the line at any partnership with the central government. He characterizes Shiite officials as pawns of Iran and Shiite death squads, a common view among Sunni Arabs in both Baghdad and Anbar. 
 ''We want to work for the Americans, not the government,'' he said. ''It is as clear as the sun: the Iranians have dominated the ministries, the whole government. These guys are a bunch of conspirators who belong to Iran.''
 That mistrust is pervasive, and it clouds the future of the nascent Awakening movement in Baghdad and its surrounding province. It has grown like wildfire since June, with 43,000 guards in at least 17 neighborhoods as of Dec. 10, according to the American military. And interviews in four areas of Baghdad suggest that there is more deeply held antipathy there between the government and the Awakening groups than in Anbar. 
 The Baghdad groups are less bound by tribal affiliation than the Anbar groups, relying instead on neighborhood pride and trust born of shared disdain for the Iraqi government. Many of the Baghdad members were Baathists and served in the security forces under the Hussein government. 
 In turn, the Iraqi government worries that Shiites living in mixed neighborhoods could become victims if Awakening group members were to return to violence. 
 ''Some have agendas beyond their neighborhoods and they try to use their positions in the Awakening to promote other agendas,'' said Mr. Hussein, the deputy national security adviser. 
 American commanders say they believe they have been able to weed out most of those who were operatives for Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, and they discount the Iraqi government's worries about a conspiracy among Awakening groups. 
 ''They look at the aggregate number here, 65,000, and they say, 'Oh, that's the size of an army corps, that's 65,000 armed Sunnis just ready to leap on us,''' Colonel Stanton said. But, he added, they do not all work together that closely. 
 Neighborhoods with hard-liners, like Fadhil, leave the Iraqi government with questions, though, not least of all because the leaders there freely say that they meet with other Awakening leaders to share ideas. Some leaders in Anbar also say they are actively encouraging growth across the capital.
 In southern Baghdad, where the Awakening started several months earlier, American troops are pouring money and resources into neglected, battle-scarred Sunni neighborhoods like Dora.
 The First Squadron of the Fourth Cavalry has been based in Dora since May, establishing Awakening groups -- which are often called sahwas, after the Arabic word for awakening -- and embarking on a frenzy of rebuilding. The squadron has spent $4.3 million during that time, much of it on electricity projects and trash removal, and it plans to spend $2.1 million more. 
 Lt. Col. James Crider, the squadron's commander, helped organize the Awakening groups in eastern Dora, now employing 300 guards, the vast majority Sunnis. The Americans manage them closely, breaking them into three groups that monitor the area's three subdivisions. The soldiers also run patrols 24 hours a day, to head off violence, oversee the rebuilding and monitor the Awakening groups. 
 It is clear that, for now at least, the American military has won the groups' allegiance. American troop deaths in Baghdad Province have plummeted to 14 this November, from 59 last December, and have been occurring at an even lower rate this month.
 In Dora, the squadron was last attacked on Sept. 9, when a soldier was killed by a grenade. (In the four and a half months before that, the squadron lost eight men.) The last killing of an Iraqi in the neighborhood was on Oct. 18. 
 A contractor hired by the American military is rebuilding sewage pipes on one of Dora's main shopping streets, and young women roll strollers into a newly refurbished health clinic. 
 But it is far from clear whether that peace will last when the Americans begin transferring authority to the Iraqis. Clashes have already broken out in some places between the groups and Iraqi security forces, with two policemen killed last week near the northern city of Baiji.
 Saleh Kashgul Saleh, a former colonel in Mr. Hussein's feared Mukhabarat intelligence service and one of the leaders of the Awakening in Dora, suggested that some of the men in the movement would return to the insurgency if the government did not accept them into the security forces. 
 ''We have a lot of unemployment, and anyone, if he doesn't have a job, takes even a job where he does bad things to provide for his family,'' Mr. Saleh said. ''They need to hurry about this.'' 
 The government also needs to demonstrate some interest in improving basic living conditions in Sunni-dominated areas, otherwise people will lose faith that the government cares about them, he said. 
 ''We ask the government for help, for electricity, for any services, but they do not even meet with us,'' he said. ''The only government that has cleaned anything in our area is Captain Cook, he is our government.'' He was referring to Capt. Nicholas Cook, the commander of the American cavalry troop that patrols his subdivision of Dora.
 Colonel Crider said he had even had trouble getting Iraqi government officials to visit Dora to assess its needs. 
 Shiites, however, see the Awakening groups as wolves in sheep's clothing. ''It's my personal belief that before they were 'the Awakening' they were Al Qaeda,'' said Moad Muaed Qassim Mohammed, a young police captain for the national police unit that patrols Dora. The national police has been widely criticized for cruelty to Sunnis. 
 ''I have pictures of some of them. They were wanted men,'' he said. ''I deal with Colonel Crider. I trust him and I don't trust anyone else. I don't think the Awakening men should join the Iraqi police. It would be no better than putting Al Qaeda informants into the police.'' 
 Looking Ahead
 The Iraqi government and the American military appear to be on different timetables. While government officials have agreed in principle to add thousands to the security forces, their opposition to the movement has recently grown more vocal. On Saturday, Iraq's Defense and Interior Ministries held a joint news conference at which they declared that Iraq would not tolerate the groups' becoming a ''third force'' alongside the army and the police.
 Despite the government's promises, hardly any Awakening members outside Anbar have actually been moved off the American payroll and into Iraqi government jobs. 
 Of the 43,000 new Awakening members in Baghdad Province, for example, only about 1,700, in the suburban community of Abu Ghraib, have gotten jobs in the Iraqi police.
 Many of the rest have applied for police jobs but for now are financed entirely by the Americans. The Awakening members are paid about $300 a month -- considerably less than the salaries of police officers or soldiers.
 Meanwhile, the American military is planning to begin withdrawing units this summer.
 ''Once we get past the summer, we're not going to have enough people on the ground to administer the contracts,'' Colonel Stanton said. ''So between the time we draw down and now, we have to find something else for these guys to do.'' 
 That, he said, is where Iraq's government must step in. 
 The military proposes that the government hire 20,000 to 25,000 to serve as police officers in their own neighborhoods. To help the rest of the Awakening members, the American military is considering creating a program modeled on the 1930s civilian job corps that employed people during the Depression, said Lt. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, the second-ranking American commander in Iraq. The members would help deliver basic services or make repairs locally.
 But there are kinks to be worked out. ''We don't want to create a parallel government,'' General Odierno said. 
 And at the same time, the long-term prospects for the corps is in doubt, because most Iraqi ministries are already overstaffed. The Awakening is still growing, especially in northern areas of the country, where Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia is regrouping. Colonel Stanton said the military aimed to keep the total number of Awakening members below 100,000, at the request of the Iraqi government. 
 Government officials said they planned to hire some Awakening members in the security forces. But, the officials added, they are worried that there are so many people seeking police jobs that the government will be unable to hire them all. 
 ''We would have tens of thousands of people hired to do some security jobs,'' said Mr. Hussein, the deputy national security adviser, referring to the men the Americans have hired. ''And we do not have enough space in the security ministries to absorb them.''
 ''And after being paid for a period, it will create a security problem if we fire them all at once,'' he added. 
 Hanging over everything is the government's deep unease over the background of many Awakening members. Mr. Hussein said that the government believed that almost half of the 65,000 who were already on the American payroll were involved in the insurgency in some way. And he said that intelligence sources had reported contact between the leadership of some of the Awakening groups and the former Baathist insurgency outside the country. 
 ''Will they go back to being insurgents?'' he said. ''Will they be dangerous? We don't know yet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Ramadi, Iraq, above, improved security has allowed greater movement since American troops helped local tribes set up police stations this spring. Below, Sunni volunteers talked with a Shiite woman in a Baghdad neighborhood. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
LOCAL SECURITY FORCE: The American counterinsurgency strategy involves working with Sunni groups. In Dora, a Baghdad neighborhood, Awakening Council members guard an electrical substation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MUTUAL INTERESTS Capt. Matthew Martin, left, and Sheik Khalaf Tarmuz met recently to discuss local projects in Ramadi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A26)
 NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH: A member of a local Sunni Awakening group stands guard at a checkpoint in the Adhamiya neighborhood of Baghdad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A27) CHART: JOINING UP AGAINST THE INSURGENCY: Numbers of Iraqis signing up to join Sunni groups this year to fight extremist groups. Not all are on the American payroll. (SOURCE: MULTI-NATIONAL FORCE - IRAQ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); RELIGION (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); IRAQ WAR (71%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



544 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 0; Society Desk; VOWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Julia Boorstin and Couper Samuelson

BYLINE: By JAMIE DIAMOND

 BODY:
IT is a truth not universally acknowledged that a single man who meets his wife-to-be at the Sundance Film Festival is likely to make his proposal of marriage a cinematic one. 
 William Couper Samuelson was at one of those half-party, half-networking events at Sundance in 2004, when his Los Angeles roommate dragged him over to meet Julia Boorstin. 
 ''A phalanx of boring people in parkas parted, and there was this dramatic-looking woman wearing this dark leathery shearling coat,'' said Mr. Samuelson, 28. ''She was extremely attractive so I decided to play it cool.'' 
 He had met her before arriving in Park City, Utah. ''But to protect myself, I feigned, 'Oh, yes, I sort of remember we met.''' 
 For her part, Ms. Boorstin, who was then a writer for Fortune magazine in New York, had no qualms about admitting she had met Mr. Samuelson. ''He's 6-6 and cute,'' she said. ''How could you miss him?'' 
 To make matters easier, Mr. Samuelson's roommate arranged for Ms. Boorstin to bunk down in a condo that Mr. Samuelson was also staying in. ''Every assistant in Hollywood was there, sleeping on couches, floors, rollaways,'' said Ms. Boorstin, 29. ''It wasn't romantic, it was summer camp.'' And the proximity made the next step possible.
 The following day, Mr. Samuelson woke at dawn to wait in line for tickets so he and Ms. Boorstin could see a screening of ''Napoleon Dynamite.'' Again, to protect himself, he told her he was getting tickets anyway. 
 Mr. Samuelson, who had recently become an assistant to the president of the film division of 2929 Productions in Los Angeles, claimed his dating skills were underdeveloped because he had attended an all-boys high school in his hometown, Belmont, Mass., where his parents, William and Susan Samuelson, professors at Boston University, still live. 
 To return the favor for the tickets, Ms. Boorstin invited him to dinner. Mr. Samuelson accepted, failing to mention he had already eaten. 
 ''I figured it out when he barely ordered anything,'' said Ms. Boorstin, now a media and entertainment reporter for CNBC in Los Angeles.
 Mr. Samuelson's plan to impress her included an invitation to see Macy Gray perform at a club. He supported Ms. Boorstin as she knelt on a bar stool to see the singer better. 
 ''I turned around and he kissed me,'' Ms. Boorstin said. But it was Ms. Gray's last song; the lights suddenly came on and everyone headed out to find the next cool thing. 
 ''We didn't have time to figure out what the kiss really meant,'' Ms. Boorstin said. Mr. Samuelson felt thwarted. ''It's not like Paris, where you just walk to the next street corner and have another sublime moment,'' he said.
 They stayed up all night, wandering about Park City and bonding. ''Couper sang me that song from 'Oklahoma,' 'People Will Say We're in Love,''' she said. ''This gawky guy, dancing around and singing, was very charming.'' 
 When they said teary goodbyes at the airport in the morning, both knew they would see each other again.
 Two weeks and many long phone conversations later, Ms. Boorstin went to Los Angeles for the 60th birthday of her father, Paul Boorstin, a writer and producer of television documentaries. Mr. Samuelson picked her up at the airport and took her to her parents' home. ''And there he was in my parents' kitchen, holding our cat, this guy I barely knew with whom I'd had this PG-13 weekend, and it felt so natural,'' she said. ''It sounds cheesy, but it was as if we were meant for each other.'' 
 Her mother, Sharon Boorstin, an author, had a related sentiment. ''Couper was walking around, studying all the photographs of Julia and marking his territory,'' she recalled. ''I said to my husband, 'He's going to marry her.'''
 To further cement the couple's connection, Mr. Samuelson's father, who teaches decision theory, built a frequent-flier optimization spreadsheet to help his son maintain the bicoastal affair. The couple also learned that Ms. Boorstin's late grandfather, the Pulitzer-winning historian Daniel J. Boorstin, had been friends with Mr. Samuelson's grandfather, the Nobel laureate economist Paul A. Samuelson.
 In the summer of 2005, Couper Samuelson was going to New York, and Ms. Boorstin invited him to share her tiny walk-up while he helped produce ''The Ex,'' starring Zach Braff. 
 ''She had so many clothes in there, I thought that on vacation I was going to have to pull one of those coffin-size suitcases on wheels that you can bring the Berlin wall back in,'' said Mr. Samuelson, now a vice president for film development at 2929 Productions. 
 But when they traveled together to Argentina that year, they each took only carry-on luggage. 
 Mr. Samuelson's return trip to Los Angeles was a brief one. He was back in New York that winter for ''We Own the Night.'' But because it was shot mostly at night, he and Ms. Boorstin saw little of each other. they planned more exotic trips so they could have time for the deep, uninterrupted conversations that eluded them at home. 
 On a visit to Paris, she said, ''Couper made the most amazing declaration of love I'd ever heard in any movie or anything. And I thought this long-distance relationship is worth fighting for.''
 So Ms. Boorstin accepted an offer in May 2006 from CNBC in Los Angeles, which served to make their ad hoc relationship full time.
 Their next trip, that fall, was to Morocco, where Mr. Samuelson had a secret plan to create a videotape of his marriage proposal. At an opportune moment away from Ms. Boorstin, he handed his video camera and some pocket change to a street vendor with a pet monkey. ''So there I am on my knees, addressing the guy, saying, 'I want to spend the rest of my life with you, will you marry me?' Unfortunately, he'd put his monkey on my head.'' The monkey, he added, ''was trying to take my eye out.''
 When the couple returned to Los Angeles, Mr. Samuelson parked his car in a turnout on Mulholland Drive to show Ms. Boorstin on his computer what he said was simply a video of their vacation. Which it was. But at some point the screen went snowy, and all of a sudden, there was Mr. Samuelson with a monkey on his head, proposing. 
 ''In my car, I dropped to half-knee, got the ring from the glove compartment, and said, 'Will you marry me?''' 
 On Dec. 16, Ms. Boorstin and Mr. Samuelson were wed in front of 113 guests at Il Cielo, a restaurant in Beverly Hills, Calif. In an enclosed patio decorated with pine bough Christmas wreaths, the couple stood under a wedding canopy. Rabbi Jonathan Klein said, ''May your life together be as sweet as a chocolate sundae topped with sprinkles of exquisite romance.'' When the couple took to the dance floor, the song was, need you ask, ''People Will Say We're in Love.''
 Thinking back on their relationship, Mr. Samuelson cited a moment at a gas station, three weeks after they had met: ''I didn't actually tell her I loved her, but I said something rhetorical like, 'Any day now, I'm going to be able to say I love you, Julia Boorstin.' It gave me the opportunity to try out the words. I was auditioning, but I knew I already got the role.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BEVERLY HILLS, CALIF., DEC. 16: Above, the bride and her father, and, at top, the bridegroom, without the monkey on his head. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MISHA ERWITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



545 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; HOME FRONT; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: Training for a New Life Through a New Trade

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED. 
E-mail: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THEY'RE building new kitchen cabinets -- and, they hope, new lives.
 At a woodworking school near the Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn, a group called Brooklyn Woods seeks to provide a more promising path to people who are chronically unemployed or bounce between unsteady and unsatisfying low-wage jobs. For some, their pasts include prison or drug abuse or both.
 Six times a year, Brooklyn Woods, a nonprofit group, offers eight weeks of training in cabinetmaking at no cost to the students. The cabinets that trainees make are sold for use in apartment renovations. 
 The workshop is filled with the tools students learn to use: machines for sawing, shaping, planing and notching wood and for attaching hinges, and tools for installing the finished products in the apartments' kitchens. The students are hoping that the skills they learn will lead to new and reliable vocations and solid blue-collar lives.
 ''I'm 38, and I can't continue down the road I was on,'' said Robert Jennings, a Bronx resident and a trainee in the latest class at Brooklyn Woods. Until he entered a drug rehabilitation program in April, Mr. Jennings said, he had long been living ''more or less the street life, using and selling drugs, getting locked up, going back and forth between jail and the street.'' 
 Mario Banks, 42, of Manhattan, said that he ''figured it's about time to get a trade under my belt'' after knocking around in recent years in jobs like office assistant or $7-an-hour trainer at a health club. 
 Boubacar Barry, 36, a Bronx resident who arrived in New York from Guinea four years ago, said he wanted a trade that would provide more opportunities and pay than the stints he has found as a helper in an automobile repair shop and as a worker on nonunion construction and demolition jobs.
 To gain access to more financing, Brooklyn Woods, founded in 1999, merged this year with Brooklyn Workforce Innovations, which runs other vocational training programs, said Scott Peltzer, the director of Brooklyn Woods. The woodworking program's current annual budget of $550,000 is financed by private and corporate foundations, city funds and cabinet sales. 
 Until 2003, the program did not make cabinets for sale, but since then it has combined training and manufacturing in its courses. Over that time, the program has produced kitchen cabinets for 75 apartments that were renovated by Habitat for Humanity, and for 23 apartments rehabilitated by the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, Mr. Peltzer said.
 In the last two years, in part because Habitat for Humanity is interested in ''green buildings,'' Brooklyn Woods has been using materials like bamboo, a fast-growing and thus rapidly renewable wood, and domestic hardwoods supplied by companies that avoid practices like clear-cutting forests.
 Twelve to 14 students begin each training cycle, Mr. Peltzer said, and usually about 10 graduate. The program arranges interviews for graduates with potential employers, generally small to midsize custom cabinetmakers and closet manufacturers. About 80 percent are hired, at an average wage of $10.50 an hour, or nearly $22,000 a year. That is about the average for novice cabinetmakers and bench carpenters in the city, according to state estimates. 
 Of those who are hired, Mr. Peltzer said, about 35 percent are still in woodworking jobs a year later. Some have gone on to other work, he said, but others have fallen short of performance, attendance and punctuality standards.
 He said the program was seeking more people likely to meet its standards, even as it remains focused on the unemployed and underemployed and those whose backgrounds have made it hard to find good jobs. Information is available at (718) 389-3636. 
 Mr. Jennings, the trainee from the Bronx, said he intends to be one of the program's success stories: ''I want to learn everything there is to learn here and go into this field.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chris Cavallaro, center, an instructor, teaches woodworking techniques to Boubacar Barry, left, and Mario Banks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BARRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); KITCHEN CABINET & WOODEN COUNTER MFG (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (77%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PRISONS (76%); CORPORATE GIVING (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (66%); BUDGETS (66%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (62%); FOUNDATIONS (60%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



546 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Clicking the Way to Mortgage Savings

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
LAST week, the Federal Reserve got around to tightening mortgage lending standards, hoping to eliminate some of the practices that have made borrowing to buy a home so confounding and costly. Many of the Fed's changes make sense, especially those that require hidden broker fees to be clearly disclosed and prepayment fees to disappear before a huge rate reset occurs. 
 But everybody knows that the key to driving mortgage scammers out of business is not necessarily new regulations -- it's the enforcement of rules that are already on the books. Only time will tell if enforcement action from the Fed and others follows all of the regulatory talk. 
 Meanwhile, two entrepreneurs with decades of mortgage industry experience have devised a Web site that helps consumers protect themselves from excessive fees and hidden relationships that can drive up the costs of buying a home. The site is www.FeeDisclosure.com, and it is a good example of how the private sector can bring sorely needed transparency to the entire home-buying and mortgage-origination process. 
 Those entrepreneurs, Michael A. Kratzer, 42, and Mark Zimmerman, 35, are the founders of a company in Westlake Village, Calif., that owns the site, and they have spent four years developing the software upon which it is built. Both men know the ins and outs of the mortgage trade, having spent years in the business. 
 ''We want to empower consumers to make informed real estate decisions and help them cut their mortgage transaction costs,'' Mr. Kratzer said. 
 Indeed, while consumers can book travel arrangements, trade stocks and otherwise shop intelligently online, comparing costs associated with a mortgage has not been easy to do on the Internet. Much of the process is shrouded in mystery until the last moment, when it is time to close on a property.
 By giving borrowers a way to compare early on what they will probably pay for a mortgage in commissions, points, interest rates and fees, the founders of FeeDisclosure.com say they hope to bring transparency to what is not only a mind-numbing process but also the biggest financial commitment a consumer typically makes. 
 EVERY year, for example, home buyers pay an estimated $50 billion in transaction fees when they take out mortgages. Some $17 billion of that consists of junk fees charged by lenders, Mr. Kratzer said. Items like $100 e-mail charges, $75 document preparation fees and $25 FedEx charges are common.
 But other elements can also add to borrowers' costs -- like hidden relationships between service providers, appraisers and lenders. The fee disclosure Web site helps consumers identify both junk fees and hidden relationships, and it costs consumers nothing. 
 First, the site's fee analyzer lets a borrower assess the data from a good-faith estimate supplied by a potential lender and see if the fees are excessive. Such estimates include fees for hazard insurance, document preparation, lawyers' services, appraisals and other items.
 The fee analyzer gives borrowers a range of fees charged for those services and a national average. It also provides a tool to help the borrower negotiate fees, Mr. Zimmerman noted. ''By simply asking the questions, the fees will come down,'' he said. ''This is a baseline for people to educate themselves.''
 Consumers can also go a step further. In the top 50 metropolitan areas (the site plans to add more) prospective borrowers can ask their real estate broker or banker to give them a fee disclosure report that the professional generates from the Web site after feeding it data. This is a plain-English description of a loan's terms and costs, describing the type of loan -- adjustable rate or fixed -- and whether there is a prepayment penalty, for example. 
 The report also compares the fees levied in the transaction with national averages. Each fee is described and identified as either common or not, giving consumers a place to start negotiating for lower or fewer charges. In addition to fees, relationships that may exist among the different providers are noted. 
 A sample copy of a fee disclosure report can be found on the Web site. 
 The service is driven by some 30,000 real estate professionals who have signed up with FeeDisclosure.com to supply data about their offerings, including fees they charge, services they provide and affiliations. More professionals are signing up every day, including lenders, notaries, appraisers, real estate brokers, mortgage brokers and providers of hazard insurance. 
 The site does not participate in consumers' real estate or mortgage transactions and does not collect a commission or payment on the transactions. It earns money from real estate professionals in two ways. First, it charges brokers and real estate agents $99 a year to join the site; those who want their companies and services highlighted on the service pay an additional $49 a year. ''We made it so reasonable they couldn't afford not to join,'' Mr. Kratzer said. 
 By joining the site, the professionals get exposure to prospective borrowers and home buyers. As the FeeDisclosure.com site grows, so does competition. 
 To help keep vendors on the site accountable to consumers, it also has a rating mechanism for participants to rank the real estate professionals they used, on six factors, including service, accuracy and expertise.
 To be sure, none of the site's disclosures are meant to replace regulatory documents that also are legally required to be given to borrowers. But the site's extra information can help borrowers get advance warning of costs and allow them to chisel away at unnecessary or high fees before they are seated around the loan closing table and under the gun. 
 The site also allows consumers to name the fees they are willing to pay and see which service providers may be willing to work with them. 
 ''People are very distraught about what the industry is doing to them,'' Mr. Zimmerman said. ''They know they are getting ripped off, but they don't know exactly how.''
 Now, they can get a clearer picture of what has been a murky process. They can trust and verify. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



547 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: The Tax Loss As Consolation Prize

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WITH only a few days left in the calendar year, uncertainties abound for tax-conscious investors.
 For starters, many taxpayers are heading into yet another year unsure if they'll be hit by the dreaded alternative minimum tax. While Congress last week passed a one-year patch for the A.M.T., temporarily raising income exemptions, no permanent fix is in sight. And because this parallel tax system is so complex, until you work your way through your tax return, it's hard to know for sure whether you'll have to pay the higher alternative tax.
 Uncertainties about the economy, meanwhile, have led to increased volatility in the stock market. But as it turns out, that might be good news for tax-minded investors. 
 ''Anytime there's volatility in the market, it creates tax-loss harvesting opportunities,'' explained Francis M. Kinniry Jr., a principal in the investment counseling and research department at the Vanguard Group.
 This year through Thursday, some 26 percent of all domestic stock funds tracked by Morningstar -- or 2,328 portfolios in all -- were showing losses. 
 While investors don't like to see their stocks fall in value, these minus signs create opportunities to sell losers before year-end -- and to have Uncle Sam share some of the pain.
 For example, by selling stocks or stock funds and realizing capital losses, you can offset capital gains realized elsewhere in your portfolio, effectively lowering your 2007 tax bill.
 If you're a buy-and-hold investor who hasn't sold any winning stocks this year -- and thus haven't had capital gains -- selling some losers now can still help. Harvested tax losses can be used to reduce up to $3,000 of ordinary income for 2007. And this isn't a use-it-or-lose-it break. You can carry over unused harvested losses into future tax years. 
 With a growing number of index funds and exchange-traded funds being created, you can sell losing stocks or funds, yet still remain fully invested in the market, says Scott D. Ford, president of Cornerstone Advisors, a wealth management firm in Hagerstown, Md.
 Say you were a new investor this year in Legg Mason Value, a large-cap fund that was down more than 6 percent through Thursday. You might choose to sell it to secure the tax loss. But you can immediately turn around and invest in an index fund like the Vanguard 500 or an E.T.F. like the iShares S.& P. 500. Since both funds, like Legg Mason Value, invest in large, blue-chip stocks, using them to replace your stake in Legg Mason Value won't change your overall asset allocation strategy.
 To be sure, the Internal Revenue Service won't let you sell a loser and immediately step back into the same stock or fund, or a ''substantially identical'' investment, within 30 days of your original sale. If you do, you lose the tax benefit. It's called the wash-sales rule.
 But when an index fund tracks similar -- but not the exact same -- portfolio that an actively managed fund invests in, you can stay fully invested and be tax-conscious at the same time, Mr. Ford says.
 You can also use one type of index fund to replace another indexed investment. Say you invested in the Vanguard Financials E.T.F., which tracks the MSCI U.S. Investable Market Financials index. That fund was down around 18 percent through Thursday. 
 If you sell it, you can immediately buy the iShares S.& P. Global Financials E.T.F., which tracks the same sector, but a different benchmark: the S.& P. Global Financial Sector index. Here are other moves tax-conscious investors should consider as 2007 winds down:
 GIVING TO CHARITIES If you're thinking of contributing to a charity this year, consider donating appreciated stock. It's a win-win: The charity can sell the appreciated stock without triggering a tax bill. And ''you won't have to pay any capital gains on those shares,'' said Christine Fahlund, senior financial planner at T. Rowe Price. ''And you'll get to deduct the full market value of the gift'' based on the day of transfer. 
 But if you're planning to make such a gift, act quickly. The paperwork involved could take a few days to process. 
 A simple option may be to donate your securities now to a donor-advised fund. Fidelity, Vanguard, T. Rowe Price and Schwab are among large asset managers that run such programs. Donor-advised funds allow you to make your charitable contribution now, and reap the tax benefit immediately. But you won't have to name the charity immediately, so you can be thoughtful about the gift itself.
 REBALANCING YOUR PORTOLIO Every year about this time, investors are reminded to reset their mix of stocks, bonds and cash to an appropriate blend based on their age and goals. 
 But unlike tax-loss harvesting, in which you are selling your losers, rebalancing often requires you to sell winners. (This way, you can invest more in an underperforming asset -- hence the phrase ''sell high and buy low.'') Of course, if you sell winners, you may incur a capital gains tax bill. 
 Rande Spiegelman, vice president for financial planning at the Schwab Center for Financial Research, recommends that ''to the extent you rebalance, start rebalancing in your tax-deferred accounts'' such as your 401(k) and I.R.A.'s.
 ADDING RETIREMENT CONTRIBUTIONS The end of a year is also a good time to decide if you can afford to increase contributions to tax-advantaged investment accounts. For instance, if you recently got a raise or a bonus, consider adding to your contributions to your 401(k) for 2008, Mr. Spiegelman said. 
 Next year, the annual federal limit for 401(k)'s is $15,500. But workers 50 or older can put in an additional $5,000. (Those limits are the same as this year's.)
 And as for your Roth and traditional I.R.A.'s, you have until April 15 to make contributions for the 2007 tax year. But if you're making other tax-related moves anyway, you might as well make your I.R.A. contribution now, before the year ends, Mr. Spiegelman said. ''The sooner you can get the money into your plan and have it work for you, the better,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INDEX FUNDS (87%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (72%)

COMPANY: VANGUARD GROUP INC (56%); LEGG MASON INC (51%)

TICKER: LM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAGERSTOWN, MD, USA (52%) MARYLAND, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



548 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; CRIME; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: A Tree Dies in Norway

BYLINE: Reviews by MARILYN STASIO

 BODY:
Early in THE REDBREAST (Harper/HarperCollins, $24.95), an elegant and complex thriller by the Norwegian musician, economist and crime writer Jo Nesbo, an old man who has just received a death sentence from his doctor goes into the palace gardens in Oslo and kills an ancient oak tree. ''Yes!'' you think. ''What a terrible act, but what wonderful symbolism!'' And you'll be amazed when, hundreds of pages later, the real reason for the aboricide is revealed, along with the answers to other seemingly minor mysteries (including the significance of the title) that figure in the novel's ingenious design.
 The engineering of the interlocking plot pieces is intricate because it has to support Nesbo's complicated ideas -- and dire thoughts -- about Norwegian nationalism, past and present. While giving his ambitious book the form of a police procedural, featuring Harry Hole, an attractive if familiarly flawed loose cannon of a cop, the author expands his street-level subplots into a narrative that reaches all the way back to World War II, when Norway was under German occupation. 
 There's a pattern to the various criminal activities Hole investigates, from the black-market sale of a German semiautomatic hunting rifle (''the ultimate professional murder weapon'') to the ''fascist nests'' of neo-Nazis who can be counted on to disrupt most national holidays. But the pattern doesn't emerge until the detective investigates the present-day lives and past histories of a group of war veterans, among the many Norwegians who volunteered to fight against the Russians on the Eastern front and were later denounced as traitors.
 Told in flashbacks, the parallel story of their forgotten war begins in a trench in 1942, develops in harrowingly beautiful scenes of harsh wartime suffering and ends in 1945 with mass executions in Oslo. Pristinely translated by Don Bartlett, Nesbo's book eloquently uses its multiple horrors to advance a disturbing argument: suppressing history is an open invitation for history to repeat itself.
 For sheer likability, no private eye comes close to Sue Grafton's endearing California sleuth, Kinsey Millhone, who has been making friends with readers for more than two decades. Settling into T IS FOR TRESPASS (Marian Wood/Putnam, $26.95), the 20th mystery in an evergreen series, first means making sure that all's right in Kinsey's world. Is it still the 1980s in Santa Teresa? Check. Is she still renting a studio apartment from her octogenarian landlord, Henry -- and is Henry still baking bread? Check and check. Now for the kicker: Does she still have her warm heart and wicked sense of humor? Absolutely.
 Just because Kinsey is adorable doesn't make her a pushover, and the issue she takes up here -- criminal negligence and abuse of the elderly -- is as serious as it is ugly. Gus Vronsky, a cranky old neighbor, has a bad fall at Christmastime, and his great-niece from New York hires a licensed vocational nurse named Solana Rojas to take care of him, after first hiring Kinsey to check her credentials. But aside from noticing that ''there's something creepy about her,'' Kinsey doesn't know what we do (from chapters told from the caretaker's perspective) -- namely that ''Solana'' stole her identity and has evil plans for Gus. For all its familiar comforts, this is one sad, tough book.
 Ian Rutledge, the Scotland Yard man in Charles Todd's outstanding series of historical mysteries, has a wonderful capacity for compassion -- a quality this shell-shocked (and guilt-ridden) World War I veteran acquired over four hellish years in the battlefields of France. That heightened sensibility comes into play in A PALE HORSE (Morrow, $23.95), when the War Office orders Rutledge to locate an eccentric scientist who has disappeared from his secluded cottage in Berkshire. 
 In penetrating interviews with the scientist's reclusive neighbors, Rutledge comes to realize that they're all emotionally wounded outcasts of society (''lepers, without the sores'') and that many of the secrets they're guarding go back to the Great War. Even the huge prehistoric animal carved into the white-chalk cliffs above the cottages reminds one tenant of the cloud of poison gas that passed over Ypres like ''a great horse moving across a barren meadow.'' However they apportion their literary chores, the mother and son who write together as Charles Todd clearly share an affinity for quiet souls haunted by unquiet memories.
 Runaway capitalism can be held accountable for a multitude of social sins, but can it be blamed for the acts of a serial killer? That's one of the many intriguing questions posed by the poet and translator Qiu Xiaolong in his latest Inspector Chen mystery, RED MANDARIN DRESS (St. Martin's Minotaur, $24.95). The erudite Shanghai detective (who writes romantic poetry to clear his head) has to postpone his participation in an intensive course in classical Chinese literature when murder victims wearing identical mandarin dresses begin turning up around the city. 
 Are these aberrant crimes somehow linked to modern China's struggle to contain the widespread corruption that accompanies unregulated economic growth? You bet. But the novel also contains pertinent references to the huge ideological upheaval of the Cultural Revolution -- a subject that's never far from the surface in this intelligent series -- along with many poignant hints that once it's lost, a country's cultural identity can never be restored. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER KNUTSON) DRAWING (DRAWING BY WES DUVALL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MURDER (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WORLD WAR II (71%); VETERANS (66%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%); RENTAL PROPERTY (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) NORWAY (93%); UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



549 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: In Writers' Strike, Actors Turn to Temp Jobs to Make Ends Meet

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
If you're a moviegoer or TV watcher, don't be surprised if you could swear you've seen that face before. That person wrapping your present, selling you a sweater, serving booze at your holiday party or sweating beneath that Santa beard could be an actor.
 With a writers' strike shutting down productions and drying up acting work in New York, many actors are being forced to take holiday-related temporary jobs to get by, according to staffing agencies and actors' organizations. 
 Take Janifer Youmans, who has acted in commercials, television movies and soaps including ''All My Children'' and ''As the World Turns.'' These days, you can see her starring at a gift shop next to the big Christmas tree at Rockefeller Center, wrapping presents.
 And if you happen to need some accounting done, it may be Adam Phillips, 43 -- who has acted in films with Robert De Niro and Al Pacino and has a degree in accounting -- who does the work.
 ''We're getting a lot of actors calling for temp work because of the strike,'' said Marty Gargle, an owner of the Employment Line, a staffing service in Manhattan that works with a number of actors. 
 Ms. Gargle herself is a former actress who still takes a role or two and has many industry contacts and a steady advertisement for her agency in Back Stage, an entertainment industry magazine.
 ''They're taking jobs wrapping packages, addressing cards, anything,'' she said. ''They just want something to last them through the strike, which works well with the need for holiday help because it's temporary by nature. Mostly, it's actors who get smaller roles on soaps. They're not stars, but they are actors who have a foothold in the industry and just need to pay the bills. They're not giving up on acting.''
 Even without the strike, she said, actors make excellent temps. 
 ''They're very employable and have flexible schedules,'' Ms. Gargle said. ''They do very well in corporate jobs because they can sell the role and be what you want them to be in an office, and rise to the occasion.''
 Mr. Phillips has been in series like ''Law & Order'' and ''Rescue Me,'' and soaps including ''One Life to Live'' and ''All My Children,'' and he is in the forthcoming ''Sex and the City'' film. But he said he had four children to support.
 He has resorted to selling off part of his CD collection and other possessions on eBay. There are low-paying roles out there, he said, nonunion jobs that pay $50 a day, but he refuses to take them.
 ''With the writers' strike, it's very, very slim pickings out there for background or feature work, and there are so many actors competing for them,'' he said. ''I'm collecting unemployment and looking for work. I'd like to get a job in retail, but I know as soon as I commit, the gigs will start coming in.''
 Ms. Youmans, of Queens, stood wrapping gifts and helping customers last weekend in the Metropolitan Museum of Art gift shop at Rockefeller Center.
 ''It started as a holiday temp job, but I really got to like working here,'' she said. ''Everything you do is character study for acting. I watch the shoppers, how they act, and you even get famous actors coming in to shop.'' 
 After answering a customer's question, she continued: ''We had Alan Alda in here, and Bette Midler, too, recently. You can learn a lot by just watching a good actor.''
 Sue Porter Henderson, 64, an actor and career consultant, has been a background nurse for the past 35 years on ''As the World Turns.'' 
 She said she knew many actors who had taken side jobs this month, including handing out advertising fliers on the street, selling in department stores and taking tickets for the Christmas show at Radio City Music Hall.
 ''Nobody's too proud when it comes to making ends meet,'' she said. ''I know a makeup artist who is taking on people going to holiday parties. The other day, I saw an actor I recognized from soaps -- he was selling Christmas trees on the Upper West Side.''
 Kay Gaffney has acted for 16 years in background roles in soaps like ''As the World Turns'' and films including ''Meet Joe Black'' and Woody Allen's ''Celebrity.'' She has been filling in as a secretary this month.
 ''A lot of offices are having Christmas parties, and people leave for a few hours and need someone to fill in and take in packages and things,'' she said. ''Temp work is a Band-Aid to get us through.''
 Despite the strike, which began Nov. 5, there are still some films casting. Ms. Henderson said she went to an open casting call recently for a movie called ''Shopaholics.'' 
 ''There were 1,500 people, where you usually would have had a few hundred,'' she said. ''I recognized actors from 'Law & Order' and another guy who stands in for Alec Baldwin, all for some background work doing outdoor shooting in January.''
 She added: ''It was in a church basement, and I saw a lot of actors going from the audition line right to the soup kitchen. I am not kidding; they said they had no money.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Waiting for acting work, Janifer Youmans helps a customer at the Metropolitan Museum of Art gift shop at Rockefeller Center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (90%); WRITERS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); SEASONAL WORKERS (77%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (76%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



550 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: How to Avoid Recession? Let the Fed Work

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard. He was an adviser to President Bush and is advising Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, in the campaign for the Republican presidential nomination.

 BODY:
THE economy is teetering on the edge. Many economists, as well as online betting sites, put the risk of recession next year at about 50 percent. Once we get the final numbers, we might even learn that a recession has already begun. 
 The question on the minds of many in Congress and in the White House is this: What they should be doing now to keep the economy on track? The right answer: absolutely nothing. 
 This advice isn't easy for politicians to follow. Because economic downturns mean fewer jobs and falling incomes, they are painful for many families. Voters can confuse inaction with nonchalance and send incumbents packing. But just as patients should avoid doctors who recommend radical surgery for every ailment, voters should be wary of politicians eager to treat every economic ill. Sometimes, bed rest and wait-and-see are the best we can do.
 Congress made its most important contribution to taming the business cycle back in 1913, when it created the Federal Reserve System. Today, the Fed remains the first line of defense against recession.
 The Fed's control over the money supply is a powerful lever to move overall demand for goods and services. When its trading desk buys bonds and expands the money supply, it lowers interest rates and encourages the private sector to borrow and spend more. The influence of interest rates on the economy is particularly strong in housing, where buyers are rate-sensitive. Because housing woes are the source of the current slowdown, the Fed's tool kit is well suited for the task at hand.
 The recession-fighting effects of monetary expansion, however, are not limited to the housing market. When lower interest rates make fixed-income investments less attractive, investors turn to the equity market and bid up stock prices. Higher stock prices, in turn, make consumers wealthier and more eager to spend. They also make it easier for corporations to expand their businesses with equity financing.
 By making United States bonds less attractive to world investors, lower interest rates from a monetary expansion also weaken the dollar in currency markets. A depreciation of the currency is not in itself to be feared. Treasury secretaries often repeat the mantra of favoring a strong dollar, but these pronouncements are based more on public relations than hard-headed analysis.
 A weak currency is a problem if it results from investors losing confidence in an economy. The most damaging cases are the episodes of sudden capital flight, as occurred in Mexico in 1994 and several Asian countries in 1997. This outcome is unlikely for the fundamentally sound American economy, but fear of it is one reason that Treasury secretaries maintain public fealty to a strong dollar.
 But if a weakened currency comes about because the central bank is trying to stimulate a lackluster economy, the story is very different. In that case, depreciation is not a malady but just what the doctor ordered. A weaker currency makes domestic goods more competitive in world markets, promoting exports and bolstering the economy. The dollar's falling value is one reason exports of goods and services have grown more than 10 percent in the past year.
 The Fed constantly monitors all these developments to ensure that the economy has the stimulus it needs, but not too much. William McChesney Martin, the Fed chairman in the 1950s and 1960s, famously joked that the Fed's job is ''to take away the punch bowl just as the party gets going.'' 
 As the economy flirts with recession, we need to remember that this aphorism has a flip side. The Fed also has the job of spiking the punch with grain alcohol when the party starts to flag, and that is exactly what it has been doing.
 The Fed has cut its target for the benchmark federal fund rates to 4.25 percent from 5.25 percent last summer. It is a good bet that we will see further cuts over the next few months. And if the chance of a recession turns into a real recession, you can count on it.
 Admittedly, monetary policy can sometimes use an assist from fiscal policy. If an economic downturn is deep, if a recovery is anemic or if the Fed is running out of ammunition, Congress can help raise aggregate demand for goods and services. In 2003, the Fed had cut its target interest rate all the way to 1 percent, the economy was still suffering from the lingering effects of recession, and there were increasing worries about deflation. A tax cut was a good complement to monetary expansion to get the economy going again, even though it increased the budget deficit.
 Today's situation is different. The Fed has plenty of room to cut rates further, if it deems such cuts necessary. At the moment, recession is only a possibility, and inflation is a bigger worry than deflation. In this environment, there is no need for a short-run fiscal stimulus. Congress is better off focusing on longer-term problems, like the looming entitlement crunch or fundamental tax reform. (But don't hold your breath.)
 IN creating the Fed, Congress wisely made it a technocratic institution free of many of the political pressures that accompany other policy decisions in Washington. Subsequent experience in the United States and abroad confirms that more independent central banks lead to better economic outcomes. That's why, in recent years, many nations have passed reforms to insulate central banks from politics.
 The Fed's independence was created by statute and could just as easily be taken away. The Fed is now coming under heat for not having prevented the subprime crisis, for not fully anticipating it once it was inevitable, and for not responding more vigorously now that it has occurred. Daniel Gross, a financial journalist writing for Slate, has gone so far as to liken the Fed and its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, to FEMA and its erstwhile head Michael Brown. 
 The truth is that the current Fed governors, together with their crack staff of Ph.D. economists and market analysts, are as close to an economic dream team as we are ever likely to see. They will make their share of mistakes, but it is too easy to find flaws when judging with the benefit of hindsight. The best Congress can do now is to let the Bernanke bunch do its job. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DOLLAR (87%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (70%); EQUITY FINANCING (68%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



551 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Bested by the Brits

 BODY:
There is good and bad to the news that Britain surpassed the United States for the first time ever in donations to the World Bank's unit to combat world poverty. 
 This should help dispel the notion that the bank's International Development Association is an arm of the United States Treasury doing Washington's will around the world. The more depressing side to the news is that the United States -- with an economy five times the size of Britain's -- is doing far less than it could and should to help the world's poorest countries.
 Despite steep declines in poverty in China and other developing countries, world poverty is much deeper than was previously thought, according to new World Bank estimates. The bank had estimated that economic output per person in Congo amounted to about $2 a day in 2005, one of the lowest in the world. It is 72 cents in the bank's recalculation. The new estimates shaved those numbers in Bangladesh to $3.50 a day from $5.60.
 The International Development Association is the single largest source of donations for basic social services in the world's poorest countries, financing projects in everything from education and health to public administration and roads. The $25.1 billion in new pledges that the World Bank announced this month was a record, 42 percent higher than what it got in the previous round in 2005. 
 The generosity was an endorsement of the new head of the World Bank, Robert Zoellick, who has championed the development association's cause. Not only was Britain's contribution of $4.2 billion about 60 percent higher, in dollar terms, than its pledge during the last round, six countries, including China, pledged money for the first time. The United States' pledge of $3.7 billion was also 30 percent higher than its previous commitment, but still $500 million less than Britain's. 
 The United States can partly blame the disparity on the declining value of the dollar versus the pound. But the fact remains that, no matter what Americans may think, the United States has long lagged behind other donors when it comes to doling out foreign assistance. 
 While President Bush has increased American official foreign assistance, it is still paltry: about 0.2 percent of the economy -- and some 50 percent less, proportionally, than Britain's and less than one-fourth the level of Sweden's and Norway's. Moreover, only about half of America's foreign aid is devoted to programs aimed at alleviating poverty and promoting development. 
 The latest World Bank pledges are good news for poor countries. They show that developed nations are aware that they need to do more to assist those left behind by globalization. But they are also a reminder that the United States needs to be doing a lot more. It is the right thing to do. And it is the best way to help poor countries develop and avoid becoming failed states or breeding grounds for terrorism. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (84%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); CHINA (91%); BANGLADESH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



552 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1815 words

HEADLINE: Step Right Up! Brooklyn Mall Is Oasis and Anomaly

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

 BODY:
Ten, 9, 8, 7, 6 nights before Christmas and Santa is in full effect outside the Nextel store on the Fulton Street Mall. He cranks up the skipping soca rhythm on the backing tape and kicks it to the crowds pouring off the buses and trudging with bulging shopping bags down Brooklyn's bustlingest outdoor retail strip.
 ''Siii-lent night, hooo-ly night,'' croons Santa, real name Maurice Sylla. ''Come get your pho-o-one. Nextel got your pho-o-one.''
 A smiling young woman shoots him a look and asks ''What's up with your belly?'' Under his loose-fitting red suit, Mr. Sylla has none to speak of. ''Ah, black Santa bring sexy back,'' Mr. Sylla fires off between lines of a pitch. ''Tra la la la la, we got free phones,'' he sings. 
 Up and down the street, beneath the phony Grand Opening banners and the 70% Off signs, before the grand portals of the original Abraham & Straus store (now Macy's), the midway atmosphere is thick in the postwork chill of evening.
 Barkers, known on the mall as flier guys, shout on top of one another. ''Cellphone-service-no-credit-check-no-Social-no-contract!'' ''Every day ladies, up to 50 percent off every day!'' Even the dental clinics have flier guys. Bootleggers selling DVDs and cigarettes from the inner pockets of their coats send up a riverine murmur, ''Checkitoutcheckitoutcheckitout.''
 This is the old Fulton Street Mall in twilight, a chaotic throwback to the era before the sanitization and, yes, mallification of New York City's retail districts.
 For every Nextel or Children's Place or Foot Locker on the mall there is an immigrant-run mom-and-pop store offering off-brand electronics or no-brand suits or a trifecta of cellphones, gold teeth and sneakers.
 Not all are thriving -- many, in fact, claim to be doing terribly -- but they are somehow managing to pay some of the highest rents in the city, thanks to the 100,000 shoppers who flock to the mall's 200 stores each day. 
 The usual Christmas trappings, other than Mr. Sylla, are, in truth, in fairly short supply on the mall (though there is an official Santa-and-carols event for two hours on Saturdays). Window displays are less likely to include mechanized elves than signs like the hand-scrawled one in the window of ABC Superstores, ''No shopping cart / no baby stroller / no baby stroller / no shopping cart.'' And the mall is, without a doubt, headed for change, with the walls of gentrification literally closing in as high-end condo complexes march into place on all sides. 
 But for now, the Fulton Mall, just west of Flatbush Avenue in Downtown Brooklyn, remains an oasis and an anomaly, a half-mile haven in the midst of some of Brooklyn's most affluent neighborhoods that caters largely, though certainly not exclusively, to the tastes and budgets of working-class people of color. Which suits shoppers like Michelle Abel, a tutor at the Brooklyn Public Library, who stood on the sidewalk on Wednesday checking off items on a long shopping list, just fine.
 ''Everything I need is right here,'' Ms. Abel said. ''Clothes for my sister, Nintendo DS for my baby sister, a doll set for my little cousin, cologne for my father, a toy for my baby nephew.''
 Early Wednesday morning, the wigs in the window of M & M Beauty Supply were already rotating on their pedestals, lacquered tresses catching and throwing back the weak sunlight. Outside Universal Credit Furniture, the tattered red-white-and-blue bunting twitched in the breeze.
 At Goldmine Jewelers, Jah and his friend Mech from Bushwick were beating the crowds. They studied the necklaces and nameplates and diamond-encrusted gold skull pendants in the window, debating the fake and the real. 
 ''That chain will get you, you've got to look real, real close,'' said Mech, pointing to a thin string of yellow and white dots that bore a resemblance to gold and diamonds. ''Those who don't know about gold get beat,'' said Jah.
 ''Get beat in the head,'' Mech agreed.
 Jah and Mech were the first customers in the store. After a round of negotiations, a salesman handed Jah a tiny box across the counter. ''Checkitoutcheckitout,'' he said under his breath.
 Back on the sidewalk, Jah opened the box to reveal a ring for his wife, a small cluster of diamonds set in a thick band of gold. ''Got him down to $300,'' he reported proudly and headed off. 
 Inside the store, the assistant manager, Lenny, who like Jah, Mech and many other denizens of the Fulton Street Mall, flatly refused to give a last name, gave a slightly different account of the transaction. Diamonds? ''Not for what he paid for it,'' said Lenny. ''If it was a diamond ring and my salesman sold it for $50, he'd get fired.'' 
 All along the mall, flier guys took up their posts, warming up their pitches. Outside Electronic Outlet, where the manager, Mohammed Wasim, boasted, ''Every year we have a grand opening,'' the store's longtime flier guy, Antonio Ayala, alternated between a booming yet nearly incomprehensible shout and a quieter but more unsettling impression of a man who has had a tracheotomy.
 ''I got two idiomas,'' Mr. Ayala explained, using the Spanish word for languages, then burst out, ''T-mobile Cingular Nextel Sprint no credit check everybody approved!''
 Other flier guys sounded vaguely threatening. ''Get a free cellphone, this is serious, yo,'' implored a man outside Cellular Island. A competitor up the street urged: ''Goldmine's having a sale, right now.'' An impressive number of them have a teardrop or two tattooed in the corner of one eye, a symbol with several possible meanings on the street, none of them good.
 ''You got flier guys here, they may or may not have made a bad mistake, and this is the only job they can get,'' said Leon Smith, a mall veteran who works outside a Verizon store.
 Mr. Smith, 31, his smiling face full of piercings, considers himself one of the upwardly mobile flier guys. Verizon paid his tuition while he earned an associate's degree and is paying for him to earn another in information technology. He wants to get into design.
 Behind the counter in the store, Mr. Smith keeps a book of his drawings, including a phoenix-and-ankh jacket logo and an intensely worked paisley nightmare he calls ''The Catastrophe of New York.''
 For now, though, handing out glossy 4-by-6 advertising cards is his living, and he prides himself on doing it well.
 ''Verizon Wireless, bless you sister, happy holidays,'' he greeted one woman Monday morning, pressing a flier into her hand. ''Oye, mamita,'' he greeted the next. ''I got oxtail next week, sister,'' he called, perplexingly, after a third.
 Down the street at the Fulton Hot Dog King, Mary Blue set a hot dog down on the counter by the window, her shopping bags on the floor and herself on a stool. It was her first trip to the Fulton Mall in years.
 ''It changed for the better here,'' she said. ''Better quality, better selection.''
 Ms. Blue, a retired home health aide, said she had tried for a few years to get her shopping done near her home in East New York. But the jeans and shirts and other clothes she wanted to buy for her 10 grandchildren weren't up to par. 
 ''This year, I said, 'I'm going shopping Downtown.'''
 In front of Quick Strike, where Monique Samms and Crisei Tait stopped to ogle pink Air Jordan sneakers, Crisei said she shopped at the Fulton Mall because the smaller stores there -- she called them side stores -- would cut deals that the chain stores would not.
 ''You can talk them down in price,'' said Crisei, 15. 
 Fulton Street's first heyday was in an era before enclosed shopping centers, when department-store titans like Namm's and Loeser's shared the street with A & S. The modern Fulton Mall dates to the 1970s, when merchants persuaded the city to revitalize the fading strip by widening the sidewalks, narrowing the street and limiting traffic to buses.
 Like the rest of the borough, the mall, once known for outbursts of gunplay, has grown considerably safer over the years. 
 But even as it prospered, the mall's persistent scruffiness, because of, among other factors, the paradox that small stores are willing to pay more per square foot than major national chains, began to stand out in the spiffed-up Brooklyn.
 ''With all the housing stock that we have now and the demographics in the communities that surround Downtown Brooklyn,'' said Joseph Chan, president of the Downtown Brooklyn Partnership, an economic development group, ''the fact that there's not a Bed Bath & Beyond, a Pottery Barn, a Pier 1 in the downtown of a city of 2.5 million people is odd.''
 And so the mall's transformation, predicted for years, seems about to finally begin. The old Albee Square Mall, an enclosed shopping center within this stretch of Fulton Street, closed this year to make way for City Point, a high-rise tower that will house people, businesses and, on the ground floor, major retail tenants along the lines of Target.
 Albert Laboz, one of the street's biggest property owners and chairman of the Fulton Mall Improvement Association, said that deals were in the works with several leading retailers. ''I think you're going to see a nice transition in the next few years,'' he said.
 A nice transition, of course, is not nice for everyone. But Mr. Chan said that the Fulton Street Mall would never become Madison Avenue. ''Having greater retail diversity means having more choices,'' he said. ''It doesn't mean eliminating what's there today. The reality is it's never going to be all or nothing.''
 So perhaps there is a future there for a man like Charles Hallback, the self-proclaimed Grand Hustler of Fulton Street. Mr. Hallback, 47, better known as Chief, has been a flier guy in the neighborhood for years; he had one stint hawking colonics for a health food store around the corner on Livingston Street.
 On Thursday morning, he was standing on the corner of Fulton and Bond Streets singing the praises of the neighborhood's newest business. ''IHOP is open down the block, y'all, at Bond and Livingston,'' he announced. ''IHOP is open since yesterday, it ain't all about pancakes.''
 Across the street, in front of the Nextel store, Mr. Sylla, 43, a former fashion designer who has been on disability since a car accident, set down his takeout container of chicken soup and prepared to do battle. ''All that good stuff keeps Santa warm,'' he said. ''Let me take the mike real quick.''
 As the street began to thin out Thursday evening, Mr. Hallback was still at it. ''IHOP is down the block,'' he called. ''I'm the announcer, the black Paul Revere is here!''
 So was Mr. Smith. ''I got chitlins next week,'' he called after a woman. In front of the Nextel store, Mr. Sylla found himself surrounded by a cluster of a dozen shoppers dancing to his beats. He kicked into high gear. ''Jump, jump, jump!'' he called out, rapping rapid-fire. For a few minutes, the cellphones went unmentioned.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Every day, 100,000 people go to the mall, where they can buy off-brand electronics, no-brand suits, cellphones and sneakers.
Yang-Hee Byun's wig shop is among 200 stores at the Fulton Street Mall, where merchants pay some of the city's highest rents.
 Maurice Sylla, a Santa Claus on behalf of Nextel, lacks a beard and a belly, but he has a song: ''Tra la la la la, we got free phones.'' ''Every year we have a grand opening,'' said Mohammed Wasim, manager of the Electronic Outlet store in the crowded shopping strip on Fulton Street in Downtown Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (88%); SHOE STORES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



553 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ENERGY; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Electricity Bills Likely To Soar in South River

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH DWOSKIN

DATELINE: SOUTH RIVER 

 BODY:
 THE sparkling electric snowflakes that line the utility poles on Main Street may be causing more anxiety than cheer for residents here during the holiday season. 
 They serve as a grim reminder of the inevitable: Starting Jan. 1, South River residents will pay 67 percent more for electricity than they have for the past three years. 
 ''I'm just going to have to give things up,'' said Marilyn H. Meloni, 74, who, like many other elderly residents, lives on Social Security. ''I wish I could cut down on my medicals.'' 
 Ms. Meloni, a widow, expects her electricity bill to grow by $130 a month during the summer. 
 The municipality is one of 10 in the state that operate their own utility companies and provide power directly to residents. A nonprofit bargaining cooperative, the Public Power Association of New Jersey, buys electricity wholesale in an auction once every three years. 
 The decades-old arrangement has allowed South River, population 15,000, to maintain lower electricity rates than many other cities in the state, borough officials say. The town uses its annual surplus, which is generated by the utility and is about $1.5 million, to pay for municipal services and to offset property taxes. 
 The average South River consumer pays about $50 less a month for electricity than people who use large providers like P.S.E.&G., said Andrew J. Salerno, the borough's business administrator.
 The cooperative lost out when it bid for a new energy contract in May and had to pay around 67 percent more for electricity, said James A. Jablonski, the association's executive director. The higher price reflected the rising cost of energy nationwide. Towns like Park Ridge, in Bergen County, Seaside Heights, in Ocean County, and neighboring Milltown face a similar increase. 
 ''It's not like somebody woke up one day and said they wanted to do this,'' said Mayor-elect Raymond Eppinger, a member of the six-person municipal council and the sponsor of the ordinance to raise rates. ''Everyone on the voting body lives in South River. This is hitting all of us.'' 
 Residents are none too happy about the rate increase but feel powerless. 
 ''I certainly don't know how we are going to generate another $150 to $200 a month,'' said Edward L. Trygar, 49, who owns Trygar's Hardware Store. ''The economy has been bad all year. There's just too much competition to go around raising prices.'' 
 Rui Baptista, general manager of Ria Mar restaurant, expects to pay $30,000 more for electricity in 2008, which he said he would have to shift to his customers.
 It took months for the council to decide on the ordinance. In September, the vote on a 50 percent increase failed after Mayor Robert P. Szegeti, a Democrat, broke a tie that ran down party lines. In November, the council voted 3 to 1 to introduce the ordinance increasing the rate by 67 percent. Then last week, the Republican-dominated council passed it, 4 to 2. 
 ''Sixty-seven percent is just not good government,'' said David A. Sliker, council president and the lone dissenter in the November vote. He contends the town could balance its $14 million budget, maintain a significant surplus and pay for operational costs with a 40 to 50 percent electricity increase. He said the council should cut expenditures instead of relying on the utility surplus. 
 Mr. Eppinger and other Republicans disagree. And Mr. Salerno, the business administrator, appears to agree with the Republicans about the rate increase. 
 ''We could have catastrophic cutbacks,'' said Mr. Salerno, who added that the borough would be forced to reduce services like policing, fire rescue and park maintenance if the council had not approved the ordinance. 
 The political haggling only frustrated residents, some of whom wished the bitter medicine could have been administered in smaller doses. 
 ''They've been talking about this since May, and now the bomb is falling,'' Ms. Meloni said. ''The town looks really pretty with everybody's Christmas decorations, but next year, I don't know if we'll be in a blackout.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: RINGING UP Edward L. Trygar, owner of Trygar's Hardware Store in South River, says, ''I certainly don't know how we are going to generate another $150 to $200 a month.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); MAYORS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); AUCTIONS (73%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); AGING (70%); HARDWARE STORES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



554 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: I'm a Believer

BYLINE: By ANTHONY GOTTLIEB. 
Anthony Gottlieb podcasts for The Economist and teaches the history of ideas at the CUNY Graduate Center. He is writing a book about nothingness.

 BODY:
In the parable of the lost sheep, in the Gospel of Luke, Jesus says there shall be more joy in heaven over ''one sinner that repenteth'' than over 99 just persons who need no repentance. Never mind heaven: check out the joy on the Internet. In 2001, rumors started to hit the blogosphere that Antony Flew, a British philosopher born in 1923, had found God after six decades of atheism. At first Flew denied the reports. But in May 2004 he told a conference in New York that he had indeed changed his mind and become a believer. A flurry of online pundits debated the meaning of this shocking conversion. 
 Now, in a book written, according to its title page, ''with'' Roy Abraham Varghese -- of whom more later -- Flew tells the story of his ''discovery of the divine.'' This sounds like a victory for the faithful in the God wars: a welcome riposte to the atheist tomes of Richard Dawkins, Christopher Hitchens and Sam Harris. Although Flew is not ''the world's most notorious atheist,'' as the subtitle of ''There Is a God'' claims, and never was, even in his native Britain, he ought to count as quite a catch. Now retired from the University of Reading in Berkshire (he has also taught at Oxford and in Scotland, Canada and the United States), he is the author of several cogent and elegant works of philosophy, including accomplished critiques of religion. In many public debates he has vigorously made the case for unbelief. But I doubt thoughtful believers will welcome this volume. Far from strengthening the case for the existence of God, it rather weakens the case for the existence of Antony Flew. 
 The book has five main parts: a preface and an appendix by Varghese; an intellectual autobiography and an account of his case for God, attributed to Flew; and another appendix, on the historical evidence for the resurrection of Jesus, by N. T. Wright, the Anglican bishop of Durham. Varghese is an Indian-born business consultant who founded the Institute for MetaScientific Research in Texas, and writes and edits books on the interplay between science, religion and philosophy. He helped organize the conference at which Flew announced his conversion and is the author of a book, ''The Wonder of the World,'' that Flew recommends. Varghese has also written ''God-Sent: A History of the Accredited Apparitions of Mary,'' which argues that more than 50 such apparitions cannot be explained away as hallucinations and that there is better evidence for them than there is for any ostensible U.F.O. sighting.
 Wondrous apparitions and the Sci Fi Channel are a long way from the Oxford of the late 1940s, where Flew cut his philosophical teeth. But throughout his career, he has, he says, been willing to follow an argument wherever it leads and to be open to new evidence. Although he does not yet follow Varghese into Marianism (or even Christianity), Flew now thinks ''the world picture ... that has emerged from modern science'' points to an ''infinite Intelligence'' that brought the universe into being. He believes the fact that nature obeys precise mathematical laws, the fact that life and mind have emerged from inanimate matter, and the fact that the universe exists at all are best explained by positing a God. 
 Oddly, Flew seems to have turned into an American as well as a believer. His intellectual autobiography is written in the language of an Englishman of his generation and class; yet when he starts to lay out his case for God, he uses Americanisms like ''beverages,'' ''vacation'' and ''candy.'' It is possible that Flew decided to make some passages easier on the ears of American readers or that an editor has made trivial emendations for him. But it is striking how much of Flew's method of argument, too, has changed from that in his earlier works, and how similar it now is to the abysmal intellectual standards displayed in Varghese's appendix. In fact, Flew told The New York Times Magazine last month that the book ''is really Roy's doing.''
 Instead of trying to construct a coherent chain of reasoning in Flew's own words, the authors present a case that often consists of an assemblage of reassuring sound bites excerpted from the writings of scientists, popularizers of science and philosophers. They show little sign of engaging with the ideas they sketchily report. And they don't seem much bothered whether readers understand what they are trying to say: one crucial passage refers to a ''C-inductive argument'' for God, but doesn't explain what a C-inductive argument is. The pattern of the reasoning is always the same: a phenomenon -- be it life, consciousness or the order of nature -- is said to be mysterious, and then it is boldly asserted that the only possible explanation for it is ''an infinitely intelligent Mind.'' It is never said how or why the existence of such a mind constitutes an explanation.
 Flew's testament ends with a hint that his journey is not yet over. He has not, he says, made any contact with the infinite Mind: ''But who knows what could happen next? Someday I might hear a Voice that says, 'Can you hear me now?''' It is unclear whether Flew has lost the desire to reason effectively or whether he no longer cares what is published in his name. Either way, it seems that this lost sheep remains rather lost.
 THERE IS A GOD 
 How the World's Most Notorious Atheist Changed His Mind. 
 By Antony Flew with Roy Abraham Varghese. 
 222 pp. HarperOne/HarperCollins Publishers. $24.95. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID HEATLEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PHILOSOPHY (89%); WRITERS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (74%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); ACCREDITATION (65%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (62%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (77%); CANADA (74%); SCOTLAND (55%)

TITLE: There Is a God: How the World's Most Notorious Atheist Changed His Mind (Book)>; There Is a God: How the World's Most Notorious Atheist Changed His Mind (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



555 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Taxes Reassessed In Housing Slump As Prices Decline

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Home owners across the nation are looking to county governments to reassess the values of their homes in the face of flattening and falling prices that have befallen scores of markets. Downward assessments, done at the request of homeowners or pre-emptively by government, appear to be most pronounced in areas where the housing market was exploding just a few years ago, or where economic conditions are poorest. 
 In Maricopa County, the largest in Arizona, a ''large percentage'' of the one million single-family home owners will see their houses reassessed at lower rates in February, said Keith Russell, the county assessor. In Phoenix, the largest city in the county, housing prices fell 8.8 percent over the last year, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index, which monitors the residential housing market. 
 Among the roughly 200,000 parcels in Lucas County, Ohio, 7,083 owners requested reassessments in 2007, about 10 times the yearly average, said Anita Lopez, the assessor, who ran for office on a campaign to adjust assessments.
 ''Citizens know the market is slow if not declining,'' Ms. Lopez said, ''and they are informed and feel comfortable in challenging their county values. People here can't sell their homes, they have less money, and they don't understand why the government is asking for more money in a declining housing market.''
 Local governments, which rely heavily on property taxes, will have to find ways to replace lost revenue or face having to cut services, lay off staff members or delay projects. The possibility of those losses has alarmed officials in areas already facing large numbers of foreclosures and slumping sales, products, in part, of the mortgage credit crisis that has rippled through the country. [Sunday Business.] 
 ''Government has been the beneficiary of increasing home prices,'' said Relmond Van Daniker, the executive director of the Association of Government Accountants. ''And now they are on the other side of that, and they will have to reduce expenses.'' 
 While every state and local government has its own methods for assessing home values for tax purposes -- some do it annually, some every five years, and everything in between -- many counties are hearing from residents that they would like their homes reassessed, or have taken steps to bring the taxes down of their own volition. 
 While in some areas, a county or city is required to make whole any loss in revenues to schools, public education is a frequent beneficiary of property tax revenues. ''They are obviously concerned,'' Ms. Lopez said about her county's school systems.
 No one has aggregated the total number of counties reassessing home values, and many counties take at least a year to catch up to the marketplace. In some places where reassessments are rising, the numbers have yet to approach historical heights.
 For example, in 2007 roughly 1,800 homeowners asked for reassessments in Los Angeles County, far above the average of about 500, yet far below the tens of thousands of homeowners in Los Angeles who looked for tax adjustments during some years of the downturn in the 1990s. But elected officials and property tax experts said that the numbers were notable and that they expected them to grow in 2008.
 In San Bernardino County near Los Angeles, tens of thousands of owners of the 860,000 homes will have their assessments lowered in the coming year, said Bill Postmus, the assessor, rivaling the numbers during the California real estate crash of the 1990s. 
 ''You should see more of this activity,'' said Chris Hoene, director of policy and research at the National League of Cities. ''It is mostly in areas most likely to be seeing some decline, like Southern California, Florida, and big cities in the Midwest,'' rapid growth areas that are now seeing the other side of the curve.
 The United States Conference of Mayors recently released a report showing that the value of taxable residential land had declined by $2.9 billion in California from 2005 to 2008 based on current tax rates, and by hundreds of millions of dollars in other major cities. ''We are hearing a lot about this housing market change and its effect on city revenues every day,'' Mr. Hoene said
 Cities where home values have fallen the most are the obvious first place to look for residents clamoring for reassessments, but that is not always the case. Some states, like California, Michigan and Nevada, have statutory caps in property tax increases, which mean the market value of single family homes almost always exceeds the assessed tax values, except in a major downturn. 
 However, even in California, if a home buyer made his purchase during a market top in the last several years, he might be in the position of qualifying for lower assessed values. For instance, in Santa Clara County, where pricey Palo Alto and San Jose are located, 17,758 properties were reassessed downward for the 2007-2008 tax period, compared with the same period from 2000 to 2001, when the number was closer to 300. 
 ''Obviously 2001 was the dot-com boom,'' said Larry Stone, the Santa Clara assessor. ''And the whole assessment role in my county was carried by a very hot residential market,'' which has substantially cooled. 
 In his area, prices, and therefore values, remain strong in high end residential areas with great schools, Mr. Stone said. The coming reassessments are driven in large part in the lower and middle markets, especially the condo market, where the greatest part of the subprime lending problems have occurred. 
 Indeed, areas with high levels of foreclosures, vacant housing and a reduction in prices expect to see adjustments to the property taxes continue, which is bad news for local governments.
 ''Rising tax values are not usually a popular thing,'' Mr. Hoene said , but homeowners tend to accept it, even begrudgingly, when they know the market value of their home is on the rise. ''But the minute you think that your local government assessment practices are out of whack with what is happening in the market,'' he said, ''you will not accept it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOME PRICES (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAX ASSESSORS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); FORECLOSURE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); LAYOFFS (64%); ACCOUNTING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (77%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



556 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION: Sunday, December 23rd 2007

 BODY:
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Dec. 8, at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount, department stores and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Perennial sellers are not actively tracked. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 


	 	 		Weeks		This	On		Week	List	PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION		 	 	1	46	EAT, PRAY, LOVE, by Elizabeth Gilbert. (Penguin, $15.) A writer's yearlong journey in search of self takes her to Italy, India and Indonesia.		 	 	2	3	THE INNOCENT MAN, by John Grisham. (Delta, $16; Dell, $7.99.) Grisham's first nonfiction book concerns a man wrongly sentenced to death.		 	 	3	45	THREE CUPS OF TEA, by Greg Mortenson and David Oliver Relin. (Penguin, $15.) A former climber builds schools in Pakistan and Afghanistan.		 	 	4	133	INTO THE WILD, by Jon Krakauer. (Anchor, $12.95.) A man's obsession with the wilderness ends in tragedy.		 	 	5	59	90 MINUTES IN HEAVEN, by Don Piper with Cecil Murphey. (Revell, $12.99.) A minister on the other worldly experience he had after an accident.		 	 	6	100	THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Scrib ner, $15.) The author recalls a bizarre childhood during which she and her siblings moved constantly.		 	 	7	15	THE OMNIVORE'S DILEMMA, by Michael Pollan. (Penguin, $16.) Tracking dinner from the soil to the plate, a journalist juggles appetite and conscience.		 	 	8	174	TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE, by Mitch Albom. (Broadway, $13.95; Anchor, $6.99.) The author tells of his visits to his old college mentor. (&#8224;)		 	 	9	11	THE LIFE AND TIMES OF THE THUNDERBOLT KID, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $14.95.) A memoir of growing up in 1950s Des Moines.		 	 	10	3	TOO LATE TO SAY GOODBYE, by Ann Rule. (Pocket, $7.99.) A tale of jealous rage emerges in the inquiry into the apparent suicide of a dentist's wife.		 	 	11*	20	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Picador, $16.) A new edition of the Times columnist's analysis of 21st-century economics and foreign policy.		 	 	12	12	THE END OF AMERICA, by Naomi Wolf. (Chelsea Green, $13.95.) A defense of democracy and civil rights.		 	 	13	173	THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95.) A study of social epidemics, otherwise known as fads.		 	 	14*	14	THIS IS YOUR BRAIN ON MUSIC, by Daniel J. Levitin. (Plume, $15.) A rocker-turned-neuroscientist on the connection between music and human nature.		 	 	15	36	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $15.99.) The importance of instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	16	3	THIS I BELIEVE, edited by Jay Allison and Dan Gediman with John Gregory and Viki Merrick. (Holt, $14.) Eighty essayists complete the thought begun in the book's title; based on the NPR series.		 	 	17	10	I HOPE THEY SERVE BEER IN HELL, by Tucker Max. (Citadel, $12.95.) Reflections of a self-absorbed, drunken womanizer.		 	 	18	5	THE PORTABLE ATHEIST, edited by Christopher Hitchens. (Da Capo, $17.50.) Dozens of readings for nonbelievers, by voices past and present. 		 	 	19	6	CULTURE WARRIOR, by Bill O'Reilly. (Broadway, $14.95.) The ''O'Reilly Factor'' host describes a culture war between traditionalists and secular progressives.		 	 	20	169	THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Vintage, $14.95.) The tale of an architect and a serial killer, linked by the Chicago World's Fair of 1893.		 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); WRITERS (89%); NEWSSTANDS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); SUICIDE (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (73%); MITCH ALBOM (58%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2008



557 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WE; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Opening Our Eyes to Slavery

 BODY:
However capably federal lawyers may have prosecuted the case against Varsha and Mahender Sabhnani, who were convicted last week of enslaving and torturing two Indonesian women in their opulent home in Muttontown, Long island, it was certainly not brilliant or aggressive law enforcement that broke the case. 
 It was a timely convergence of luck, courage and kindness that brought the crimes to light. If one of the victims had not decided, in her desperation, to run away, then to linger half-naked outside a Dunkin' Donuts until an employee brought her in and called the police, the cruelties behind the walls of the house on Coachman Place may have continued in utter secrecy.
 Crimes like these, and their victims, are by their nature all but invisible. It is impossible to know whether the Sabhnani case -- with its accounts of women beaten, slashed, burned with cigarettes and scalding water, and forced to choke down hot chili peppers and vomit -- is extraordinarily aberrant or tragically commonplace.
 But it is not a stretch to say that the possibility of similar abuses in the New York region is great, given its abundance of wealth and of immigrants, and the prevalence of exploitation of undocumented workers in far more visible sectors of the economy. Human trafficking and slavery are global phenomena, and there is no reason to believe this region is somehow untouched by it.
 Wherever workers are vulnerable, they will be mistreated -- and who could be more vulnerable than a desperately poor immigrant toiling in a country whose language she does not understand, living in constant fear of dismissal or deportation, or of retaliation against her relatives back home?
 New York State enacted an antitrafficking law this year that does what it can to combat modern slavery. It makes it a felony to force immigrants into prostitution or other labor, and provides victims with emergency housing and health care and other services, to make it easier for them to come forward.
 The law is brand new, so local law enforcement agencies have only recently begun to put it to use. With added prosecutorial tools -- the authority to use wiretaps in investigations, for instance -- and more aggressive efforts to identify victims and to help them to escape their tormentors, there is hope for progress in coming years. 
 Still, even the best antitrafficking laws and most ambitious prosecutors can be stymied by fear. As long as there are victims who cannot bring themselves to flee, who cannot break the veil of silence or summon the courage to cooperate with the authorities, evil will out. 
 The women who escaped the Muttontown house of horrors are in a better place now. The daunting challenge is to spread that news to their hidden sisters and brothers throughout the region.
 ''For so long there has been a general sense that the system doesn't work for certain people,'' said Kathleen Rice, the Nassau district attorney, speaking of the mute, frightened, utterly vulnerable immigrants like the women who worked for the Sabhnanis. ''This case is so incredibly important,'' she said, ''because it sends the message that their complaints will be heard.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SLAVERY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); WOMEN (89%); IMMIGRATION (87%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FELONIES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (73%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (71%); FOREIGN LABOR (71%); DEPORTATION (71%); SEX TRAFFICKING (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (66%); WIRETAPPING (60%); PROSTITUTION (50%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (71%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (71%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



558 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Trade and Prosperity

 BODY:
With most polls showing that voters believe trade with other countries is hurting the American economy, it is not surprising that there has been a lot of posturing about the perils of trade on the campaign trail.
 Democrats have been most tempted by the protectionism. John Edwards likes to talk about how trade agreements like Nafta ''have hurt workers and families while helping corporate insiders.'' Senator Hillary Clinton has suggested that the economic theories underpinning the cause for free trade no longer hold, and has said she would review all of the United States' trade agreements.
 Even Republican candidates -- normally staunch supporters of expanding trade -- can sound skeptical. ''I don't want to see our food come from China, our oil come from Saudi Arabia and our manufacturing come from Europe and Asia,'' complained Mike Huckabee. Mitt Romney defends globalization's record of improving living standards, but cannot resist drawing an applause line by adding that the government should negotiate better with other countries to make sure ''the American worker gets a fair shake.'' 
 It would be unfortunate for the United States if the winner of the 2008 election elevated skepticism toward trade from a red-meat sound bite on the campaign trail to a new wave of protectionist policy. 
 Many Americans are experiencing economic anxiety. Wages for most workers are going nowhere. It is a sad fact that despite enormous gains in productivity over the past few decades, the wages of typical workers are only marginally higher than they were a quarter of a century ago. But throttling trade -- say, by reconsidering existing agreements -- would hurt a lot more people than it helped. There is scant evidence that trade has played a big role in holding down typical workers' wages. There is abundant evidence that it has contributed substantially to America's overall economic growth. It offers American producers access to foreign markets. It multiplies choices for producers and consumers. Foreign competition spurs productivity growth at home. 
 Trade, like technological change, can produce wrenching dislocations that hurt some workers. But trade barriers are not the proper tool to deal with these changes. What is needed is a bold strategy to rebuild a functioning safety net, deploying some of the vast wealth this nation has gained through globalization to assist those hurt by the forces of economic change. This will allow Americans to embrace globalization, rather than fear it.
 The planks of this strategy include health care reform, to ensure that workers who lose their jobs do not also lose access to affordable health insurance, and a form of extended unemployment insurance for all displaced workers, not just those hurt by trade. More progressive taxation -- using tools like the earned income tax credit -- should be used to address the stagnation of incomes. And more should be spent on the continuous training and education of workers throughout their lives.
 It is unclear whether the next president will have the vision to carry through these changes. The Republican candidates' posturing on trade has been pretty much substance-free. But considering the field's uniform approach to economic policy, in which all taxes are bad and most nondefense spending is worse, it is unlikely that a Republican president would be interested in investing in such an expansion of America's social safety net. 
 The Democratic candidates, on the other hand, tend to be on the right side of the discussion on issues like universal health care, education and social spending. But all of them have included hints of defensive trade policies amid their proposals. Barack Obama has offered the most resistance to the easy path of blaming imports from foreign countries for the woes of the American middle class. ''Global trade is not going away, technology is not going away, the Internet is not going away,'' he said in New Hampshire. ''And that means enormous opportunities, but also means more dislocations.''
 But Mrs. Clinton proposes a ''timeout'' on future trade agreements, including the World Trade Organization's global trade negotiations, and a reconsideration of existing deals -- including Nafta, a cornerstone of Bill Clinton's presidency. Mr. Edwards also talks of ''redoing'' Nafta. All the Democratic candidates agree that trade agreements should be amended to attach provisions about minimum labor standards. 
 These changes would do virtually nothing to protect American workers from the disruptions wrought by trade, technology and other economic forces. A protectionist agenda would hurt them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (67%); INCOME TAX (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); TAX LAW (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



559 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: The Loan Crisis Wasn't an Accident

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''In Reversal, Fed Acts to Tighten Mortgage Rules'' (front page, Dec. 19):
 The subprime debacle could cost hundreds of thousands of people their homes, and it might also precipitate a recession. Its cause is the rigid, unrealistic ideology of the ''magic of the free market'' -- with its doctrinaire aversion to almost any regulation of our financial systems.
 This ideology is also the underlying reason that Alan Greenspan, when he was chairman of the Federal Reserve, refused to take any action even when knowledgeable experts repeatedly warned him about an out-of-control mortgage market. 
 It's not so much that the barn door was closed after the animals had escaped but that there was a deep-seated resistance to door-closing.
 Russ Weiss Princeton, N.J., Dec. 19, 2007
 To the Editor: 
 The plan proposed by the Federal Reserve to deter unfair and deceptive lending practices in the future is clearly a positive step. 
 But the fallout from the credit crisis affecting millions of individual homeowners in the United States has been amplified into a much bigger problem, an international problem, by the rampant and unregulated use of credit derivatives. 
 This arcane packaging and reselling of mortgages raises the question: Why has there been so little examination, let alone talk of regulation, of that befuddling and clearly dangerous practice?
 Joseph Urla New York, Dec. 18, 2007
 To the Editor:
 You report that there's a new Bush administration plan to restrict lending practices. Excuse me? Is this a breach in the Bush religion of the ''free market''? 
 Bernard E. Brown Fairway, Kan., Dec. 19, 2007
 The writer is a former co-chairman of the National Association of Consumer Advocates. 
 To the Editor:
 Re ''A Crisis Long Foretold'' (editorial, Dec. 19) and ''Fed and Regulators Shrugged as the Subprime Crisis Spread'' (front page, Dec. 18):
 Financial engineering now permits lenders to transfer the risk of imprudent mortgage loans to others. The disturbing aspect is the fact that the ''others'' accepting these high risks are not unsophisticated investors but large institutional players presumed to be capable of fending for themselves. 
 By averting its eyes to both the dot-com and housing bubbles, the Fed lulled even professional investors into believing that commonplace risks could be eliminated through ''new era'' designs.
 Bevis Longstreth New York, Dec. 19, 2007
 The writer was a member of the Securities Exchange Commission from 1981 to 1984.
 To the Editor:
 As a citizen, I wonder about Alan Greenspan's legacy. Though I didn't always understand the language he spoke as Federal Reserve chairman, I watched him for years as the captain of our economy, tasked with bringing order when financial chaos threatened.
 All I can think of now is a man who contributed greatly, by inaction, to the housing bubble and who, by approving of President Bush's needless tax cuts for the rich, contributed greatly to income inequality in this country. 
 Now, Mr. Greenspan appears very defensive of his legacy.
 Brant Thomas Brooklyn, Dec. 19, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Alan Greenspan's refusal when he was Fed chairman to take any action against the housing bubble should not surprise many people. He and other neoconservative economists rarely see the need for any controls to be placed on the free market.
 How many more reminders do we need that when sectors of the economy affecting consumers go unregulated, it's often the poor and uneducated who disproportionately suffer?
 Elliot Podwill New York, Dec. 18, 2007
 To the Editor:
 The mortgage crisis can be attributed to a number of factors, from the greed of the originators of the loans to the ignorance of unsophisticated borrowers. 
 Not least among the culprits are the advocates of ''getting the government off our backs.'' This canard dates back to the Reagan administration and has been perpetuated by the Bush administration.
 The talk by right-wing politicians and their supporters about the oppression of big government is usually an attempt to return to the laissez-faire practices reminiscent of the Victorian-era Social Darwinists. 
 As more people become victims of the ''hands off'' policies of our elected officials and their appointees, the populism former Senator John Edwards is advocating in his presidential bid will gain greater appeal. 
 John A. Viteritti Southold, N.Y., Dec. 19, 2007

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Gabriele Wilson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); WRITERS (78%); FAIR LENDING (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



560 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 8268 words

HEADLINE: The Clinton Referendum

BYLINE: By MATT BAI. 
Matt Bai, who covers national politics for the magazine, is the author of ''The Argument: Billionaires, Bloggers and the Battle to Remake Democratic Politics.'' www.mattbai.com.

 BODY:
Winter's first storm punished the White Mountains of New Hampshire on the Friday before Thanksgiving, rendering the terrain all but impassable. And yet in Gorham, a small town 50 miles from the Canadian border, hundreds of people shuddered patiently in the snow, in a line that snaked halfway around Gorham Middle-High School, while Secret Service dogs sniffed the gymnasium for bombs. ''I've got a lot of people freezing out here,'' a campaign aide barked into a phone, as if this might make the agents go any faster. When they finally allowed everyone in, a few of the 500 or so folding chairs remained unfilled, but the place was humming with excitement; a teacher near me was saying that this was the biggest thing to happen here since Dwight Eisenhower visited in the 1950s. 
 For the first time since that infamous year of 1992 -- the year when Gennifer Flowers, ''Stand by Your Man'' and ''the Comeback Kid'' entered the political canon -- Bill Clinton was coming back to New Hampshire's North Country, the place where his legend was born. Clinton loves the Granite State. As it happened, I was standing with him earlier that week in South Carolina when an aide told him that he was going to be campaigning for Hillary in New Hampshire, and his eyes lighted up behind his reading glasses. ''I am? Where'm I goin'?'' Now he strode into the gymnasium through a side door, his face flushed with emotion, accompanied by the nostalgic bars of Fleetwood Mac's ''Don't Stop.'' (They were nostalgic back then, for crying out loud.) Clinton is now lean and regal, his hair an almost metallic white, and he was dressed in a taupe suit with a light green tie, trailing a small entourage and waving warmly. The room erupted in cheers and whistles. Over his head a banner proclaimed: ''The Change We Need! HillaryClinton.com.''
 ''When Hillary first announced she was running for president, she came right to the North Country, and I was so jealous,'' Clinton said. ''I want to thank you for arranging the snow today. It made me feel right at home. I took a nap in the car, and when I woke up I thought it was 1992.'' The crowd laughed appreciatively. Many in the audience probably recalled that he had all but lived in these parts for a year before that campaign; after his election, he even gave some of the families he met along the way his special ZIP code at the White House, so they could keep in touch.
 Clinton began his speech, as he always does now, with a disclaimer, saying that if he wanted to, he could certainly give a big ''whoop-dee-do'' speech that would get everybody riled up, but that this was a serious time in America, and it deserved a serious speech. Clinton doesn't like to play an overtly political role anymore; he enjoys the statesmanlike aura that surrounds any ex-president, and he is not about to undermine it, even for his wife's campaign. Instead, he spoke to the Gorham audience in somber tones, telling them that a lot of the crises now confronting the North Country brought to mind 1992 as well. The paper mill in nearby Groveton had just announced it would close a few days after Christmas, kicking 300 workers to the street. 
 ''You're hurtin' up here because of this mill closing,'' he said. ''But you should know just how close millions upon millions of your fellow Americans are to your experience.'' He went on to quietly castigate the Bush administration for running up foreign debt and straining the military to its limits in Iraq, and he talked about Hillary's plans to bring health-care coverage to all Americans, build a new jobs program around alternative energy and revamp the education system, beginning with early-childhood programs. ''A lot of you already know this,'' he said of his wife's work on education issues in Arkansas, ''because I talked about it when I was running.''
 Even without the allusions to the old days, his speech seemed strangely reminiscent of that first campaign, and not necessarily in a good way. Listening to him talk, I found it hard not to wonder why so many of the challenges facing the next president were almost identical to those he vowed to address in 1992. Why, after Clinton's two terms in office, were we still thinking about tomorrow? In some areas, most notably health care, Clinton tried gamely to leave behind lasting change, and he failed. In many more areas, though, the progress that was made under Clinton -- almost 23 million new jobs, reductions in poverty, lower crime and higher wages -- had been reversed or wiped away entirely in a remarkably short time. Clinton's presidency seems now to have been oddly ephemeral, his record etched in chalk and left out in the rain.
 Supporters of the Clintons see an obvious reason for this, of course -- that George W. Bush and his Republican Party have, for the past seven years, undertaken a ferocious and unbending assault on Clinton's progressive legacy. As Clinton points out in his speeches, Bush and the Republicans abandoned balanced budgets to fight the war in Iraq, widened income inequality by cutting taxes on the wealthy and scaled back social programs. ''We've had now seven years of a radical experiment in extremism in domestic policy,'' Clinton said in New Hampshire.
 Some Democrats, though, and especially those who are apt to call themselves ''progressives,'' offer a more complicated and less charitable explanation. In their view, Clinton failed to seize his moment and create a more enduring, more progressive legacy -- not just because of the personal travails and Republican attacks that hobbled his presidency, but because his centrist, ''third way'' political strategy, his strategy of ''triangulating'' to find some middle point in every argument, sapped the party of its core principles. By this thinking, Clinton and his friends at the Democratic Leadership Council, the centrist think tank that served as a platform for his bid for national office, were so desperate to woo back moderate Southern voters that they accepted conservative assertions about government (that it was too big and unwieldy, that what was good for business was good for workers) and thus opened the door wide for Bush to come along and enact his extremist agenda with only token opposition. In other words, they say, he was less a victim of Bush's radicalism than he was its enabler.
 ''His budget policies were pretty much an extension of Bush I, and his economic policies were largely an extension of Wall Street,'' says Robert Borosage, co-director of the left-wing Campaign for America's Future. Ideologically, Borosage told me, Clinton's presidency fit snugly into the era of Reagan and Bush. Faced with ascendant conservatism, he says, ''Clinton saw his job, in a sense, as getting the Democratic Party to adjust to it, rather than to resist it.''
 Aside from a few partisans on each end of the spectrum, there aren't neatly delineated camps on this question, with Clinton lovers on one side and critics on the other. Rather, a lot of Democrats seem genuinely conflicted, on practically an existential level, when it comes to Clinton. They almost uniformly admire the former president; 82 percent of Democrats polled by Fox News in November had a favorable opinion of Clinton, and, in a New York Times poll released earlier this month, 44 percent of Democratic voters said they were more inclined to support Hillary's candidacy because of him. And yet, they regard with suspicion, if not outright resentment, the centrist forces he helped unleash on the party. They might love Bill Clinton, but they loathe Clintonism. And it is this conflict that has, in recent weeks, become a subtle but important theme of the 2008 campaign, as Hillary Clinton's rivals try to portray her as the Return of the Great Triangulator. Whatever else these Democratic primaries may be about -- health-care plans, global warming, timetables for withdrawal from Iraq -- they are, on some more philosophical and even emotional level, a judgment on the '90s and all that those tumultuous years represent.
 Hillary Clinton's combative advisers say they welcome that dynamic. ''If our opponents want to make this a referendum on Bill Clinton's presidency, they are making a mistake,'' Howard Wolfson, Clinton's communications director, said in an e-mail message, ''both because it's a referendum they would lose on the merits and because Democrats are focused on the future and the change that needs to be made going forward.'' And yet Clinton's team often seems perplexed by a political quandary unlike any that has come before: how to exploit all the good will that Democrats have for Bill Clinton without allowing Hillary Clinton to become a constant reminder of the things they didn't like about his presidency. Generally, the campaign's preferred solution is simply not to talk about it. When I asked Bill Clinton about this issue, during an informal meeting in South Carolina, he readily agreed to sit down for a longer interview on his legacy's role in the campaign. A few weeks later, however, and at the last minute, Hillary's aides canceled the interview. Famously controlling, they would not even allow the former president to talk about his record.
 Listening to Bill Clinton that day in New Hampshire, however, it was clear that whether or not he talks about it, his wife's fortunes are bound up with his, and vice versa. Near the end of his speech in Gorham, he went off on an engaging tangent, as he sometimes does, about the trees he saw from his car window that morning, and how at one time New Hampshire was almost devoid of trees, and how Teddy Roosevelt led a national effort to replenish the forests. ''But Theodore Roosevelt proposed a lot of ideas that fell flat on their face until Franklin Roosevelt passed them,'' Clinton went on. ''The important thing for us to do is to fight for the right thing and keep fighting for it until we finally get it done.'' I had heard Clinton compare himself with T.R. before, but this was the first time I heard him do so publicly, and it struck me as an aside that would have made his wife's advisers wince, if they noticed it. He seemed to be suggesting that Hillary's job as president would be to cement his own unfinished legacy -- provided, of course, that his legacy, or at least a widely held perception of it, didn't end up derailing her first.
 A little over a year ago, while working on a book about the Democratic Party's divisions, I discussed that legacy with Bill Clinton in his Harlem office. Hillary Clinton had just begun running for the White House, and her husband was already trying to help neutralize her critics on the left; when I arrived at the office, Clinton was meeting with about 20 influential bloggers, who were gnawing on barbecued chicken and enjoying their first-ever audience with a former president. When I entered his office a while later, Clinton had his back to me and was busy rearranging the photos on his shelves, as if trying to get the visual narrative of his presidency exactly right. He recited a litany of his accomplishments -- the first sustained rise in real wages since 1973, the biggest land-protection measure in the lower 48 since Teddy Roosevelt, victories against the tobacco and gun lobbies -- and told me he couldn't understand the allegation that his administration wasn't really progressive.
 ''I think that if 'progressive' is defined by results, whether it's in health care, education, incomes, the environment or the advancement of peace, then we had a very progressive administration,'' Clinton said. ''I think we changed the methods -- that we tried also to reflect basic American values, that we tried to do it in a way that appealed to the broad middle class in America. We sure did, and I don't apologize for that. The question is: Were the policies right or not? And I think in terms of the political success I enjoyed, people have given more credit to my political skills than they deserve and less credit to the weight, the body of the ideas.'' 
 At the end of that interview, as he walked me to the lobby, Clinton mentioned a favorite quote from Machiavelli's book ''The Prince'' and told me to look it up. When I got back to Washington, I thumbed through the book until I found the rambling passage, and this is what it said:
 It must be considered that there is nothing more difficult to carry out, nor more doubtful of success, nor more dangerous to handle, than to initiate a new order of things. For the reformer has enemies in all those who profit by the old order, and only lukewarm defenders in all those who would profit by the new order, this lukewarmness arriving partly from fear of their adversaries, who have the laws in their favor; and partly from the incredulity of mankind, who do not truly believe in anything new until they have had an actual experience of it. Thus it arises that on every opportunity for attacking the reformer, the opponents do so with the zeal of partisans, the others only defend him halfheartedly, so that between them he runs great danger.
 It's not hard to see why the postpresidential Bill Clinton sees himself in this quotation, and it says a lot about how he views his own place in American politics. In Clinton's mind, the New Democrats of the late '80s and early '90s and their ''third way'' approach represented a call for fundamental reform, not just of the Democratic Party but also of the country's industrial-age government. For that, he has been pilloried by Republican business interests, who were doing just fine under the old system, and ''lukewarmly'' defended by Democrats who resist any real break with the past.
 There are, among Democrats, dueling interpretations of what Clintonism means and how it came into being. The most popular version now, by far, is that Clintonism was chiefly an electoral strategy, a way of making Democrats sound more acceptable to conservative voters by softening the party's stances on ''values'' issues like guns, welfare and abortion and introducing pallid, focus-grouped phrases like ''work hard and play by the rules'' and making abortion ''safe, legal and rare.'' In other words, Clinton was basically as liberal at heart as any other Democrat who marched for civil rights and protested the Vietnam War, but he was a brilliant political strategist who instinctively understood the need to rebrand the party. 
 Even some of Clinton's friends from the old days -- those lukewarm defenders of the faith -- accept this basic version of history. ''Clintonism was about winning,'' says Susan Estrich, the longtime Democratic strategist and pundit. ''It was about grabbing victory from the jaws of defeat. If you were a Democrat of a certain age, it was like being a Red Sox fan -- you never won. And even when you won, you lost, because you got Jimmy Carter. Clinton led us out of the desert when no one else could.'' 
 On the other hand, Clinton's more ardent supporters, those few who were there at the beginning, argue that Democrats have badly miscast him as an expedient strategist, when in fact he was a visionary and a modernizer. ''He used to tell me all the time, 'One of these days, people are going to figure out that I actually believe in this stuff,' '' Al From told me recently. From and the Democratic Leadership Council that he founded in the 1980s have in recent years become a kind of convenient stand-in for Clinton, the main object of acid derision from liberal bloggers who prefer to savage someone other than the former president himself for the evils of Clintonism. Clinton was the chairman of the D.L.C. when he ran for president, and much of his campaign rhetoric came from its work.
 ''I don't want to see what I think is his greatest achievement diminished,'' From told me. ''Just as Franklin Roosevelt saved capitalism by dealing with its excesses, Clinton saved progressive governance, and he saved progressive governance all over the world.''
 Clinton's critics on the left may scoff at this idea, but it's fair to say that the discussion of Clintonism among party activists and especially online often displays a stunning lack of historical perspective. For a lot of younger Democrats, in particular, whose political consciousness dates back only as far as 1994 or even to the more recent days of Clinton's impeachment, the origins of Clintonism have become not only murky but also irrelevant. ''Clintonism'' is, in much of the Democratic activist universe, a synonym for spinelessly appeasing Republicans in order to win, an establishment philosophy assumed to comprise no inherent principles of its own. 
 Lost in all this is the fact that, back in the day, Clinton and his New Democrats were themselves the outsiders taking on the ruling interest groups of the Democratic establishment the analog to bloggers and MoveOn.org activists, albeit from a different ideological direction. And it took no small amount of courage, at the end of the Reagan era, to argue inside the Democratic Party that the liberal orthodoxies of the New Deal and the Great Society, as well as the culture of the antiwar and civil rights movements, had become excessive and inflexible. Not only were Democratic attitudes toward government electorally problematic, Clinton argued; they were just plain wrong for the time.
 Immediately after assuming the chairmanship of the D.L.C. in 1990, Clinton issued something called the New Orleans Declaration, which laid out the D.L.C.'s attack on old liberalism in a series of 15 core principles. By today's standards, these principles don't amount to much more than typical Clintonian rhetoric, but at the time, they seemed like a good way for a young Democratic governor to permanently marginalize himself in a party dominated by Big Labor, civil rights leaders and Northeastern liberals. Among the stated principles in the manifesto:
 ''We believe that economic growth is the prerequisite to expanding opportunity for everyone. The free market, regulated in the public interest, is the best engine of general prosperity.''
 ''We believe in preventing crime and punishing criminals, not in explaining away their behavior.''
 ''We believe the purpose of social welfare is to bring the poor into the nation's economic mainstream, not to maintain them in dependence.''
 In 1991, as Clinton prepared for what was then considered a quixotic run for president against a popular incumbent, he expanded on his governing philosophy in a series of speeches that, revisited now, are striking both for their confrontational approach toward expansive liberal government -- especially coming from a candidate who needed party regulars to win -- and for their ideological consistency with what would later come to pass during the Clinton era. He laid out a forceful case for improving and decentralizing decades-old institutions, from public schools to welfare, and modeling government after corporate America. He talked about revamping a Democratic Party that for 30 years was closely identified with the problems of the poor and retooling it to address the anxieties of a distressed middle class.
 ''There is an idea abroad in the land that if you abandon your children, the government will raise them,'' Clinton said at a D.L.C. gathering in Cleveland in 1991, referring to fathers in the inner city. ''I will let you in on a secret. Governments do not raise children -- people do. And it's time they were asked to assume their responsibilities and forced to do so if they refuse.''
 In the same speech, Clinton outlined a new Democratic ethos based on the idea of consumer choice. ''In the information age, monopoly decisions handed down on high by government bureaucracies are not always the best way to go,'' he said. ''With appropriate protections against discrimination based on race or income, we can provide our people more choices: child-care vouchers, public-school choice options, job training programs, choices for the elderly. ...
 ''Is what I just said to you liberal or conservative?'' he went on to ask. ''The truth is, it is both, and it is different. It rejects the Republicans' attacks and the Democrats' previous unwillingness to consider new alternatives.''
 This, in a few lines, was the essence of Clintonism. Was it an innovative governing vision or a cynical strategy? The truth is, it was both. There is little doubt that as governor of Arkansas, Clinton believed passionately in the need to modernize liberalism and overhaul industrial-age programs, including popular entitlements and ''welfare as we know it.'' He grew up in hard circumstances and was raising his own child in a household with two working parents; his concern for the middle class was real, and it reflected a changed reality for a lot of baby-boomer families that older Democrats simply didn't comprehend. But Clinton also believed his centrist message was the only way for a Democrat to win in the era after McGovern and Mondale, when running as a liberal candidate seemed only slightly more practical than running as a Marxist. And in order to get his party's nomination, Clinton had to convince beleaguered liberals not so much that he was right about the party's philosophical irrelevance -- this probably wasn't possible, in any event -- but that his was the only way to regain the White House. He sold Clintonism as a matter of conviction and a promising electoral strategy, and both were sincere propositions.
 Once in the White House, however, for some reasons within his control and many that were not, Clinton seemed to list inexorably toward the tactical side. He can claim some genuine advances in keeping with the spirit of his fundamental argument about government: the crime bill; welfare reform; the Family and Medical Leave Act; expanding the Earned Income Tax Credit, which pulled millions of working Americans out of poverty. These weren't small achievements, and Clinton has received less credit for them than he deserves. And whether you attribute to him any part of the technology boom that created a vast amount of American wealth or believe instead that he simply had the good fortune to happen upon it it's only fair to acknowledge, as historians almost certainly will, that Clinton presided more than ably over a historic economic expansion, leaving the nation in far better fiscal shape than he found it. 
 Still, a combination of events -- first the collapse of Hillary Clinton's health-care plan, then the Republican Congressional takeover of 1994 and later, of course, the debilitating sex scandal that led to his impeachment -- seemed to drain the administration of its capital and ambition. Clinton's presidency seemed, at least from the outside, to devolve into an exercise in deflection and survival, a string of near-death experiences that left little space or energy for whatever sweeping agenda Clinton (and his wife) envisioned back in 1992. As the transformational governing vision of earlier years receded, bland, poll-tested rhetoric and endless scandals rushed in to fill the void -- and became, in the minds of many Democrats, the hallmarks of Clintonism.
 For a lot of liberals (those who now call themselves progressives), the '90s were a conflicted time. They never really bought the ideological premise of Clintonism, and they quietly seethed as the president moved his party to the center -- enacting free-trade agreements over the objections of union leaders; embracing balanced budgets and telling Americans that ''the era of big government is over''; striking a deal to give Republicans a long-sought overhaul of the welfare system. (In fact, Clinton had been talking about welfare reform for at least a decade before his presidency, but few Democrats believed his eventual support for the bill was anything other than a craven attempt to bolster his re-election prospects.) They felt embarrassed by the Lewinsky affair and the sordid controversy that devoured Clinton's second term like flesh-eating bacteria. 
 There were five syllables that for these Democrats summed up all the failures of Clintonism: ''triangulation.'' The word was originally popularized by Dick Morris, who advised Clinton in the dark days of the mid-'90s (and who, not incidentally, was brought in to the White House by the first lady). Triangulation, as Morris intended it, is probably best described as the strategy of co-opting the issues that attract voters to your opponents by substituting centrist solutions for the ideological ones they propose, thus depriving them of victory. (In other words, if your opponents are getting traction with their demands to dismantle a broken welfare system, you acknowledge the problem but propose a middle-ground way of restructuring it instead.) To a lot of avid Democrats, however, triangulation became shorthand for gutless compromise, for saying and doing whatever you think you must in order to win.
 No doubt Clinton's style of leadership contributed to this impression as much as the substance did. There were moments, little remembered or appreciated by his critics, when Clinton demonstrated icy resolve and an indifference to polls: the budget showdown with Newt Gingrich and Congressional Republicans in 1995; the bombing of Serbia in 1999 to stop its aggression in Kosovo. More often, though, Clinton seemed determined to confirm his reputation as an agonized, late-night decision maker, a leader heavily influenced by the last guy to leave the room. Classic half-a-loaf policies like the ''don't ask, don't tell'' rule for gays in the military, along with frequent paralysis over crises like the genocide in Rwanda, created what would become an enduring impression that Clintonism was code for fecklessness.
 Even so, such resentments were tempered by the fact that Clinton managed to deliver the White House not once but twice; among Democrats in the 20th century, only Woodrow Wilson and Franklin Roosevelt had done the same. He almost single-handedly pulled the Democratic Party back from its slide into irrelevance. Liberals swallowed hard and endured Clinton's pragmatic brand of politics because they assumed that Clinton's success would beget more success and, ultimately, a more progressive government.
 Of course, it didn't work out that way. First came the election of 2000, which Democrats believed was swiped from their grasp with little protest from the party's Washington leaders. Next came compromises with George W. Bush on tax cuts and education reform. Then came the back-breaker: in the vote on the Iraq war resolution in 2002, many Democrats in Washington -- including, most conspicuously, Hillary Clinton, then an unannounced presidential candidate -- sided with President Bush in a move that antiwar liberals could only interpret as a Clintonian calculation to look tough on terror. If so, a lot of good it did; Congressional Democrats were demolished at the polls a few weeks later. 
 After that defeat, many longtime liberals, often coming together in the new online political space, began to voice a different thought: What if they had gone along with Clintonism for nothing? What if the path to victory lay not in compromising with Republicans but in having the fortitude to fight ruthlessly and to defend your own convictions, no matter how unpopular they might be? This was the moment in which Howard Dean's explosive presidential campaign -- and the grass-roots progressive movement it spawned -- began to flourish. It was grounded in the idea that Clintonism, far from representing the postindustrial evolution of Democratic thought, had corrupted the party of the New Deal and the Great Society -- and, taken to its logical end, had led Democrats and the country into a catastrophic war.
 Even before they knew for sure that she was running for the presidency, Hillary Clinton's top aides had to figure out how best to handle the growing tumult inside their own party. As a senator, Clinton had been, if anything, more centrist than her husband; she worked across the aisle with the likes of Bill Frist and Lindsey Graham, and her voting record on foreign policy placed her among the most conservative Democrats, only a few paces to the left of Joe Lieberman. There is no reason to think such stances on the issues didn't accurately reflect Hillary's convictions, but they had the added bonus of positioning her as eminently moderate and ''electable'' -- both in New York State, where she won 67 percent of the vote in her 2006 re-election, and in the rest of the country.
 The party, however, seemed to be moving in a different direction. Liberal activists online and in the states, in the wake of Dean's losing campaign, were noisily demanding more confrontation and less Clintonian compromise from their Washington leaders. By the time Hillary Clinton formally announced her candidacy for president, a group of these activists -- money guys, bloggers, MoveOn.org -- had just combined forces to knock off Lieberman in a stunning primary upset (although Lieberman did manage to retain his seat in the general election), and these same grass-roots Democrats were lashing out at Clinton for her vote to authorize the invasion of Iraq. Some Clinton supporters in Washington thought they could see an ominous train coming down the track, and they wondered if the candidate didn't need to get some distance between herself and her husband's legacy, to position herself as a more partisan Democrat before it was too late.
 Mark Penn steadfastly disagreed. Penn, who was Bill Clinton's chief pollster during the '90s, also emerged as Hillary's most influential strategist. Penn had argued for years, going back to the Clinton White House, that Democrats won when they occupied the bipartisan, common-sense center of the political spectrum. And even in a primary campaign, Penn said he believed that Democrats had such personal loyalty toward the Clintons that they would forgive a few ideological differences they might have with the senator, especially if they thought those differences made her palatable to a wide swath of independent voters. When I suggested to Penn, back in 2005, that there might be a strong backlash emerging against the notion of Clintonism, he waved me away. ''Strong backlash?'' Penn scoffed, reminding me that the former president had a 70 percent approval rating in the country as a whole. ''In this environment, that is a notion I would have to laugh at.'' 
 In the end, Hillary Clinton tried to straddle the line. She broke with her husband in small but significant ways. She criticized the free-trade policies that he had long championed but that were now anathema to much of the Democratic base. She promised to abandon ''don't ask, don't tell'' and to amend the Defense of Marriage Act, which Bill Clinton signed. At the same time, Hillary Clinton has, from the start, reminded voters that she was a crucial member of her husband's White House. (''I was deeply involved in being part of the Clinton team,'' she said at a recent debate, in response to a question about foreign policy.) Vowing to be a pragmatic, bipartisan president, she signed on to lead an initiative with the D.L.C. and welcomed the endorsement of such figures as Robert Rubin, the Clinton Treasury secretary whose push for deficit reduction in the early '90s has made him a lasting figure of revulsion for anti-corporate liberals. Despite intense pressure from John Edwards and Barack Obama, she publicly refused to swear off donations from industry lobbyists, and she spoke out in favor of a House vote to approve a new free-trade agreement with Peru. At the YouTube/CNN debate in July, she pointedly refused to describe herself as a liberal. 
 When Clinton, alone among the party's presidential hopefuls, voted in September for a Senate resolution labeling the Iranian Revolutionary Guard as a terrorist group, a resolution the other Democrats charged would empower Bush to pursue yet another military strike, it looked to a lot of Democrats like an all-too-familiar Clintonian dash toward the center. Clinton seemed to be feeling secure as the front-runner and already looking ahead to the general election, where she planned to occupy the same moderate space her husband had. By then, though, voters in Iowa and New Hampshire had begun to pay closer attention to the race, and the attacks on Clintonism were beginning to resonate.
 There are at least three different angles from which Edwards and Obama have tried, often subtly, to trash Clintonism without criticizing the former president himself. The first might be called the triangulation story line. Edwards unsheathed the word like a poison-tipped arrow at the same 
 YouTube debate where Hillary Clinton declined to be called a liberal. ''Do you believe that compromise, triangulation, will bring about big change?'' he asked the audience. ''I don't.'' Thwang. Since then, Edwards has at every opportunity tried to encourage liberal voters in their view that the Clinton era was a time of craven calculation and surrender to the conservative movement. In October, after Clinton was asked in a debate if she supported a New York State plan to give driver's licenses to illegal immigrants -- and after she tried to twist her way out of answering with such tenacity that she nearly invented a new yoga position -- the Edwards campaign released a video titled ''The Politics of Parsing,'' which showed Clinton contradicting herself on other issues too. The subtext was clear: Do you really want to go through all that again?
 Obama, who once vowed to adhere to the ''new politics'' of genial campaigning, has picked up on this same triangulation theme with evident enthusiasm in recent months. In Spartanburg, S.C., last month, he said that Clinton had been running a ''textbook'' campaign -- whose textbook wasn't hard to discern -- that ''encourages vague, calculated answers to suit the politics of the moment, instead of clear, consistent principles about how you would lead America.'' Later in the month, at a dinner for leading Iowa Democrats, Obama used the dreaded epithet itself. ''Triangulating and poll-driven positions because we're worried about what Mitt or Rudy might say about us just won't do,'' he said, as Hillary Clinton sat a few feet away. 
 The second narrative aimed at the Clinton years, pursued mostly by Edwards, is the one about corporate corruption. This one argues that Bill Clinton turned the Democratic Party into a holding company for Wall Street financiers, pursuing a series of economic policies that were bad for workers but kept the party flush with cash. By this theory, balanced budgets and free trade were more about winning elections at any cost than they were about creating an expansive economy, and they led directly to the Bush epoch and its alarming inequality. This is why Edwards spent weeks hammering at Clinton over her continued acceptance of lobbyists' money (despite his own reliance on donations from trial lawyers, who do plenty of lobbying themselves). The point was to remind voters that when Bill Clinton rented out the Lincoln Bedroom, Hillary was sleeping down the hall.
 Obama, meanwhile, has been going after the Clinton legacy with a third story line: Boomer fatigue. Never mind whether Bill Clinton or Newt Gingrich was to blame, Obama says -- the point is that the two parties had each other in a death grip throughout the '90s, and vital business went unfinished as a result. If you really want things to stay that way, he says, then vote for another Clinton and watch these self-obsessed baby boomers go at it all over again. When Obama leaned on Hillary Clinton for not pushing to declassify all of her papers from the Clinton White House, he was offering voters a reminder of all the lawyers and investigations, the missing billing records, the constant subpoenas for cabinet members that never seemed to go away. 
 ''You have to be careful to be honest, and being honest means giving President Clinton his full due,'' David Axelrod, Obama's main strategist, told me not long ago. ''I don't think Obama is arguing that Bill Clinton is a bad person or a bad president, or that Hillary Clinton is a bad person or a bad senator. That's not what we're saying. We're saying that we have to move forward and get beyond these old battles.''
 By taking on the Clinton legacy through imagery and innuendo, Hillary's rivals seem to have brought to the surface feelings of profound ambivalence, among many voters, about what that era really meant. She still holds a substantial lead in national polling, but in Iowa a flurry of recent polls have shown Clinton tied with Obama, and her lead among women there -- a critical piece of her formula for victory -- has eroded precipitously. According to a Washington Post-ABC News poll earlier this month, only half the voters thought Clinton was ''willing enough'' to say what she ''really thinks about the issues,'' compared with three-quarters for her two main rivals. Perhaps more troubling for the Clinton camp, the race in New Hampshire, where the Clintons are essentially family, appeared to have tightened considerably. While polls from New Hampshire have varied widely, making their reliability something of a guessing game, a poll jointly conducted a few weeks ago by WMUR in Manchester and CNN found that Clinton's 20-point lead there had completely evaporated.
 Clinton's aides described all this as the inevitable dynamic of a race in its later stages, when voters really focus on their choices for the first time. But as Iowa edges closer, their campaign has seemed on the edge of panic. Earlier this month, Clinton, who had always tried to appear vaguely amused at her opponents' antics, started flailing away at Obama. First she assailed him for saying he hadn't always wanted to be president when, in fact, he wrote an essay in kindergarten saying that he did intend to one day occupy the Oval Office. (She shrewdly left out the fact that every other 5-year-old in America says the exact same thing.) On that same day, Wolfson, her communications director, appearing on ''Face the Nation,'' charged that Obama had been operating a ''slush fund'' through his political action committee. Then one of Clinton's national campaign co-chairmen in New Hampshire pointedly suggested that Obama, who has admitted to using drugs when he was younger, would be vulnerable, as the nominee, to questions about whether he gave drugs to others or even sold them. That was too much for the candidate herself, who felt compelled to apologize personally.
 For his part, Bill Clinton has tried to restrain himself. In his later years, the Big Dog, as bloggers sometimes refer to him, has transcended politics and even ordinary celebrity; like Paul McCartney or Muhammad Ali, Clinton is now a historical figure who remains a breathing, walking presence, and when he enters a room of strangers, even those who didn't vote for him react as if witnessing a small miracle. On Veterans Day, as I trailed Clinton through South Carolina, he dropped in on Jack's Cosmic Dogs, where he ordered up a chili dog with fries -- now that his foundation was on a crusade against childhood obesity, Clinton told me with mock gravity, it was vital that he sample the offending food every so often -- and made his way to all the tables so the customers could swoon and take pictures. 
 ''Oh, these iPhones take good pictures!'' he exclaimed to one young mother as she looked around for a volunteer photographer to snap her portrait with the former president. A few minutes later, I heard him talking into another woman's cellphone while she looked on nervously. ''Hi, there, this is Bill Clinton! No, seriously! It is!''
 As he doused his fries in ketchup, Clinton told me that he was generally more inclined to want to ''pop back'' at Edwards or Obama than his wife was, but he had to remind himself that Hillary was plenty capable of defending herself. There have been reports in the last few weeks about Clinton's lashing out at strategists and meddling in his wife's campaign; insiders say this has been exaggerated, but some of Clinton's friends and former advisers told me that the attacks from rivals irritate Clinton a lot more now, when they are directed at his wife, than they did when he was running. (''As a candidate, he was absolutely bulletproof -- it never bothered him,'' says Paul Begala, one of Clinton's 1992 advisers.) What he takes even more personally -- and should, really -- is the unmistakable premise that underlies the sniping, that somehow his own presidency was bad for the country and the party. 
 On those rare occasions when the former president hasn't been able to resist defending his wife or burnishing his own record, the results haven't been especially helpful. Unlike Hillary Clinton and her team of advisers, who are relentlessly on message and disciplined, Bill Clinton is a more instinctual politician, given to improvisational moments that must torment his wife's obsessive-compulsive aides. In November, Clinton suddenly asserted during a campaign appearance in Iowa that he opposed the invasion of Iraq from the beginning -- an aside that he needn't have offered and that clearly contradicted not only his wife's Congressional vote but his own statements in the build-up to the war. Aides told me that he had simply misspoken, and that seemed plausible enough, but the minor incident only served to reinforce the image that Edwards and Obama were doing their best to conjure. In trying, perhaps unconsciously, to exonerate himself among his persistent liberal critics, Clinton reminded even sympathetic voters of the qualities that had made him seem maddeningly incapable of standing on principle or admitting fault. Here was the statesman Bill Clinton, wizened and mature, telling us once again that he didn't inhale.
 There is, however, a rich paradox in the strategy that Obama and Edwards are employing in their quest to dislodge Clinton from her perch atop the field. The plain fact is that, for all their condemnation of Bill Clinton's governing philosophy, both Obama and Edwards -- and just about every other Democratic candidate in the field, with the possible exception of Dennis Kucinich, who seems to have been teleported straight from 1972 -- spend a fair amount of time imitating him. So thorough was Clinton's influence on Democratic politics, so transformative were his rhetoric and his theory of the electorate, that Democrats don't even seem to realize anymore the extent to which they owe him their political identities.
 Obama can rail about poll-tested positions and partisanship if he wants, but some of his most memorable speeches since being elected to the Senate have baldly echoed Clintonian themes and language. He has repeatedly called on poor African-Americans to take more responsibility for their parenting and their children's education, and he has been skeptical of centralized federal programs for the poor, advocating a partnership between government and new kinds of community-based nonprofits. He has railed against ''a mass-media culture that saturates our airwaves with a steady stream of sex, violence and materialism.'' Such ''values'' stances were far outside the mainstream of the party before Bill Clinton expressed them. 
 In an impressive 2005 commencement speech at Knox College, Obama talked about economic transformation. ''Instead of doing nothing or simply defending 20th-century solutions, let's imagine together what we could do to give every American a fighting chance in the 21st century,'' he said. ''What if we prepared every child in America with the education and skills they need to compete in the new economy? If we made sure that college was affordable for everyone who wanted to go? If we walked up to those Maytag workers and said, Your old job is not coming back, but a new job will be there because we're going to seriously retrain you and there's a lifelong education waiting for you?
 ''Republicans will have to recognize our collective responsibilities,'' he went on, ''even as Democrats recognize that we have to do more than just defend old programs.'' Bill Clinton could have spoken those exact words in 1991. In fact, it would be hard to find a better summation of the substance behind Clintonism.
 Similarly, Edwards, doing his best William Jennings Bryan impression, lashes out at the policy priorities of the '90s and at poverty deepened by corporate venality, but his arsenal of specific proposals includes expanding the Earned Income Tax Credit and accelerating the process of moving people out of public housing and into mixed-income neighborhoods. These new ideas are actually extensions of Clinton-era programs; they may be notable for their boldness but not for their originality. And even Edwards, in criticizing the lack of aid for poor Americans, has constructed his ambitious agenda on the central premise that people should get assistance only if they're willing to work for it. In today's environment, this hardly qualifies as noteworthy -- there's no serious Democratic candidate who would propose anything else -- but it represents a marked shift from the party's stance on welfare programs before Clinton started talking about those who ''work hard and play by the rules.''
 ''Despite all the protestations, Clinton's third-way politics and governing philosophy have as much of a hold on these Democratic candidates as the New Deal mind-set did on generations before,'' says Jonathan Cowan, whose think tank, Third Way, has emerged as the next iteration of the D.L.C. ''Clinton's politics have basically become the DNA of Democrats seeking the White House, and it's almost certain that they would all govern from that Clintonian center if they actually became president.'' Even the party's leaders in Congress, newly empowered by an uprising against Republican hegemony, continue to speak in the measured tones of Clintonian centrism.
 Clinton's rhetorical influence, in fact, spans not just the Democratic Party but really the entire spectrum of American politics. Today politicians throw around phrases like ''the new economy'' or ''the information age'' as if they have always been part of the political lexicon, and yet most ordinary voters didn't really grasp that America was undergoing a profound upheaval -- moving from an industrial economy to one centered on intellectual and service industries -- until Clinton showed up to masterfully explain it. Few American politicians talked about ''globalization'' before Clinton, as a candidate, stood on factory floors and argued that the next era's economy would be nothing like the last, and that for workers, the transition would be painful but also full of promise. Clinton wasn't the first candidate to grasp this change and to put it into words, but he was by far the most persuasive. He also articulated a philosophy of how to deal with these challenges that transcended the binary ideological struggle between outright entitlement and Darwinian self-reliance. When you go into a hospital now and see a placard on the wall that lists a patient's ''rights'' directly opposite his ''responsibilities'' as a citizen, that's Clinton's influence. At its best, Clintonism represented a more modern relationship between government and individuals, one that demanded responsibilities of both.
 Words aren't the same thing as achievements, of course, but at critical points in history, they can move a country forward by modernizing the debate, and in this way, Clinton's comparing himself with Theodore Roosevelt, the president who dragged politics into the industrial age, is apt. Perhaps it's true that Clinton's presidency will be remembered as a series of lost opportunities -- ''the Great Squandering,'' as the historian David Kennedy recently described it to me. But it's also possible that history will record Bill Clinton as the first president of the 21st century, the man who synthesized the economic and international challenges of the next American moment, even if he didn't make a world of progress in solving them.
 This may be the defining difference between the candidacies of Bill Clinton and his wife, between Clintonism and Hillaryism, if such a thing can be said to exist. Like most successful outsiders, Bill Clinton directly challenged the status quo of both his party and the country, arguing that such a tumultuous moment demanded more than two stark ideologies better suited to the past. By contrast, Hillary Clinton's campaign to this point has been mostly about restoring an old status quo; she holds herself up as the best chance Democrats have to end eight years of Bush's ''radical experiment'' and to return to the point where her husband left off. It has been a strong but safe campaign, full of nondescript slogans (''I'm In to Win!'' ''The Change We Need!'') and familiar, if worthy, policy prescriptions. That might be a shrewd primary strategy, but winning a general election could well require a more inspiring rationale. Nonincumbents who go on to win the White House almost always take some greater risk along the way, promising changes more profound -- if potentially more divisive -- than a return to normalcy. The reformer runs great danger. The more cautious candidate merely runs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (78%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); THANKSGIVING (73%); REFERENDUMS (62%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



561 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; AGE OF RICHES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2755 words

HEADLINE: Two Candidates, Two Fortunes, Two Distinct Views of Wealth

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
By the final weeks of 1984, well before either turned 40, John Edwards and Mitt Romney had already built successful careers. But the two men were each on the verge of an entirely new level of financial success.
 Mr. Edwards, then making a nice salary as a lawyer at a small North Carolina firm, spent early December staying at the Inn on the Plaza in downtown Asheville. Scattered around his room were documents relating to his first big malpractice case, a lawsuit filed by a man named E. G. Sawyer, who used a wheelchair after his doctor had overprescribed a drug. On Dec. 18, at the courthouse opposite the hotel, a jury awarded Mr. Sawyer $3.7 million. 
 In Boston, Mr. Romney had risen to become a vice president at Bain & Company, an upstart management consulting firm, and had been chosen to run a spinoff investment firm known as Bain Capital. He spent the end of 1984 flying around the country -- in coach class, to save money and to show his investors how serious he was about turning a profit -- visiting companies and deciding whether to invest in them.
 In the decade that followed, Mr. Edwards would win one big verdict after another, and Mr. Romney would oversee a series of hugely profitable investments. 
 Like thousands of other Americans in a global, high-technology economy in which government was pulling back and wealth was being celebrated, Mr. Edwards and Mr. Romney used talent, hard work and -- as both have suggested -- luck to amass fortunes. They became a part of a rising class of the new rich. 
 Whether this class is a cause for concern -- whether it deserves some blame for the economic anxiety felt by many middle-class families -- has become a central issue in the 2008 presidential race. And Mr. Edwards and Mr. Romney are basing their candidacies in large measure on the very different lessons each has taken from his own success. 
 ''Some people come from nothing to being wildly successful and their response is, 'I did this on my own,''' Mr. Edwards said in an interview. ''I came to a different conclusion. I believe that I did work hard, and I think people should work hard, but I think my country was there for me every step of the way.'' 
 Today, he added, ''the problem is all the economic growth is going to a very small group of people.'' 
 Mr. Romney, by contrast, talks about the ways that his experiences at Bain showed him how innovative and productive the American economy can be and, particularly, how free markets can make life better for everyone. 
 ''There is a model of thought among the Democrats -- that the amount of money, the amount of wealth in a nation, is a fixed amount,'' he said in an interview. ''And that if Bill Gates and Warren Buffett are making a lot of money, that just means somebody else is not able to make as much. That happens to be entirely false.''
 The two men represent a clear divide between the Democratic and Republican parties over whether the government should redistribute more wealth, from the rich downward, now that economic inequality is greater than it has been since the 1920s. 
 Mr. Romney and Mr. Edwards also represent a divide among the affluent themselves. Many of the new wealthy -- the great majority, in all likelihood -- see their success as a sign of this country's economic strength. Yet there is also a minority -- including Mr. Buffett and William H. Gates Sr., Mr. Gates's father, who have both opposed eliminating the estate tax -- worried about inequality. 
 Mr. Edwards is running perhaps the most populist campaign of any major candidate in a generation. He has called for universal health insurance, tighter trade restrictions, more financial aid for college students and higher taxes on the rich. In several cases, his main Democratic rivals have followed his lead. The political system is now rigged to help the rich, Mr. Edwards says, which makes a journey like his, from modest beginnings to the middle class and far beyond it, much harder than it was. 
 Mr. Romney agrees that the middle class is feeling pinched. But he says government can help by becoming smaller and by promoting competition in areas like health insurance and public schools. Those steps, as he sees it, would reduce taxes, lower the cost of health insurance and improve the quality of medical care and education.
 ''Rather than trying to take money from some to give to others, the best approach is to find ways to make everyone better off,'' he said.
 Even if neither man gets his party's nomination, the argument over wealth and inequality is likely to play a big role in next year's campaign. Polls show that the economy is now the top concern of many voters.
 Every leading Democratic candidate has proposed rescinding the Bush administration's tax cuts on households making at least $250,000, saying the money can be better used on programs to help the middle class. Every leading Republican candidate favors making the tax cuts permanent, saying that tax increases would hurt economic growth and, by extension, the middle class. 
 Generational Changes
 Mr. Romney's father, George, also made it to the top rungs of the corporate ladder. He was an automobile executive who, in 1947, named his youngest son -- the one now running for president -- Willard Mitt Romney, in honor of J. Willard Marriott, a close friend who later founded the Marriott hotel chain. In 1954, George Romney was appointed chief executive of the American Motors Corporation, maker of the Rambler and the Hudson Hornet cars.
 He earned an average of about $275,000 a year over the next decade, according to tax returns that he released to a writer for Look magazine when the elder Mr. Romney was preparing to run for president in 1968. That translates to about $1.8 million a year in today's dollars. 
 By any standard, George Romney was a rich man. But he did not make anything close to what his son has made. Mitt Romney is worth as much as $350 million today, making him one of the wealthiest presidential candidates in recent decades.
 The differences between the two generations of Romneys are remarkably consistent with broader trends. George Romney's pay as a chief executive put him in the 99.99th percentile of the income distribution, meaning that he was making more money than all but 1 in 10,000 other Americans at the time.
 In 2005, someone at the equivalent spot in the distribution earned almost $10 million, according to research by two economists, Emmanuel Saez and Thomas Piketty. This richest 0.01 percent of earners made 5.1 percent of all income that year, up from just 1.2 percent in 1960. 
 One reason for the change is basic economics. In a global, high-technology economy the most successful workers can be more productive and can play on a bigger field. American Motors didn't diversify into other industries and didn't sell many cars in other countries. Bain Capital has had much greater scope -- just as hedge funds and other generators of wealth have. 
 Under Mr. Romney, Bain took advantage of new financial instruments like junk bonds, borrowing money to make big bets and, when they paid off, big returns. The firm also inserted itself into a variety of industries. It helped transform office supplies from a local business into a national one, by financing a business plan that turned into Staples. 
 ''I don't think of Mitt Romney in a C.E.O. context, because that's not what he has done,'' said Vin Weber, a former congressman from Minnesota advising Mr. Romney. ''Mitt Romney has run a company where the sole mission was to look at companies and figure out how to make them more successful.''
 Mr. Romney argues that the analytical skills he honed at Bain would be an enormous asset in the White House. He would use them, he suggests, to fix the economy's problems while leaving alone its many healthy parts. His economic message is considerably more upbeat than that of the Democrats or of Mike Huckabee, his main rival in Iowa.
 ''I think the fundamentals of our economy are sound,'' Mr. Romney said. ''We are an innovative nation with enviable levels of productivity and high levels of education. And the combination is such that America has a strong and growing economy.''
 As Mr. Romney argues in a PowerPoint presentation on the campaign trail, the main role of government is to allow the free market to do its work. One of his advisers, R. Glenn Hubbard, helped devise President Bush's tax cuts. Another, N. Gregory Mankiw, succeeded Mr. Hubbard as the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under Mr. Bush. 
 At the same time, Mr. Romney tries to use his business experience to distance himself, gently, from Mr. Bush. He has lamented the response to Hurricane Katrina and portrays himself as pragmatic and competent. His time in the business world has made him willing to accept ''three-quarters of a loaf,'' Mr. Hubbard said, when the alternative is standing on principle and accomplishing nothing.
 Mr. Romney also says that government has an important role to play -- negotiating trade deals that are more favorable to this country, for instance, and setting up a well-functioning market for health insurance. He has proposed exempting from taxes the earnings on investments that are made by households earning less than $200,000. The plan would have a ''double impact,'' he says, helping the middle class while creating a bigger pool of capital to finance new businesses.
 He makes a version of this point often: it's possible to come up with policies that benefit families up and down the income ladder. 
 ''Sometimes I get frustrated when I hear politicians say there are two Americas,'' Mr. Romney said this month on a campaign stop at a general store in Windham, N.H., referring to the theme of Mr. Edwards's 2004 campaign. ''I don't believe there are two Americas.''
 Income Gap Widens
 Mr. Edwards, as he often reminds audiences, is the son of a mill worker. His father, Wallace Edwards, recalled in an interview being paid 75 cents an hour when he was hired by Milliken & Company in 1951. That was the federal minimum wage then and translates to about $6 an hour today. In a full year, Wallace Edwards made as much money as George Romney did in a few days.
 The careers their sons chose reflect that fact: Mr. Romney became rich investing in corporate America, and Mr. Edwards became rich doing battle with it. Yet they also have benefited from the some of the same broad forces that have created the new rich -- including a cultural change in how Americans view money. By the 1980s and 1990s, the accumulation of a great fortune had become something to celebrate.
 At Bain Capital, Mr. Romney owned 100 percent of the firm's voting stock -- an example of the hero status conferred on executives. Mr. Edwards, for all of his legal skills, was able to amass $30 million in net worth partly because juries became more willing to confer large personal-injury verdicts. With some of his earnings, he built a 28,000-square-foot home in North Carolina.
 George Romney, on the other hand, voluntarily turned down $268,000 in pay over five years when he was chief executive, which was equal to about 20 percent of his total pay during that time. In 1960, for example, he refused a $100,000 bonus. Mr. Romney had previously told the company's board that no executive needed to make more than $225,000 a year (about $1.4 million in today's dollars), a spokesman for American Motors explained at the time, and the bonus would have put him above that threshold.
 Cultural norms and basic economics, then, are two main reasons the rich have become richer. Mr. Edwards's campaign is focusing on the third: the ways that government policy has intensified the trends.
 Over the past generation, both the Democratic and Republican parties have embraced more free-market policies. There have been obvious reasons for the drift. Central planning was exposed as a failure across the Soviet empire, while the socialist-leaning economies of Europe have struggled to keep up with the growth rates of the more open American economy. 
 But Mr. Edwards argues that the changes have gone too far. As he campaigns across Iowa and New Hampshire, he says that the tax code now favors wealth over work, that Washington lobbyists protect drug and health insurance companies and that trade deals are written to lift corporate profits rather than the middle class.
 And Mr. Edwards's broad argument -- that the middle class is not doing as well as it used to -- also has evidence on its side. The income of the median family has risen only about 25 percent in the last 30 years, after adjusting for inflation. From 1947 to 1977, the same measure more than doubled.
 Most telling, perhaps, is the fact that there have been only brief periods since World War II, like the late 1990s, when incomes of the wealthy and the middle class were both rising sharply. From the late 1940s to the late 1970s, the incomes of the middle class surged while those of the top 0.01 percent rose only slightly faster than inflation. Since the late '70s, the opposite has happened. Middle-class incomes have trailed inflation in the current decade.
 ''I think most Americans think that the economic disparity that exists in America today is worse than they can remember in a long time,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''Every step of my life has reinforced the notion that -- unless there's some obstacle that you can't do anything about -- that if you work hard enough in America, you can do anything. I think, though, that those obstacles are too high and too difficult for most people.''
 To restore what he considers the right balance, Mr. Edwards would go further than either Hillary Clinton or Barack Obama on several economic issues. Mr. Edwards would try to repeal the Bush tax cuts for everyone making at least $200,000 -- not $250,000 -- and he would do so as soon as he took office, not waiting until they expire in 2011. He also favors a law forbidding banks from giving subprime mortgages, which have higher average interest rates, to people who could qualify for loans with lower rates. 
 In the American Prospect, a liberal magazine, Ezra Klein called Mr. Edwards ''the first genuine populist in decades with a serious shot at the presidency.''
 His populist bent helps explain why only one high-profile economist -- James K. Galbraith of the University of Texas, the son of John Kenneth Galbraith -- has joined the campaign. Some economists have been especially dismayed by Mr. Edwards's negative talk about trade.
 ''I believe in a market economy,'' Mr. Edwards responds. ''I think that's sort of the foundation for everything I'm saying. But I believe in a market economy that works for everybody, so there's fairness.'' 
 Whatever their differences with Mr. Edwards, both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama have moved toward him on several issues, like health care and trade. In all three Democratic campaigns, advisers say they believe that economic anxiety has made voters more open to government action than they once were.
 ''People say, 'How do you know this is going to resonate?''' said Leo Hindery Jr., a former chief executive of media and communications companies, who is Mr. Edwards's senior economic adviser. ''And the answer is, 'It's a different world.'''
 The Campaign Messages
 Republicans argue that Democrats, and especially Mr. Edwards, are overplaying their hand. Criticizing tax cuts for the rich, Mr. Romney said, has not been a winning political strategy. ''This isa country where opportunity is more important to us than dependence and ease,'' he said.
 In the final days before voting begins, neither Mr. Romney nor Mr. Edwards is emphasizing his own finances, for obvious political reasons. Instead, the two candidates talk about the work that led to their wealth. 
 Mr. Romney speaks about his managerial skills and notes that not one of the leading Democrats has ever run a large organization. Mr. Edwards talks about his record as a lawyer who fought for ordinary people against the rich and powerful.
 But the political careers of each man has very much depended on his money. Mr. Edwards self-financed his 1998 Senate campaign, while Mr. Romney spent millions of dollars to become the governor of Massachusetts and has lent his presidential campaign millions more. 
 Indeed, if the two men had not been part of the wealth explosion of the last few decades, they probably would not be traveling around the country right now arguing over how to think about that wealth explosion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MITT ROMNEY: ''Sometimes I get frustrated when I hear politicians say there are two Americas. I don't believe there are two Americas.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
JOHN EDWARDS, at his childhood home: ''Some people come from nothing to being wildly successful and their response is, 'I did this on my own.' I came to a different conclusion.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: FAMILY INCOME (SOURCES: THOMAS PIKETTY AND EMMANUEL SAEZ FROM I.R.S.
 DATA: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE FROM CENSUS DATA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERVIEWS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (76%); JURY TRIALS (75%); VERDICTS (75%); LAWYERS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); FAMILY (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%)

COMPANY: BAIN & CO (70%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (90%); MITT ROMNEY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



562 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: The High Price of Parking

BYLINE: By ALEX GARVIN and NICK PETERSON. 
Alex Garvin, a former member of the City Planning Commission and the author of ''The American City: What Works, What Doesn't,'' and Nick Peterson are urban planning consultants.

 BODY:
AFTER years of traffic jams and air pollution, New Yorkers are finally starting to rethink the role of cars in our city. Mayor Michael Bloomberg's PlaNYC initiative has suggested programs like congestion pricing, new bike lanes and expanded mass transit. But city policy has not yet addressed a confusing tangle of off-street parking rules that still quietly encourage automobile use. These requirements not only add to congestion and pollution, they also make life in the city more expensive for every New Yorker. 
 In most of New York City, a developer who puts up a new building is required to provide a minimum number of parking spaces. These requirements were first put in place in 1950, when the prevailing wisdom was that the automobile would be the transportation mode of the future. 
 Planners and civic leaders believed that New York had to make itself car-friendly if the city was to grow and prosper. So it responded by requiring developers to build off-street parking for their tenants. These new rules, which varied according to the uses and location of the buildings, seemed like sound planning at the time: force the parking onto private property and solve the public's problem.
 But off-street parking requirements have themselves become an expensive problem: developers must devote money and space to parking lots and garages, or not build at all. This limits the supply of housing, retail and office space, creating higher rents for residents and businesses, and higher prices for consumer goods. 
 Like any market distortion, parking requirements have created their own set of absurd choices. For example, affordable housing developers looking to build in most parts of New York outside of Manhattan must either provide parking that their target market can't use, forgo construction altogether or change their mission and construct fewer apartments for higher income tenants. 
 The parking requirement also creates a subsidy for cars at the expense of the economy and environment. By forcing developers to provide parking, we are making it easier to drive. In New York, the public transit capital of America, this is disgraceful.
 Over the years, an incoherent patchwork of consumer, traffic and zoning laws has accrued to regulate parking. The city's Zoning Resolution alone contains more than 165 exasperating pages of parking rules. Amazingly enough, this dizzying array of regulations didn't begin with an accurate inventory of the city's parking stock. One of the few positive developments came in 1982, when the City Planning Commission, on orders from the federal government to reduce air pollution, reversed course and greatly restricted the construction of new parking in a large part of Manhattan (and, since 1995, part of Long Island City). However, the city routinely makes exceptions to these limits by issuing special permits and creating special districts. In short, New York City lacks a consistent parking policy, and that needs to change.
 We should not be forcing developers to build inappropriate parking spaces. Instead, we should allow the market to function by eliminating the parking minimums across the city.
 There are still parts of New York that depend on the car, and in these places, developers will include parking on their own to make sure they can sell or rent what they build. But developers in areas with accessible public transit and available parking should be given the flexibility to adapt accordingly.
 Eliminating the parking requirements will reduce traffic congestion and pollution, and it will free acres of land for new housing, stores and offices. It will allow all developers to build more affordable housing and encourage more convenient, transit-friendly retail and commercial destinations.
 The result will be cleaner air, cheaper housing and more opportunities for working families and small businesses. And all that New York will have to give up is some outmoded thinking. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (91%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); ZONING (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITIES (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); AIR QUALITY (78%); MAYORS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (72%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (69%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007



563 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WE; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Editorial: Protecting a $155 Billion Pot

 BODY:
New York's comptroller, Thomas DiNapoli, one of the most powerful people in the state, came to office in the wrong way. His friends and colleagues in the State Assembly anointed him over numerous more qualified contenders. Nevertheless, Mr. DiNapoli has worked hard to make up for the way he was chosen, devoting his first year in office to reforming his own job in ways that serve the public interest. 
 As things stand now, the comptroller's office can easily be used for the wrong reasons and the wrong purposes. The comptroller is the sole trustee of the state pension funds, now valued around $155 billion. There was a time when investment choices were comparatively simple. Now they are as complex as the economy itself, yet comptrollers operate with little oversight or public notice.
 Though a fundamental restructuring of the state's investment policy is likely to take years to accomplish, the long-range goal should be to replace the sole trusteeship system with a comptroller and an independent board of directors. For the short term, Mr. DiNapoli, Gov. Eliot Spitzer and Eric Dinallo, the insurance superintendent, have announced new regulations that should shed some light on the secretive investment process, and a committee has been formed to assess the need for more changes. 
 The goal is to shield investment decisions from conflicts of interest and political hanky-panky, and to that end, the new rules would create an independent audit committee to help oversee the state's management of the pensions. There are also new disclosure standards for those who make money -- management fees, fixer fees, attorneys fees, you name it. If those work as promised, the public should be able to tell whether the people who make money investing state pensions are also the people who make big contributions to candidates and political bosses.
 Another good sign is that both the comptroller and Mr. Spitzer are encouraging Mr. Dinallo to audit the pension fund more frequently than every five years as required by law. Other public pension funds in the state, including New York City's, should welcome similar oversight. Even though the state's insurance superintendents have the authority to watch over pensions, they have seldom done more than the minimum.
 The pension money has lately become a matter of interest to the state attorney general and Albany's district attorney. In particular, investigators want to know whether an associate of Alan Hevesi, Mr. DiNapoli's predecessor, was paid placement fees to steer pension investments toward his clients. This is the kind of cozy relationship that, along with the question of how comptrollers raise money, requires the most careful examination from not only investigators but also the press.
 Mr. DiNapoli has moved forward in trying to make the comptroller's office more open and accountable to the public. He should keep aiming in that direction. One of the comptroller's jobs is to keep tabs on other branches of government. Mr. DiNapoli is right to clean the windows in the comptroller's glass house.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (86%); AUDITS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (72%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (71%); LAWYERS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); ALBANY, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



564 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Changing the Rules Dec. 16-22

 BODY:
THE NEWS The Federal Reserve proposed barring lenders from making subprime mortgage loans without verifying that borrowers can realistically afford to make the payments, in addition to imposing other checks on risky practices. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS For years, the Fed was reluctant to rein in the dubious lending practices that fueled the housing boom, only to have its hand forced by the collapse of the subprime market this summer. The rules would restrict the use of ''no-doc'' loans, meant originally for self-employed people and others whose income was inconvenient to document. These loans came to be used to push through mortgages with onerous terms for people with little income.
THE NEWS Congress approved a plan to spare some 20 million more federal income taxpayers from having to pay the alternative minimum tax.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The tax, originally meant to ensure that rich people did not loophole their way to a zero income tax bill, has increasingly ensnared the upper middle class, especially in places with high property taxes and a state income tax -- making it a big revenue earner. Democrats wanted to pair the A.M.T. relief with other tax and spending changes that would offset the $50 billion in foregone revenue, but Republicans refused, and won. The deal is only good for 2007 income, so the whole argument is likely to replay next year. 
 THE NEWS The Federal Communications Commission adopted new rules that will allow more newspapers to own radio and TV stations in large markets, but cap the share of the national market that a cable operator can have. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS Many newspaper owners (including The New York Times Company) have broadcast stations that were ''grandfathered in'' under current rules, which were meant to preserve a diversity of voices and viewpoints. The argument made successfully by the commission chairman, Kevin J. Martin, above, was that the proliferation of cable television channels and new online media in recent years have made those concerns less relevant. 
 THE NEWS The Environmental Protection Agency told 17 states, including New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and California, that they could not set their own standards for carbon dioxide emissions from cars and trucks.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Denying a two-year-old application, the agency said that it was up to the federal government, not the states, to regulate carbon emissions from vehicles, which are implicated in global warming. The Bush administration argued for years that the E.P.A. had no such power, only to be told differently in April by the Supreme Court. The fuel-economy goals in the new energy bill would cut emissions much less than the states wanted to.
 THE NEWS Donald Fehr, the head of the baseball players' union, and Bud Selig, above, the commissioner of baseball, agreed to discuss proposals to combat players' use of steroids, human growth hormone and other banned performance enhancing substances.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The starting point will be the recommendations made in the Mitchell report on the use of banned enhancers, but the talks could lead to reopening the union contract between baseball and its players -- for the third time in three years. The union has long been skeptical of increased testing and monitoring of players, and the commissioner has been criticized for moving too slowly on the issue. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REED SAXON/ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIKE MERGEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS
KEVIN WOLF/ASSOCIATED PRESS
MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JONATHAN FICKIES/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (87%); EMISSIONS (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); INCOME TAX (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); APPROVALS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); CABLE INDUSTRY (69%); CABLE TELEVISION (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); GREENHOUSE GASES (66%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (64%); BASEBALL (61%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (61%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (61%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (60%); STEROIDS (60%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (82%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%)

PERSON: KEVIN MARTIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



565 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Editorial: Protecting a $155 Billion Pot

 BODY:
New York's comptroller, Thomas DiNapoli, one of the most powerful people in the state, came to office in the wrong way. His friends and colleagues in the State Assembly anointed him over numerous more qualified contenders. Nevertheless, Mr. DiNapoli has worked hard to make up for the way he was chosen, devoting his first year in office to reforming his own job in ways that serve the public interest. 
 As things stand now, the comptroller's office can easily be used for the wrong reasons and the wrong purposes. The comptroller is the sole trustee of the state pension funds, now valued around $155 billion. There was a time when investment choices were comparatively simple. Now they are as complex as the economy itself, yet comptrollers operate with little oversight or public notice.
 Though a fundamental restructuring of the state's investment policy is likely to take years to accomplish, the long-range goal should be to replace the sole trusteeship system with a comptroller and an independent board of directors. For the short term, Mr. DiNapoli, Gov. Eliot Spitzer and Eric Dinallo, the insurance superintendent, have announced new regulations that should shed some light on the secretive investment process, and a committee has been formed to assess the need for more changes. 
 The goal is to shield investment decisions from conflicts of interest and political hanky-panky, and to that end, the new rules would create an independent audit committee to help oversee the state's management of the pensions. There are also new disclosure standards for those who make money -- management fees, fixer fees, attorneys fees, you name it. If those work as promised, the public should be able to tell whether the people who make money investing state pensions are also the people who make big contributions to candidates and political bosses.
 Another good sign is that both the comptroller and Mr. Spitzer are encouraging Mr. Dinallo to audit the pension fund more frequently than every five years as required by law. Other public pension funds in the state, including New York City's, should welcome similar oversight. Even though the state's insurance superintendents have the authority to watch over pensions, they have seldom done more than the minimum.
 The pension money has lately become a matter of interest to the state attorney general and Albany's district attorney. In particular, investigators want to know whether an associate of Alan Hevesi, Mr. DiNapoli's predecessor, was paid placement fees to steer pension investments toward his clients. This is the kind of cozy relationship that, along with the question of how comptrollers raise money, requires the most careful examination from not only investigators but also the press.
 Mr. DiNapoli has moved forward in trying to make the comptroller's office more open and accountable to the public. He should keep aiming in that direction. One of the comptroller's jobs is to keep tabs on other branches of government. Mr. DiNapoli is right to clean the windows in the comptroller's glass house.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (86%); AUDITS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (72%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (71%); LAWYERS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



566 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; LONG ISLAND WESTCHESTER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Editorial: Opening Our Eyes to Slavery

 BODY:
However capably federal lawyers may have prosecuted the case against Varsha and Mahender Sabhnani, who were convicted last week of enslaving and torturing two Indonesian women in their opulent home in Muttontown, it was certainly not brilliant or aggressive law enforcement that broke the case. 
 It was a timely convergence of luck, courage and kindness that brought the crimes to light. If one of the victims had not decided, in her desperation, to run away, then to linger half-naked outside a Dunkin' Donuts until an employee brought her in and called the police, the cruelties behind the walls of the house on Coachman Place may have continued in utter secrecy.
Crimes like these, and their victims, are by their nature all but invisible. It is impossible to know whether the Sabhnani case -- with its accounts of women beaten, slashed, burned with cigarettes and scalding water, and forced to choke down hot chili peppers and vomit -- is extraordinarily aberrant or tragically commonplace.
 But it is not a stretch to say that the possibility of similar abuses in the New York region is great, given its abundance of wealth and of immigrants, and the prevalence of exploitation of undocumented workers in far more visible sectors of the economy. Human trafficking and slavery are global phenomena, and there is no reason to believe this region is somehow untouched by it.
 Wherever workers are vulnerable, they will be mistreated -- and who could be more vulnerable than a desperately poor immigrant toiling in a country whose language she does not understand, living in constant fear of dismissal or deportation, or of retaliation against her relatives back home?
 New York State enacted an antitrafficking law this year that does what it can to combat modern slavery. It makes it a felony to force immigrants into prostitution or other labor, and provides victims with emergency housing and health care and other services, to make it easier for them to come forward.
 The law is brand new, so local law enforcement agencies have only recently begun to put it to use. With added prosecutorial tools -- the authority to use wiretaps in investigations, for instance -- and more aggressive efforts to identify victims and to help them to escape their tormentors, there is hope for progress in coming years. 
 Still, even the best antitrafficking laws and most ambitious prosecutors can be stymied by fear. As long as there are victims who cannot bring themselves to flee, who cannot break the veil of silence or summon the courage to cooperate with the authorities, evil will out. 
 The women who escaped the Muttontown house of horrors are in a better place now. The daunting challenge is to spread that news to their hidden sisters and brothers throughout the region.
 ''For so long there has been a general sense that the system doesn't work for certain people,'' said Kathleen Rice, the Nassau district attorney, speaking of the mute, frightened, utterly vulnerable immigrants like the women who worked for the Sabhnanis. ''This case is so incredibly important,'' she said, ''because it sends the message that their complaints will be heard.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLAVERY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); WOMEN (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); IMMIGRATION (87%); FELONIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (73%); DEPORTATION (71%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (71%); FOREIGN LABOR (71%); SEX TRAFFICKING (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (66%); WIRETAPPING (60%); PROSTITUTION (50%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (71%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (71%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2009



567 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: Another Look At Teardowns

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Living in Teaneck, N.J., where there are a lot of teardowns, I found your article ''The Heart of Teardown Country'' (Dec. 16) very informative and interesting. One thing was not mentioned that impacts resale value, and that is property taxes. Teaneck is already known for very high property taxes, but when someone expands, doubles the size or tears down a home, the taxes shoot up. 
Our town had the property taxes reassessed this year and there was a Web site where you could go parcel by parcel and see what the property taxes were. 
 It was not unusual for their yearly local tax burden to be in the $20,000 range. One house had property taxes approaching $80,000. When the time comes to resell their homes, I wish these families the best of luck and hope that the economy is strong.
 Debra Brill 
 Teaneck, N.J. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



568 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; E-COMMERCE REPORT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Santa Is Packing More Sofas and Less Jewelry

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
FORGET about strings of pearls, dive watches or flower baskets. This could be the year of Barcaloungers and blenders.
 According to early online shopping statistics, sales of holiday stalwarts like jewelry, watches and flowers have dropped from last year's levels, while sales of more practical items like furniture and appliances have climbed about 70 percent.
 Andrew Lipsman, an analyst with comScore Networks, which measures the online shopping of millions of consumers, puts part of the blame on nervous shoppers. 
 ''Some of the bigger losers were luxury goods,'' he said. ''In better economic conditions, that category was growing faster.''
 Through Tuesday, the shipping cut-off date for most online Christmas gift orders, sales in the ''jewelry and watches'' category had fallen from the same period last year, while ''flowers, greeting cards and gifts'' category was down by 19 percent. Mr. Lipsman declined to say exactly how much the jewelry market had dropped because a handful of very large purchases could change the figure significantly. 
 E-commerce executives said consumers, facing uncertain economic conditions at best, could be opting for less frivolous or flashy gifts this year. Carl Prindle, chief executive of Furniture.com, a company based in Waltham, Mass., that oversees the online initiatives of regional furniture companies, said sales this holiday season are up 110 percent over last year.
 ''It's certainly counter to our expectations,'' Mr. Prindle said. ''Maybe it's people within a family saying we're not going to waste money on things that aren't meaningful.''
 ComScore collects, but does not disclose, sales figures for specific Web sites, so determining the biggest losers in a given category is a hit-or-miss proposition. Publicly held companies will not begin to report holiday sales figures until next month, and privately held businesses have little incentive to report sales, especially if they are soft.
 Bill Strauss, chief executive of Liberty Media's Provide Commerce unit, the parent company of ProFlowers.com, among others, said: ''We're not seeing the growth we saw years ago, but we're not shrinking.''
 Mr. Strauss said one reason for the category's comparatively slow growth is that florists were among the earliest online merchants, and high growth figures are impossible to sustain beyond a few years. And although flower sales are generally immune to macroeconomic conditions, he said nonfloral gifts could be suppressing his category's sales. 
 ''Maybe in these tough times with the economy, people are looking for things that may be a little more utilitarian,'' Mr. Strauss said.
 Teleflora, which operates a network of Web sites for independent florists, said its sales had increased, but the overall growth obscured some important details, said Michael Burgess, a company vice president. Sales for less expensive items increased significantly, he said, while sales for items ranging from $60 to $100 have dropped.
 Receipts have also been helped by a hot-selling, decorated artificial Christmas tree for $107. ''It could be that, at the high end, people are less affected by the economy,'' Mr. Burgess said.
 ComScore's data supports that idea. It suggests that the most affluent shoppers -- those with annual household incomes exceeding $100,000 -- are spending roughly 28 percent more online this holiday season than last year. Middle-class households earning between $50,000 and $100,000 are spending 17 percent more online. Households earning less than $50,000 annually are spending just 10 percent more online than last year.
 Average order sizes for Montreal-based Ice.com, one of the few online-only jewelers in the category, have jumped this year, to $285 from $220 last year. ''I talked to someone else in the industry who said sales were soft, but we're bucking the trend,'' said Shmuel Gniwisch, the company's chief executive. Holiday sales, he added, have been strong.
 Further underscoring Ice.com's recent success is a $47 million investment led by Polaris Ventures, to be announced Monday. Alan Spoon, Polaris's managing general partner and the former president of The Washington Post Company, is expected to be named to the Ice.com board. Previously, Polaris backed Akamai Technologies and Heavy.com, among others.
 Aside from furniture and appliances, the other notable winner online this holiday season is the home electronics category of video games, consoles and accessories. That category jumped by 129 percent, driven by game consoles like the Nintendo Wii, comScore said. Over all, online sales are expected to increase in the range of 20 percent this year -- a threshold that books, music, movies, toys and computers failed to reach. Indeed, of that group, only books managed to come close, with a 16 percent increase.
 Such modest sales growth comes despite an increase in sales and free shipping offers, dangled early and often by online merchants in hopes of jump-starting consumer demand.
 The concern is that discounting across the weaker categories will hurt the bottom line. Mr. Burgess, of Teleflora, said his increased sales would be enough to offset money he spent on discounts. The average profit-per-item dropped, he said, although he would not say by how much. ''But the vast majority of our orders are profitable, so we're still making more money,'' he said.
 Still, Mark Mahaney, an analyst with Citigroup, said that investors and executives should brace themselves for bottom-line figures next month. 
 ''The level of promotions online has certainly increased,'' he said, ''and that will clearly be a negative drag on profits.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carl Prindle, chief of Furniture.com, said sales this holiday season had more than doubled from last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINE WATCHES (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); FINE JEWELRY (90%); JEWELRY (90%); FLORISTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); RETAILERS (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (65%)

COMPANY: FURNITURE.COM INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



569 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Hindu Radical Is Re-elected in State Contest in India

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: NEW DELHI 

 BODY:
He has been likened to the Emperor Nero, who fiddled while Rome burned. He has been denied entry into the United States for violations of religious freedom, yet praised as a business-friendly politician who has allowed private industry to flourish in his state.
 On Sunday, voters re-elected the politician, Narendra Modi, arguably India's most incendiary officeholder, as the chief minister of the western state of Gujarat. His victory, by a wide margin, was a stunning defeat for the country's governing Congress Party and signaled that Mr. Modi and his charismatic, often pugnacious, brand of Hindu supremacist politics would be a force to be reckoned with in the future. 
 Gujarat is considered a test case for national politics because it is viewed as a laboratory for radical Hindu politics in contemporary India.
 Mr. Modi, a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party, is accused of sanctioning or taking no steps to stop Hindu mobs from massacring at least 1,000 of their Muslim neighbors in February 2002, after a mysterious fire engulfed a train carrying members of a Hindu nationalist organization, killing 59 people on board. Ten months later, voters in Gujarat returned Mr. Modi to power. 
 In elections held earlier this month, Mr. Modi's B.J.P. captured 117 seats in of the 182-member state legislature, falling just short of a two-thirds majority; the Congress Party, which leads the nation's governing coalition, trailed with 59 seats, while 6 went to other parties. The results were announced Sunday by the Election Commission of India.
 Political analysts said Mr. Modi's unexpectedly wide margin of victory reduced the likelihood that the Congress Party would call early national elections before its five-year term expired in mid-2009. Congress leaders said Sunday that they were disappointed by the election results but played down the importance of the state race for national politics.
 Critics of Mr. Modi, 57, expressed frustration that he had been returned to office yet again. ''This is the dark side to democracy,'' said Yogendra Yadav, a political scientist and pollster.
 However, as Mr. Yadav noted after the results poured in Sunday, the Modi victory was not necessarily a referendum on the violence in 2002. The B.J.P. swept districts that were affected by the riots and those that were not, as well as rural and urban districts across the state.
 Here in the Indian capital, B.J.P. leaders celebrated Mr. Modi's win, even as his rise undoubtedly makes it tougher for the party, the main national opposition, to cast itself as a moderate, centrist organization capable of representing all Indians.
 Arun Jaitley, a senior B.J.P. politician, called Mr. Modi ''a great asset to the party.'' The party president, Rajnath Singh, described Gujarat as a ''model state.''
 A bachelor and teetotaler who began his career as a full-time volunteer with the hard-line Hindu organization Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Mr. Modi managed to buck India's powerful tradition of anti-incumbency. 
 Despite several high-profile defections from his state party and the enmity of some Hindu nationalist groups that had backed him in the past, he turned the election into a stark referendum on himself. In one of the leitmotifs of his campaign, his supporters donned grinning Modi masks.
 In what seemed to be a bid to render himself as a candidate with broad appeal, Mr. Modi cast himself as a proponent of economic development, rather than Hindu supremacy, by emphasizing his record on water and electricity projects, for example.
 Similarly, his rivals in the Congress Party seemed to tiptoe around the memory of the 2002 religious violence, apparently wary of alienating their own Hindu supporters, choosing instead to hammer Mr. Modi's economic record. The Congress also joined forces with B.J.P. defectors, including those accused of complicity in the 2002 violence; the tactic yielded virtually no benefits at the polls.
 Only at the tail end of the campaign did the rhetoric heat up, with the Congress Party chief, Sonia Gandhi, label Mr. Modi's government ''merchants of death.'' Mr. Modi responded that such name-calling was ''Italian mud'' that would make him stronger, in a reference to Mrs. Gandhi's Italian background, which Hindu hard-liners have deemed unsuitable for an Indian political leader.
 Mr. Modi, for his part, has invoked issues that play to Gujarat's religious divide, including a provocative speech that seemed to justify the high-profile police killing of a Muslim man, Sohrabuddin Sheikh. The Election Commission on Saturday rapped Mr. Modi and Mrs. Gandhi on the knuckles for violating a ''moral code'' of campaigning.
 Violence has not been the exclusive purview of B.J.P.-led governments. As the columnist Tavleen Singh pointed out Sunday in The Indian Express, 3,000 minority Sikhs were slain here in the capital in 1984, during Congress Party rule, after Indira Gandhi, then the prime minister, was assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards.
 Juzar S. Bandukwala, a Gujarati Muslim and retired physics professor, watched the election results with a friend who is a Roman Catholic priest. He said his spirits were sinking. ''We both felt very let down,'' Mr. Bandukwala said by telephone from the city of Baroda.
 He said he fully expected Mr. Modi to win, but not by such a wide margin. He did not think it would make life any better for his fellow Muslims in Gujarat, who he said were already ''second-class citizens in this state.''
 ''I thought he would just barely make it and he would be, in the process, weakened,'' said Mr. Bandukwala, who was awarded the Indira Gandhi National Integration Award in November. ''That did not happen.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: A supporter in Ahmadabad with a mask with the face of Narendra Modi, chief minister of Gujarat, in western India.
 Bharatiya Janata Party supporters celebrating Sunday in Ahmadabad, India, after the announcement of state election results. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SANJIT DAS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) Map of India (MAP BY THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RELIGION (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (72%); RIOTS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) WEST INDIA (93%); GUJARAT, INDIA (91%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



570 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-8
 Billions in Pakistan Aid Wasted, U.S. Officials Say
 After spending more than $5 billion in a largely failed effort to bolster the Pakistani military effort against militants from Al Qaeda and the Taliban, some American officials now acknowledge that there were too few controls over how the money was spent, and that the strategy needs to be revamped. A1 
 Loss for India's Leading Party 
 Indian voters re-elected Narendra Modi, arguably India's most incendiary office holder, as the chief minister of the state of Gujarat, in a stunning defeat for the governing Congress Party. A3 
 Kurds Say Turks Struck Again
 Turkish jets bombed separatist Kurdish rebels in northern Iraq for the second day in a row, Kurdish officials said, although there was no immediate confirmation from the Turkish military. A4
 Olmert Rejects Hamas Talks
 Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel rejected overtures by Hamas, the militant Islamic group that rules Gaza, for discussions about a temporary cease-fire. A7 
 Saudis Arrest 28 in Plot
 The number of men arrested in a suspected plot to attack Muslim holy sites during the hajj, the annual Muslim pilgrimage, was put at 28 by Saudi officials. A7 
 Thai Voters Repudiate Coup
 The party that backs Thailand's former prime minister won a parliamentary election, defeating a party backed by the generals who ousted him in a coup. A8 
 Nepal to Abolish Monarchy
 Nepal's government agreed to abolish the centuries-old monarchy in a political deal with Maoist former rebels. A8 
 Serbia Enlists Unlikely Faces
 Serbia has erected throughout the country billboards carrying the images of George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, John F. Kennedy, Winston Churchill and Charles de Gaulle above the mantra ''Kosovo is Serbia!'' A8 
 Uzbek Stability at Risk in Vote
 Voters in Uzbekistan went to the polls in a presidential contest that is expected to result in a third term for President Islam A. Karimov, but that casts doubt on the country's stability. A8 
 NATIONALA10-15
 Making an Effort to Ease Dental Woes in Kentucky
 Kentucky is among the worst states nationally in the proportion of low-income residents served by free or subsidized dental clinics. The shortage of dentists in poorer and more rural areas has led to an increase in serious dental problems and illegal unlicensed denture-making practices. A1 
 Subverting Holiday Shopping
 In the season of frenetic shopping, a few devious people have taken advantage by shopdropping. Otherwise known as reverse shoplifting, shopdropping involves surreptitiously putting things in stores, like business cards, religious tracts or self-published books. A1
 Giuliani's Campaign Mistakes
 Rudolph W. Giuliani has entered a turbulent period in his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination, marked by what his aides acknowledge are missteps, sharp shifts in strategy and evidence that reports about his personal life have hurt his national standing. A1 
 Tomato Pickers Face Hurdles
 A group of farmworkers has persuaded McDonald's and Taco Bell to have their tomato suppliers pay their pickers one penny more per pound. But the group's efforts hit a roadblock recently after Burger King rejected the demands and the main group of Florida tomato growers threatened fines against growers that cooperate to pay their pickers more. A10 
 Ample Snow in New England
 After a long absence, a white Christmas will be a reality this year in New England, elating skiers and people whose livelihood depends on snow. A10 
 Paper Trail of Televangelists
 Six weeks after Senator Charles E. Grassley asked six well-known evangelistic ministries who preach prosperity gospel to provide information on how they spent donors' money, only two have complied. Three ministries have not been in recent contact with Mr. Grassley's Senate committee or have said they will not cooperate. A14 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-5
 After a Hard First Year, Spitzer Courts Lobbyists
 Gov. Eliot Spitzer held a lavish fund-raising event this year featuring some surprise players: lobbyists, who raised $1.5 million for his 2010 campaign. The unexpected alliance is an example of the awkward accommodation he has reached with Albany's influence industry, a group he prefers to cast as stubborn stewards of the capital's old political culture.A1 
 Shop Around the Clock
 For the first time in its 105-year history, Macy's flagship store on West 34th Street was open all night, in an 83-hour holiday shopping marathon. The sale, which was drawing large pre-dawn crowds, was a hit with an often-overlooked demographic: night-owl procrastinators.B1 
 Parents Fight for School
 At a recent Parents Association meeting, parents of students at Canarsie High School in Brooklyn demanded to know whether anything could be done to save their school, which will stop accepting freshmen in the fall and phase out over four years.B1
 BUSINESS DAYC1-8 
 Merry E-Christmas
 Once seen as a tacky, last-minute substitute for pen and paper, e-cards have become more acceptable, especially in the corporate world. It's not just a holiday, it's a networking opportunity. C1 
 Missing the Bull's-Eye
 Instead of dominating this holiday season, Target is muddling through it, perplexing rival merchants and Wall Street analysts, who consider the chain a bellwether and are scrutinizing its performance for clues on the health of the economy. C1 
 Time Warner's New Year
 There is no end to the theories of why Time Warner has stalled in terms of growth and expansion as a company. The question now is what Jeffrey L. Bewkes, who will take over as chief executive on Jan. 2, will do to move it forward again. C1
 Business DigestC2 
 ARTSE1-16
 Beijing Opens Art Center
 The titanium-and-glass half-dome of the National Center for the Performing Arts formally opened its underwater entryway to Chinese officials and dignitaries in Beijing over the weekend.E1
 OBITUARIESB5
 Douglas O. Morgan
 A publisher whose extensive collection of rare 19th-century wood type letterforms helped to start a graphic design revival in the late 1950s, he was 75. B5
 Michael Tetherow
 A New York-based painter who placed great emphasis on the physical nature of paint and painting. He took many of his cues from Abstract Expressionists, and his art also had a Symbolist side. He was 65.B5
 EDITORIALA16-17
 Editorials: Broken polls; falling short of professional standards; alternative tax folly; Verlyn Klinkenborg on imagining Scrooge today.
 Columns: Roger Cohen, Paul Krugman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary; Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COUPS (90%); HAMAS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); DENTISTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); RELIGION (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TALIBAN (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); HAJJ (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (71%); SHOPLIFTING (69%); ORAL HEALTH (65%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); HAMAS (83%)

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (68%); RUDY GIULIANI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUJARAT, INDIA (57%) SERBIA (94%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (93%); UZBEKISTAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); NEPAL (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); ISRAEL (79%); KOSOVO (79%); IRAQ (79%); THAILAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



571 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SIDEBAR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: The Worst Courts for Businesses? It's a Matter of Opinion

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK. 
Online: Documents and an archive of Adam Liptak's articles: nytimes.com/adamliptak.

 BODY:
As it has every year for six years now, the American Tort Reform Association released its list of ''judicial hellholes'' last week. South Florida took the top spot, followed by parts of Texas; Cook County, Ill.; West Virginia; Clark County, Nev.; and Atlantic County, N.J. 
 The report was prepared by a business-oriented group that dislikes personal-injury lawsuits and big class-action awards. It was immediately and predictably attacked by the American Association for Justice -- the group that used to be known as the Association of Trial Lawyers of America, until it became embarrassing to be known as a trial lawyer -- as ''slick propaganda'' from ''corporate C.E.O.'s.'' 
 But just because the business lobby has a stake in the civil justice system does not disqualify it from speaking about it. The question is whether the report's arguments make sense, are supported by evidence and are applied evenhandedly. Here the report often falls short.
 It is, for starters, a collection of anecdotes based largely on newspaper accounts. It has no apparent methodology. There is no way to tell why South Florida is the top hellhole while West Virginia is hellhole No. 4.
 ''We have never claimed to be an empirical study,'' said Darren McKinney, a spokesman for the association. ''It's not a batting average or a slugging percentage. It's no more or less subjective than what appears in The New York Times.''
 The report often makes sound but incomplete points. It assails, for instance, the practice of allowing plaintiffs' lawyers to make campaign contributions to the judges they appear before, citing a Business Week article that cited a poll by Justice at Stake, a nonpartisan organization that supports judicial independence. The poll surveyed 2,428 state court judges; almost half said campaign contributions influenced judicial decisions. 
 But the poll did not ask about contributions from plaintiffs' lawyers. It concerned all contributions, including those from business groups. And in many states these days, contributions from business groups are much larger than those from plaintiffs' lawyers and labor unions.
 Along these same lines, although the report beat up the West Virginia judiciary pretty thoroughly, it did not consider what was surely the most striking decision there this year. In November, the state's highest court threw out a jury verdict for more than $50 million in a fraud case against affiliates of Massey Energy, a coal-mining company. The vote was 3 to 2. 
 Voting with the majority was Justice Brent D. Benjamin, who was elected to the court in 2004 with the help of about $3 million in advertisements and other support from Don L. Blankenship, Massey's chief executive officer. Justice Benjamin refused to disqualify himself from the case.
 All five justices agreed that ''Massey's conduct warranted the type of judgment rendered in this case.''
 ''However,'' the justices in the majority wrote, ''no matter how sympathetic the facts are, or how egregious the conduct, we simply cannot compromise the law in order to reach a result that clearly appears to be justified.'' There followed many pages of complicated legal reasoning that a dissenting judge characterized as ''horse puckey.''
 Mr. McKinney, the association's spokesman, said the Massey decision had landed too late for consideration in this year's survey. But he said it was unlikely to have been included in any event.
 ''The hellholes report is not first and foremost a report of good news,'' Mr. McKinney said. ''And I would imagine that was largely a decision that we deemed righteous.''
 The report carried water for business interests in other ways, sometimes with assertions that seemed evenhanded but were open to question. The association defended, for instance, the fine-print arbitration clauses in consumer contracts for car rentals, cellphones and the like. The clauses require consumers to give up their right to sue in court.
 ''Businesses have long included arbitration agreements in their contracts with other businesses and customers because they provide a quicker and less costly means of resolving business disputes,'' the report said. ''Arbitration works well for everyone except the trial lawyers because arbitration does not generate large litigation payouts.''
 But a new study, to be published in the University of Michigan Journal of Law Reform next year, found that businesses actually use arbitration clauses in major contracts with other businesses less than 10 percent of the time. By contrast, more than three-quarters of consumer contracts make arbitration mandatory.
 That suggests, the Michigan study said, that corporations' real motive in insisting on arbitration clauses in consumer contracts is to gain a strategic advantage, particularly by avoiding class actions.
 Theodore Eisenberg, who conducted the Michigan study with Geoffrey P. Miller and Emily Sherwin, said he had a question for the authors of the hellholes report. ''How many consumers actually avail themselves of this purportedly low-cost, efficient process in the case of cellphone and credit companies?'' he asked. Then he answered his own question: ''It is just not economically worth it.'' 
 Mr. McKinney said his group stood by the statement in the report, adding that comparing the two kinds of contracts was ''apples and oranges.''
 It is true that there are judicial hellholes. They are what Richard F. Scruggs, the prominent trial lawyer, likes to call ''magic jurisdictions'' -- the ones where, as he told an industry conference in 2002, ''the judiciary is elected with verdict money'' and ''it's almost impossible to get a fair trial if you're a defendant.''
 But if judges can be bought with money from the plaintiffs' bar, there is no reason to think that businesses cannot compete in that marketplace as well.
 Mr. Scruggs was indicted in Mississippi last month on charges that he tried to bribe a judge, and he has pleaded not guilty. 
 There is, of course, a difference between what he was charged with doing and the routine phenomenon of allowing judges to accept campaign contributions from the people who appear before them. There is a difference, sure, but is it one of kind or one of degree?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TORTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAWYERS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); PERSONAL INJURY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); JURY TRIALS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); JUDGES (76%); BASEBALL (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); TORT REFORM (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (68%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); MINES & MINING (60%); COAL MINING (50%)

COMPANY: MASSEY ENERGY CO (62%); ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR JUSTICE (83%)

TICKER: FLR (FRA) (62%); ANR (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (62%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (62%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (62%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (62%)

PERSON: DON L BLANKENSHIP (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



572 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 600 words

 BODY:
OFF TARGET Instead of dominating this holiday season, Target is muddling through it, perplexing rival merchants and Wall Street analysts, who consider the chain a bellwether and are scrutinizing its performance for clues on the health of the economy. 
 TURNING TIME WARNER Jeffrey Bewkes's task at Time Warner is very different from those of Henry Luce, Ted Turner or even his immediate predecessor, Richard D. Parsons. They built the modern company. He may be the person who tears it apart. [C1.]
 CLICK HERE FOR GREETING E-cards have become more acceptable this holiday season, and not just in the corporate world. The difficulty of hunting down snail-mail addresses and the rising cost of postage is making the alternative to paper cards more popular. [C1.] 
 BIG MONEY IN SPORTS ESPN and Yahoo Sports have gone on a furious hiring binge, offering reporters and columnists $150,000 to $350,000 a year or even more, far more they ever imagined making in journalism. [C1.]
 DAVENPORTS ARE FOREVER Online holiday sales of jewelry, watches and flowers have dropped from last year's levels, while sales of more practical items like furniture and appliances have climbed about 70 percent, pleasing people like Carl Prindle, above, chief of Furniture.com. E-Commerce Report. [C5.]
 THE ONLINE REBUTTAL The popularity of blogs aside, the leaders in online news are still the networks and large newspapers, so responding to what's in the news doesn't carry the same volume as the original article, even online. Google News is trying to tip that balance. Link by Link. [C3.]
 TABLOID AS AGITATOR News reporting generally does not take sides, even when it comes to the performance of the home team. But New York City's tabloids do not always feel bound by that rule, as The Daily News demonstrated last week. [C4.]
 NOT-SO-LIVELY 'QUARTERLIFE' Some episodes of ''Quarterlife,'' an online drama starring Bitsie Tulloch, left, that has been promoted as the first TV-quality production for the Web, have yet to attract 100,000 video views. [C5.]
 CARBON-NEUTRAL FILMS At Paramount Vantage, the movies are both low-budget and high-minded. The studio pays to offset its carbon emissions. [C4.]
 MY FRIEND, THE LAUREATEDoris Lessing had 125 MySpace friends she won the Nobel Prize in literature. Now she's almost three times as popular. [C4.]
 STARTLING NEWS IS NO NEWS The news that 16-year-old Jamie Lynn Spears, the star of ''Zoey 101'' on Nickelodeon, was pregnant got wide coverage in celebrity magazines -- except for fan magazines aimed at teenagers. [C4.]
 NO LOVE LOST ONLINE The online dating service Chemistry.com is seeking to depict its larger competitor, eHarmony.com, as out of touch with mainstream American values, partly because it refuses to make same-sex matches. Advertising. [C6.] 
 THE BUZZ VACUUM The movie industry has long regarded late-night television as one of the most important marketing tools in its arsenal. But the Writers Guild of America strike, now entering its seventh week, shuttered every late-night show, tearing a hole in carefully planned marketing campaigns. [C4.]
 OPINION IN THE NEWSROOM The Baltimore Sun is taking the unusual step of placing responsibility for its opinion pages with its top news editor. [C4.]
 ODDBALL TECH Some pettable, and unforgettable, technology from the end-of-year exhibit at New York University's Interactive Telecommunications Program. Bits. [C5.]
 GIRLS COMMUNICATE ONLINE Teenage girls are more likely than boys to have created a blog, joined a social-networking site like Facebook and posted pictures online. Drilling Down. [C3.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); SPORTS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (88%); JOURNALISM (88%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (87%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); WRITERS (73%); NEWS REPORTING (73%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); JEWELRY (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (67%); AWARDS & PRIZES (66%); NOBEL PRIZES (64%); EMISSIONS (60%); CARBON OFFSETS (60%); DATING SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (91%); FURNITURE.COM INC (55%)

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (91%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: RICHARD D PARSONS (57%); JEFF BEWKES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



573 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 849 words

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
Toys Using Technology in Novel Ways
 Last week I met Momo, above. It was about a foot tall, pear shaped and wearing a woolly ski mask over its cardboard frame. As I carried it around a crowded room, it kept leaning to point east. It was telling me the direction to Tompkins Square Park. Under its fuzzy skin was a G.P.S. navigation system and various motors. 
 ''This is pettable technology,'' said Clay Shirky, an adjunct professor at New York University's Interactive Telecommunications Program, who was showing me around the program's end-of-year exhibit of student projects. 
 Momo was made by Che-Wei Wang, Eduardo Lytton and Kristin O'Friel, who wanted to help people navigate using only the sense of touch. The show was a fascinating exploration of oddball uses of technology, sort of like the Whitney Biennial without the paintings. There was a musical instrument made of parts of old ink-jet printers; it sounded a bit like a gamelan on an escalator. There were project kits for mothers and daughters: origami Christmas trees with light-emitting diode lights and a pillow with an MP3 player sewn in. 
 Most projects exploited the latest raft of chips, sensors, motors and L.E.D.'s that can be combined into devices that can do things. 
 If it is this easy to build all of these fun demonstration projects today, it is clear we are entering an era when intelligence and awareness will be added to nearly every object in our world. These won't be just the sort of shiny black and chrome gizmos you see at Best Buy. They will be made of wood, cement and wool, too. SAUL HANSELL 
 Adding Phones To Web Pages
 Can an untested Silicon Valley start-up company with the slightly embarrassing name Ribbit take on corporate giants like Microsoft and Avaya? 
 Last week, Ribbit, based in Mountain View, Calif., announced a service intended to let programmers add telephone features to any Web page. This isn't just a widget for talking to your friends, like Skype and its many ''Voice 2.0'' imitators. 
 Rather, Ribbit offers a full telephone switchboard on its server, connected to the Internet and the public-switched telephone network. Developers can add a phone feature just by embedding Adobe Flash in a Web site. 
 Microsoft wants to offer expanded voice features, too, but it takes a strikingly different approach. It has introduced an application called Unified Communications that is based on a communications server and initially aimed at large companies. 
 Microsoft's strategy is ''software plus services,'' while most of the rest of the industry is countering such desktop-and-server-anchored ideas with services that run in the computing ''cloud'' -- large data servers that are accessible from anywhere via the Internet. JOHN MARKOFF 
 Using Rhapsody
 From Facebook
 Rhapsody, the music service, introduced its Facebook application last week. It's easy to skip past this, because everybody has a Facebook application these days. But it's worth a look because it shows that these applications can be much more useful than Zombies and SuperPoke. 
 Rhapsody isn't changing its economic model for Facebook. Users can stream up to 25 songs a month on their computers free. People who want to listen to more music or download tracks to portable devices have to pay $10 to $15 a month. 
 Integrating with Facebook makes some crucial aspects of using Rhapsody and connecting to friends easier. Once you log onto Facebook, you don't have to log on separately to Rhapsody or load any other software. When you install the Rhapsody application on your Facebook page, it looks at the musicians you have already identified as favorites and adds them to the Rhapsody application. One more click and you see that artist's top songs; another click and you are listening to one of them. 
 This shows that Facebook is beginning to create what Microsoft's Passport and dozens of others have tried and failed to build: an identity that can cross applications. This, in theory, would let you sign in once, use many services and have data be shared among sites. If you go to a weather site, why should it ask where you live? SAUL HANSELL 
 Dancing Elves Are Back in Force
 Add another entry to the list of very popular, rapidly spreading and slightly bizarre viral Web phenomena: ElfYourself.com, from the office supply chain OfficeMax. 
 OfficeMax introduced the site during last year's holiday season, allowing visitors to turn photos of their friends and family into clownish and vaguely disturbing dancing elves. Thirty-six million visitors made about 11 million elves during the five-week campaign created by the interactive ad agencies Toy NY and EVB. 
 The site showed how a relatively inexpensive but clever Web production could bolster a traditional retailer. So OfficeMax opened the site last month with new features. 
 But the elves still rule. On Friday, OfficeMax said that more than 140 million people had visited the site this year and that 90 million people had created elves. More than 60 elves were being created every second, raising the prospect of a serious elf plague. BRAD STONE 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHEI-WEI WANG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK SERVERS (84%); MOUNTAINS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); INTERNET AUDIO (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (67%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (67%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (66%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (66%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (66%); CHRISTMAS (52%)

COMPANY: AVAYA INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



574 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2195 words

HEADLINE: U.S. OFFICIALS SEE WASTE IN BILLIONS SENT TO PAKISTAN

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE, CARLOTTA GALL, ERIC SCHMITT and DAVID E. SANGER; David Rohde and Carlotta Gall reported from Islamabad, and Eric Schmitt and David E. Sanger from Washington.

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- After the United States has spent more than $5 billion in a largely failed effort to bolster the Pakistani military effort against Al Qaeda and the Taliban, some American officials now acknowledge that there were too few controls over the money. The strategy to improve the Pakistani military, they said, needs to be completely revamped.
 In interviews in Islamabad and Washington, Bush administration and military officials said they believed that much of the American money was not making its way to frontline Pakistani units. Money has been diverted to help finance weapons systems designed to counter India, not Al Qaeda or the Taliban, the officials said, adding that the United States has paid tens of millions of dollars in inflated Pakistani reimbursement claims for fuel, ammunition and other costs.
 ''I personally believe there is exaggeration and inflation,'' said a senior American military official who has reviewed the program, referring to Pakistani requests for reimbursement. ''Then, I point back to the United States and say we didn't have to give them money this way.'' 
 Pakistani officials say they are incensed at what they see as American ingratitude for Pakistani counterterrorism efforts that have left about 1,000 Pakistani soldiers and police officers dead. They deny that any overcharging has occurred. 
 The $5 billion was provided through a program known as Coalition Support Funds, which reimburses Pakistan for conducting military operations to fight terrorism. Under a separate program, Pakistan receives $300 million per year in traditional American military financing that pays for equipment and training.
 Civilian opponents of President Pervez Musharraf say he used the reimbursements to prop up his government. One European diplomat in Islamabad said the United States should have been more cautious with its aid. 
 ''I wonder if the Americans have not been taken for a ride,'' said the diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
 Lawmakers in Washington voted Thursday to put restrictions on the $300 million in military financing, and withheld $50 million of that money until Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice certifies that Islamabad has been restoring democratic rights since Mr. Musharraf lifted a state of emergency on Dec. 16. The measure had little effect on the far larger Coalition Support Funds reimbursements.
 While it was a modest first step, any new conditions in aid could have a major effect on relations between the United States and Pakistan. Pakistan's military relies on Washington for roughly a quarter of its entire $4 billion budget.
 In interviews, American and Pakistani officials acknowledged that they had never agreed on the strategic goals that should drive how the money was spent, or how the Pakistanis would prove that they were performing up to American expectations.
 After Six Years, a Plan
 Early last week, six years after President Bush first began pouring billions of dollars into Pakistan's military after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the Pentagon completed a review that produced a classified plan to help the Pakistani military build an effective counterinsurgency force.
 The plan, which now goes to the United States Embassy in Islamabad to carry out, seeks to focus American military aid toward specific equipment and training for Pakistani forces operating in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas where Qaeda leaders and local militants hold sway.
 For their part, Pakistani officials angrily accused the United States of refusing to sell Pakistan the advanced helicopters, reconnaissance aircraft, radios and night-vision equipment it needs.
 ''There have been many aspects of equipment that we've been keen on getting,'' said Maj. Gen. Waheed Arshad, the Pakistani military's chief spokesman. ''There have been many delays which have hampered this war against extremists.''
 United States military officials said the American military was so overstretched in Iraq and Afghanistan that it had no advanced helicopters to give to Pakistan. American law also restricts the export of sophisticated drones, night-vision goggles and other equipment for security reasons.
 There is at least one area of agreement. Both sides say the reimbursements have failed substantially to increase the ability of Pakistani forces to mount comprehensive counterinsurgency operations. 
 Today, with several billion more in aid scheduled for the coming years, American officials estimate it will take at least three to five years to train and equip large numbers of army and Frontier Corps units, a paramilitary force now battling militants.
 ''I don't forecast any noticeable impact,'' a Defense Department official said. ''It's pretty bleak.''
 The program's failures appear to be a sweeping setback for the administration as it approaches its final year in office. American intelligence officials say they believe that Mr. Bush is likely to leave office in January 2009 with the Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden still at large. 
 ''We haven't had a good lead on his exact whereabouts in two years,'' another senior American military official lamented recently.
 Al Qaeda More Active
 This spring, American intelligence officials said the Qaeda leaders hiding in Pakistan's tribal areas had reconstituted their command structure and become increasingly active. Backed by Al Qaeda, pro-Taliban militants have expanded their influence from the remote border regions into the more populated parts of Pakistan this year and mounted a record number of suicide bombings in Pakistan and Afghanistan.
 The Coalition Support Funds program was intended to prevent that from happening. Under the program, Pakistani military officials submit bills and are paid for supplies, wear and tear on equipment and other costs, as well as for the American use of three Pakistani air bases, according to American officials.
 The United States since 2001 has deposited more than $5 billion in reimbursements into the Pakistani government's general budget account, the largest single portion of some $10 billion in aid to Islamabad in that time. Also included in that larger amount is $1.9 billion in security assistance, which Pakistan has used in part to buy new radios for troops, night-vision goggles and refurbished Cobra attack helicopters.
 Pakistani officials say the Coalition Support Funds money goes into the national treasury to repay the government for money already spent on 100,000 troops deployed in the tribal areas. But American military officials say the funds do not reach the men who need it. That is especially the case for helicopter maintenance and poorly equipped Frontier Corps units.
 During a recent visit to the border, an American official found members of the Frontier Corps ''standing there in the snow in sandals,'' according to the official. Several were wearing World War I-era pith helmets and carrying barely functional Kalashnikov rifles with just 10 rounds of ammunition apiece. 
 ''It is not making its way, for certain, we know, to the broader part of the armed forces which is carrying out the brunt of their operations on the border,'' the senior American military official said.
 Members of Congress also express growing frustration with the Coalition Support Funds program.
 ''The situation in the tribal areas seems to be getting worse, not better, and that's despite a billion dollars in aid,'' said Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat on the Armed Services Committee who visited Pakistan in fall 2006. ''Just pouring the money in and asking them to do this is not producing the results that we need.''
 Complaints Over Support
 The most glaring example of the Coalition Support Funds program's failure is helicopter maintenance, according to both Pakistani and American officials. In an interview with The New York Times last month, Mr. Musharraf complained specifically that a lack of American spare parts and assistance had handicapped the country's 20 refurbished Vietnam-era Cobra attack helicopters provided by the United States. 
 ''Ten days back, of 20 Cobra helicopters, we have only one that was serviceable,'' he said. ''We need more support.'' 
 In interviews, American military officials scoffed at the statement. They said the United States had provided $8 million worth of Cobra parts in the past six months and would provide $4 million to $6 million in parts next year.
 In addition, Washington reimbursed Pakistan $55 million for helicopter operation and maintenance costs for an eight-month period in 2007, American officials said. The United States later found out that the army received only $25 million from the Pakistani government for operations and maintenance of their entire national helicopter fleet for the whole of 2007. 
 American officials said they suspected that Pakistan had been overcharging for helicopter maintenance. Yet at the same time, maintenance of Pakistani helicopters is not being performed.
 ''Come March or April,'' one official said, ''I fully expect catastrophic failure of a large part of their helicopter fleet.''
 For years, how money from the Coalition Support Funds was disbursed to the Pakistani government was veiled in secrecy. The size and scope of the payments to Pakistan was held so closely that one senior American military officer in Afghanistan said that he did not know that the administration was spending $1 billion a year until he attended a meeting in Islamabad in 2006.
 ''I was astounded,'' said the officer, who would not speak for attribution because he now holds another senior military post. ''On one side of the border we were paying a billion to get very little done. On the other side of the border -- the Afghan side -- we were scrambling to find the funds to train an army that actually wanted to get something done.''
 But by mid-2007, the $1 billion-a-year figure became public, largely because of the objections of some military officials and defense experts who said that during an ill-fated peace treaty between the military and militants in the tribal areas in 2005 and 2006, the money kept flowing. Pakistan continued to submit receipts for reimbursement, even though Pakistani troops had stopped fighting.
 Even then, however, American officials said there was little effort to rethink the purposes of the aid, or impose stricter controls. 
 Defense Department officials in the United States Embassy in Islamabad check the claims and ensure the receipts are well substantiated, officials said. The Pentagon's comptroller and State Department then also certify the claims.
 Dov Zakheim, who served as the Pentagon's top financial officer until 2004 and helped set up the program in late 2001, said in a telephone interview that while he was at the department, the military carefully checked whether Pakistan carried out the operations it claimed and typically approved only 80 to 90 percent of each invoice.
 But by July 2006, the Pentagon comptroller and Central Command were concerned enough about insufficient accountability to dispatch a team to Pakistan to lay out new requirements for more detailed invoices, a Pentagon spokesman said.
 And by that fall, senior military officials at the embassy in Islamabad were telling visiting American lawmakers that the support fund program needed to be revamped to pay for specific objectives. 
 Inflated Invoices
 Today, American officials say they believe that some of the invoices are inflated by as much as 30 percent.
 ''The claims that they submit are probably in some cases exaggerated and the amounts inflated,'' said the senior American military official who had reviewed the program. ''When it comes to reimbursement for the cost of food, bunker material, barbed wire fences, those are much more susceptible to inflation.''
 Even the efforts to send Pakistan the refurbished Cobra helicopters, for instance, have cost more than expected and have fallen behind schedule. Pakistani forces have received only 12 of the 20 aircraft promised, and have been dissatisfied with the quality of them, a senior Pentagon official said.
 One retired Pakistani military official said the American system of paying reimbursements did not allow for any forward planning. He expressed irritation that the Americans offered help, but not advanced American attack helicopters and drones, which are vital for counterinsurgency in the inaccessible tribal areas. 
 Praising Pakistan's new army chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, who took command after Mr. Musharraf resigned as the head of the army last month, American military officials called for a complete restructuring of American military aid to Pakistan. They said that the United States should supply the same amount of overall military assistance to Pakistan, but also require that it be supplied under traditional military aid programs with tighter controls.
 But they fear that members of Congress will react to the troubled reimbursement program by slashing military aid to Pakistan.
 ''It's not all or nothing,'' the senior American military official said. ''You need to regulate and manage it for more benefit both to Pakistan and the United States.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pakistani troops taking up positions this month at a vantage point over the Swat Valley, where militants have fought the army. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMMAD IQBAL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



575 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: The Mortgage Crisis Hits Home, and It Hits Hard

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

DATELINE: ROCKAWAY TOWNSHIP, N.J. 

 BODY:
Somewhere between deciding when to take her SAT exams and reading ''Lolita'' for the first time, Meghan Werner has learned more than any teenager should about the consequences of the subprime mortgage debacle.
 Her father, Philip Werner, a contractor, had struggled to find work, and like millions of Americans, he took out a high-interest mortgage that he could not afford. Meghan, 17, has tried to help him through the legal process that is likely to end next week with the public auction of the only home she has ever known. 
 On a recent evening, with an old steel and iron stove heating their living room, Meghan and her sister, Katlyn, 16, flipped through photographs of easier times, when their father had more work, and when the family, now split by divorce, was whole. Mr. Werner, 55, sat on the well-worn leather couch where many nights, tormented by worry and guilt, he fell asleep in his clothes. 
 Time has run out. They have no one to borrow money from to save the house, and no one to move in with after they lose it. They have been scouring the classified ads for an apartment, but realize they might be forced to move into a shelter. The girls are also concerned that if they do move to a shelter, they will be separated from their father.
 The troubles they face are daunting, but during the holidays, small indignities seem to hurt more. ''This is the first Christmas in 22 years where we don't have a tree,'' Mr. Werner said, pointing to an empty corner by the living room window. On neighbors' lawns, elaborate tableaus lighted up the snow. 
 The Werners have hung stockings, but will skip the presents. ''It's the last Christmas in this house,'' Mr. Werner said.
 He found the house, an old resort cottage on a half-acre of wooded land populated by blue jays and foxes with a patch of tiger lilies, in 1986. The place was private, and the schools were good. When he and his wife divorced in 2002, Mr. Werner sold the house to an investor for $170,000. ''I had $35,000 left on the mortgage,'' he said. 
 He and his children stayed on as tenants. In 2005, when he was making a decent living painting highway lines, Mr. Werner repurchased the house for about $250,000. He said his divorce had left him with bad credit, but he found a loan for about $300,000 through an acquaintance who was a mortgage broker. The loan, through New Century Financial, required no cash down payment and came with an 8 percent interest rate that adjusted to 11 percent, Mr. Werner said. 
 Mr. Werner could manage the payments, but then lost his job. 
 For this family, a recent proposal by the Federal Reserve to restrict the granting of high-interest or exotic loans to borrowers with weak credit came too late. According to estimates by the Center for Responsible Lending, a nonpartisan research group, about a fifth of borrowers who took out subprime mortgage loans in 2005 and 2006, as Mr. Werner did, will lose their homes to foreclosure. The center estimates that in New Jersey, more than 30,000 families who have such loans will lose their homes.
 New Century Financial, one of the largest subprime lenders, filed for bankruptcy protection in March.
 The proposal by the Federal Reserve would require lenders to verify the income and assets of borrowers. Mr. Werner said that he negotiated the loan over coffee at a diner, and that he never had to provide proof of his income. ''It was a no-document loan,'' he said, referring to what is sometimes called a stated income loan, or a ''liar's loan.''
 Sometime in the last two years, life here slowed to a dismal crawl. The girls started missing school. Mr. Werner stopped working on an addition to the house. ''There are days we argue in this house over nothing,'' he said.
 Meghan visited the sheriff's office with her father this month. A woman there told them they would have 10 days to buy back their home if it was sold to the bank. None of them believes they will be able to find the money. 
 The girls cling to their memories: fireflies and barbecues out back in the summer; the time their father mistook a bear for Zeus, the family dog. Mr. Werner said he would miss sitting in his living room, looking out the window at the children playing.
 Two days before Christmas, a neighbor gave the Werners a small artificial tree. They decorated it with candy canes.
 ''I bought my first home when I was 25,'' Mr. Werner said. ''What I've lost is not just the home and my dream. I've crushed my kids, and I've got to start over again. I'm not able to leave them anything.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Phillip Werner said that he and his daughters, Meghan, center, and Katlyn, have no place to go once they lose their home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED KASHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); CHILDREN (75%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); AUCTIONS (70%); CHRISTMAS (69%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%)

COMPANY: NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (58%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



576 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: How the Cooling Economy Is Stealing Target's Christmas

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
It was supposed to be a Target Christmas.
 Buffeted by high energy costs and a slowing housing market, consumers were expected to trade down from midpriced department stores, like Macy's and Nordstrom, to discount retailers with designer cachet -- Target's undisputed terrain. 
 But instead of dominating this holiday season, Target is muddling through it, perplexing rival merchants and Wall Street analysts, who consider the chain a bellwether and are scrutinizing its performance for clues on the health of the economy. 
 In two of the last three months -- September and November -- Target's sales growth has slipped below 1.5 percent, well under its historical average and lower than its biggest rival, Wal-Mart Stores. 
 The chief executive of Target, Robert J. Ulrich, has warned that the company may not meet its earnings forecast for the final three months of the year, on the heels of a third-quarter performance that he described as ''disappointing.'' 
 Behind the slowdown, analysts suspect, is a pullback on routine purchases of housewares and clothing, Target's traditional strengths -- and, in general, the most profitable merchandise in its stores. 
 In flusher times, Americans snapped up Target's $40 taffeta dresses designed by Isaac Mizrahi and $9.99 plush towels from Thomas O'Brien. But with shoppers anxious about the economy, they appear to be skipping the splurges.
 Linda Shannon, 56, a retired nurse in North Bergen, N.J., adores Target's sheets and towels, but she walked right by them last week at her local store. ''In this economy, what we have at home is good enough,'' she said.
 Target is by no means losing money; it remains one of the most profitable chains in the country. But in retailing, analysts and investors are hungry not just for profits, but for growth. They tend to gauge success by monthly sales increases at stores open at least a year. And by that yardstick, Target is lagging. 
 For the first time in years, in fact, the chain that devotees refer to as Tar-zhay, because of its fashion flare, looks vulnerable. In November, sales at Target stores open a year rose 1.1 percent, when adjusted for a quirk in this year's calendar. The company will provide a glimpse into sales so far this December in a conference call Monday.
 Lazard Capital Markets predicts that Target's average monthly sales growth for 2007 will be the lowest in four years. And that is raising broader questions about the American consumer: If the store that America's middle class loves to love is experiencing turbulence, analysts say, it bodes poorly for all retailers.
 There is some dispute about exactly what ails Target. Many analysts said consumers are cutting back on optional products, like a new bath mat, and spending their money on essentials, like cleaning supplies, which are less profitable for stores.
 Adrianne Shapira, a retail analyst at Goldman Sachs, said that ''in the past, what Target has done so well is capitalize on discretionary spending. Shoppers walked around the store and tossed a few things they did not need into the basket.'' Now, she said, ''that is falling by the wayside.''
 Rosa Setkiewicz, 50, stopped at the Target in Jersey City, N.J., recently to stock up on Arm & Hammer baking soda, Clorox bleach and Downy laundry detergent -- ''things that are cheap,'' she said as she loaded the trunk of her Toyota Corolla. ''I have cut back a lot on clothing and things that are not necessary.''
 Bill Dreher, an analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities, dubbed this phenomenon ''trading down within the store.''
 Target executives acknowledge there is some truth to the theory. But the bigger issue, in their view, is that the number of customers walking into Target's stores has dropped. They see that as a sign not of any tactical failure on Target's part, but of rising doubts among consumers about the economy.
 ''I think people are being more conservative in an environment where they are uncertain,'' said Susan Kahn, vice president of communications at Target. 
 Ms. Kahn said that sentiment was hurting sales across Target's stores, not just in its popular home and apparel departments. ''The piece that is worrisome is the overall sales growth,'' she said. ''It is not specific to apparel or home.''
 Target also faces a tough adversary this year in Wal-Mart, which has staked its holiday season on heavily promoted discounts. The chain held early-morning, door-buster sales every weekend in November in an effort to steal the thunder from its rivals, which generally waited until the day after Thanksgiving to stage such sales.
 Target countered with a display of merchandise priced at $1 in the lobbies of its stores, sending a strong low-price message as consumers walked in. 
 Nevertheless, Todd Slater, a retail analyst at Lazard, said that ''Wal-Mart may be better positioned for an economic downturn than Target, because it is the price leader.'' He added that ''Target is more the fashion leader; it's more upscale.''
 Ms. Kahn, of Target, said the chain generally matched Wal-Mart's prices in communities where the two compete. 
 Asked if Target would change its strategy in response to lower traffic, she said the company was determined to stick with its plan, rather than take any action -- like drastic price cuts or a reduction in store staffing -- that could hurt the brand's image. 
 ''Our focus is long-term profitability and growth, not on month-to-month sales,'' she said. ''We believe we have a winning strategy.''
 Investors appear to be less certain. Over the last year, Target's stock price has fallen 12 percent, to $50.68 on Friday. During the same period, Wal-Mart's stock rose 5 percent.
 In coming weeks, consumers can expect more clearance sales, analysts said, like the 50 percent to 70 percent discounts on racks of women's and children's clothing at several Targets in New Jersey last week. 
 There is little doubt that shoppers covet Target's ever-trendy merchandise. The question, in this holiday season of economic unease, is how much of it they will actually buy. 
 Eileen Gowlak, 68, walked out of the Target in North Bergen, N.J., the other day without purchasing anything. She liked a pair of pants, but the price was $26, twice what she would pay at Wal-Mart, she estimated. ''It's too expensive,'' said Ms. Gowlak, who recently lost her job as a waitress at a seafood restaurant.
 She has her eye on a $20 pair of red patent leather shoes at Target. But instead of buying them for herself, as she might have in the past, she has asked a daughter to buy them for her as a Christmas gift. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lilly Ridd, 2, with her mother, Christine Ridd, in a Target in Mechanicsburg, Pa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN GRESS/REUTERS)
 In Chicago, Andy Baker braved the cold on Black Friday last month to take advantage of early bargains at Target. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (54%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (92%); WAL-MART STORES INC (90%)

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (92%); WMT (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (92%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (90%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (90%)

PERSON: ROBERT J ULRICH (58%); THOMAS M O'BRIEN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



577 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: State of the Unions

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Once upon a time, back when America had a strong middle class, it also had a strong union movement. 
 These two facts were connected. Unions negotiated good wages and benefits for their workers, gains that often ended up being matched even by nonunion employers. They also provided an important counterbalance to the political influence of corporations and the economic elite.
 Today, however, the American union movement is a shadow of its former self, except among government workers. In 1973, almost a quarter of private-sector employees were union members, but last year the figure was down to a mere 7.4 percent. 
 Yet unions still matter politically. And right now they're at the heart of a nasty political scuffle among Democrats. Before I get to that, however, let's talk about what happened to American labor over the last 35 years.
 It's often assumed that the U.S. labor movement died a natural death, that it was made obsolete by globalization and technological change. But what really happened is that beginning in the 1970s, corporate America, which had previously had a largely cooperative relationship with unions, in effect declared war on organized labor.
 Don't take my word for it; read Business Week, which published an article in 2002 titled ''How Wal-Mart Keeps Unions at Bay.'' The article explained that ''over the past two decades, Corporate America has perfected its ability to fend off labor groups.'' It then described the tactics -- some legal, some illegal, all involving a healthy dose of intimidation -- that Wal-Mart and other giant firms use to block organizing drives.
 These hardball tactics have been enabled by a political environment that has been deeply hostile to organized labor, both because politicians favored employers' interests and because conservatives sought to weaken the Democratic Party. ''We're going to crush labor as a political entity,'' Grover Norquist, the anti-tax activist, once declared. 
 But the times may be changing. A newly energized progressive movement seems to be on the ascendant, and unions are a key part of that movement. Most notably, the Service Employees International Union has played a key role in pushing for health care reform. And unions will be an important force in the Democrats' favor in next year's election.
 Or maybe not -- which brings us to the latest from Iowa.
 Whoever receives the Democratic presidential nomination will receive labor's support in the general election. Meanwhile, however, unions are supporting favored candidates. Hillary Clinton -- who for a time seemed the clear front-runner -- has received the most union support. John Edwards, whose populist message resonates with labor, has also received considerable labor support. 
 But Barack Obama, though he has a solid pro-labor voting record, has not -- in part, perhaps, because his message of ''a new kind of politics'' that will transcend bitter partisanship doesn't make much sense to union leaders who know, from the experience of confronting corporations and their political allies head on, that partisanship isn't going away anytime soon.
 O.K., that's politics. But now Mr. Obama has lashed out at Mr. Edwards because two 527s -- independent groups that are allowed to support candidates, but are legally forbidden from coordinating directly with their campaigns -- are running ads on his rival's behalf. They are, Mr. Obama says, representative of the kind of ''special interests'' that ''have too much influence in Washington.''
 The thing, though, is that both of these 527s represent union groups -- in the case of the larger group, local branches of the S.E.I.U. who consider Mr. Edwards the strongest candidate on health reform. So Mr. Obama's attack raises a couple of questions. 
 First, does it make sense, in the current political and economic environment, for Democrats to lump unions in with corporate groups as examples of the special interests we need to stand up to?
 Second, is Mr. Obama saying that if nominated, he'd be willing to run without support from labor 527s, which might be crucial to the Democrats? If not, how does he avoid having his own current words used against him by the Republican nominee?
 Part of what happened here, I think, is that Mr. Obama, looking for a stick with which to beat an opponent who has lately acquired some momentum, either carelessly or cynically failed to think about how his rhetoric would affect the eventual ability of the Democratic nominee, whoever he or she is, to campaign effectively. In this sense, his latest gambit resembles his previous echoing of G.O.P. talking points on Social Security.
 Beyond that, the episode illustrates what's wrong with campaigning on generalities about political transformation and trying to avoid sounding partisan. 
 It may be partisan to say that a 527 run by labor unions supporting health care reform isn't the same thing as a 527 run by insurance companies opposing it. But it's also the simple truth. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (69%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



578 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Oprah Puts Her Brand On the Line

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Last week, Denzel Washington and Harvey Weinstein were hosts for the New York premiere of ''The Great Debaters'' at the Ziegfeld Theater in Manhattan. Set to go into wide release on Christmas Day, ''The Great Debaters'' traces the mostly true story of the debate team of tiny Wiley College. It was led by a charismatic professor named Melvin B. Tolson, played by Mr. Washington, who also directed the film.
 Near the beginning of the movie, Mr. Tolson surveys his classroom charges at an all-black college in the Jim Crow South and uses a line from Langston Hughes to remind them that their time to compete and win against their supposed betters was at hand. 
 ''I, too, am America. I. Too. Am. America.'' 
 As I sat in the theater listening to the cadence and the meaning the words carried, there was an echo of something else I had heard recently. And then I checked something on YouTube at http://youtube.com/watch?v=--QJJOtT32C0 and heard Oprah Winfrey introducing -- and heartily endorsing -- Senator Barack Obama to Iowans on Dec. 8.
 ''When you strip us all down, we are American at our core. We are America. We are America with our hopes and our dreams. ...''
 The intersection of language and sentiment comes directly from the hymnal of Ms. Winfrey's secular religion, the church of bootstrapped uplift that is ''Oprah'' with services every weekday. Ms. Winfrey owned the rights to the story of the Wiley college debate team and for 10 years, Harpo Films has been working to make the film, which she also produced. 
 And if it sounds vaguely like an infomercial for Mr. Obama's surging candidacy, well, so much the better. ''She literally talked about stepping out of her pew to endorse him,'' said Lester K. Spence, an assistant professor of political science at Johns Hopkins University. ''When she steps into the world of politics, a world she has always been above, and anoints someone, it is coming from someone that millions of people, especially women, trust and revere.''
 Ms. Winfrey's support of Mr. Obama -- she has held fund-raisers and arranged several large rallies -- has been written off in some political circles as one more meaningless celebrity endorsement. But it is far from meaningless. Hers could be the first such endorsement to have an impact on national politics, and it also carries considerable risks. Politics may seem like one more extension of Ms. Winfrey's vast franchise, but it is a more complicated business. Ms. Winfrey and Mr. Obama have deep connections: both came of age professionally and personally in Chicago during the 1980s, when she was the host of a local talk show (eventually syndicated) and he was a community organizer who hadn't yet entered politics. They both learned to reach an accommodation with all manner of people and in time arrived at a kind of common language that has taken them to the national stage.
 During the early 1990s, when both television talk and the culture at large was heading down a road that led inexorably this week to the pregnancy of Britney Spears's baby sister, Ms. Winfrey hung a right. Banking her franchise on the durable virtues of decency, hard work and self-improvement, she found a bigger audience -- eight million a day -- and turned herself from a multimillionaire into a billionaire.
 And she was able to do so while transcending not only the issue of race, but traditional publishing economics. I covered the magazine industry when Ms. Winfrey introduced O, the Oprah Magazine and that world has never seen the likes of it. In a business where most magazines might sneak a young black model onto the cover of a thin August issue, O features a woman who is black, over the age of 50, and in no danger of keeling over from anorexia on every issue and reaches more than 2.5 million readers. 
 Popular culture often bushwhacks a trail that politics then follows. Think of Ronald Reagan's version of America -- or rather, America finding a version of themselves in the image he projected in 1980 or the stage management of Bill Clinton's campaign by the television producers, Harry Thomason and Linda Bloodworth-Thomason, in 1992.
 What works for Oprah the inspiring talk-show host, however, may not work for Oprah the political player. On her show, Oprah slides with ease between church lady and homegirl with a quick flourish of putting a hand on the hip. On the stump, she admitted to nervousness, and it showed. Her lexicon of hope and community always seems fresh when she is on home court, but those same words, shouted out over huge crowds in Des Moines and Columbia, S.C., sounded far more common and somehow muddied by their deployment on behalf of a candidate. 
 She is, without a doubt, the most powerful endorsement in pop culture. Her book club can turn obscure novels into immediate hits, and anything she endorses on her annual ''Favorite Things'' show becomes impossible to find. But that's because in her contract with her audience, she never has a piece of what she is pushing. Her interest is your interest because she is not for sale. 
 After her endorsement of Mr. Obama, however, the message boards on Oprah.com are alive with allegations of ''betrayal'' and ''sellout.'' Mr. Obama's base may have been engaged, but part of Ms. Winfrey's base is livid. 
 Some other cross-over figures have avoided stepping into the breach for that very reason. Michael Jordan memorably stayed above the political fray because ''Republicans buy sneakers, too.'' Cynical? Sure. But lots of Republicans (along with Hillary Rodham Clinton and John Edwards supporters) buy Oprah, too. For the time being, most of the push-back seems small, confined to her message boards. 
 But Ms. Winfrey's position above the fray, above common human argument, is now on the table. Mr. Obama has plenty to gain from her support, but she has plenty to lose. If her television show and her magazine start to be seen as a political statement, market forces may cast some votes of their own. That, too, is America. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (89%); CHRISTMAS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (71%); FILM DIRECTORS (71%); RELIGION (69%); INFOMERCIALS (62%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); DENZEL WASHINGTON (88%); OPRAH WINFREY (79%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



579 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 283 words

HEADLINE: The Week Ahead

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
MARKETS The New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq will close at 1 p.m. Monday and will be closed Tuesday, Christmas Day. Many markets outside the United States will be closed on Wednesday as well. 
 ECONOMIC INDICATORS The Mortgage Bankers Association will report on Thursday its weekly indexes of mortgage applications. Last week the indexes fell 20 percent, the biggest decline since 2004.
The Commerce Department will report durable goods orders for the month of November on Thursday. The figure was down in October for a third consecutive month, the longest string of declines in more than three years, but analysts expect a slight increase in the new report.
 The Conference Board will issue its consumer confidence report on Thursday. In last month's report, the board said consumer confidence had declined to a level not seen since shortly after Hurricane Katrina in 2005; analysts expect another decline.
 On Friday, the Commerce Department will report on new-home sales for November. In its report for October, the agency said sales rose slightly from September, when the figure was at its lowest in 12 years. A decline is expected for November.
 Also on Friday, a measure of business activity will be released by the National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago. That measure, from a survey of corporate purchasing managers, rose in November to a level that indicated growth. The level in October indicated a decline. Analysts expect the new report to show a slight decline from November, but to remain at a level indicating growth.
 EARNINGS A few midsize companies will report earnings this week. Among them are Luby's and H.B. Fuller on Thursday and the Mesa Air Group on Friday. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (79%); REAL ESTATE (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); CHRISTMAS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); HURRICANES (68%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (66%); HURRICANE KATRINA (53%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); H B FULLER CO (54%); MESA AIR GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%)

TICKER: FUL (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2891 ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (54%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



580 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: King of Pain

BYLINE: By JIM HARRISON. 
Jim Harrison's most recent novel is ''Returning to Earth.''

 BODY:
THE PLEASURES OF THE DAMNED
 Poems, 1951-1993.
 By Charles Bukowski.
 Edited by John Martin.
 556 pp. Ecco/HarperCollins Publishers. $29.95.
 Poetry shouldn't tell us what we already know, though of course it can revive what we think we know. A durable poet, the rarest of all birds, has a unique point of view and the gift of language to express it. The unique point of view can often come from a mental or physical deformity. Deep within us, but also on the surface, is the wounded ugly boy who has never caught an acceptable angle of himself in the mirror. A poet can have a deep sense of himself as a Quasimodo in a world without bells, or as the fine poet Czeslaw Milosz wrote:
 A feast of brief hopes, a rally of the proud,
 A tournament of hunchbacks, 
 literature.
 Charles Bukowski was a monstrously homely man because of a severe case of acne vulgaris when he was young. Along the way he also had bleeding ulcers, tuberculosis and cataracts; he attempted suicide; and only while suffering from leukemia in the last year of his life did he manage to quit drinking. Bukowski was a major-league tosspot, occasionally brutish but far less so than the mean-minded Hemingway, who drank himself into suicide. Both men created public masks for themselves, not a rare thing in a writer's paper sack of baubles, but the masks were held in place for so long that they could not be taken off except in the work. 
 Throughout his life, Bukowski held a series of low-paying jobs so dismal that they are unbearable to list, though he did keep a position as a mail carrier for many years. Early on he was a library hound, and there are a surprising number of literary references in his work. (Quite by accident while I was writing this, the French critic Alexandre Thiltges paid a visit. He confirmed my suspicion that Bukowski had closely read Celine.) Even more surprising in this large collection are the number of poems characterized by fragility and delicacy; I've been reading Bukowski occasionally for 50 years and had not noted this before, which means I was most likely listening too closely to his critics. Our perceptions of Bukowski, like our perceptions of Kerouac, are muddied by the fact that many of his most ardent fans are nitwits who love him to the exclusion of any of his contemporaries. I would suggest you can appreciate Bukowski with the same brain that loves Wallace Stegner and Gary Snyder.
 It is uncomfortable to realize that I have been monitoring American poetry for 50 years and am now even a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, which a friend refers to as ''The Dead Man's Club.'' All the scaffolding around the five-story building of this poetry is actually a confusing blemish and should be ignored in favor of the building itself, but this is probably impossible until a date in the future far beyond our concern. Time constructs the true canon, not critics contemporaneous to the work, whether they are the Vendlerites of the Boston area, the Bloombadgers of New Haven or the Goodyear Tires of New York City. 
 Bukowski was a solo act, though his lineage is fairly obvious. You detect Whitman, Bierce, Mencken, Sherwood Anderson, Kenneth Patchen, William Carlos Williams, perhaps Villon and Genet and strongly Celine. He loved classical music, and there is an amusing poem in which he feels for Bruckner because he wasn't a better composer. He despised Fitzgerald because to a man from the lower depths, Fitzgerald seemed sensitive only to the sufferings within the upper class. Bukowski seemed far more worried about his cats' health than his own. One had been shot and run over but survived, though its front legs didn't coordinate with the back, a metaphor of something, probably Bukowski's life. He had several failed marriages -- but then historically, poets are better off with imaginary lovers. He observed birds, but one cannot imagine anyone less a nature poet, if you discount the infield of a racetrack, where you could see him in the long line at the $2 window. He was deeply enthused about bars and keeping company with whores, and seemed to like the spavined landscapes of the nether regions of Los Angeles, which I myself used to visit. They are so resolutely charmless compared with the slums of New York I knew in the late '50s, which I visited because I was advised not to.
 I have wondered, when asked about Bukowski in Brazil and France, if that's not why so many foreigners admire him: he's simply the American of their imagination, a low-level gangster as poet. Some are Abel poets and some are Cain poets, and Bukowski is clearly the latter (there are those who think of themselves as Cain poets but shift to Abel when they get a job in academia). It is clear in reading him that Bukowski didn't live in a gated community, whether academic or economic. His was the hard found music of the streets.
 But then, fuimus flumus -- it all drifts away in smoke. It is not poetry that lasts but good poems, a critical difference. An attractive idea is that the test of poetry should be the same as Henry James's dictum for the novel, that it be interesting. Pasternak said that despite all appearances, it takes a lot of volume to fill a life. Bukowski's strength is in the sheer bulk of his contents, the virulent anecdotal sprawl, the melodic spleen without the fetor of the parlor or the classroom, as if he were writing while straddling a cement wall or sitting on a bar stool, the seat of which is made of thorns. He never made that disastrous poet's act of asking permission for his irascible voice.
 ''The Pleasures of the Damned'' is an appropriately long collection because it is likely to stand as the definitive volume of Bukowski's poems. It is well edited by John Martin, the publisher of the estimable Black Sparrow Press, who was Bukowski's editor for most of his working life.
 It is hard to quote Bukowski because there are virtually none of those short lyrics with bow ties of closure that are so pleasant for a reviewer to quote. I will excerpt a poem evidently written quite near the end of his life:
 it bothers the young most, I think:
 an unviolent slow death.
 still it makes any man dream;
 you wish for an old sailing ship,
 the white salt-crusted sail
 and the sea shaking out hints of 
 immortality
 sea in the nose
 sea in the hair
 sea in the marrow, in the eyes
 and yes, there in the chest.
 will we miss 
 the love of a woman or music or food
 or the gambol of the great mad 
 muscled
 horse, kicking clods and destinies
 high and away
 in just one moment of the sun coming down?
 I am not inclined to make elaborate claims for Bukowski, because there is no one to compare him to, plus or minus. He wrote in the language of his class as surely as Wallace Stevens wrote in the language of his own. This book offers you a fair chance to make up your own mind on this quarrelsome monster. It is ironical that those who man the gates of the canon will rarely if ever make it inside themselves. Bukowski came in a secret back door.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN CUNEO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WRITERS (90%); POETRY (90%); LITERATURE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (67%); SUICIDE (67%); ACNE (53%); SKIN DISORDERS (53%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



581 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: The Right Answer in New Orleans

 BODY:
New Orleans will never recover economically unless it attracts a work force large enough to drive the industries upon which the city has historically depended for its livelihood. Low-wage workers, in particular, are unlikely to return until the tens of thousands of rental houses and apartments that were destroyed by Hurricanes Rita and Katrina are replaced. To secure its economic future, the region needs an aggressive, farsighted plan for rebuilding the rental housing stock and creating more affordable housing. 
 Housing advocates, business leaders and elected officials at all levels will need to come together on this issue. At the moment, the factions are bitterly split over the federal government's plan that calls for demolishing some of the city's notorious public housing projects and replacing them with mixed-income communities. The warring sides need to understand that it's possible to build vibrant mixed communities and to expand the supply of affordable housing at the same time. 
 Senator Mary Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, is sponsoring a bill that would essentially require the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development to replace every public housing apartment it demolishes by either building another apartment on the same site or by creating an affordable unit elsewhere. Many housing advocates have embraced the bill, as has the Louisiana Recovery Authority, whose board consists mainly of business and civic leaders.
 HUD, however, has denounced the one-for-one provision as anathema to the mixed-income concept. And Louisiana's Republican senator, David Vitter, seems determined to kill the bill by any means necessary, perhaps simply to prevent Ms. Landrieu from winning a legislative victory in advance of the 2008 elections. Mr. Vitter has unfairly described the bill and the one-for-one replacement provision as a stealth plan for rebuilding the scary and often violent housing projects exactly as they were. 
 The facts suggest otherwise. The two most prominent developers retained by HUD to help rebuild the city's public housing system have embraced the replacement paradigm. The developers, Providence Community Housing and Enterprise Community Partners, are scheduled to build on 27.5 acres now occupied by the Lafitte project. They have a plan that calls for building 900 rental units to replace the current development and to build 600 new affordable homes for working families and first-time homeowners.
 By working in partnership with community organizations and acquiring land in adjacent communities, Providence and Enterprise hope to create a healthy, economically integrated community where the public housing stigma no longer applies and low-income and working-class residents live side by side in identical housing units. The plan also calls for schools, health care, youth programs, job opportunities and job training. The developers have committed some of their own money, but the project is largely financed by federal tax credits and block grants. 
 The public housing issue is only part of the overall housing picture. Louisiana must also get cracking on a long-overdue program to restore more than 80,000 rental apartments destroyed by the storms. The recovery authority says it has committed funds for rebuilding about 33,000 those, but much more needs to be done. The Lafitte design shows that it is possible to satisfy the need to replace destroyed public housing and to create vibrant new communities of mixed incomes. State, federal and local officials need to take that lesson and run with it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); HURRICANE KATRINA (74%); CITIES (73%); FAMILY (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%)

PERSON: MARY LANDRIEU (59%); DAVID VITTER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



582 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; A CONVERSATION WITH HARINDRA JOSEPH S. FERNANDO; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: On the Ground and in the Water, Tracing a Giant Wave's Path

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA DREIFUS

DATELINE: TEMPE, Ariz. 

 BODY:
Next to the office of Harindra Joseph S. Fernando at Arizona State University is a 107-foot-long wave tank that can mimic oceanic motions. 
 ''This tank is one of the most wonderful pieces of equipment I have,'' said Dr. Fernando, 52, the director of the Environmental Fluid Dynamics Program at Arizona State. ''It's amazing.''
 After a tsunami swept across the Indian Ocean in 2004 and killed an estimated 300,000 people in Indonesia, Thailand and Sri Lanka, Dr. Fernando used his amazing piece of equipment to determine why the wave was so lethal. 
 He and colleagues confirmed that human activities at southern Asian seashores -- like coral poaching, dune destruction and mangrove harvesting -- had made a natural disaster even more deadly. 
 As the anniversary of the Dec. 26 tsunami neared, Dr. Fernando, an American born in Sri Lanka who goes by the name Joe, described using a combination of science and local reporting to create a clearer picture of the disaster. An edited version of a three-hour conversation follows.
 Q.Where did you go for your vacation in the summer of 2004?
 A. I took my wife and kids to a seaside resort in the southeastern part of Sri Lanka, to a place called Yala. At the end of the holiday, we took a hired car back to Colombo, the Sri Lankan capital. As we drove along the coastal road, we found ourselves stuck behind two trucks hauling tons of coral, taken, apparently, from nearby reefs. 
 When my wife asked our driver about this, he explained that dynamiting the reefs was a cottage industry in the region. He said that local people mined the reefs and sold the coral to be ground up and used as an ingredient in house paint. ''Blasting the reefs is not legal,'' he said. ''But people do it.''
 This was disturbing. But I didn't think long about it.
 Q.When did you think about it again?
 A. Six months later. Right after the tsunami. Immediately afterward, Dr. Philip Liu of Cornell asked me to join an international team traveling to Sri Lanka to gather scientific information on the height and reach of the wave. 
 The region I was assigned to study, coincidentally, was the same part of the island the family had vacationed in during the summer.
 Q.What did you see there?
 A. Severe damage, though inconsistent damage. At Peraliya, near to where the family had encountered those trucks with coral, the tsunami had swelled to a height of 30 feet and surged inland for more than a mile. There, it inundated a passenger train, the Ocean Queen, killing about 1,700 people. Yet, only three miles away, in Hikkaduwa, the wave came ashore with a height of about nine feet and barely grazed the beach. Why such differences? 
 I asked a fisherman at Peraliya, ''Why was the inundation so severe right here?'' He said, ''Possibly the coral might be the issue, because this is largely a coral-mining area.'' 
 From my fluid dynamics background, I knew he was making sense. If you take friction from a flow, it moves faster.
 At Yala, where we'd stayed, I saw evidence of another type of beach-barrier destruction. The resort had been flattened to rubble; 175 people died there, including two friends from California. The owner told us how they'd taken down a sand dune so that all rooms could have an unobstructed view of the ocean. I returned to Arizona, convinced that human activity had magnified the disaster. 
 Q.So now you had a working theory. How did you prove it?
 A. By employing a mixture of science and, believe it or not, journalism. A few weeks after I returned, the BBC asked me to consult on a documentary on the tsunami. With their funding, we hired divers to go underwater at eight different sites around the island, including Peraliya.
 Q.In other words, you used this remarkable research technique -- you looked!
 A. Exactly. And the divers came back with pictures that were very clear. In the areas where there'd been a lot of inundation, there were no, or few, corals left. 
 Here at my lab at Arizona State, we have our very nice wave tank, which permits us to run waves at different speeds and heights and then measure the effects under controlled conditions. 
 So we made tsunami models with simulated coral reefs and then without them. What we saw was that where the coral was gone, the surging water increased by a factor of three or more. 
 At Princeton, Michael Oppenheimer's research group took the idea further with sophisticated computer models, which substantiated my laboratory experiment. The research together has shown that when you cut down the coral reefs, or dunes or mangrove forests, you make a jetway for waves, because you have less bottom friction, and that lets the water through.
 Q.Would you advocate a ban on coral mining?
 A. Absolutely. Everywhere, not only in Sri Lanka. Once you start mining corals, you reduce beach defenses. If you have a tsunami or the more common event, a storm surge, the reef will help protect the land. 
 Q.Are you saying that a lot of the deaths in the tsunami were preventable?
 A. In Sri Lanka, some of them. In Indonesia, you couldn't have done much, because the tsunami was triggered by a 9.3 underwater earthquake near Sumatra. The quake was so close and so overwhelmingly powerful that beach defenses wouldn't have mattered. But in Sri Lanka, manmade problems made things worse. 
 Q.Have there been reforms because of your research?
 A. My studies became very popular. Sri Lankans became very interested. A 1981 law against coral poaching is now being stringently enforced. 
 Before the tsunami, there was a lot of toleration of coral poaching. It was almost thought of as a legitimate economic activity. Since the research, when people poach, citizens will catch them and call the police. When I went to Sri Lanka last year, I saw a billboard near Peraliya that read, ''Let's refrain from mining corals that control beach erosion.'' 
 I never thought people would take this seriously.
 Q.Few scientists ever get to see their work have a direct impact on policy. What does that feel like?
 A. I was born in Sri Lanka and I never thought I could make a contribution this way. I didn't think I could do science that changed policy. Till the tsunami, I thought all I could do was to train students, which I did. 
 Of course, the research was associated with natural disaster, which is sad. But these are the types of problems that scientists should be helping with. Right now, I'm working a lot on the ''heat island'' effect, asking why air temperatures in cities like Phoenix and Colombo are about 8 degrees warmer than in surrounding areas. On a different project, funded by the U.S. Navy, we're figuring out how wave action contributes to how land mines get buried in conflict areas. This can save a lot of lives. These are important questions, though they are also practical.
 Many scientists are so engulfed in their own little area of fundamental research that they don't want to directly embrace practical knowledge. That's one barrier that I was able to break. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: EBBS AND FLOWS: Joe Fernando used a wave tank in his fluid dynamics lab and on-site observations in Sri Lanka to study tsunami causes and effects. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF TOPPING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TSUNAMIS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); OCEANS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (76%); PHYSICS (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); RESORTS (68%); TRAINS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%) SRI LANKA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



583 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Markets Up After a Deal By Merrill

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Shares rose on Monday after a billion-dollar investment deal between Merrill Lynch and the Singapore government raised hopes that wealthy foreign investors would come to the rescue of America's ailing investment firms. 
 But investors were unimpressed with Merrill itself, as shares dropped 3 percent to $53.90 on worries that the company has more losses related to the subprime mortgage market to deal with. 
 Most major Wall Street firms recorded significant gains, with Goldman Sachs and Citigroup rising more than 2 percent. 
 The strong performance among financial stocks lifted most markets, driving the Dow Jones industrial average up 98.68 points, or 0.73 percent, to 13,549.33. A broader measure of the financial market, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, ticked up 11.99 points, or 0.81 percent, to 1,496.45. The Nasdaq composite rose 21.51 points, or 0.8 percent, to 2,713.50.
 Christmas Eve is one of the lightest trading days of the year, and stock markets closed early at 1 p.m. Lower volume usually makes for more volatility, but analysts said Monday's gains were a sign that last week's bullishness had survived the weekend. 
 ''Just because it's light trading doesn't mean that it's not a positive sign,'' said Larry Adam, chief investment strategist at Deutsche Bank. 
 The Dow's gains extended a 200-point rally from Friday, when an unexpectedly strong report on consumer spending led analysts to raise their estimates for fourth quarter growth. The Dow is now up 8.7 percent for the year, and the S. & P. 500 is up 5.5 percent. 
 Besides the traditional holiday optimism -- the so-called Santa Rally -- investors were cheered by news that Alcoa, the aluminum producer, was selling its packaging and consumer businesses to a company in New Zealand for $2.7 billion. Reynolds Wrap, the kitchen staple, will no longer be an American product, but the deal signaled that the sluggish acquisition market might be starting to recover. Shares of Alcoa rose 1.8 percent, to $37.01.
 ''Anytime the market sees deals being done right now, especially amid the credit turmoil, participants take that as a positive,'' said Todd Salamone, director for trading at Schaeffer's Investment Research.
 Retail shares also rose as analysts hoped the weekend shopping rush would bolster year-end bottom lines. Analysts were concerned about flagging sales at department stores and other consumer outlets, but they now expect to see a modest improvement from last year. Shares of Nordstrom rose 3.8 percent, to $37.65; Macy's gained 1.8 percent and Target's struggling share price leaped 3.5 percent.
 The consumer spending report on Friday eased fears of an imminent recession. The yield on Treasury bills rose for the fourth straight day, indicating a willingness to move away from the relative safety bets on government bonds. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury bill ticked up to 4.21 percent from 4.17 percent on Friday and the price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, fell 11/32, to 100 9/32.
 Crude oil futures gained 82 cents to settle at $94.13 a barrel. Oil rose nearly $3 in the last two trading days.
 Here are the results of Monday's auction of 3- and 6-month Treasury bills:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); CHRISTMAS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); DEPARTMENT STORES (69%); RETAILERS (69%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (62%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (56%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); ALCOA INC (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (90%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); AAI (ASX) (53%); AA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (53%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SINGAPORE (88%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



584 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: All-Business Class Airline Ceases Flights

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Maxjet Airways, which flew between London and three United States cities, ceased operations on Monday -- leaving jets on tarmacs and stranding passengers on Christmas Eve -- as the all-business class airline filed for bankruptcy protection. 
 Maxjet took what it called a ''drastic measure'' because of soaring fuel prices and the deteriorating credit market. But analysts suggested that competition from AMR's American Airlines on one of Maxjet's crucial routes also played a role.
 ''High fuel prices were a contributing factor,'' said Robert Mann, an airline consultant in Port Washington, N.Y., but American's inauguration in October of service between Kennedy Airport and Stansted in London ''was the coup de grace.'' 
 The airline started in 2005 and offered ''all-premium'' flights between London and New York, Las Vegas and Los Angeles. But it could not compete with American's frequent-flier program, ''newer, more efficient aircraft with upgraded business class seats, corporate contracts and over all 20 flights daily to three London airports,'' Mr. Mann said.
 While business class service can be very profitable to airlines, it is also a very thin market, Mr. Mann said, serving typically ''40 to 70 seats per flight, depending on the route and aircraft.'' Any loss of market share to a rival can be devastating, particularly to an all-business-class carrier like Maxjet that did not have revenue from economy passengers -- or a robust route system -- to fall back on.
 Maxjet's bankruptcy filing forced the carrier to reserve hotel rooms for stranded holiday passengers who had booked return flights between New York and London. The airline said it was working with its rival, the all-business class Eos Airlines, to find alternative routes. Meanwhile, Continental Airlines and Silverjet Aviation, another all-business class carrier, said they would honor limited numbers of Maxjet tickets.
 In a message posted Maxjet's Web site, the president and chief executive, William D. Stockbridge, apologized.
 Maxjet's failure was attributed, in part, to the airline's inability to raise cash. The company said that failure stemmed from a ''substantial deterioration in financial market confidence'' driven by concerns about rising fuel and operating costs, competitive pressure and a decline in consumer spending.
 ''With today's fuel prices and the resulting impact on the credit climate for airlines, we are forced to take this drastic measure,'' Mr. Stockbridge said. ''We are extremely saddened to discontinue a service that we so passionately believe in, and we thank our loyal fliers.''
 Yet both Silverjet and Eos have raised additional capital in recent months to help finance operations. 
 The chief executive of Silverjet, Lawrence Hunt, said Maxjet's issues should not be applied to the rest of the all-business class segment. Silverjet generates about three times as much revenue for each plane as Maxjet for planes of comparable size and configuration, Hunt said. Also, Silverjet has been able to keep its fuel costs lower.
 Maxjet advised customers who had booked tickets to seek refunds from their travel agency or credit card company.
 Hotel rooms were being booked in London, New York, Las Vegas and Los Angeles through early January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); CHRISTMAS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); LOYALTY MARKETING (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (64%)

COMPANY: MAXJET AIRWAYS INC (84%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); SILVERJET PLC (53%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



585 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: In This Economy, the Loser Is ...

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''Nightmare Before Christmas'' (column, Dec. 22), Bob Herbert writes that ''according to the Congressional Budget Office, the after-tax income of the top 1 percent rose 228 percent from 1979 through 2005,'' while middle-class earnings remained flat.
 These statistics reflect that American society is based upon one principle: free contract. In such a society, bargaining power is everything. 
 Corporations are ownership collectives. Such collectivism gives corporations enormous bargaining power. That increase for the top 1 percent mirrors the decline of collective bargaining.
 Ever since the creation of the limited liability corporation during the time of the Civil War, our society has struggled with this issue. We have to find a way to level the playing field in bargaining arrangements or this country's experiment with democracy will fail. 
 It's no coincidence that the Roman Empire had low taxes, small government, enormous concentrations of wealth and an overextended military at the time of its collapse. Most of history's epic changes were stewed from such recipes. Timothy Kane 
 Seoul, South Korea, Dec. 22, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Bob Herbert presents a succinct and devastating portrayal of the tragic and twisted logic of our current economic system. 
 I just turned 42, and have only realized within the last year that Wall Street is, is effect, nothing less than the Thievery Corporation. And if the stock markets are moving upward, it's probably because tens of thousands of American workers are receiving pink slips or worse for their years of hard work. 
 America simply doesn't make money the old-fashioned way anymore. Huge job and benefit cuts, along with the crushing euphemisms of globalization and outsourcing, have become the methods of maximizing both corporate profits and worker humiliation. 
 The nightmare faced by the majority of Americans isn't going to end any time soon. The worst of it is only just beginning. And nothing less than a socioeconomic revolution by the common man is going to stop the bleeding. 
 No one on the current political landscape has even the vision, much less the courage, to tell the truth, much less fight for it. We're therefore left only with extrapolitical options to confront the forces that are killing the American dream. Gary Dean Thomas 
 Lexington, Ky., Dec. 22, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Bob Herbert quotes the observation by Andrew L. Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union, that Americans today ''cannot see where the jobs of the future are that will allow their kids to have a better life than they had.'' Mr. Stern adds, ''And they're not wrong.''
 But when could Americans of any generation foresee future jobs? Did the blacksmith in 1890 foresee jobs in the auto industry? Did the corner grocer in 1940 foresee his son prospering as a regional manager for Wal-Mart? 
 Did the telegram-deliverer in 1950 foresee his child designing software for cellphones? Did the local pharmacist in 1960 foresee his daughter's job as a biomedical engineer?
 Our inability today to see the details of the future is no more worrisome than was the same inability of our grandparents. Donald J. Boudreaux 
 Fairfax, Va., Dec. 22, 2007
 The writer is chairman of the economics department, George Mason University.
 To the Editor:
 I am sick and tired of reading and listening to the news about how the Bush administration policies are affecting the middle class. What are we, a bunch of cowards or idiots? 
 For the past seven years, the Democrats have given George W. Bush everything he wanted, including some of my most important freedoms protected by the Constitution. 
 I don't expect anything from the Republican candidates, but I do from the Democratic ones. 
 College graduates are turning to blue-collar trades to make a decent income. When does it stop? Louis R. Chierici 
 Melbourne, Fla., Dec. 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); LAYOFFS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (76%); OUTSOURCING (76%); CIVIL WAR (74%); LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES (71%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); LABOR UNIONS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (70%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (51%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



586 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1580 words

HEADLINE: A Threat So Big, Academics Try Collaboration

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
It is a basic tenet of university research: Economists conduct joint studies, chemists join forces in the laboratory, political scientists share ideas about other cultures -- but rarely do the researchers cross disciplinary lines.
 The political landscape of academia, combined with the fight for grant money, has always fostered competition far more than collaboration. 
 But the threat of global warming may just change all that. 
 Take what's happening at the Rochester Institute of Technology. In September the school established the Golisano Institute for Sustainability, aimed at getting students and professors from different disciplines to collaborate in studying the environmental ramifications of production and consumption. 
 ''The academic tradition is to let one discipline dominate new programs,'' said Nabil Nasr, the institute's director. ''But the problem of sustainability cuts across economics, social elements, engineering, everything. It simply cannot be solved by one discipline, or even by coupling two disciplines.''
 Neil Hawkins, Dow Chemical's vice president for sustainability, sees it that way, too. Thus, Dow is giving $10 million, spread over five years, to the University of California, Berkeley, to set up a sustainability center. 
 ''Berkeley has one of the strongest chemical engineering schools in the world, but it will be the M.B.A.'s who understand areas like microfinance solutions to drinking water problems,'' Mr. Hawkins said.
 That realization is spreading throughout academia. So more universities are setting up stand-alone centers that offer neutral ground on which engineering students can work on alternative fuels while business students calculate the economics of those fuels and political science majors figure how to make the fuels palatable to governments in both developing nations and America's states. 
 ''We give professors a chance to step beyond their usual areas of expertise, and we give students exposure to the worlds of science and business,'' said Daniel C. Esty, director of the year-old Yale Center for Business and the Environment, a joint effort between the School of Management and the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies. 
 Similar setups are getting easier to find. Last year, the University of Tennessee consolidated all of its environmental research programs under a new Institute for a Secure and Sustainable Environment. Arizona State University did the same in 2004, when it inaugurated its Global Institute of Sustainability. 
 The Arizona institute reports directly to the university president and is run by Jonathan Fink, who is also the university's sustainability officer. 
 ''We want all the departments to contribute without thinking they own the initiative themselves,'' Mr. Fink said. Already, experts in biogeochemistry -- the study of the scientific underpinnings of earth's origins and existing biosystems -- are working with social scientists to study the impact of rapid urbanization on plants and animals.
 It is impossible to quantify the growth of stand-alone centers. There is no naming convention -- some are sustainability centers, some are environmental institutes and some are global warming initiatives. And many do not stand alone at all, but are neatly tucked inside an existing school.
 For example, in 2003 the University of Pittsburgh School of Engineering dedicated the Mascaro Sustainability Initiative, which studies green construction and sustainable water use.
 Nor do the environmentally themed names necessarily convey an enviro-centric agenda. Many sustainability centers -- the Kenan-Flagler Center for Sustainable Enterprise at the University of North Carolina is a good example -- address global cultures, business ethics and corporate social responsibility along with environmental issues. 
 The Aspen Institute's Center for Business Education compiled a list of more than 600 academic centers that, at first blush, sound as if they would be stand-alone environmental facilities. Rich Leimsider, its director, figures only a handful really are. 
 ''We are seeing more centers framed as sustainability, but they may not be qualitatively different from the ethics, innovation or globalization centers of 15 years ago,'' he said. ''Universities realize that you can discuss sustainability with a C.E.O. and not get laughed out of the room.''
 But Mr. Leimsider said he does see more stand-alone centers that are devoted primarily to analyzing environmental problems, influencing environmental policy and preparing students to think collaboratively when they try to solve those problems outside the academic world. 
 Many of the centers have one foot set squarely outside the ivory tower. Mr. Esty said the Yale center was developing an ''eco-services clinic'' that would help companies address various environmental issues. Duke's Corporate Sustainability Initiative, which is a joint venture of its earth sciences, business and environmental policy schools, is also a founding member of the Chicago Sustainable Business Alliance. Its faculty and students have already developed a small wind turbine for private use, and have helped local businesses reduce their carbon footprints.
 Nor does the money for the centers necessarily come from university coffers. Often, it comes from individuals who are passionate about the environment. 
 More than 10 years ago, Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb gave $5 million to the University of Michigan to found the Erb Institute for Global Sustainable Enterprise. They have given an additional $15 million since.
 Thomas P. Lyon, the institute's director, said much of the money goes to defray third-year costs for graduate students who pursue a dual degree in business and natural sciences. But the institute is now talking to venture capitalists about teaching students to invest in green technologies, and is setting up projects for students in China and elsewhere. It also gives small research grants to professors who affiliate with the institute; most recently, it awarded money for a study of botanical gardens. 
 ''We provide a community where students and professors can discuss research with different disciplines,'' Mr. Lyon said.
 Similarly, Julie A. Wrigley, who has a home in Arizona, provided $15 million for Arizona State's institute, and this year gave an additional $10 million to create a degree-granting School of Sustainability within the institute.
 The vast majority of the money for the Golisano Institute in Rochester came from B. Thomas Golisano, the founder of Paychex and one of the underwriters of the Clinton Global Initiative.
 Mr. Golisano, who donated $10 million, said he expected the institute to ''produce the first generation of professionals with the vision and know-how to deliver on the promise of sustainability.'' Indeed, Mr. Nasr said the institute already offers courses on sustainability to all freshman and is asking students to submit ideas for projects. 
 Sometimes, government chips in. Mr. Fink notes that Phoenix is ''the poster child'' for the so-called urban heat island effect -- the phenomenon in which big cities absorb heat during the day and release it at night, causing temperatures to rise. So his institute has amassed funds from the Environmental Protection Agency, the State of Arizona and some local businesses for a project to see if certain construction materials can alleviate the problem. 
 Companies are getting into the financing act as well. Unlike traditional partnerships between business and academia, in which companies that provide funds have the right to commercialize any breakthroughs, most of these funds come with no strings attached. 
 Several years ago Enterprise Rent-a-Car donated $10 million to the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center in St. Louis for research on growing crops for food. This year it gave $25 million to create the Enterprise Institute in conjunction with Danforth, to do research into biobased fuels.
 ''Danforth understands cellulosic research, so they are best positioned to figure out how to make fuel from soy and corn,'' said Patrick T. Farrell, vice president for corporate responsibility at Enterprise. 
 Four companies -- ExxonMobil, General Electric, Schlumberger and Toyota -- have anted up for the Stanford University Global Climate and Energy Project, which explores new energy technologies. The Shell Oil Foundation has been financing Rice University's Shell Center for Sustainability since 2002. Wal-Mart has promised money for an Applied Sustainability Center at the University of Arkansas. 
 Berkeley, meanwhile, is using Dow's gift to set up a Sustainable Products and Solutions Program within its existing Center for Responsible Business. That is in the Haas Business School, but Kellie A. McElhaney, the center's director, insists the program will draw on Berkeley's chemists, biologists, financial analysts, policy specialists, even lawyers. 
 The program is now taking applications for grants from Berkeley students and professors who want to conduct collaborative research into topics like providing clean drinking water or more efficient fuels. And Ms. McElhaney said other companies have expressed willingness to kick in funds. 
 ''Commercialization takes forever if the chemical engineers and the business types do not coordinate,'' she said. ''So think how much easier it will be for chemistry graduates to work inside a company if they already know how to interact with the business side.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Vanessa Escobar leading a discussion on water management at Arizona State. The university set up the Global Institute of Sustainability to encourage joint efforts on climate change issues.
 Joby Carlson of Arizona State University showing how an infrared camera is used to detect surface temperatures. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF TOPPING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C2) ILLUSTRATION (ILLUSTRATION BY THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CHEMISTRY (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (78%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (75%); CHEMICALS MFG (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); CONSUMPTION (70%); URBANIZATION (66%); MICROFINANCE (50%)

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (56%); DOW (NYSE) (56%); DOW (LSE) (56%); 4850 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



587 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Professor Cites Bible In Faulting Tax Policies

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
At a time when some voters are asking how the religious views of candidates will shape their policies, a professor's discovery of how little tax the biggest landowners in her state paid to finance the government has prompted some other legal scholars to scour religious texts to explore the moral basis of tax and spending policies.
 The professor, Susan Pace Hamill, is an expert at tax avoidance for small businesses and teaches at the University of Alabama Law School. She also holds a degree in divinity from a conservative evangelical seminary, where her master's thesis explored how Alabama's tax-and-spend policies comport with the Bible. 
 Professor Hamill says that since Judeo-Christian ethics ''is the moral compass chosen by most Americans'' it is vital that these policies be compared with the texts on which they are based. Another professor says she is the first to address this head on, inspiring work by others.
 Her findings, embraced by some believers and denounced by others, has also stirred research everywhere from Arizona State to New York University into the connection between religious teachings and government fiscal practices.
 Her latest effort is a book, ''As Certain as Death'' (Carolina Academic Press, 2007), that seeks to document how the 50 states, in contravention of her view of biblical injunctions, do more to burden the poor and relieve the rich than vice versa.
 In lectures and papers, Professor Hamill has expanded on her theme, drawing objections from some critics who say that the religious obligation to care for the poor is a matter of personal morality, not public policy.
 Professor Hamill asserted that 18 states seriously violate biblical principles in the way they tax and spend. She calls Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Nevada, South Dakota, Texas ''the sinful six'' because they require the poor to pay a much larger share of their income than the rich while doing little to help the poor improve their lot.
 The worst violator, in her view, is her own state of Alabama, which taxes its poor more than twice as heavily as its rich, while holding a tight rein on education spending. 
 The poorest fifth of Alabama families, with incomes under $13,000, pay state and local taxes that take almost 11 cents out of each dollar. The richest 1 percent, who make $229,000 or more, pay less than 4 cents out of each dollar they earn, according to Citizens for Tax Justice, an advocacy group whose numbers are generally considered trustworthy even by many of its opponents.
 Professor Hamill said what first drew her to the issue of fiscal policy and biblical principles was learning that Alabama timber companies, which own more than two-thirds of the land in the state, pay an annual property tax of only about 75 cents an acre.
 ''The Bible commands that the law promote justice because human beings are not good enough to promote justice individually on their own,'' she said. ''To assume that voluntary charity will raise enough revenues to meet this standard is to deny the sin of greed.''
 Richard Teather, who teaches tax at Bournemouth University in Britain and has written on the moral dimensions of tax evasion, said that governments have publicly raised the issue of morals and taxes.
 ''The tax authorities say you have a moral duty to pay your taxes, but you cannot look at that in isolation,'' Mr. Teather said. ''Over here in Britain we have a lot of tax breaks for the very wealthy, which are not generally available to most people, and quite high level taxes for the middle and upper-middle classes, so this doesn't look like a moral system.''
 Professor Hamill, by her reading of the New Testament, concludes that at least a mildly progressive tax system is required so that the rich make some sacrifice for the poor. She cites the statement by Jesus that ''unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required, and to whom men have committed much, of him they will ask the more.''
 Some of her critics, however, say that the tithes described in the Old Testament show that a flat tax, in which everyone pays the same share of their income to government, should be seen as the biblical standard.
 Gary Palmer, president of the Alabama Policy Institute, agreed that taxes on the poor were much too high in the state, but said that the solution was not to raise taxes on the wealthy, but to lower them on the poor. He characterized Alabama's sales taxes on food and medicine as immoral.
 Some of Professor Hamill's critics, in letters and e-mail to her and others, argue that she just wants to soak the rich, wrapping what they called her socialistic views in biblical cloth. 
 Until Professor Hamill focused on fiscal policies in light of Judeo-Christian moral principles, most scholarly work on religion and taxes was largely devoted to the issue of tax evasion. That was prompted, in part, by a 1992 updating of the Catholic catechism that listed tax evasion as a sin and by enforcement actions aimed at pacifists who refused to pay war taxes. 
 Professor Hamill said her research found that just one state, Minnesota, came within reach of the principles she identified, because its tax system is only slightly regressive and it spends heavily on helping the poor, especially through public education.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prof. Susan Pace Hamill says 18 states, especially Alabama, seriously violate biblical principles in the way they tax and spend. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY TRAMONTINA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (78%); ETHICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); LAWYERS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (62%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



588 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: A Partridge, A Pear Tree, A Price Tag That Grows

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
Maids a-milking finally received a raise this year and gold prices jumped, a combination that made it more costly than ever to bestow the elaborate set of gifts from the classic holiday carol ''The 12 Days of Christmas.''
 This year, the song's true love would spend $19,507 to give every whimsy on the 12th day -- from the partridge in a pear tree to the 12 drummers drumming -- according to the holiday index tabulated by PNC Wealth Management in Pittsburgh. 
 That is up 3.1 percent over the cost of last year's gift package, said James P. Dunigan, the company's managing executive for investments.
 ''The first minimum-wage increase in a decade along with higher gold prices being passed to consumers were major reasons why the Christmas Price Index rose,'' he said.
 The company started tracking the cost of giving the medieval carol's bevy of gifts -- 364 items, if the partridge and its pear tree are counted together in each verse -- 23 years ago as a catchy way of tracking economic trends. Goods used to be the burden on the true love's pocketbook, but the cost of services has risen steadily since PNC began the index in 1984. Entertainment from the ladies dancing and lords a-leaping has increased 300 percent over the last two decades. 
 ''What's interesting is how closely the index tracks the Consumer Price Index,'' Mr. Dunigan said. That index, the inflation measure produced by the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, was up 4.3 percent in November from a year earlier. 
 Unskilled labor had remained consistently cheap for years, but the eight maids a-milking received their first raise in a decade after Congress lifted the minimum wage to $5.85 an hour. The maids can expect to receive more increases next year and in 2009. 
 Even so, their cost -- $46.80 this year -- is modest, and dwarfed by the 21.5 percent rise in the price of the five gold rings specified in the carol. That price tag came to $395, compared with $325 last year.
 Among the tokens of affection, the six geese and four calling birds went up the most, 20 percent and 25 percent. Geese prices reflect higher prices for food, Mr. Dunigan said, and the price of calling birds -- canaries, in today's parlance -- is driven up by demand and shipping costs.
 Unlike last year, when the lords a-leaping, pipers piping, drummers drumming and ladies dancing ran up the bill, pay for skilled labor increased modestly in 2007. Nine ladies dancing commanded only a 3 percent increase, to $4,759, based on figures from Philadanco, a modern dance company based in Philadelphia.
 The 10 lords a-leaping -- based on prices provided by the Pennsylvania Ballet -- also rose 3 percent, to $4,285. The 11 pipers were up 4.2 percent, to $2,213, and the dozen drummers also cost 4.2 percent more, at $2,397, based on information from a Pennsylvania musicians' union.
 This year, the partridge's cost, according to information from the Cincinnati Zoo, remained the same -- $15. But the pear tree went up to $149, a 15.4 percent increase, according to figures from a Philadelphia nursery, which attributed the price increase to commercial landscaping demand.
 After all the verses -- when the singer has 12 partridges in 12 pear trees -- the song's gifts would cost $78,100, up 4 percent over 2006. This contrasts with $128,886, a 2.5 percent increase from last year, to assemble the same gifts on the Internet. Giving only the gifts from the 12th day, an online shopper would be set back $31,249, 3 percent more than last year and significantly more than the old-fashioned way of gathering the gifts because shipping costs drive the tab higher.
 The only time that the PNC index has not closely paralleled the Consumer Price Index was in 1995, when swan prices tumbled because of increased availability. The cost for seven swans a-swimming is $4,200 today, nearly half the price two decades ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); TRENDS (75%); STATISTICS (75%); DANCE COMPANIES (74%); MINIMUM WAGE (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); FINE JEWELRY (73%); DANCE (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



589 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'PERSEPOLIS'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: In a Flat World, a Rebel With a Cause

BYLINE: By A.O. SCOTT

 BODY:
''Persepolis'' is a simple story told by simple means. Like Marjane Satrapi's book, on which it is based, the film, directed by Ms. Satrapi and Vincent Paronnaud, consists essentially of a series of monochrome drawings, their bold black lines washed with nuances of gray. The pictures are arranged into the chronicle of a young girl's coming of age in difficult times, a tale that unfolds with such grace, intelligence and charm that you almost take the wondrous aspects of its execution for granted.
 In this age of Pixar and ''Shrek,'' it is good to be reminded that animation is rooted not in any particular technique, but in the impulse to bring static images to life. And ''Persepolis,'' austere as it may look, is full of warmth and surprise, alive with humor and a fierce independence of spirit. Its flat, stylized depiction of the world -- the streets and buildings of Tehran and Vienna in particular -- turns geography into poetry. 
 If ''Persepolis'' had been a conventional memoir rather than a graphic novel, Ms. Satrapi's account of her youth in pre- and post-revolutionary Iran would not have been quite as moving or as marvelous. Similarly, if the movie version had been conventionally cast and acted, it would inevitably have seemed less magical as well as less real.
 It would also probably not have starred Chiara Mastroianni, Catherine Deneuve and Danielle Darrieux, the three formidable French actresses who give voice to young Marjane, her mother and her grandmother. Sony Pictures Classics, which is releasing ''Persepolis'' in the United States, could easily have dubbed it into English, a change that might have broadened the film's appeal for a subtitle-phobic American audience. But then we would have missed the music of those incomparable movie star voices, and also a delightful parallel between cast and characters. Ms. Deneuve is Ms. Mastroianni's mother in real life, and Ms. Darrieux played Ms. Deneuve's mother in ''The Young Girls of Rochefort'' 40 years ago.
 Ms. Darrieux's Grandma is the sturdy matriarchal anchor of ''Persepolis,'' a source of humor, advice and moral guidance for young Marjane, and also an embodiment of the film's no-nonsense feminism. Like her grandmother, Marjane is a natural rebel, someone who takes freedom as her birthright and dares the world to challenge her.
 Needless to say, the world obliges. Marjane grows up in a family of left-wing intellectuals who suffer first under the Shah's dictatorship and then, as the triumphant Islamic revolutionaries turn on their secular allies, under the rule of the mullahs. This political history, which includes war, torture and execution, is conveyed with impressive economy and visual wit. The beards of male religious zealots -- and the chadors of their female counterparts -- are like black holes in the screen, sucking away the light. (Later, during Marjane's exile in Vienna, a straying boyfriend is transformed from an angel-headed paragon into a sniveling, buck-toothed cretin.)
 Against the forces of intolerance and superstition, Marjane, following her grandmother's example, takes an impetuous stand as a champion of enlightenment. Though she is self-confident and sometimes a little self-righteous, Ms. Satrapi doesn't wrap herself in heroism. The political dimensions of her story are as clear and bold as her graphic style, but ''Persepolis'' traffics more in feelings than in slogans, and dwells most persuasively on the uncertainty and ambivalence of adolescence. 
 Fearing for her safety in a time of war and political repression, Marjane's parents (her father is voiced by Simon Abkarian) send her to Austria, and the alienation she experiences there is a sad counterpart to the anxiety of Tehran. She loses herself for a while in punk rock and other alternative pleasures, but finds little to sustain her in the easy nihilism of European alternative culture. And it is in Vienna that the full pathos of her situation becomes clear, a dilemma that is hardly hers alone. Either she can be more or less free and give up her home, or she can return home at the cost of her freedom and individuality.
 ''Persepolis'' dramatizes this dilemma without forcing it into an easy or sentimental resolution. While the character of her younger self sometimes slips into depression or dramatic behavior, Ms. Satrapi, as a writer and filmmaker, seems utterly devoid of self-pity. Grandma, whose life was long, difficult and rich, clearly had no time for such indulgences, and it is not hard to see that Marjane lived up to her example.
 ''Persepolis'' is frequently somber, but it is also whimsical and daring, a perfect expression of the imagination's resistance to the literal-minded and the power-mad, who insist that the world can be seen only in black and white. 
 ''Persepolis'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has some scenes of violence and sexuality, for the most part discreetly and obliquely drawn.
 PERSEPOLIS
 Opens in Manhattan on Tuesday. 
 Written (in French, with English subtitles) and directed by Marjane Satrapi and Vincent Paronnaud, based on the graphic novels by Ms. Satrapi; animation coordinator, Christian Desmares; edited by Stephane Roche; music by Olivier Bernet; production designer, Marisa Musy; art director, Marc Jousset; produced by Marc-Antoine Robert and Xavier Rigault; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. 
 WITH THE VOICES OF: Chiara Mastroianni (teenage and adult Marjane), Catherine Deneuve (Tadji), Danielle Darrieux (Marjane's grandmother), Simon Abkarian (Ebi), Gabrielle Lopes (young Marjane) and Francois Jerosme (Uncle Anouche). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left, Marjane berated by fundamentalists
visiting her uncle in jail
with her grandmother
and in Vienna. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARJANE SATRAPI AND VINCENT PARONNAUD/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS) (pg. E8)
 PERSEPOLIS Marjane Satrapi and Vincent Paronnaud's film opens on Tuesday in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SONY PICTURES CLASSICS) (pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMATION (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); FILM (89%); GRANDPARENTS (86%); RELIGION (83%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); ANIMATED FILMS (78%); FAMILY (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); CELEBRITIES (70%); LIBERALISM (64%); FUNDAMENTALISM (62%); TORTURE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); IRAN (55%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

TITLE: Persepolis (Movie)>; Persepolis (Movie)>

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



590 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: The Sidney Awards

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
Bob Herbert is off today.

 BODY:
Every year, The Sidney Awards go to the authors of the best magazine essays, and every year the psychic costs grow worse. The Sidneys have become so prestigious and life-altering that the winners know that everything they produce hereafter will be anticlimactic. Some crack up -- F. Scott Fitzgerald style -- others simply endure a long, slow slide from the summit back to obscurity.
 Nonetheless, the Sidneys must go on, and this year they come in two batches. On Friday, we'll celebrate more polemical essays, but today, we honor articles that captured different (and often illogical) slices of American life. Links to these pieces can be found in the online version of this column. 
 Nick Paumgarten wrote ''There and Back Again'' in The New Yorker, describing the culture of extreme commuting. He begins with the figures: One in six Americans spends at least 90 minutes a day commuting. The number of Americans who spend more than 180 minutes a day doing it -- 3.5 million -- has doubled since 1990.
 Then Paumgarten tags along with a few extreme commuters in New York and Atlanta. Many move far from their jobs because the urban areas have become too chaotic or because they harbor a dream of rural bliss. They adopt elaborate strategies to occupy the wasted hours.
 Paumgarten contemplates the social costs: Every 10 minutes of commuting times results in 10 percent fewer social connections, Robert Putnam tells him. And then there's the irrationality: ''The commuting paradox reflects the notion that many people, who are supposedly rational (according to classical economic theory at least), commute even though it makes them miserable.''
 New York magazine had a very good year. In ''Everybody Sucks,'' Vanessa Grigoriadis describes the ''creative underclass.'' These are young, smart people who work at the bottom of the opinion-forming food chain. They work at places like Gawker.com and spew venom at everybody above. 
 The Gawker writers are far from the first to play on their readers' status anxiety (by telling them that people who are more famous are actually frauds). But Grigoriadis gets inside the creative underclass. In her description, Gawker is an information-age sweatshop. The bloggers on staff are compelled to produce 12 blog posts a day, and under the old compensation system they were paid the munificent sum of $12 per post. Now it's worse. Owner Nick Denton is going to pay them per page-view. No views, no food.
 Matt Labash of The Weekly Standard is consistently one of the best magazine writers in the country. Since amoral blackguards bring out his best, his profile of political dirty tricks artist Roger Stone was bound to be good. Stone cut his teeth with Nixon, loved Roy Cohn, works with Trump, advised Sharpton and has laid a barrage of fire into Eliot Spitzer. One of Stone's maxims is: ''Hit from every angle. Open multiple fronts on your enemy. He must be confused, and feel besieged on every side.''
 But Stone is also a colorful, dashing artist of the underhanded. Labash tried to ply him with alcohol to loosen his tongue. But Stone was one step ahead. He'd already paid the waiter to bring him water disguised as martinis.
 Michael Lewis is famous for his nonfiction narratives. His piece, ''The Evolution of an Investor'' in Portfolio describes Blaine Lourd, who began his career as an ordinary stock salesman, as trying to persuade his clients that he and his firm could beat the market. Then he realized nobody could. The entire stock-touting industry doesn't work.
 Everybody is (or should be) familiar with the efficient markets theory, but Lewis describes its power in personal and moral terms, as one man's struggle against self-loathing and greed.
 In ''The Story of a Snitch,'' published in The Atlantic, Jeremy Kahn tells the story of John Dowery Jr., a young man from East Baltimore who agreed to testify in court after witnessing a drug killing -- and who paid the price. But the larger tale is about the spread of omerta culture. Now even the decent people in some urban areas are so intimidated by thugs and alienated from the authorities that they refuse to testify against the criminals destroying their own neighborhoods. 
 On a cheerier note, Peter Wehner and Yuval Levin look at the broad social indicators in ''Crime, Drugs, Welfare -- and Other Good News'' in Commentary. They note that despite the cultural pessimists, America is in a period of astonishing social repair. Crime is down; abortion rates are down; drug use is down. They puzzle over the fact that all this has happened while divorce and out-of-wedlock birth rates remain high. 
 They conclude by reminding us that even in an illogical world, changes in government policy and social mores can repair the social ecology and transform individual behavior. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



591 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Broadway Hit Revives an Era, and a Tailor

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
The bolts of cloth on display in the quiet showroom of Saint Laurie Merchant Tailors whisper the tones of serious business -- dark blues, every shade of gray and brown, subtle stripes and plaids. You have to venture back into the adjoining suit factory to see the fabrics that scream ''Showtime!''
 There, next to the table where cutters wield footlong shears, one rack of fabrics stands out, its contents practically glowing. The bolts of red and gold silk brocade and shiny crimson material will soon be shaped into jackets for the London cast of the Broadway musical ''Jersey Boys.'' The show opens in London in March.
 Saint Laurie, one of the last custom suitmakers in Manhattan, has created almost all of the outfits worn by the actors portraying Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons since ''Jersey Boys'' opened on Broadway two years ago. What started as a small order has grown to more than 400 garments as the show has expanded to other cities. ''Jersey Boys'' now accounts for about one-third of St. Laurie's business, helping to reverse the company's declining fortunes. 
 ''It's been a great boost to our business,'' said Andrew Kozinn, the company's president. ''I think a lot of people have done well with this show.'' 
 Having a show branch out from Broadway to stages across the country and beyond can be a boon to many of the small businesses that serve New York's theater industry. The League of American Theaters and Producers estimated that touring Broadway shows spend about $185 million annually in the city, on top of $755 million spent by the Broadway productions.
 ''There will be times, maybe even a whole month, where we wouldn't have very much work, but because of 'Jersey Boys,' it's kept us busy,'' said Rosi Zingales, owner of the Studio Rouge costume shop, which outfits the three actresses in the show. 
 Still, it is possible that none of the other suppliers to ''Jersey Boys'' needed the show to succeed as much as Saint Laurie did. The company, which was founded by Mr. Kozinn's grandfather in 1913, employed more than 100 workers at a factory in the Flatiron district that turned out as many as 30,000 suits a year in the 1980s. Saint Laurie now makes between 1,000 and 1,400 custom suits a year, priced between $1,300 and $1,800 each. Its staff has shrunk to 15 people. 
 The big downturn began in the late '90s, when the dot-com boom carried Silicon Valley's dressed-down style into Manhattan boardrooms and offices. Bankers and lawyers adopted the new technology crowd's khakis and polo shirts, and sales of traditional suits plunged. 
 For Saint Laurie, the relaxed dress code was a disaster. It arrived just as Mr. Kozinn was making a big bet on Park Avenue. Hoping to sell more bespoke suits to financial executives, he opened a retail store near the Waldorf-Astoria hotel in 1997 and sold the company's factory. Mr. Kozinn recalled how surprised he was when customers started wandering into the store without suit coats on.
 ''It was ridiculous,'' he said, still quick to boil over the whole phase. ''People had these beautiful offices on Park Avenue, the most gorgeous conference rooms, with art on the walls, gorgeous carpets, and a guy walks out looking like a slob.''
 Soon, young customers were proclaiming that they would never need a suit again and Mr. Kozinn knew he was in for a rough time, he recounted. The ensuing decline in sales nearly wiped out Saint Laurie. Mr. Kozinn's son Jacob, 28, now the company's designer, said that the business had stopped making money but that he and his father refused to accept the defeat.
 ''We're just stubborn people,'' the elder Mr. Kozinn said. ''We managed to survive all the ups and downs of our industry. We're very proud of what it took.''
 The Kozinns retreated to a scaled-down factory on the fifth floor of a Midtown block lined with Korean restaurants and karaoke bars. Then, just as Jacob Kozinn had predicted, the demand for suits started to rebound, especially among the Wall Street set.
 ''It sure seemed fleeting to me,'' Jacob said of the casual trend. ''No matter what, there's going to be a role for the suit.'' 
 Still, with Wall Street firms reporting huge losses in the mortgage market and the economy showing signs of softness, the elder Mr. Kozinn fears demand may taper off again.
 ''It's a recession-sensitive business,'' he said.
 That is why the call in 2005 from Jess Goldstein, the costume designer for ''Jersey Boys,'' was so important. Mr. Goldstein said he needed tailors who could quickly and faithfully recreate the styles the Four Seasons sported in the 1960s when they sang ''Walk Like a Man'' and ''Big Girls Don't Cry.'' 
 ''There are not a lot of tailoring companies,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''Oddly enough, it's kind of a dying art.''
 Mr. Goldstein sketched the costumes he had in mind -- narrow lapels and skinny ties -- and brought those sketches to Jacob Kozinn, who turned them into patterns for jackets, shirts and slacks. Mr. Goldstein had to locate the flashy materials, because none of Saint Laurie's staid pinstripes or plaids would work.
 The trick, Mr. Goldstein said, was to capture the group's mid-20th century look but tweak it to appeal to contemporary audiences. Jacob Kozinn said he accomplished that by making the clothes appear more form-fitting.
 After cutting all of the pieces of each garment for the original Broadway cast, Jacob passed them on to Umberto Bove, a tailor from Sicily who has wielded needles at Saint Laurie for nearly 25 years. Mr. Bove and a crew of seamstresses finished the garments -- about a dozen for each actor -- and have since reproduced each one at least a few times.
 Last week, Ryan Molloy, a British actor who will play Frankie Valli when the show opens on the West End, visited Saint Laurie's factory for his first fitting. Next month, the Kozinns will fly to London to measure the rest of the cast. Then they will have just a few weeks to complete the costumes.
 Their work for ''Jersey Boys'' has already led to more show business orders. Mr. Goldstein hired Saint Laurie to make clothes for the cast of ''Homecoming,'' which opened on Broadway last week. The company also made some of the garments worn on stage in ''The Seafarer,'' another new Broadway production.
 ''You keep working hard, a lucky break comes along, and you never know where that lucky break could be,'' Mr. Kozinn said. ''You can't manufacture them.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sebastian Arcelus gets his ''Jersey Boys'' costume from Andrew Kozinn. At left is Jess Goldstein, the show's costume designer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FABRICS (91%); THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); APPAREL MFG (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (70%); COSTUME SHOPS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Jersey Boys (Play)>; Jersey Boys (Play)>

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



592 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-16
 Oversight Concerns Engulf U.S. Aid Plan for Pakistan
 Weeks before it is to begin, an ambitious American aid plan to counter militancy in Pakistan's tribal areas is threatened by unresolved questions about who will monitor the money and whether it could fall into the wrong hands, according to officials. A1
 U.S. Doubts Turkish Attack 
 American military officials in Iraq said they have no operational reports that Turkey bombed northern Iraq on Sunday, contrary to Kurdish claims.A6
 Scooter Is Prized Ride in Iraq
 Scooters have taken Baghdad by storm, providing a near ideal way of getting about in a war-weary town riddled with checkpoints and bedeviled by car bombs.A12
 Surfers Fear Crime in Baja
 Surfers in Baja California have been shaken by a series of recent armed attacks on foreigners, many of whom had been frequenting the beaches just south of Tijuana for years.A4
 Israel Upholds Cluster Bombs
 Israeli military prosecutors announced that they would not press charges over the army's use of cluster bombs during the 2006 war in Lebanon.A4
 Pope's Environmental Appeal
 Pope Benedict XVI reinforced the Vatican's growing concern with protecting the environment in the traditional midnight Christmas mass.A3
 A Royal Debut on YouTube
 Queen Elizabeth II will give a Christmas address on the Royal Channel on YouTube.A3
 NATIONALA18-25 
 Health Care Expansions
 Hit Major Roadblocks
 A year that began with great ambition for major expansions of health insurance in California and in other states is ending with considerable uncertainty, as a second wave of change runs headlong into a darkening economy and political divisions over how to apportion the cost. A1 
 Lagging on Mortgage Fraud
 The number of mortgage fraud cases has grown so fast that government agencies that investigate and prosecute them cannot keep up, lenders and law enforcement officials have said. A18 
 19 Killed in Midwest Storms
 Ice storms, then a thick layer of snow and finally a raging, blinding wind paralyzed parts of the nation's midsection over the weekend, stranding holiday travelers in roadside motels and shelters and leaving at least 19 people dead. A18 
 Mall Demonstrations
 The California Supreme Court ruled that privately owned shopping malls cannot stop protesters from demonstrating inside to urge a boycott against one of the tenants. A18 
 School Mixes Cultures
 More than half the 380 students at the International Community School, an unusual elementary school outside Atlanta, are refugees from some 40 countries, many torn by war. The other students come from low-income families in Decatur, and from middle- and upper-middle-class families in the area who want to expose their children to other cultures. A1 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-8
 Some Parents Endorse
 Electroshock Therapy
 Officials trying to limit New York State's association with a Massachusetts school that uses electric shocks as a punishment have found an obstacle: parents of students who are given shocks. A1 
 Juror Says He Was Coerced
 A juror who helped convict a black man who shot a white teenaged in a racially charged case on Long Island says he felt pressured in his decision. He still believes there is reasonable doubt, and that other jurors pushed him to vote guilty to end the marathon deliberations before the holiday. B1 
 SCIENCE TIMESF1-8
 Ecological Protection of Cuba
 Environmental experts met last month in Mexico to discuss protecting Cuba's resources. The island is rich in plant and animal life, some of which is seen nowhere else. It has been free of development, but there are worries about what will happen when Fidel Castro leaves power and the American government relaxes its trade embargoes.F1
 Health & FitnessF5
 EDITORIALA26-27
 Editorials: When Christmas morning comes; the right answer in New Orleans; giving till it hurts; a life turning around.
 Columns: David Brooks.
 BUSINESS DAYC1-8 
 Merrill's Foreign Lifeline
 Merrill Lynch agreee to sell a $5 billion stake to an investment fund from Singapore and a smaller stake to a domestic firm to shore up its finances to deal with the subprime mortgage mess. C1 
 Snow Sledding Dying Out
 These are desperate times for sledding. Retailers, both in the city and across the country, have largely stopped selling sleds. C1 
 Business DigestC2 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); FAMILY (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (84%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMIES (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); MILITARY OFFENSES (76%); MILITARY COURTS (76%); WEATHER (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); LITIGATION (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); APPEALS (71%); CHILDREN (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); CHRISTMAS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); RELIGION (66%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (63%); BOYCOTTS (63%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); RETAILERS (50%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (74%); ELIZABETH II (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) IRAQ (94%); TURKEY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ISRAEL (92%); MEXICO (79%); LEBANON (79%); HOLY SEE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



593 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2058 words

HEADLINE: Conserving Cuba, After the Embargo

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

 BODY:
Through accidents of geography and history, Cuba is a priceless ecological resource. That is why many scientists are so worried about what will become of it after Fidel Castro and his associates leave power and, as is widely anticipated, the American government relaxes or ends its trade embargo. 
 Cuba, by far the region's largest island, sits at the confluence of the Atlantic Ocean, the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean Sea. Its mountains, forests, swamps, coasts and marine areas are rich in plants and animals, some seen nowhere else.
 And since the imposition of the embargo in 1962, and especially with the collapse in 1991 of the Soviet Union, its major economic patron, Cuba's economy has stagnated. 
 Cuba has not been free of development, including Soviet-style top-down agricultural and mining operations and, in recent years, an expansion of tourism. But it also has an abundance of landscapes that elsewhere in the region have been ripped up, paved over, poisoned or otherwise destroyed in the decades since the Cuban revolution, when development has been most intense. Once the embargo ends, the island could face a flood of investors from the United States and elsewhere, eager to exploit those landscapes. 
 Conservationists, environmental lawyers and other experts, from Cuba and elsewhere, met last month in Cancun, Mexico, to discuss the island's resources and how to continue to protect them.
 Cuba has done ''what we should have done -- identify your hot spots of biodiversity and set them aside,'' said Oliver Houck, a professor of environmental law at Tulane University Law School who attended the conference. 
 In the late 1990s, Mr. Houck was involved in an effort, financed in part by the MacArthur Foundation, to advise Cuban officials writing new environmental laws. 
 But, he said in an interview, ''an invasion of U.S. consumerism, a U.S.-dominated future, could roll over it like a bulldozer'' when the embargo ends.
 By some estimates, tourism in Cuba is increasing 10 percent annually. At a minimum, Orlando Rey Santos, the Cuban lawyer who led the law-writing effort, said in an interview at the conference, ''we can guess that tourism is going to increase in a very fast way'' when the embargo ends. 
 ''It is estimated we could double tourism in one year,'' said Mr. Rey, who heads environmental efforts at the Cuban ministry of science, technology and environment. 
 About 700 miles long and about 100 miles wide at its widest, Cuba runs from Haiti west almost to the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico. It offers crucial habitat for birds, like Bicknell's thrush, whose summer home is in the mountains of New England and Canada, and the North American warblers that stop in Cuba on their way south for the winter.
 Zapata Swamp, on the island's southern coast, may be notorious for its mosquitoes, but it is also known for its fish, amphibians, birds and other creatures. Among them is the Cuban crocodile, which has retreated to Cuba from a range that once ran from the Cayman Islands to the Bahamas.
 Cuba has the most biologically diverse populations of freshwater fish in the region. Its relatively large underwater coastal shelves are crucial for numerous marine species, including some whose larvae can be carried by currents into waters of the United States, said Ken Lindeman, a marine biologist at Florida Institute of Technology. 
 Dr. Lindeman, who did not attend the conference but who has spent many years studying Cuba's marine ecology, said in an interview that some of these creatures were important commercial and recreational species like the spiny lobster, grouper or snapper.
 Like corals elsewhere, those in Cuba are suffering as global warming raises ocean temperatures and acidity levels. And like other corals in the region, they reeled when a mysterious die-off of sea urchins left them with algae overgrowth. But they have largely escaped damage from pollution, boat traffic and destructive fishing practices.
 Diving in them ''is like going back in time 50 years,'' said David Guggenheim, a conference organizer and an ecologist and member of the advisory board of the Harte Research Institute, which helped organize the meeting along with the Center for International Policy, a private group in Washington.
 In a report last year, the World Wildlife Fund said that ''in dramatic contrast'' to its island neighbors, Cuba's beaches, mangroves, reefs, seagrass beds and other habitats were relatively well preserved. Their biggest threat, the report said, was ''the prospect of sudden and massive growth in mass tourism when the U.S. embargo lifts.''
 To prepare for that day, researchers from a number of American institutions and organizations are working on ecological conservation in Cuba, including Harte, the Wildlife Conservation Society, universities like Tulane and Georgetown, institutions like the American Museum of Natural History and the New York Botanical Garden, and others. What they are studying includes coral health, fish stocks, shark abundance, turtle migration and land use patterns.
 Cuban scientists at the conference noted that this work continued a tradition of collaboration that dates from the mid-19th century, when Cuban researchers began working with naturalists from the Smithsonian Institution. In the 20th century, naturalists from Harvard and the University of Havana worked together for decades.
 But now, they said, collaborative relationships are full of problems. The Cancun meeting itself illustrated one. 
 ''We would have liked to be able to do this in Havana or in the United States,'' Jorge Luis Fernandez Chamero, the director of the Cuban science and environment agency and leader of the Cuban delegation, said through a translator in opening the meeting. ''This we cannot do.'' While the American government grants licenses to some (but not all) American scientists seeking to travel to Cuba, it routinely rejects Cuban researchers seeking permission to come to the United States, researchers from both countries said. 
 So meeting organizers turned to Alberto Mariano Vazquez De la Cerda, a retired admiral in the Mexican navy, an oceanographer with a doctorate from Texas A & M and a member of the Harte advisory board, who supervised arrangements for the Cuban conferees. 
 The travel situation is potentially even worse for researchers at state institutions in Florida. Jennifer Gebelein, a geographer at Florida International University who uses global positioning systems to track land use in Cuba, told the meeting about restrictions imposed by the Florida Legislature, which has barred state colleges from using public or private funds for travel to Cuba.
 As a result of this move and federal restrictions, Dr. Gebelein said ''we're not sure what is going to happen'' with her research program. 
 On the other hand, John Thorbjarnarson, a zoologist with the Wildlife Conservation Society, said that he had difficulty obtaining permission from Cuba to visit some areas in that country, like a habitat area for the Cuban crocodile near the Bay of Pigs. 
 ''I have to walk a delicate line between what the U.S. allows me to do and what the Cubans allow me to do,'' said Dr. Thorbjarnarson, who did not attend the conference. ''It is not easy to walk that line.''
 But he had nothing but praise for his scientific colleagues in Cuba. Like other American researchers, he described them as doing highly competent work with meager resources. ''They are a remarkable bunch of people,'' Dr. Thorbjarnarson said, ''but my counterparts make on average probably less than $20 a month.''
 American scientists, foundations and other groups are ready to help with equipment and supplies but are hampered by the embargo. For example, Maria Elena Ibarra Martin, a marine scientist at the University of Havana, said through a translator that American organizations had provided Cuban turtle and shark researchers with tags and other equipment. They shipped it via Canada. 
 Another thorny issue is ships.
 ''If you are going to do marine science, at some point you have to go out on a ship,'' said Robert E. Hueter, who directs the center for shark research at the Mote Marine Laboratory in Sarasota, Fla., and attended the Cancun meeting.
 But, he and others said, the United States government will not allow ships into American ports if they have recently been in Cuban waters in the previous six months, and the Cuban government will not allow American research vessels in Cuban waters.
 One answer might be vessels already in Cuba, but nowadays they are often tied up in tourism-related efforts, Cubans at the Cancun meeting said. 
 And even with a ship, several American researchers at the conference said, it is difficult to get Cuban government permission to travel to places like the island's northwest coast, the stretch closest to the United States. As a result, that region is the least-studied part of the Cuban coast, Dr. Guggenheim and others said.
 Another big problem in Cuba is the lack of access to a source of information researchers almost everywhere else take for granted: the Internet. 
 Critics blame the Castro government, saying it limits access to the Internet as a form of censorship. The Cuban government blames the embargo, which it says has left the country with inadequate bandwidth and other technical problems that require it to limit Internet access to people who need it most. 
 In any event, ''we find we do not have access,'' Teresita Borges Hernandez, a biologist in the environment section of Cuba's science and technology ministry, said through a translator. She appealed to the Americans at the meeting to do ''anything, anything to improve this situation.'' 
 Dr. Guggenheim echoed the concern and said even telephone calls to Cuba often cost as much as $2 a minute. ''These details, though they may seem trite,'' he said, ''are central to our ability to collaborate.''
 Dr. Gebelein and several of the Cubans at the meeting said that some American Web sites barred access to people whose electronic addresses identify them as Cuban. She suggested that the group organize a Web site in a third country, a site where they could all post data, papers and the like, and everyone would have access to it.
 For Dr. Guggenheim, the best lessons for Cubans to ponder as they contemplate a more prosperous future can be seen 90 miles north, in the Florida Keys. There, he said, too many people have poured into an ecosystem too fragile to support them. 
 ''As Cuba becomes an increasingly popular tourist resort,'' Dr. Guggenheim said, ''we don't want to see and they don't want to see the same mistakes, where you literally love something to death.'' 
 But there are people skeptical that Cuba will resist this kind of pressure. One of them is Mr. Houck.
 The environmental laws he worked on are ''a very strong structure,'' he said, ''But all laws do is give you the opportunity to slow down the wrong thing. Over time, you can wear the law down.''
 That is particularly true in Cuba, he said, ''where there's no armed citizenry out there with high-powered science groups pushing in the opposite direction. What they lack is the counter pressure of environmental groups and environmental activists.''
 As Mr. Rey and Daniel Whittle, a lawyer for Environmental Defense, put it in the book ''Cuban Studies 37'' (University of Pittsburgh Press, 2006), ''policymaking in Cuba is still centralized and top down.'' But, they wrote, ''much can be done to enhance public input in policymaking.''
 Mr. Rey said in the interview that Cubans must be encouraged to use their environmental laws. By ''some kind of cultural habit,'' he said, people in Cuba rarely turn to the courts to challenge decisions they dislike. 
 ''There's no litigation, just a few cases here and there,'' Mr. Rey said. ''In most community situations if a citizen has a problem he writes a letter. That's O.K., but it's not all the possibilities.''
 Mr. Rey added, ''We have to promote more involvement, not only in access to justice and claims, but in taking part in the decision process.''
 ''I know the state has a good system from the legislative point of view,'' Mr. Rey said. But as he and Mr. Whittle noted in their paper, ''the question now is whether government leaders can and will do what it takes to put the plan on the ground.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CLEAN AND DIRTY: Near the Bay of Pigs, top, is a habitat for the Cuban crocodile. Above, from left, children near garbage and oil sludge in Havana
a colaptes auratus at a national park
and tourists in the pool at a hotel in Cayo Coco. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE GOITIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (ABOVE LEFT, RIGHT)
STEVE WINTER/NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC) (pg.F1)
CHANGE: Cuba has avoided much environmental degradation in recent decades, but now hotel developments, above, are seen extending into the water in Cayo Coco. The banks of a river in the Marianao section of Havana, below left, are showing signs of pollution. The island is a crucial habitat for birds, like the Cuban Trogon, below right, and its swamps are home to crocodiles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE NEW YORK TIMES (TOP, ABOVE LEFT AND RIGHT)
 JOSE GOITIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F4) MAP: Cuba 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); GEOGRAPHY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (87%); LAW SCHOOLS (87%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); ANIMALS (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (72%); BIRDS (71%); INTERVIEWS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); MINES & MINING (54%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); CARIBBEAN SEA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); HAITI (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



594 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 875 words

 BODY:
MORE AID FROM ABROADMerrill Lynch has agreed to sell $5 billion in new stock to an investor from Singapore and a smaller stake to a domestic firm, joining other companies hurt by the mortgage crisis that are seeking financial help from foreign governments. 
 DEAL HELPS STOCKS RISE That billion-dollar deal by Merrill Lynch with the Singapore government set off a small rally among financial companies, pushing stock markets higher and increasing hopes that America's investment firms will find comfort in the form of wealthy foreign investors. The Dow Jones industrial average rose nearly 100 points, or 0.73 percent, to close at 13,549.33. [C1.] 
 SLED SALES SLIDE Once a stalwart of under-the-Christmas-tree gifts, wooden sleds have pretty much disappeared from the holiday shopping mix as warmer weather and the changing tastes of children have hurt sales. Sales of winter sports toys, a category that includes most sleds (which are not tracked separately), have been declining since 2004, according to one research firm. [C1.]
 NEW RESEARCH METHOD Global warming issues are helping to break a basic tenet of university research as the schools establish stand-alone centers that offer neutral ground on which engineering students can work on alternative fuels while business students calculate the economics of those fuels and political science majors figure how to make the fuels palatable to governments in both developing nations and American states. [C1.]
 UNITED RENTALS QUITS MERGER United Rentals said it would accept last week's court ruling and stop pursuing a merger agreement with the private equity firm, Cerberus Capital Management, and would instead accept a $100 million termination fee. [C3.]
 JAY-Z OUT AT DEF JAM After an unusual three years as president of Def Jam Recordings, Jay-Z, the rap superstar whose real name is Shawn Carter, says he will step down. It is not clear whether Universal will fill the job he is vacating. [C3.]
 MAXJET FILES BANKRUPTCY Maxjet Airways has filed for bankruptcy protection in what the all-business-class airline called a ''drastic measure'' because of high fuel prices and the poor credit market. [C3.]
 BUYING TOYS IN SAN FRANCISCO Residents of San Francisco trying to buy toys as gifts this holiday have had an added hurdle: all of the major toy chain stores there, including F. A. O. Schwarz, KB Toys and Toys ''R'' Us., have closed. And that is seen as a mixed blessing in this anti-establishment enclave. [C4.]
 FAULTING TAX POLICIES A new book by an Alabama law professor holding a degree in divinity from a conservative evangelical seminary says that 18 states violate Biblical principles in the way they tax and spend. [C3.]
 A BOON FOR ONE BUSINESS Business has improved mightily for Saint Laurie, one of the last custom suit makers, after it became the primary producer of outfits worn by the actors playing Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons in the Broadway show, ''Jersey Boys.'' [A21.]
 TOO MUCH FRAUD The number of mortgage fraud cases has grown too fast for government agencies that investigate and prosecute them to keep up, according to lenders and law enforcement officials, with reports of suspected mortgage fraud having doubled since 2005 and risen eightfold since 2002. [A12.]
 DEBT AGREEMENT IN CANADA A proposed revamping of an agreement should unlock a $33 billion portion of Canada's debt market that has been frozen since August, its chief architect has said, and make it easier to sell. [C4.]
 WYETH SHARES FALL Shares in Wyeth have fallen after a generic competitor emerged for its heartburn medicine Protonix and regulators delayed its experimental drug for preventing bone loss. [C2.]
 NEW CHIEF AT HYUNDAI UNIT The Hyundai Motor Company has named a new chief executive to lead its North American operations, capping a year when it did not meet its sales targets. [C3.]
 BIGGER STAKE IN TARGET STORES Pershing Square Capital Management, the hedge fund, raised its stake in the discount retailer Target to almost 10 percent and has met with management to discuss ways to bolster the company's share price. Pershing, which is managed by William A. Ackman, recently raised a $2 billion fund to invest in Target. Pershing said it might meet with Target's management again to discuss the company's strategy, business, assets, operations, capital structure or financial condition. When Pershing disclosed the 9.6 percent stake in July, analysts speculated that Mr. Ackman would pressure Target to sell its credit card portfolio or real estate assets. [C7.] 
 JUGGLING TRAVEL AND RELIGION Though Christians usually do not have to worry about business travel on Christmas or other religious observances, Jewish, Muslim and Hindu professionals regularly have to balance religion and their jobs. [C5.]
 HELP FOR TRAVELERS Alice Jena will be one of scores of volunteers working on Christmas Day at Travelers Aid stations in 24 airports around the country, helping forlorn travelers at Kennedy International Airport who missed a connection or wound up in the wrong airport. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C5.]
 IS A DOCTOR ON THE PLANE? Yes, Dr. Bob Arnot, also known as ''Dr. Danger,'' is a real doctor. That's how he came to help an ill passenger. Frequent Flier. [C5.] 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MERGERS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (84%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RETAILERS (74%); CHRISTMAS (74%); CLIMATOLOGY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); TAX LAW (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (66%); RAP MUSIC (63%); HIP HOP CULTURE (63%); RELIGION (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (54%); MAXJET AIRWAYS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%)

PERSON: JAY-Z (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SINGAPORE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



595 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: States' Widening Of Health Care Hits Roadblocks

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO 

 BODY:
A year that began with great ambition for major expansions of health insurance here and in other state capitals is ending with considerable uncertainty, as a second wave of change runs headlong into a darkening economy and political divisions over how to apportion the cost.
 Though the governors of three big states -- California, Illinois and Pennsylvania -- proposed sweeping plans to restructure health care this year, none will finish 2007 with bills passed and signed. In each state, the initiatives confronted entrenched opposition from insurance and other business lobbies that made it far more difficult to build a consensus for change than in the smaller New England states that acted in recent years.
 Yet it also was a year of intriguing achievement, here above all, where the Republican governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, and the Democratic Assembly speaker, Fabian Nunez, drew up a bipartisan blueprint for bringing near-universal coverage to the country's most populous state. 
 Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Nunez have yet to close the deal by gaining the support of the State Senate. But they demonstrated in their yearlong negotiations that a consensus on basic principles could be reached, perhaps setting a template for other states and for Washington. 
 ''It's significant that what they've been talking about in California is similar to what many of the leading Democratic presidential candidates are talking about as well,'' said Larry Levitt, vice president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, which researches health care issues. ''There seems to be some convergence at least on the part of those supporting universal health care on how to get there.''
 In addition to being the most populous state, California has among the country's highest proportions of uninsured residents, about 20 percent. Indeed, there are more uninsured in California than there are total residents of Massachusetts, Maine or Vermont, the states that have set the pace for overhauling health care. Success here, therefore, would send a signal that such plans could be enacted in states with the heaviest burdens.
 The Schwarzenegger-Nunez plan, which passed the Democratic-controlled Assembly last week, expands on the universal coverage law that Massachusetts passed in 2006. That state now requires insurance companies to offer coverage regardless of an applicant's health status and mandates that most residents have insurance by Dec. 31, or face a tax penalty of $219.
 State officials project that more than 300,000 previously uninsured people will sign up in time, a third of them in a surge over the last month. That has put Massachusetts more than halfway to its goal of insuring everyone.
 The downside, and one noted by states with widening budget gaps, is that the program is expected to exceed its first-year budget by at least $150 million. And state officials are struggling to prevent double-digit premium increases next year.
 Whether the momentum that began with State of the State addresses last January will continue into 2008 is not clear. It had been widely felt by health reform advocates that this nonelection year provided the best political climate for change.
 Now the focus may shift to the presidential campaign, where the leading candidates for the Democratic nomination have each proposed major overhauls. Some state leaders may be tempted to wait out the year to gauge whether the next president will push for a national health plan that might subsume state efforts. 
 The essential problem, meanwhile, continues to worsen. The Census Bureau reported that the number of uninsured grew to 47 million in 2006, a one-year increase of 2.2 million. The share of United States residents who had employer-based coverage dropped to 60 percent from 64 percent in 2000, according to the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group. And though the rate of growth has slowed, the cost of employer-sponsored premiums still rose by 6.1 percent in 2007, more than double the inflation rate, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.
 Because of its national influence, California will continue to command attention as Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Nunez try to bring along the Senate president pro tem, Don Perata, a Democrat. While supportive of universal coverage, Mr. Perata has said he is concerned about the plan's $14.4 billion price tag when the state faces a budget gap of commensurate size.
 As in Massachusetts, the California plan would mandate coverage for most individuals. It would raise money to subsidize policies for low-income residents through what Mr. Schwarzenegger calls shared responsibility -- a tax on hospital revenues, a hefty increase in tobacco taxes and assessments on employers who do not contribute to their workers' health care.
 In a California innovation, the assessment rates would be graduated according to the size of the company. If the Senate passes the measure, voters will be asked to approve the revenue measures in a November referendum that would become the truest test of public support for change. 
 California, of course, is an idiosyncratic state, and at no time more than now, with its movie star governor and his mantra of ''postpartisanship.'' But even in a state as comparatively progressive as this one, the coalition that has formed around overhauling health care is notable.
 At a postvote news conference beneath the Capitol rotunda last week, Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Nunez stood with the chairman of Safeway grocery stores and the president of the San Diego Chamber of Commerce, as well as leaders of unions representing service workers, government employees and carpenters. 
 Andrew L. Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union, seemed to speak for many of those in attendance when he said in an interview that successful health reform would depend on ''not letting the perfect be the enemy of the good.''
 Against that backdrop, the bipartisan partnership between Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Nunez seemed almost unremarkable. The two men need each other -- Mr. Schwarzenegger to play on the big stage he enjoys, Mr. Nunez to leave a legacy before term limits may force him from office -- and they praise each other lavishly in public. 
 That is not to say support for their plan is universal; it won not a single Republican vote in the Assembly. Some unions oppose it because they fear that mandatory insurance policies would not be affordable, even with government subsidies. The California Nurses Association opposes the plan because it would preserve private insurance rather than replacing it with universal government coverage.
 Other governors, in more centrist states, made less headway this year in overcoming opposition generated by efforts to contain health costs and to raise the revenues needed to subsidize premiums. 
 Illinois' Democratic governor, Rod R. Blagojevich, got nowhere with his proposals to pay for universal access to insurance by taxing gross business receipts and assessing employers who do not offer coverage to their employees. He then instigated a fight with his legislature and provoked a lawsuit by using his executive authority to widen eligibility for state-subsidized insurance programs.
 In Pennsylvania, Gov. Edward G. Rendell, also a Democrat, failed to persuade his politically divided legislature to cover the state's 900,000 uninsured through an employer assessment. Like the California leaders, Mr. Rendell has now proposed increasing cigarette taxes, as well as raiding the surplus in a state fund designed to help doctors pay for malpractice insurance.
 In both New York and Connecticut, governors expect to receive plans for universal health coverage from advisory groups in 2008 and thento begin their own legislative battles.
 ''It remains incredibly difficult for states by themselves to get all the uninsured covered,'' said Robert Blendon, a Harvard professor of health policy and political analysis. ''There just is not a consensus on who should pay.''
 While only a few states considered universal coverage plans, it was an active year for more incremental measures, said Laura Tobler, a health policy analyst for the National Conference of State Legislatures.
 Maryland and Texas joined the 15 states that have created programs to subsidize insurance for small businesses and individuals, she said. Four states effectively guaranteed that all children could be insured through expanded eligibility for Medicaid and the State Children's Health Insurance Program, known as S-chip. An additional 13 states passed more modest expansions for children. 
 Any continuation of that trend in 2008 would likely depend on Congress and President Bush settling their considerable differences over financing for S-chip.
 Mr. Bush this year twice vetoed large increases approved by the Democratic-controlled Congress, and his administration used regulatory powers to restrict the ability of states to extend the program beyond its original target: the children of the working poor. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Arnold Schwarzenegger, left, and Fabian Nunez drew up a blueprint for bringing near-universal coverage to California. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); INSURANCE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); FOUNDATIONS (64%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



596 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Merrill Lynch Sells a $5 Billion Stake to Singapore Firm

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH; Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Merrill Lynch became the latest Wall Street bank to grab a financial lifeline from a foreign government, agreeing on Monday to sell $5 billion of new stock to an investor from Singapore and a smaller stake to a domestic firm, as the fallout from mortgage mess continues to spread.
 The move comes as analysts predict that Merrill, the nation's largest brokerage, will write down its mortgage investments by an additional $8 billion or more in the fourth quarter. Such losses could force the firm to raise even more capital. 
 The deepening red ink from the turmoil in housing-related debt has left banks and policy makers struggling to contain the damage to the financial system and the broader economy. 
 As the losses mount, cash-rich investors from the Middle East and Asia are cutting a wide swath through Wall Street. Since late October they have spent more than $22 billion for stakes in Bear Stearns, Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and UBS. 
 At Merrill Lynch, talks to sell stock to Temasek Holdings, Singapore's sovereign investment company, began this summer but gathered steam in recent weeks after John A. Thain became Merrill's chairman and chief executive on Dec. 1. 
 Mr. Thain, who revitalized the embattled New York Stock Exchange, is moving quickly to shore up the once-proud firm, long known for its ''Thundering Herd'' of stockbrokers. 
 Merrill Lynch also agreed on Monday to sell most of its commercial finance business, Merrill Lynch Capital, to the General Electric Company in a deal that would raise about $1.3 billion for other parts of its business.
 ''One of my first priorities at Merrill Lynch was to strengthen the firm's balance sheet, and today we have made great progress towards that by bolstering our capital position through these investments and the sale of Merrill Lynch Capital,'' Mr. Thain said in a statement. 
 To raise $5 billion, Merrill Lynch will sell new stock to Temasek at a discount to the recent market price. 
 It will sell an additional $1.2 billion of discounted shares to Davis Selected Advisers, a big money management firm based in Tucson. Together, these two investors will gain a stake of less than 10 percent in Merrill. Neither will have a role in the management of the firm nor any presence on its board.
 Merrill may have to strengthen its capital position further given the likelihood of widening losses on its mortgage investments. ''If, after fourth-quarter earnings, we find that we need to enhance it further, we will,'' said a person close to the situation.
 While news of Monday's deals initially lifted its stock, the shares quickly wiped out their gain to close down 2.95 percent, at $58.90, in a holiday-shortened session. By selling new stock, Merrill will dilute the stakes of existing shareholders.
 Temasek, which is controlled by Singapore's finance ministry and manages a portion of the city-state's foreign exchange reserves, has been stepping up its investments inside and outside Asia. In September it was invited by Barclays of Britain, along with the China Development Bank, to become shareholders, in exchange for a cash infusion that Barclays needed to improve its offer for the Dutch bank ABN Amro. 
 Other sovereign wealth funds have also swooped down on weakened Western financial companies. Singapore's lesser-known government fund, the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation, recently agreed to invest $9.7 billion in UBS. Citigroup is selling a $7.5 billion stake to the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority. And last week, Morgan Stanley agreed to sell a $5 billion stake to the China Investment Corporation. 
 Mr. Thain's other new investor, Davis, held talks with several financial firms before settling on Merrill. The money management firm, which oversees $100 billion in assets and is known as a value investor, contacted Merrill two weeks ago, sensing the Wall Street firm was eager to raise money, according to people close to the situation. 
 ''We think it is a very powerful franchise trading at a very attractive valuation, and frankly, time is their friend,'' said Kenneth Charles Feinberg, co-portfolio manager for Davis. He said Davis intended to hold its stake for ''many, many years.''
 While they are based on opposite sides of the world, both Temasek and Davis have a record of buying beaten down stocks and holding them for long periods. Both also have significant investments in financial services firms. Temasek's holdings are largely in Asia. Davis has big stakes in blue-chip companies like American Express, AIG and JPMorgan Chase. 
 Davis Select was founded in 1969 by Shelby M. C. Davis, whose late father, Shelby C. Davis, was a prominent investment banker and economic adviser to Thomas E. Dewey, the former New York governor and presidential candidate. Mr. Davis himself was a vice president of Bank of New York before he founded Davis Select. 
 Davis funds generally do not take controlling stakes, but they are known to have an activist bent, especially when it comes to corporate governance issues. Davis is also particular about how much firms pay their top management. When investing in a company, its fund managers regularly ask about what kind of performance is necessary to prompt bonuses for executives. 
 When Merrill hired Mr. Thain away from NYSE Euronext, it offered him a sign-on package that could be worth more than $120 million if Merrill stock rises more than $40 a share in the next two years.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 29, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about Merrill Lynch's sale of a $5 billion stake to an investor from Singapore misstated the company's closing stock price on Monday. It was $53.90, not $58.90.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''One of my first priorities at Merrill Lynch was to strengthen the firm's balance sheet,'' said John A. Thain, the new leader. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER/REUTERS) CHART: NEW MONEY ON WALL STREET: Foreign companies and governments have announced large investments in five Wall Street firms in recent months, including one in Merrill Lynch on Monday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (83%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GNE (PAR) (83%); GEC (LSE) (83%); GE (SWX) (83%); GE (NYSE) (83%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (83%)

PERSON: JOHN THAIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (67%) ARIZONA, USA (67%) SINGAPORE (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



597 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 915 words

PERSON: John A. Garraty 

HEADLINE: John A. Garraty, Trailblazing Biographer, Dies at 87

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Prof. John A. Garraty, a historian who wrestled into print the gargantuan reference work American National Biography, which in 24 volumes and 20 million words tells the story of the United States through the life histories of thousands of its citizens, died last Wednesday at his home in Sag Harbor, N.Y. He was 87.
 The cause was heart failure, his family said. 
 The author of dozens of books, Professor Garraty trained his eye in particular on the place in the American landscape where individual biography and wider social history meet. At his death, he was Gouverneur Morris emeritus professor of history at Columbia University, where he had taught since 1959.
 Professor Garraty was perhaps best known as the general editor of American National Biography, whose 23,040 pages chronicle the lives of 17,450 people who shaped the United States in ways large and small, from Alexander A. Aarons (1890-1943), a theatrical producer, to Vladimir Kosma Zworykin (1889-1982), a ''scientist and television pioneer.''
 Published in print form in 1999 and electronically the next year, American National Biography is a joint venture of the American Council of Learned Societies and the Oxford University Press.
 It was designed to supplant the Dictionary of American Biography, a venerable reference work first published in the 1920s and '30s. (The dictionary has since been updated with 10 supplementary volumes. The last of these appeared in 1995, but it covers only people who died in 1980 or earlier.)
 Professor Garraty, who edited Volumes 4 through 8 of the supplement, came to feel that what the dictionary really needed was a complete rewrite -- one that not only included more recent figures but also redressed the original focus on white male elites.
 The result, the work of 6,100 contributors over more than a decade, was American National Biography. For Professor Garraty and his collaborators, the process of compiling the work raised large, difficult questions about the function of biography and the power of individuals, famous and not, to shape history. 
 American National Biography cast a much wider net than its predecessor. For one thing, it revised thousands of the dictionary's entries in light of modern historical sensibilities. The dictionary's entry on Thomas Jefferson, for instance, dismissed his affair with his slave Sally Hemings as ''slander,'' while the entry on Hemings in Mr. Garraty's work says that there is no ''conclusive evidence to prove or refute'' an affair. (That was written before DNA tests on Jefferson's and Hemings's living relatives indicated a genetic link between the families.)
 The new work also included many women and minorities who were absent from the dictionary entirely. (Among them, astonishingly, was Martha Washington.) Professor Garraty scoured the country for candidates, thumbing through old books and poring over newspaper obituaries, themselves biographies in miniature, in search of the deserving dead.
 American National Biography still covers the presidents, jurists and war heroes who have been the stuff of history books for generations. But it also includes -- as its 200-page index of occupations makes tantalizingly clear -- abolitionists, accountants and adventuresses; alleged assassins, alleged heretics, alleged murderers, alleged slave-revolt leaders and alleged traitors; a calliope player, some cellists and a flock of Communists; eccentrics and explosives manufacturers; golfers, harness racers, hatters and a lighthouse keeper; midwives and mimes; orators and outlaws; pamphleteers, puppeteers and Puritans; Socialists and socialites; ventriloquists and vigilantes; and watchmakers, Zionists and zoologists.
 Each entry opens with its subject in the cradle, much in this way:
 John Arthur Garraty was born in Brooklyn in 1920. (He was born on the Fourth of July, a fine portent for a future American historian.) He earned a bachelor's degree from Brooklyn College in 1941 and a doctorate in history from Columbia in 1948. During World War II, he was a swimming instructor in the merchant marine.
 Professor Garraty began his teaching career at Michigan State University before joining the Columbia faculty.
 Professor Garraty's first marriage, to Joan Perkins, ended in divorce. His second wife, Gail Neilson, died in 1992; his third wife, Rita Angelo, died in 2001. He is survived by two children from his first marriage, Sarah Kerr Garraty of Concord, Mass., and John A. Jr., of Manhattan; and three grandchildren. Another daughter, Katherine, died in 2004.
 Among Professor Garraty's books are ''Henry Cabot Lodge'' (Knopf, 1953); ''Woodrow Wilson: A Great Life in Brief'' (Knopf, 1956); ''The Nature of Biography'' (Knopf, 1957); ''Unemployment in History: Economic Thought and Public Policy'' (Harper & Row, 1978); and ''The Great Depression'' (Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1986).
 He was also the author, with Mark C. Carnes, of ''The American Nation'' (Longman), a widely used college textbook scheduled to be published in its 13th edition next month.
 As Professor Garraty often explained in interviews, deciding whom to admit to the pages of American National Biography was a weighty responsibility. On the other hand, he added, some people were no-brainers -- in every sense of the term.
 ''Presidents, vice presidents and Supreme Court justices were automatic choices,'' he told The Chicago Sun-Times in 1999. ''It doesn't matter how dumb they are or how short your term is, they have to be included.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John A. Garraty (PHOTOGRAPH BY DON HOGAN CHARLES THE NEW YORK TIMES, 1972) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (95%); HISTORY (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); FAMILY (77%); DNA (72%); LIBEL & SLANDER (69%); DNA TESTING (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN NATIONAL BANK OF LIBERTYVILLE (91%); AMERICAN NATIONAL BANK OF TERRELL (91%); AMERICAN NATIONAL BANK OF FLORIDA (91%); AMERICAN NATIONAL BANK OF BRISTOW (91%); OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); AMERICAN COUNCIL OF LEARNED SOCIETIES (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



598 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ROCHESTER JOURNAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: 2 Old Lighthouses Compete for a Historic Lens

BYLINE: By MICHELLE YORK

DATELINE: ROCHESTER 

 BODY:
 In the evening, the Rev. Thomas H. Wheeland likes to retreat to the back porch of his rectory at Holy Cross Church and look out onto Lake Ontario, illuminated by a wide beam of light from a neighboring lighthouse.
 Years have passed since the stone lighthouse, built in 1822, was needed to guide ships into the port of Rochester. Today it is a museum, a beacon to the city's once-bustling past.
 ''It's a tremendous asset to the neighborhood and to the whole of this community,'' Father Wheeland said. 
 But lately, news that another port is laying claim to an intricate piece of the lighthouse -- the soul of it, its lens -- has dimmed his spirits.
 The Fresnel lens in use here takes the light cast by an ordinary bulb and focuses it into a beam visible for up to 15 miles. The city of Lorain, Ohio, nearly 300 miles away, and on Lake Erie, says it is the rightful owner of the lens and has begun a campaign to have it returned. 
 ''This has always been on the back of our minds,'' said John Malanowski, president of the Lorain Lighthouse Foundation, a group working on the restoration of that city's historic lighthouse. ''Our goal is to restore the Lorain lighthouse and be the ones who bring the lens back.''
 The lighthouses themselves are joined not only by a lens, but by a similar history. Both were built as their communities harnessed locations on the Great Lakes to become significant shipping outlets. 
 For Lorain, a predominately rural community about 30 miles west of Cleveland, the steel industry led the local economy in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. In the case of Charlotte, a working-class Rochester neighborhood hard by the port, it was the coal trade that dominated the local docks.
 Both ports started lighting the way for ships centuries ago, with simple lanterns fueled with whale oil or kerosene. When the French physicist Augustin Jean Fresnel (pronounced fra-NELL) invented the lens named after him, in 1822, it was considered a technological breakthrough. The thinner lenses passed more powerful beams farther, greatly increasing shipping safety.
 Charlotte (pronounced shar-LOT) acquired a Fresnel lens in 1853, Lorain in 1917. Both lighthouses were eventually decommissioned by the United States Coast Guard as they became obsolete. In Charlotte's case, the waterfront changed, as sediment built up and moved the shoreline away from the lighthouse, and as redevelopment came.
 Charlotte's Fresnel lens was moved to another lighthouse and then disappeared. ''There are rumors that it fell into the water, but those are not true,'' said Fred Amato, president of the Charlotte-Genesee Historical Lighthouse Society.
 In 1984, the lighthouse here was revived as a museum, the result of an effort to increase tourism and take pride in its historic past. ''We wanted a light and went to the Coast Guard, and they came across one,'' Mr. Amato said.
 The Fresnel lens, found in a Coast Guard warehouse in Cleveland, was installed in time for a summer festival that year, Mr. Amato said, that featured tall ships that drew thousands of visitors to the docks. Today, the museum is still a popular summer attraction and a regular stop for tour groups. 
 The problem is that Charlotte's current Fresnel lens is the one from the Lorain lighthouse, which had become a target for vandals and was on the brink of demolition.
 In 1987, however, the Port of Lorain Foundation formed and purchased the lighthouse with the goal of restoring it -- work that goes on today.
 Soon, preservationists in Lorain began searching for a Fresnel lens. At one time, the Coast Guard found yet another one, but it was damaged during shipping.
 This fall, foundation executives in Lorain began a $3 million campaign to raise funds for further restoration and announced their determination to get its original lens back. John Cole, editor of the Lorain paper, The Morning Journal, called Charlotte's current use of the lens ''absurd'' in print. 
 ''My sense is that the lens belongs in the lighthouse for which it was made,'' Mr. Cole said in a subsequent interview.
 His opinion was brought to the attention of Mr. Amato, who said he was not swayed. A newly made replacement would cost upward of $100,000 -- five times the organization's annual budget -- Mr. Amato said. 
 ''The lens is ours,'' he insisted. ''We've been maintaining it all this time, and we'll keep maintaining it.''
 Robert M. Browning, chief historian for the Coast Guard, said that the lens was on loan to Charlotte until 2011, and that the dispute was not likely to be resolved until then.
 That both sides are determined to keep the lens does not surprise him, since they are in great demand around the country.
 ''If I had five times as many in our collection, there would still be scores of unhappy lighthouse historians,'' Mr. Browing said. ''I feel like King Solomon here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Charlotte-Genesee Lighthouse, built in 1822, guided ships on Lake Ontario into the port of Rochester for decades.
 Fred Amato, president of the Charlotte-Genesee Historical Lighthouse Society, says the tower's Fresnel lens should stay there. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES RAJOTTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (94%); LAKES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); COASTAL AREAS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) LAKE ONTARIO (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); GREAT LAKES (79%); LAKE ERIE (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



599 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1549 words

HEADLINE: Both Sides Cite Science To Address Altered Corn

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: BRUSSELS 

 BODY:
A proposal that Europe's top environment official made last month, to ban the planting of a genetically modified corn strain, sets up a bitter war within the European Union, where politicians have done their best to dance around the issue.
 The environmental commissioner, Stavros Dimas, said he had based his decision squarely on scientific studies suggesting that long-term uncertainties and risks remain in planting the so-called Bt corn. But when the full European Commission takes up the matter in the next couple of months, commissioners will have to decide what mix of science, politics and trade to apply. And they will face the ambiguous limits of science when it is applied to public policy.
 For a decade, the European Union has maintained itself as the last big swath of land that is mostly free of genetically modified organisms, largely by sidestepping tough questions. It kept a moratorium on the planting of crops made from genetically altered seeds while making promises of further scientific studies.
 But Europe has been under increasing pressure from the World Trade Organization and the United States, which contend that there is plenty of research to show such products do not harm the environment. Therefore, they insist, normal trade rules must apply. 
 Science does not provide a definitive answer to the question of safety, experts say, just as science could not determine beyond a doubt how computer clocks would fare at the turn of the millennium.
 ''Science is being utterly abused by all sides for nonscientific purposes,'' said Benedikt Haerlin, head of Save Our Seeds, an environmental group in Berlin and a former member of the European Parliament. ''The illusion that science will answer this overburdens it completely.'' He added, ''It would be helpful if all sides could be frank about their social, political and economic agendas.''
 Mr. Dimas, a lawyer and the minister from Greece, looked at the advice provided by the European Union's scientific advisory body -- which found that the corn was ''unlikely'' to pose a risk -- but he decided there were nevertheless too many doubts to permit the modified corn.
 ''Commissioner Dimas has the utmost faith in science,'' said Barbara Helfferich, spokeswoman for the environment department. ''But there are times when diverging scientific views are on the table.'' She added that Mr. Dimas was acting as a ''risk manager.''
 Within the European scientific community, there are passionate divisions about how to apply the growing body of research concerning genetically modified crops, and in particular Bt corn. That strain is based on the naturally occurring soil bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis and mimics its production of a toxin to kill pests. The vast majority of research into such crops is conducted by, or financed by, the companies that make seeds for genetically modified organisms.
 ''Where everything gets polarized is the interpretation of results and how they might translate into different scenarios for the future,'' said Angelika Hilbeck, an ecologist at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, whose skeptical scientific work on Bt corn was cited by Mr. Dimas. ''Is the glass half-empty or half-full?'' she asked.
 Ms. Hilbeck says that company-financed studies do not devote adequate attention to broad ripple effects that modified plants might cause, like changes to bird species or the effect of all farmers planting a single biotechnology crop. She said producers of modified organisms, like Syngenta and Monsanto, have rejected repeated requests to release seeds to researchers like herself to conduct independent studies on their effect on the environment.
 In his decision, Mr. Dimas cited a dozen scientific papers in finding potential hazards in the Bt corn to butterflies and other insects.
 But the European Federation of Biotechnology, an industry group, contends that the great majority of these papers show that Bt corn does not pose any environmental risk.
 Many plant researchers say that Mr. Dimas ignored scientific conclusions, including those of several researchers who advised the European Union that the new corn was safe.
 ''We are seeing 'advice-resistant' politicians pursuing their own agendas,'' said one researcher, who like others asked not to be identified because of his advisory role.
 But Karen S. Oberhauser, a leading specialist on monarch butterflies at the University of Minnesota, said that debate and further study of Bt corn was appropriate, particularly for Europe.
 ''We don't really know for sure if it's having an effect'' on ecosystems in the United States, she said, and it is hard to predict future problems. About 40 percent of corn in the United States is now the Bt variety, and it has been planted for about a decade.
 ''Whether Bt corn is a problem depends totally on the ecosystem -- what plants are near the corn field and what insects feed on them,'' Ms. Oberhauser said. ''So it's really, really important to have careful studies.''
 Bt crops produce a toxin that kills pests but is also toxic to related insects, notably monarch butterflies and a number of water insects. The butterflies do not feed on corn itself, but they might feed nearby, on plants like milkweed. Because corn pollen is carried in the wind, such plants can become coated with Bt pollen.
 Ms. Oberhauser said she had been worried about the effect of Bt corn on monarch butterflies in the United States after her studies showed that populations of the insect dipped from 2002 to 2004. But they have rebounded in the last three years, and she has concluded that, in the American Corn Belt, Bt corn has probably not hurt monarch butterflies.
 Still, she said there was disagreement about that as well as broader causes for worry. Monarch butterflies may have been saved in the United States, she said, by a fluke of local farming practices. Year by year, farmers alternate Bt corn with a genetically modified soy seed that requires the use of a weed killer. That weed killer, Monsanto's Roundup, eliminated milkweed -- the monarch's favored meal -- in and around corn fields, so the butterflies went elsewhere and were no longer exposed to Bt.
 ''It's a problem for milkweed, but it made the risk for monarchs very small,'' she said.
 Still, she said, other effects could emerge with time and in farming regions with other practices. For example, Bt toxin slows the maturation of butterfly caterpillars, which leaves them exposed to predators for longer periods.
 ''Sure, time will give you answers on these questions -- and maybe show you mistakes that you should have thought about earlier,'' she said.
 For ecologists and entomologists, a major concern is that insects could quickly become resistant to the toxin built into the corn if all farmers in a region used that corn, just as microbes affecting humans become resistant to antibiotics that are prescribed often. The pests that are killed by modified corn are only a sporadic problem and could be treated by other means.
 Scientists also worry about collateral damage because Bt toxin is in wind-borne pollen. Most pollens ''are highly nutritious, as they are designed to attract,'' Ms. Hilbeck said, wondering how a toxic pollen would affect bees, for example.
 Having reviewed the science, insurance companies have been unwilling to insure Bt planting because the risks to people and the environment are too uncertain, said Duncan Currie, an international lawyer in Christchurch, New Zealand, who studies the subject.
 In the United States, where almost all crops are nowgenetically modified, the debate is largely closed.
 ''I'm not saying there are no more questions to pursue, but whether it's good or bad to plant Bt corn -- I think we're beyond that,'' said Richard L. Hellmich, a plant scientist with the Agriculture Department who is based at Iowa State University. He noted that hundreds of studies had been done and that Bt corn could help ''feed the world.''
 But the scientific equation may look different in Europe, with its increasing green consciousness and strong agricultural traditions.
 ''Science doesn't say on its own what to do,'' said Catherine Geslain-Laneelle, executive director of the European Food Safety Authority. She noted that while her agency had advised Mr. Dimas that Bt corn was ''unlikely'' to cause harm, it was still working to improve its assessment of the long-term risk to the environment.
 Part of the reason that science is central to the current debate is that European law and World Trade Organization rules make it much easier for a country or a region to exclude genetically modified seeds if new scientific evidence indicates a risk. Lacking that kind of justification, a move to bar the plants would be regarded as an unfair barrier to trade, leaving the European Union open to penalties.
 But the science probably will not be clear-cut enough to let the European ministers avoid that risk.
 Simon Butler at the University of Reading in Britain is using computer models to predict the long-term effect of altered crops on birds and other species. But should the ministers reject Bt and other genetically modified corn?
 ''My work is not to judge whether G.M. is right or wrong,'' he said. ''It's just to get the data out there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Science advisers told the European official Stavros Dimas that Bt corn was ''unlikely'' to pose a risk. He suggested banning it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THIERRY ROGE/REUTERS)
 In France and the rest of the European Union, farmers would not be allowed to plant a type of corn altered to produce insecticide. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVIER MORIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); POLITICS (89%); BACTERIA (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CROP RESEARCH (78%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (72%); RISK MANAGEMENT (71%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); GREECE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



600 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: Hospitals Chase A Nuclear Tool To Fight Cancer

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: There is a new nuclear arms race under way 

 BODY:
-- in hospitals. 
 Medical centers are rushing to turn nuclear particle accelerators, formerly used only for exotic physics research, into the latest weapons against cancer. 
 Some experts say the push reflects the best and worst of the nation's market-based health care system, which tends to pursue the latest, most expensive treatments -- without much evidence of improved health -- even as soaring costs add to the nation's economic burden.
 The machines accelerate protons to nearly the speed of light and shoot them into tumors. Scientists say proton beams are more precise than the X-rays now typically used for radiation therapy, meaning fewer side effects from stray radiation and, possibly, a higher cure rate. 
 But a 222-ton accelerator -- and a building the size of a football field with walls up to 18-feet thick in which to house it -- can cost more than $100 million. That makes a proton center, in the words of one equipment vendor, ''the world's most expensive and complex medical device.'' 
 Until 2000, the United States had only one hospital-based proton therapy center. Now there are five, with more than a dozen others announced. Still more are under consideration. 
 Some experts say there is a vast need for more proton centers. But others contend that an arms race mentality has taken hold, as medical centers try to be first to take advantage of the prestige -- and the profits -- a proton site could provide. 
 ''I'm fascinated and horrified by the way it's developing,'' said Dr. Anthony L. Zietman, a radiation oncologist at Harvard and Massachusetts General Hospital, which operates a proton center. ''This is the dark side of American medicine.'' 
 Once hospitals have made such a huge investment, experts like Dr. Zietman say, doctors will be under pressure to guide patients toward proton therapy when a less costly alternative might suffice.
 Similar cost concerns were expressed in the past about other new technology like M.R.I. scanners. While those have become accepted staples of medical practice, there is still concern about their overuse and the impact on medical spending. 
 Dr. Zietman said that while protons were vital in treating certain rare tumors, they were little better than the latest X-ray technology in dealing with prostate cancer, the common disease that many proton centers are counting on for business.
 ''You can scarcely tell the difference between them except in price,'' he said. Medicare pays about $50,000 to treat prostate cancer with protons, almost twice as much as with X-rays.
 Proponents, however, are adamant that proton centers provide better treatment. 
 ''It all comes down to the physics,'' said Dr. Jerry D. Slater, the head of radiation medicine at Loma Linda University Medical Center in Southern California. ''Every X-ray beam I use puts most of the dose where I don't want it.'' By contrast, he said, proton beams put most of the dose in the tumor. 
 Loma Linda built the nation's first hospital-based proton center in 1990 and has treated about 13,000 patients. Its success has inspired others.
 Companies have sprung up to help finance, build and operate the proton centers. In some cases, local and state governments, seeking to attract medical tourists, have chipped in. Such financing is allowing proton centers to be built by community hospitals or groups of physicians.
 One of the biggest and most costly projects, with a bill exceeding $140 million, is being undertaken by Hampton University in Virginia, a historically black college that does not have a medical school. 
 ''Here at Hampton we dream no small dreams,'' said William R. Harvey, the president. He said a proton center would help African-Americans, who have higher rates of some cancers than whites. And he said a medical school was not needed -- that doctors would be hired to run the outpatient center. 
 Some of the planned centers will be very close together, raising the odds of overcapacity. Two proton centers are planned for Oklahoma City, for example, and two more in the western suburbs of Chicago. 
 The institutions building the centers say there is a need for many more of them. The existing centers, which collectively can treat only several thousand patients a year, are turning people away. And patients who are accepted often have to spend weeks in a city far from their homes.
 Proponents say that more than 800,000 Americans -- representing nearly two-thirds of new cancer cases -- undergo radiation therapy each year. If only 250,000 of them could benefit from protons, they would fill more than 100 centers.
 ''If they built one across the street I wouldn't worry about it,'' said James D. Cox, chief of radiation oncology at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, which opened a $125 million proton center last year.
 X-rays, which are high-energy electromagnetic waves, pass through the body, depositing their energy all along the way, not just in the tumor. By contrast, protons -- subatomic particles with a positive electrical charge -- can be made to stop on the tumor and dump most of their payload there. 
 Tumors in or near the eye, for instance, can be eradicated by protons without destroying vision or irradiating the brain. Protons are also valuable for treating tumors in brains, necks and spines, and tumors in children, who are especially sensitive to the side effects of radiation. 
 When 10-year-old Brooke Bemont was about to undergo X-ray treatment for a brain tumor last summer, a doctor warned her mother, ''Do not plan on your daughter ever going to Harvard.'' The radiation would damage Brooke's mental capacity, she said. 
 So the family, from St. Charles, Ill., spent five weeks in Boston as Brooke was treated with protons at Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center. ''If there was a potential to save even a little of her brain tissue, there was no question that we would do it,'' said Christal Bemont, Brooke's mother. She added that Brooke was now apparently cancer-free and doing fairly well. 
 Head, spine and childhood cancers are rare, though. Most people undergoing proton treatment are men with localized prostate cancer. 
 Proton therapy can help avoid the worst side effects, like impotence, by exposing the bladder and rectum of a prostate patient to less radiation than X-rays. The stray radiation, though, from the newest form of X-rays, called intensity-modulated radiation therapy, is already low, diminishing any advantages from proton therapy. 
 ''There are no solid clinical data that protons are better'' said Dr. Theodore S. Lawrence, the chairman of radiation oncology at the University of Michigan. ''If you are going to spend a lot more money, you want to make sure the patient can detect an improvement, not just a theoretical improvement.''
 An economic analysis by researchers at Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia found that proton treatment would be cost-effective for only a small subset of prostate cancer patients. 
 Lack of data aside, men are flocking to proton treatment. 
 ''I'm 67 years old, and the last thing I want to do is wear a diaper for the rest of my life,'' said Pete Freeman of Spokane, Wash., who was undergoing treatment at Loma Linda. 
 Some men hear about proton therapy from the Brotherhood of the Balloon, a group of 3,000 men who have had the treatment. (A balloon is inserted into the rectum and filled with water to immobilize the prostate during treatment.)
 The organization, which now gets some financial support from Loma Linda, was founded by Robert J. Marckini, a former Loma Linda patient who calls himself Proton Bob.
 At Loma Linda, prostate cancer treatment requires about two months of daily sessions. The actual irradiation, which the patient does not feel, takes only about a minute. Most men with early prostate cancer have no symptoms from their disease and many say the treatment has few immediate side effects, other than fatigue and an urgency to urinate. 
 ''We go have our treatments, and we go out and play golf,'' said Harold J. Phillips, an accountant from Tacoma who was being treated recently at Loma Linda. 
 Doctors are also learning how to use protons to treat lung and breast cancer. And over time, doctors say, costs should come down as the technology improves and it becomes more routine to build and operate proton centers. One company is trying to develop a $20 million proton system and has received orders from several hospitals. 
 On the horizon is therapy using beams of carbon ions, which are said to be even more powerful in killing tumors. Touro University says it will build a combined proton and carbon therapy center outside San Francisco, to open as early as 2011. The Mayo Clinic is also seriously considering one. Such centers will cost even more -- as much as $300 million. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harold J. Phillips, of Tacoma, Wash., was treated recently by the proton accelerator at Loma Linda Medical Center in California. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARISSA ROTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A28) CHART: PUMMELING CANCER WITH PROTONS: Proton radiation therapy is potentially a better way to treat cancer because it has fewer side effects, but the technology is still very expensive. The University of Florida Proton Therapy Institute required eight years and $125 million to build, and it can serve up to 150 patients a day. (Sources: University of Florida Proton Therapy Institute) (pg. A28) Chart showing the process of proton radiation therapy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PHYSICS (90%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (90%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (90%); RADIOLOGY (89%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (89%); MEN'S HEALTH (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); ONCOLOGY (78%); NUCLEAR MEDICINE (78%); PROSTATE CANCER (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PROSTATE DISEASE (77%); MEDICAL DEVICES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); MEDICARE (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007

 
