

401 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1652 words

HEADLINE: Benjamin L. Hooks, Leader of N.A.A.C.P. for 15 Eventful Years, Is Dead at 85

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES; Dennis Hevesi contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Benjamin L. Hooks, a golden-tongued orator who led of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People for 16 years, died Thursday at the age of 85.
 State Representative Ulysses Jones, a member of the church where Mr. Hooks was pastor, said he died at his home in Memphis after a long illness, The Associated Press reported.
 While best known for leading the nation's oldest and largest civil rights group, Mr. Hooks had a varied career that bridged the often disparate worlds of black and white America. He was a Baptist minister who headed two churches. He was a lawyer and a criminal court judge -- the first black to be appointed to the bench in his native Tennessee. He was the first of his race to be named to the five-member Federal Communications Commission. And he was a businessman who years ago owned several fried chicken franchises in Memphis.
 ''He's had an amazing career,'' said Julian Bond, a former head of the Atlanta branch of the N.A.A.C.P. ''Judge, F.C.C. commissioner, minister of churches in two different cities at the same time, businessman, head of the N.A.A.C.P. Most people do one or two things in their lifetimes. He's just done an awful lot.'' 
 Mr. Hooks was also an inspirational leader whose oratory was reminiscent of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., who founded the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, which had Mr. Hooks as one of its board members. Mixing quotations from Shakespeare or Keats with the cadence and idioms of his native Mississippi Delta, Mr. Hooks thrilled his largely black following in his speeches.
 ''There is a beauty in it and a power in it,'' Mr. Hooks once said of his and other black preachers' speaking style.
 In 2007, President George W. Bush presented Mr. Hooks with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, one of the country's highest civilian honors.
 Still, Mr. Hooks had his share of disappointments. His businesses went bankrupt. Under his leadership, the N.A.A.C.P. was forced to fight several debilitating rear-guard actions against the Reagan and Bush administrations, which sought to overturn gains made in the 1960s and '70s. At the same time, the organization floundered under the weight of declining membership, shaky finances and an image of being outmoded and increasingly irrelevant.
 For some who have watched the N.A.A.C.P. over the years, Mr. Hooks came to symbolize one of its major problems: leaders from an older generation unwilling or unable to adapt to modern times and changed political circumstances.
 ''Ben took over the organization at a transitional stage, and he wasn't really the person to take it over at the time,'' said Paul Delaney, chairman of the journalism department at the University of Alabama who covered the N.A.A.C.P. for The New York Times for several years.
 Despite the setbacks, Mr. Hooks, a devout man given to introspection, did not lose hope, trusting in a God he believed was good and a cause -- the advancement of African-Americans -- he felt was just. ''I have fought the good fight,'' he said in his valedictory to the N.A.A.C.P. in 1992. ''I have kept the faith.''
 Benjamin Lawson Hooks was born Jan. 31, 1925, in Memphis. With his father's photography business providing a stable middle-class grounding, Mr. Hooks attended LeMoyne College in Memphis. After serving three years in the Army during World War II and rising to staff sergeant, Mr. Hooks attended law school at DePaul University in Chicago, graduating in 1948.
 In 1951, while working as a lawyer in Memphis, he wed Frances Dancy, a high-spirited, fun-loving woman whose friends could not believe she was marrying such a straight arrow. After all, when they dated, Mr. Hooks made her agree that if they went to a dance one night, the next date had to include a civic meeting or a church social.
 Mr. Hooks earned the nickname ''Jacob''as a teen-ager because of his keen interest in Bible studies. An ordained Baptist minister, he has long been the resident minister at two churches -- one in Detroit and the other in Memphis. His love of the ministry was such that he insisted on preaching a sermon at some church -- his own or someone else's -- every Sunday, even during his time on the Federal Communications Commission and at the N.A.A.C.P.
 ''My life was built around being in those pulpits on Sunday,'' Mr. Hooks said in an interview.
 In 1972, Mr. Hooks was appointed by President Richard M. Nixon to the F.C.C. He immediately set out to expand the opportunities for minorities to obtain broadcast licenses, convincing the Small Business Administration to end restrictions on loans to broadcast and news businesses, and expanding the program of granting tax breaks to those who sold radio or television stations to minorities.
 Interestingly, while seeking to broaden opportunities for minorities in the broadcast arena, Mr. Hooks also sided with the corporate giant AT&T in its fight to shut out upstart companies like MCI o from long distance telephone services.
 When Jimmy Carter won the presidency in November 1976, Mr. Hooks was so widely thought to be in line to head the F.C.C. that some commissioners began calling him ''Mr. Chairman.'' But when asked by the N.A.A.C.P. board to take over the helm of the organization from an ailing Roy Wilkins, Mr. Hooks decided that that would be the more interesting and prestigious job.
 Replacing Mr. Wilkins, a guiding light of the civil rights movement, in July 1977, Mr. Hooks tried to steer the association through some of its most difficult years.
 Twelve of his 16 years as executive director of the association coincided with the presidencies of Ronald Reagan and George Bush, whose administrations were openly hostile to the political, economic and social agendas of civil rights groups. Mr. Hooks also had to cope with a changed political climate in which whites were less enthusiastic about spending on social programs, , and had become openly antagonistic toward N.A.A.C.P. goals like school busing to achieve racial balance and preference programs for blacks in the areas of employment and college admissions.
 ''I've had the misfortune of serving eight years under Reagan and three under Bush,'' Mr. Hooks said in 1992. ''It makes a great deal of difference about your expectations. We've had to get rid of a lot of programs we had hoped for, so we could fight to save what we already had.''
 In taking over from the dour Mr. Wilkins, an intellectual and a strategist, Mr. Hooks hoped to breathe life into the N.A.A.C.P. He instituted several programs to appeal to younger blacks, including the Academic, Cultural, Technological and Scientific Olympics, known as Act-So, an annual talent competition that involves more than 150,000 teen-agers throughout the country.
 In a sharp departure from past heads of the rights organization, he sought to forge closer ties with Americans corporations. He testified before Congress on behalf of measures to limit imports, which he saw as a threat to jobs held by blacks, and he managed to increase the amount of money raised by the N.A.A.C.P. from corporate donors, to $3.7 million in 1993 from $696,000 in 1978.
 Despite his achievements, friends and detractors alike say Mr. Hooks merely held the line, failing to modernize and build the N.A.A.C.P. into a more effective organization that could better cope with the increasingly contentious environment that surrounded civil rights issues in the 1980s and '90s.
 A poor manager who hated to delegate tasks, Mr. Hooks resisted attempts, until his final two years in office, to hire a strong deputy to help with administration. Distrustful of modern research techniques like polling and focus groups, Mr. Hooks could not come up with a strategy to make the N.A.A.C.P. seem relevant to the large numbers of younger, college-educated blacks who attained middle-class status in the 1970s and '80s. As a result, membership stagnated at around 400,000, revenue from memberships declined and the average age of members increased.
 ''Ben lacked a sense of understanding of what his marketplace was, what he was selling, or how you sell in this economy,'' said George Carter, who served as Mr. Hooks' deputy for two years. ''He had very little sense that there are ways to sell yourself and get high yields. As a result, we could have had a much better, much more professional approach to raising money through memberships.''
 Reflecting the social and sexual conservatism of his black Baptist roots, Mr. Hooks for years resisted entreaties to have the association take a strong position on preventing the spread of AIDS, which was a growing threat to inner city blacks. In was not until the basketball star Magic Johnson announced in 1991 that he was infected with the AIDS virus that Mr. Hooks relented and allowed the organization to support programs like condom distribution in schools and health clinics.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Hooks was constantly battling his board over who would run the organization's day-to-day operations. In 1978, five months after taking the job, Mr. Hooks threatened to quit when the board refused to approve his hiring of a chief aide and refused to pay the travel expenses of his wife, who frequently accompanied him.
 In 1983, Mr. Hooks was suspended by the board's chairwoman, Margaret Bush Wilson, a lawyer from St. Louis, who asserted that Mr. Hooks was mismanaging the organization. Mr. Hooks emerged the victor in the power struggle when the board voted to reinstate him and to strip Ms. Wilson of her powers.
 But nine years later, in the winter of 1992, Mr. Hooks again became embroiled in a fight with the board, this time under the chairmanship of William Gibson, a dentist from South Carolina, over the day-to-day running of the organization. When the board backed Mr. Gibson, Mr. Hooks had little choice but to resign.
 He is survived by his wife and a daughter, Patricia Gray.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: On becoming president of the N.A.A.C.P., Benjamin L. Hooks, shown in 1979, said, ''Black Americans are not defeated.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE TAMES/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Hooks delivering a keynote address on the civil rights legacy of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in Albany in 2003. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE McMAHON/THE RECORD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RELIGION (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); JUDGES (75%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (68%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); FRANCHISING (53%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (89%); RONALD REAGAN (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (59%) TENNESSEE, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010



402 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: China Move On Currency Not at Hand

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

 BODY:
BEIJING -- China's accelerating economic recovery without signs yet of a surge in inflation may give the government some leeway in making two crucial decisions: raising interest rates and revaluing the Chinese currency. 
 But the government cautioned that risks remained, like high unemployment and booming real estate prices.
 China's gross domestic product jumped 11.9 percent in the first quarter, the government said Thursday. That growth rate, the highest in three years, not only surpassed most economists' forecasts but it also handily beat the 10.7 percent expansion recorded for the final quarter of 2009. 
 China's National Bureau of Statistics also reported that the consumer price index rose 2.4 percent in March from a year earlier and that the producer price index was up 5.2 percent. Those figures were generally in line with analysts' expectations. 
 ''The basic conclusion is that the recovery is on track,'' said Tao Wang, an economist at UBS Securities in Beijing. 
 The statistics bureau apparently agreed, repeating in a statement that China would maintain its ''appropriately loose'' monetary policy and an expansionist fiscal policy. 
 China has come under increasing pressure at home and overseas to let the value of its currency, the renminbi, rise and to lift interest rates. The latest figures could give it a chance to do both. 
 Both the United States and, increasingly, China's Asian trading partners, complain that Beijing has held the renminbi's value artificially low, giving Chinese exports a price advantage on global markets. Letting the currency rise would address that and reduce inflationary pressures by making imports less expensive. 
 ''They would prefer not to hike both rates and the currency simultaneously,'' said Ben Simpfendorfer, the chief China economist for Royal Bank of Scotland in Hong Kong. An increase in the consumer price index of less than 3 percent ''presents them with that window to adjust the currency first before hiking rates later.'' 
 Ms. Wang said that the comparatively modest inflation figures might dissuade the government from quickly raising interest rates, as many analysts have recently forecast. 
 She added, however, that the low inflation rate stemmed in part from a seasonal decline related to the end of the Lunar New Year holiday and that inflation would probably pick up in coming months. 
 The government said consumer prices were ''basically stable.'' In an apparent indication of its confidence that inflation was in check, the government raised retail gasoline prices by as much as 5 percent on Wednesday, the first increase in those prices in more than five months. 
 First-quarter growth figures were largely driven by economic stimulus spending, the statistics bureau said. 
 Gross domestic product growth appeared especially high because it was in comparison with a relatively low base in 2009. The Chinese economy grew 6.2 percent in the first quarter of 2009, when the global recession was at its depths. 
 The State Council, an important body similar to the White House cabinet, said in a statement late Wednesday that ''there are still many conflicts and difficulties in the process of economic recovery,'' including high unemployment, the threat of inflation and sovereign debt problems abroad. 
 The statistics bureau also reported that overall investment increased at an annualized rate of 25.6 percent in the first quarter, while urban fixed-asset investment expanded 26.4 percent. 
 Industrial production rose 18.1 percent in March from a year earlier, in line with the 20.7 percent gain for the January-February period. 
 The government has sought in recent weeks to wind down the stimulus program begun in 2009, fearing that the economy was overheating. Ms. Wang, the UBS economist, said that the latest growth figures, while strong, offered little indication of that danger but that other alarming signals were apparent. 
 In particular, she said, officials appear to have had little success in reining in the country's real estate boom, despite efforts to limit borrowing and to ban some state-owned companies from the land market altogether. 
 The statistics bureau said that investment in property leapt 35.1 percent in the first quarter from the period a year earlier, the fastest growth rate in more than two years. And on Wednesday, the government said housing prices were up a record 11.7 percent year over year in March. 
 Separately, the State Council said on Thursday that it had raised the minimum down payment required for some house purchases, in another effort to curb real estate speculation. 
 The council said it would require a 30 percent down payment on first homes larger than 90 square meters, or about 1,000 square feet, and 50 percent on second homes. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers in Shanxi province. The United States has pressured China to raise interest rates and to let the value of its currency rise. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); GASOLINE (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (65%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (65%); RBS (LSE) (65%); RBS (AMS) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SHANXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010



403 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 5097 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: Art

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'APPROACHING ABSTRACTION,' through Sept. 5. Self-taught artists are noted for producing weird, wacky and otherwise eccentric objects. This exhibition of about 60 works from the museum's permanent collection proposes that the best of them are also adept abstractionists. Few works are nonrepresentational, and most have a vibe of strangeness, but almost every piece is as compelling for its form and technique as for its idiosyncratic imagery. 45 West 53rd Street, Manhattan , (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)20100415 
 ASIA SOCIETY MUSEUM: 'PILGRIMAGE AND BUDDHIST ART,' through June 20. This deftly shaped show, not especially large, spans vast swaths of land and time, from India to Japan, and from the first century A.D. almost to the present. Materially, it's cornucopian, with all manner of painting and sculpture and a camping store's worth of pilgrim travel gear: rucksacks for sutra scrolls, monastic hiking staffs and fanny-pack shrines, not to mention charts and maps, some cosmic, some not. The show traces the life of the Buddha and the circular path his wandering took between his birth and death in northern India. It also looks at the paths of those who followed him through the centuries and to this day. Some have traveled alone and quietly, other in lively packs. The action in a mural-size pilgrimage painting from 18th-century Nepal looks like a raucous scene from ''The Canterbury Tales'' set in the Kathmandu Valley. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street , (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Holland Cotter)20100415
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'KIKI SMITH: SOJOURN,' through Sept. 12. Kiki Smith's installation ''Sojourn'' was inspired by an 18th-century needlework, Prudence Punderson's ''First, Second and Last Scene of Mortality.'' There are rich ideas in that work, about the female life cycle and the life of the artist; to these Ms. Smith adds religious, mystical and personal symbolism. The installation's many drawings, peopled with women at various stages of life, can be quite affecting. But Ms. Smith has a tendency to sugarcoat death with craft: flowers, papier-mache, antique glass, gold and silver leaf and glitter everywhere. Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20100415
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'TO LIVE FOREVER: ART AND THE AFTERLIFE IN ANCIENT EGYPT,' through May 2. Drawing from its own world-class collection of Egyptian art and artifacts, the Brooklyn Museum has assembled an exhibition exploring all facets of the Egyptian funerary industry. It's not a blockbuster, but it is fascinating. It presents more than 100 objects, from massive stone sarcophagus covers and elaborately decorated wooden coffins to little statuettes and elegant ink drawings on sheets of papyrus. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100415
 FRICK COLLECTION: 'MASTERPIECES OF EUROPEAN PAINTING FROM DULWICH PICTURE GALLERY,' through May 30. That any of the nine works in this sweet dream of an exhibition sent over from London could easily be mistaken for works from the Frick's own incomparable collection tells you all you need to know about the quality on display. Rembrandt's ''A Girl at a Window'' (1645) is the star of the show. Jean-Antoine Watteaus's ''Les Plaisirs du bal'' (c. 1717) is a poetic, happy-sad vision of privileged indolence. Gerrit Dou's Vermeerish ''A Woman Playing a Clavichord'' (1665) is preternaturally lucid. Nicolas Poussin's ''The Nurture of Jupiter'' (1636 -- 7), in which the toddler-age future king of the gods suckles a goat while a nymph holds him in her lap in a rocky landscape, is otherworldly. 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan , (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Johnson)20100415
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'CONTEMPLATING THE VOID: INTERVENTIONS IN THE GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM,' through April 28. In what it calls ''a self-reflexive folly,'' the museum completes the 50th-birthday festivities for Frank Lloyd Wright's building by inviting more than 200 artists, architects and designers to have their way with the landmark rotunda -- imaginatively speaking, of course. Some 193 responded, usually in digital photographs, depicting it as everything from a place to exhibit their work; to a site for trampolines, forests and aquariums; to a jumping-off point for a redesign. The architects tend to be more Oedipal, but not one really improves upon the space. The list of invitees, while global, is a trifle predictable, overloaded with sculptors and installation artists and noticeably short on painters and photographers, who also have imaginations. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Roberta Smith)20100415
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'TWILIGHT VISIONS: SURREALISM, PHOTOGRAPHY AND PARIS,' through May 9. Considering how revolutionary Surrealist photography was back in the day, it may seem paradoxical that nostalgia would be the mood suffusing this resonant exhibition. But it makes sense. Caught in the throes of sweeping change in the cultural capital of the Western world, photographers like Andre Kerte, Ilse Bing, Man Ray and others were as preoccupied with what was being lost as with what might be gained by modernization, and the images they made are darkly meditative. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street , (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Johnson)20100415
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'MASTERING THE ART OF CHINESE PAINTING: XIE ZHILIU (1910-1997),' through August 1. This philosophically intriguing exhibition presents drawings and paintings by a 20th-century Chinese artist and professor who was trained in traditional artistic methods in his youth. That meant primarily copying and tracing drawings and paintings by past masters. Xie's elegant but unimaginative copies are interesting mainly for what they reveal about how classical artists arrived at works of seemingly effortless perfection: not by observing nature but by repeatedly imitating other artists. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100415
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'MASTERPIECES OF FRENCH ART DECO,' continuing. The largest exhibition of works from the Met's extensive holdings in French Art Deco fills a large gallery to overflowing with nearly 150 examples of art, furniture, wallpaper, decorative objects and the odd painting. Far more aristocratic than its American counterpart, French Deco devoted exquisite craftsmanship, opulent materials and historicizing design to the creation of one-of-a-kind luxury items. The desks and cabinets of the incomparable Jacques-Emile Ruhlmann quietly dominate, along with vases by Jacques Dunand and silver by Jean Puiforcat. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20100415
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'PLAYING WITH PICTURES: THE ART OF VICTORIAN PHOTOCOLLAGE,' through May 9. This seemingly modest, startlingly reverberant exhibition reveals that upper-class Englishwomen of the 1860s and '70s devised an early form of collage, the supposedly Cubist breakthrough. Adding cutout photographs of family, friends, royals and celebrities to the watercolor albums that were already an acceptable female activity, they created all kinds of witty effects -- drawing-room scenes, trompe l'oeil designs, human-animal hybrids. The effects of Darwinism and the publication of ''Alice's Adventures in Wonderland'' register in these amazing works, as does the collective, even osmotic nature of invention. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20100415
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2010. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20100415
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'YOUNG ARCHER,' continuing. Is it or is it not? ''Young Archer,'' a life-size marble carving of a naked boy drawing an arrow from his lion's paw quiver might be the earliest known sculpture by Michelangelo. Scholars disagree. On a 10-year loan from France, the legless, armless boy with a yearning expression is in the Met's bright and airy Velez Blanco Patio, where viewers may decide for themselves if it is the real thing. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100415
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'DEMONS AND DEVOTION: THE HOURS OF CATHERINE OF CLEVES,' through May 2. The need for new bindings creates the rare, maybe one-time chance to see 93 of the 157 surviving miniatures from the extraordinary illuminated book of hours commissioned around 1440 by Catherine of Cleves (1417-1479) in the southern Netherlands. Among the masterpieces of a golden age by an anonymous artist known only as the Master of Catherine of Cleves, it features exquisite, jewel-like miniatures that locate the Holy Family, apostles, and saints in the here and now, among detailed interiors and landscapes and trompe l'oeil borders. The kingdom of God gives way to that of the real. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)20100415
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'ROME AFTER RAPHAEL,' through May 9. This exhibition of 16th-century Italian drawings from the Morgan's collection covers a lot of ground. It moves, in fits and starts, from the High Renaissance to Mannerism and the nascent Baroque. And it's enlivened by the classic match-up of Raphael versus Michelangelo; drawings by both artists, and their followers, pit Raphael's sprezzatura, or relaxed refinement, against Michelangelo's vein-popping muscularity. Look for drawings by Parmigianino (in Raphael's camp) and the sumptuous Farnese Hours by Giulio Clovio (in Michelangelo's), in addition to splendid Late Mannerist studies by Annibale Carracci. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)20100415
 MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN: 'BIGGER, BETTER, MORE: THE ART OF VIOLA FREY,' through May 2. Viola Frey's giant ceramic sculptures of men and women are among the underappreciated wonders of late-20th-century art. Rising 11 feet and higher, wearing business suits and ties and nondescript dresses, they have a spookily imposing physical presence and a clunky, cartoonish ugliness. With their blank or seemingly angry expressions, they may remind you of what it was like to be a child among grown-ups troubled by incomprehensible problems. 2 Columbus Circle , (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100415
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'HENRI CARTIER-BRESSON: THE MODERN CENTURY,' through June 28. Rarely has the phrase ''man of the world'' been more aptly applied than to the protean photojournalist Henri Cartier-Bresson, the subject of a large and handsome MoMA retrospective. For much of his long career, which began in the 1930s and officially ended three decades before his death in 2004, he was continually on the move, covering the better part of five continents, usually sending his film to various publishers and agencies for developing and editing. Many of the individual pictures are rightfully classics: those taken in the aftermath of World War II in Europe; at Gandhi's funeral; in China on the eve of the revolution. MoMA carefully mixes pictures chronologically, as if to avoid a comparison between Cartier-Bresson's daring in his early work and his later weakness for sentimentality and stereotypes, but the lack of cumulative moral and emotional intensity in the career, and in the show, is evident. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20100415
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'MARINA ABRAMOVIC: THE ARTIST IS PRESENT,' through May 31. The long-building energy wave of performance art hits the Museum of Modern Art with this four-decade survey of work by one of the form's more visible and magnetic figures. And the show's combination of stressed-out bare flesh on film and live bodies, some nude, in the galleries, makes pretty radical fare for the museum. The exhibition is part true endurance-test grit, part pure diva hokum. And it comes with a mission: to demonstrate that it is possible to preserve an ephemeral medium through live re-creations of past work in a museum setting. The demonstration falls flat, but Ms. Abramovic herself is performing a new piece. It consists of her sitting absolutely still and staring straight ahead in MoMA's atrium for almost the entire time the museum is open during the show's run, an estimated 716 hours and 30 minutes, all told. Visitors are invited to participate by taking a seat across from her and meeting her gaze. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20100415
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'PERFORMANCE 7: MIRAGE BY JOAN JONAS,' through May 31. It helps to think of time as cyclical, or at least non-Western and nonlinear, when encountering Joan Jonas's ''Mirage'' at the Museum of Modern Art. The latest installation of a piece conceived in 1976, it suggests that Ms. Jonas's art has a longer-than-usual life span because it's constantly being reborn. In its current form at MoMA, ''Mirage'' consists of six moving-image works arranged in a loose circle and accompanied by a series of props: metal cones, chalkboards, a mask and a wooden hoop, among other objects. Performance, drawing, dance and video combine and recombine in arcane but thrilling ways. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)20100415
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: PICASSO: 'THEMES AND VARIATIONS,' through Aug. 30. This subtly excellent show brings together about 120 prints from the museum's collection, nimbly accounting for many of the pinnacles of Picasso's crafty exploration of the various print mediums. It also parses numerous themes -- Saltimbanques, wives and mistresses, Cubist nudes, hommages to the old masters, the burly Minotaur -- and includes stunning recent acquisitions. Revealing as much about the print-making processes as about Picasso's free-wheeling involvement with them, it casts a wide net and arranges its catch with penetrating clarity. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20100415
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'TIM BURTON,' through April 26. Given the tremendous visual appeal of Mr. Burton's movies, you would expect that this expansive retrospective of his nonmoving art would be equally exciting. Alas, it is a let-down. Focused mainly on hundreds of Victorian-Gothic-Expressionist cartoons dating from his teenage years to the present and including paintings, sculptures, photographs and a smattering of short films on flat screens, it is an entertaining show, but there is a sameness to all Mr. Burton's two- and three-dimensional output that makes for a monotonous viewing experience. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)20100415
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'WILLIAM KENTRIDGE: FIVE THEMES,' through May 17. This well-designed exhibition of prints, drawings, films and film installations from the last 30 years showcases the artist's dazzling fusion of charcoal drawing and stop-action animation to excellent effect. The 1990 animations that meditate on the ravages of apartheid remain especially powerful. As the show traces a kind of progression away from, and back to, political subject matter, through a gallery that offers a dreamlike visit to his studio, it also traces his growing role in his own work, first as image, then as actor. And with a forthrightness that is almost touching, the exhibition also confirms that in the contest between still and moving images, moving almost always wins. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20100415
 NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: '185TH ANNUAL: AN INVITATIONAL EXHIBITION OF CONTEMPORARY AMERICAN ART,' through June 8. This year the National Academy's Annual has been pared down to 65 artists from the usual 120 or so. Reduced finances are to blame, but happily this juried exhibition doesn't suffer. Quality is high over all, and congestion has been minimized. Painting dominates, as always here, but with everything from photorealism to geometric abstraction, the show still feels rich in variety. The lineup includes the Chelsea habitues Dana Schutz, Ghada Amer and the fast-rising Alison Elizabeth Taylor, whose impressive marquetry work graces a marbled alcove. National Academy Museum, 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Rosenberg)20100415
 NEW MUSEUM: 'SKIN FRUIT: SELECTIONS FROM THE DAKIS JOANNOU COLLECTION,' through June 6. This exhibition of works from the collection of a New Museum trustee selected and installed by the art star Jeff Koons might conceivably have pulled a rabbit out of its ethically sticky headgear. Instead it teems with usual suspects, and its overcrowding benefits no one, especially the several larger, more admittedly festivalist works that form its high points. This museum has some rethinking to do, and high on the list should be coming to grips with the size and limitations of its often poorly proportioned galleries. Ultimately the air of complicity is less disturbing than the look of complacency. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)20100415
 NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'NOGUCHI REINSTALLED,' through Oct. 24. In anticipation of the museum's 25th anniversary in 2010, this show presents about 200 of Isamu Noguchi's works from the 1920s to the 1980s. They include sculptures in stone, wood, metal and clay; maquettes and models for parks and playgrounds; and props for Martha Graham dance productions. Though unfailingly suave, Noguchi's polished abstraction no longer has the urgency it once had, but the museum as a whole is a wonderful time capsule, and the sculpture garden he designed is utterly blissful. Noguchi Museum, 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Johnson)20100415
 QUEENS MUSEUM OF ART: DANIEL BOZHKOV AND DUKE RILEY, through April 25. Two young and opportunistic artists -- Daniel Bozhkov and Duke Riley -- have found a way to make the most of the Queens Museum's transitional state. (The museum is in the process of expanding.) Egged on by trusting curators and a residency program, Launch Pad, that encourages exploration of the site and the Queens community, they have turned to the surrounding park and its former ice rink for materials and inspiration. Their adjacent solo installations are well worth seeing, if only because they are profoundly at odds with each other: Mr. Bozhkov salvages, while Mr. Riley torches the place in a ''naumachia'' (Roman naval battle). Flushing Meadows-Corona Park , (718) 592-9700, queensmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20100415
 SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN: 'A SONG FOR THE HORSE NATION,' through July 7, 2011. Including saddles, riding blankets, clothing and beaded bags and much more, this exhibition brings to light a fascinating and ultimately sad chapter in American history: the hundred-year period during which horses were central to the lives of the Plains Indians. A highly efficient form of transportation, horses enabled Navaho, Crow, Comanche, Pawnee and others to expand their territories and flourish more than they otherwise would have. It also enabled them to make war more effectively, though ultimately not effectively enough. George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan , (212) 514-3700, americanindian.si.edu. (Johnson)20100415
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'COLLECTING BIENNIALS,' through Nov. 28. Start your Whitney Biennial experience on the fifth floor, with this permanent-collection show of works by artists who were in past Annuals and Biennials. It caps off an extravaganza of brand-new art with a humbling and diverting mix of classics, oldies and one-hit wonders. Figurative paintings from the 1950s Annuals are paired with contemporaneous Abstract Expressionism, and some big names from the 1980s (Schnabel, Condo) look refreshed. Most eye-opening is the fact that some of the most influential artists (Warhol, Hammons) barely register on the Biennial scorecard. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20100415
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: '2010 WHITNEY BIENNIAL,' through May 30. In the spirit of the economically bleak two years it represents, the Whitney has made efforts to under-pitch its 2010 Biennial, and the show lives up -- and down -- to its billing. There are fewer artists than in the past. Its installation is spartan. Spectacle is out. Much of what's in is quiet and hermetic to the point of looking blank. The prevailing aesthetic is the art of the tweak, minute variations on conventional forms and historical styles: abstract paintings stitched like quilts, performance pieces channeling the 1960s, and so. The show feels empty where it reflects the retrenched, art-about-art spirit of the moment. But it also has strong work, particularly in video and photography, that speaks of life beyond the art factory. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)20100415
 Galleries: Uptown
 MILTON AVERY: 'INDUSTRIAL REVELATIONS,' through May 1. This knockout exhibition is the first exhaustive look at the artist's depictions of New York City's waterways, bridges and railroad yards from the late 1920s and early '30s, a period most associated with his portraits. But here he is out in the open, already summoning the deft abbreviations of form, space and light that would dominate his mature, far more pastoral landscapes. With more than three dozen works -- one-third of them oils -- this show provides an exciting new view of Avery's development and reminds us that his many-splendored achievement is still not fully visible. Knoedler & Company, 19 East 70th Street , (212) 794-0550, knoedlergallery.com. (Smith)20100415
 OTTO DIX, through Aug. 30. The first Dix retrospective in this country provides heady glimpses of the achievement of this ''wild man'' of German art. Few things escaped his remorseless eye -- from the horrors of World War I to the hypocrisies of the Weimar Republic. He made every stop on the itinerary of German modernism (including Realism, Dada, Surrealism, Expressionism, folk, visionary), had a few Cubist moments and, of course, qualified as ''degenerate'' under the Nazis. This exhibition of more than 100 paintings, prints, watercolors and drawings (organized with the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts) doesn't have the scope -- or the space -- to do Dix justice, but it begins to make up for lost time. Neue Galerie, 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street , (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Smith)20100415
 ED PASCHKE, through April 24. In his toxically glowing paintings of circus freaks, extreme dandies, tattooed ladies and hairy, wingtip shoes from the 1970s and '80s, this Chicago Imagist, who died in 2004, explored the dark side of Pop Art. Later paintings look as if broadcast by a television on acid. Jeff Koons, Mr. Paschke's student, assistant and friend, selected the works in this terrific show. Gagosian Gallery, 980 Madison Avenue, at 77th Street , (212) 744-2313, gagosian.com. (Johnson)20100415
 Galleries: 57th Street
 'CELEBRATING THE MUSE: WOMEN IN PICASSO'S PRINTS, 1905-1968,' through May 1. This venture is pretty much girls, girls, girls: the artist's wives and mistresses, along with mythological goddesses, unnamed models and their more sexualized counterparts -- mantilla-topped majas in various degrees of undress. Underscoring what may have been the artist's chief obsession, it has a nearly overwhelming wildness of its own, including large swaths of the brilliantly varied ''Suite Vollard'' of 1933 -- especially the ''sculptor's studio'' sequence -- and ''Suite 347,'' an etching marathon from 1968. But there is much, much more, including wonderful linocuts of Picasso's second and final wife, the long-suffering Jacqueline. Marlborough Gallery, 40 West 57th Street, Manhattan , (212) 541-4900, marlboroughgallery.com. (Smith)20100415
 Galleries: Chelsea
 'BLOOD OF SPACE: DRAWINGS BY DAVID CHAIM SMITH,' through May 15. Inspired by the Cabala, alchemy and other mystical systems, Mr. Smith creates densely worked, diagrammatic drawings that look as if they'd been made by a Renaissance-era occultist. His semi-abstract, symmetrical compositions in pencil and ink feature an interplay between narrow crisscrossing, circular and serpentine bands and gnarly, rootlike systems. Finely printed words add philosophy reminiscent of the sentiments printed on Dr. Bronner's soap bottles. Cavin-Morris Gallery, 210 11th Avenue, at 25th Street , (212) 226-3768, cavinmorris.com. (Johnson)20100415
 'JANET CARDIFF & GEORGE BURES MILLER,' through May 1. Few artists work with sound more inventively and with a cannier sense of theater than the Canadians Janet Cardiff and George Bures Miller. The main attraction here is ''The Carnie,'' an antique children's carousel in a dark room that looks like something you'd encounter in a Twilight Zone episode. As it revolves, speakers broadcast ominous, cacophonous modern music by the electronic composer Freida Abtan. Luhring Augustine, 531 West 24th Street , (212) 206-9100, luhringaugustine.com. (Johnson)20100415
 AMAR KANWAR, through April 24. The documentary-based work of the South Asian filmmaker Amar Kanwar is unswervingly grounded in what he once called ''issues of justice,'' meaning social justice, though he is also a vivid shaper of narratives, as two ambitious pieces in this show attest. The eight-channel video piece ''The Lightning Testimonies'' (2007) is a harrowing study of the sexual violation of women during, and at various times after, the 1947 partition of the Indian subcontinent into Islamic Pakistan and Hindu India. The second piece, ''The Torn First Pages,'' is an even more elaborately scaled film installation in three parts that focuses on the activist struggle for democracy in Myanmar, formerly Burma, under a brutal military dictatorship. Marian Goodman Gallery, 24 West 57th Street , (212) 977-7160, mariangoodman.com. (Cotter)20100415
 Galleries: SoHo
 JOSEF ALBERS/KEN PRICE, through June 5. Pairing a German abstract painter and color theorist, Josef Albers (1888-1976), and a ceramic sculptor, Ken Price (born 1935), is a bit of curatorial genius that can make your eyes feel attached to a bigger, better brain. An intricate dovetailing of works spanning several mediums and decades clarifies their individual greatness. The shared passion for strong color juxtapositions is to be expected. Less so are those for Modern architecture, pre-Columbian pyramids, stones, interior spaces (variously erotic, domestic or symbolic) and an oscillation between biomorphic and straight-edged form. Anyone interested in the curatorial arts should see this thrilling show, among the best and most timely to grace a New York commercial gallery. Brooke Alexander Gallery, 59 Wooster Street , (212) 925-4338, baeditions.com. (Smith)20100415
 JOSEF ALBERS: 'FORMULATION: ARTICULATION, 1972,' through May 8. This headlong plunge into all things Josef Albers (1888-1976) presents a portfolio of 127 silk-screens that sums up his art and thought to a remarkable degree -- especially if you read the ''Statements of Content'' explaining each motif. A horizontal installation aids absorption, which can transform your understanding of both Albers in particular and abstraction in general, revealing it to be, unexpectedly, an art of everyday life. Peter Blum, 99 Wooster Street , (212) 343-0441, peterblumgallery.com. (Smith)20100415
 Last Chance
 R. CRUMB: 'THE BIBLE ILLUMINATED: R. CRUMB'S BOOK OF GENESIS'; closes on Saturday. Loaded with sex, violence, visions and miracles, the stories in the Book of Genesis of Adam and Eve, Cain and Abel, Lot and his daughters, David and Goliath and many others seem custom-made for Mr. Crumb's bawdy sensibility and earthy draftsmanship. His 207 richly hatched, firmly delineated drawings bring to unruly, comical life people and events that often seem puzzlingly abstract in the Bible, from the seven days of creation to the happy death of Joseph at 110 in Egypt. David Zwirner Gallery, 519 West 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 727-2070, davidzwirner.com. (Johnson)20100415
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'THE DRAWINGS OF BRONZINO'; closes on Sunday. Agnolo Bronzino was the hand to hire for a power portrait in mid-16th-century Florence. He could turn toddlers into potentates and make money-mad Medicis look like decent people. At his peak, in the 1550s, he was the most influential artist in Florence. So why, given his fame, he has had to wait some 500 years for a museum solo is a puzzle. But that solo has now arrived at the Met. Encompassing all but 2 of the 61 works on paper currently attributed to the artist, and justifying each attribution in its gorgeous catalog, the show is scholarly tour de force and a breathtaking demonstration of a sovereign hand at work and at play. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20100415
 BANKS VIOLETTE; closes on Saturday. This show has something of a comeback feeling. Its centerpiece is one of the artist's best efforts so far: a big, morose chandelier, made of white fluorescent lights hung low, that resembles a skeletal cabana or giant wind chime, despite the arctic light. Its black wiring spreads like tendrils across the floor to a bank of outlets in a big road case that a rock band might use. Opposite, enormous, rumpled planes of Mr. Violette's signature black fiberglass refract the light of the chandelier. They suggest abstract outcroppings, collapsing billboards and rock arena sets. They're a bit vacuous, but have never been better used. Gladstone Gallery, 530 West 21st Street, Chelsea , (212) 206-7606, gladstonegallery.com. (Smith)20100415

CORRECTION-DATE: April 23, 2010, Friday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An art entry in the Listings pages last Friday about ''Rome After Raphael,'' at the Morgan Library & Museum, misspelled the given name of an artist whose work appears in the exhibition. He was Annibale Carracci, not Anibale. (The error has appeared in the Listings pages each Friday since Feb. 12 and was pointed out in an e-mail message from a reader on Wednesday.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'The Drawings of Bronzino': ''Standing Nude,'' a study for ''The Crossing of the Red Sea,'' is part of this exhibition of 16th-century work, closing on Sunday at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GABINETTO DISEGNI E STAMPE DEGLI UFFIZI, FLORENCE, ITALY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (89%); SCULPTURE (79%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (79%); PAINTING (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ART COLLECTING (78%); RELIGION (74%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (74%); HIKING (72%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH INDIA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (90%); EGYPT (84%); NEPAL (79%); JAPAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



404 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; BUDGETING; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Being Forced To Make Do

BYLINE: By SUSAN SWARD

 BODY:
Most of the Bay Area's nine counties and their major cities are wrestling with multimillion-dollar deficits and draconian cuts. The required reductions come at a time when they have been hit by revenue losses and the state has contributed many millions less. 
Alameda County
 Population 1.46 million
 Current budget $2 billion
 Projected 2010-11 deficit as much as $178 million
 ''The state continues to balance its budget on the backs of local government.''
 Susan Muranishi, county administrator
 Contra Costa County
 Population 1 million
 Current Budget $1.2 billion
 Projected deficit $37.7 million
 ''For the first time since the Great Depression, we have had a decrease in our property tax revenues for two years in a row.''John Gioia, board chairman
 Marin County
 Population 247,000
 Current Budget $438 million
 Projected deficit $20 million
 ''When the downturn hit, we knew we had to scramble.'' Judy Arnold, board chairwoman
 Napa County
 Population 132,000
 CURRENT BUDGET $208.5 million
 Projected deficit Less than $10 million
 ''We expect to use less than $10 million to balance the budget.''Diane Dillon, board chairwoman
 Santa Clara County
 Population 1.7 million
 Current Budget $2.2 billion
 Projected deficit $250 million
 ''Where to cut becomes less straightforward with each budget year.'' Ken Yeager, board president
 San Francisco
 Population 798,000
 Current Budget $3.75 billion
 Projected deficit $522 million
 ''We will need to make painful cuts in every area of city government.'' 
 David Chiu, board president
 San Mateo County
 Population 704,000
 Current Budget $345 million
 Projected deficit $125 million
 ''We are interested in maintaining prevention activities, such as drug treatment, that help reduce costs.'' Richard Gordon, board president
 Solano County
 Population 407,000
 Current Budget $243 million
 Projected deficit $17.5 million
 ''We have had a hiring freeze since the downturn started.''Michael Reagan, board vice chairman
 Sonoma County
 Population 463,000
 Current Budget $400 million
 Projected deficit $48 million
 ''The ultimate question will be, Can we do without a service for a couple of years until the economy rebounds?'' Valerie Brown, board chairwoman
 City of San Jose
 Population 905,000
 Current Budget $983 million
 Projected Deficit $116 million
 ''We have fundamental structural problems. Employees' costs have risen 65 percent over nine years during a time our revenues only went up 18 percent.'' Michelle McGurk, mayoral spokeswoman
 City of Oakland
 Population 362,000
 Current Budget $416 million
 Projected deficit $42.6 million
 ''We have had a massive drop in revenues.''
 Dan Lindheim, city administrator

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); COUNTIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (62%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%); PROPERTY TAX (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (97%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010



405 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Continental and United Resume Talks to Merge

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN; Michael de la Merced contributed reporting.

 BODY:
When the music stopped on Thursday in the airline industry's game of musical chairs, Continental Airlines and United Airlines were back in talks again, and US Airways was still trying to grab a seat. 
 The latest merger talks come just a week after United and US Airways resumed their own off-again, on-again attempts at combining operations. But most industry analysts had viewed those discussions as a not-so-subtle attempt by United to lure Continental back to the negotiating table. 
 People briefed on the matter cautioned on Thursday that the discussions between Continental and United were in the early stages and could quickly fall apart. And talks between United and US Airways are still going on. 
 ''The stars have aligned for consolidation,'' said Vicki Bryan, an analyst at Gimme Credit. ''United is forcing Continental to make a move and is using poor little US Airways as bait.''
 The negotiations come close to two years after Continental broke off an engagement to merge with United. 
 A combination would create the nation's biggest airline, in terms of revenue. Merging United's operations in the West, including its hubs in Denver and San Francisco, and Continental's hubs in Houston and Newark would create a formidable competitor to Delta Air Lines, which jumped to the top position because of its acquisition of Northwest Airlines in 2008. 
 If the Continental-United talks result in a deal, American Airlines would end up as the third major carrier with both domestic and international operations. But it would leave US Airways way behind, with analysts questioning its chances of survival.
 Combining Continental and United would also create a global behemoth. Continental would bring its strong presence in Latin America and Europe, while United has strong positions in Asia, including China and Japan.
 Jean Medina, a spokeswoman for United in Chicago, and Julie King, a spokeswoman for Continental in Houston, both declined to comment. United is the nation's third-biggest carrier by market value, and Continental is the fourth. Todd Lehmacher, a spokesman for US Airways, also declined to comment. 
 Shares of UAL, United's parent company, gained 5.3 percent on Thursday, closing at a two-year high of $23.54. The stock has risen 24 percent, valuing the company at $3.94 billion, since reports of the talks were disclosed last week by The New York Times.
 Shares of Continental, meanwhile, gained 2.2 percent, closing at $23.77, also their highest level in two years, valuing it at $3.3 billion. Shares of US Airways were barely changed at $7.41. 
 Delta is now worth $11.3 billion, indicating that investors are willing to grant a generous premium for bigger airlines.
 Major airlines have been losing money for most of the decade because of vigorous competition from low-cost carriers and higher costs for fuel. Airline executives see consolidation as a way to raise revenue by offering more flights to passengers and as a way to cut overhead costs.
 Analysts have said that a merger between Continental and United makes the most sense. It offers more complementary routes than a tie-up with US Airways, and would therefore raise fewer antitrust concerns in Washington. 
 With the global economy showing signs of improving, analysts have suggested that the time is right for airlines to consolidate to take advantage of the expected pickup in business and leisure travel. The talks also reflect the airlines' growing concern that they are trailing more formidable rivals being formed in Europe, including Air France-KLM and British Airways, which recently acquired Iberia of Spain. 
 Because of limits on foreigners owning more than 25 percent of United States airlines, domestic carriers have been increasingly coalescing around three global partnerships that allow them to share both passengers and revenue as well as to offer routes that literally circle the globe. Some of the airlines benefit from antitrust immunity to set fares and coordinate schedules with foreign carriers.
 United belongs to the Star Alliance, which also includes Lufthansa of Germany. Delta, along with Air France, is part of SkyTeam. Continental, in an unusual move last fall, switched from SkyTeam to Star. And American Airlines and British Airways are members of the Oneworld alliance, which also includes Japan Airlines.
 Continental and United were about to merge in 2008 but their talks foundered in the final stretch when Continental's board balked at United's poor financial health amid soaring fuel prices. The stunning reversal came just days before the two carriers were about to announce a deal. Continental's chairman at the time, Lawrence W. Kellner, had already been chosen to run the merged company.
 The collapse of these talks prompted United to open discussions with US Airways, but those talks were also rapidly shelved. An attempt in 2000 by United to buy US Airways failed because of antitrust concerns from the Justice Department.
 But today, United has more clout in its talks with the other airlines. While the company is still unprofitable, its balance sheet has vastly improved over the last year because of efforts to cut capacity and raise revenue through fees. 
 That means United may be in a position to dictate terms to Continental and to have its own executives run a merged company, according to a research note by Ms. Bryan, of Gimme Credit. United has less debt than Continental and has more than $3 billion in cash, Ms. Bryan said. A combination of the two companies, she said, could yield more than $2 billion in extra revenue, in addition to any cost savings.
 At an investor conference last month, Jeffery A. Smisek, the chairman of Continental, suggested that the decision to walk from United two years ago was the right one ''at the time.'' But he also said that he would be open to ''defensively bulk up.'' Those comments were interpreted as a signal that he would be willing to make a pre-emptive move for United. 
 A Continental-United tie-up would be bad news for US Airways, which operates mainly as a domestic airline facing low-cost competition from Southwest Airlines on 80 percent of its routes, Basili Alukos, an analyst at Morningstar, said. 
 ''The biggest question would be the future viability of US Airways,'' Mr. Alukos said. ''Southwest is cheaper and is a better operator.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Continental has a strong network in Latin America and Europe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID J. PHILLIP/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Shares in Continental, the fourth-biggest carrier by market value, closed at their highest level in two years on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE RIEDEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); MERGERS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (64%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (94%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (90%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (90%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (94%); UAL (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (94%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (94%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%) ILLINOIS, USA (58%) EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (73%); CHINA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010



406 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (TLC) THE WHAT NOT TO WEAR AWARDS And the statuette for finally accepting that it's not O.K. to dress as if you were 15 when you're 45 goes to ... ? Clinton Kelly, above at left, and Stacy London, center, with Miriam, sift through the ''What Not to Wear'' archives for the most dramatic transformations, weepiest breakdowns and heart-rending stories to rise from the ashes of fashion makeovers. Later, they rekindle romance by helping a couple change each other's wardrobe.
 7 P.M. (MTV) GREEN DAY ROCKS BROADWAY This special peeks behind the scenes of the Broadway musical ''American Idiot,'' adapted from Green Day's 2004 album. 
 8 P.M. (NBC) SECRETS OF THE MOUNTAIN (2010) A single mother (Paige Turco) and her three children are confronted by a series of mysteries -- and a dark and dangerous secret -- after traveling to a cabin inherited from a beloved uncle (Barry Bostwick).
 8 P.M. (Fox Movie Channel) FOX LEGACY WITH TOM ROTHMAN Mr. Rothman, a chairman of Fox Filmed Entertainment, looks at the creation of ''All About Eve,'' the 1950 drama from Joseph L. Mankiewicz, starring Bette Davis (above right, with Anne Baxter) as Margo, an aging Broadway actress, and Ms. Baxter as Eve, the ingenue who insinuates herself into Margo's life. Both Ms. Baxter and Ms. Davis earned Oscar nominations for best actress. ''All About Eve'' will be shown at 8:15.
 9 P.M. (13, 49) BILL MOYERS JOURNAL How did Wall Street grow so powerful that its high jinks nearly brought down the global economy, and what hope is there for real reform? Those are the questions Mr. Moyers poses to the economists Simon Johnson and James Kwak, the founders of the Baseline Scenario blog and the authors of ''13 Bankers: The Wall Street Takeover and the Next Financial Meltdown.'' In another segment Mr. Moyers talks with Michael J. Copps of the Federal Communications Commission about recent court decisions on media ownership rules and other issues. 
 9 P.M. (Sundance) CHANDON PICTURES In the latest installments of this Australian comedy series about Tom Chandon (Rob Carlton), a deluded would-be filmmaker who pays the bills by shooting weddings and birthday parties, Nick (Darren Gilshenan), the company cameraman, delivers an ultimatum. In the Season 1 finale at 9:30, Tom suspects that his luck may have changed when the subject of his documentary lands on the front pages of several newspapers. Season 2 begins on April 23.
 10 P.M. (CBS) MIAMI MEDICAL This series from Jerry Bruckheimer about expert surgeons in a major trauma unit finds the Alpha team, led by Dr. Matthew Proctor (Jeremy Northam), treating victims of a tent collapse at a wedding -- and discovering parallels between their patients' lives and their own. 
 10 P.M. (HBO) REAL TIME WITH BILL MAHER The roundtable guests are Laura Flanders, the host of ''GRITtv''; Simon Johnson, a professor at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management; and David Remnick, editor of The New Yorker. The film producer Lawrence Bender (''Inglourious Basterds'') and Jesse Ventura, a former governor of Minnesota, are the interview guests.
 10 P.M. (Food Network) PRIVATE CHEFS OF BEVERLY HILLS Big City Chefs, a placement agency in Los Angeles, caters to the rich and eccentric. This episode follows employees as they concoct the menu for a 35th-birthday celebration under the evil eye of a foodzilla and become unwitting participants in a medieval murder-mystery party at a Scottish castle. 
 10 P.M. (National Geographic) SEA TURTLE ODYSSEY ''Nature Untamed'' journeys to Australia to explore the reproductive behavior of the loggerhead sea turtle, one of the world's most endangered animals, and uncovers what happens to hatchlings after their birth on the beaches. 
 10:30 P.M. (E!) FORBES: HEIRESSES GONE WILD Money makes their world go 'round: the lives of Paris Hilton, Lydia Hearst-Shaw, Paige Laurie, Courtenay Semel, Peaches and Pixie Geldof, Princesses Eugenie and Beatrice, and the late Casey Johnson are scrutinized for their partying and hook-ups. Not to mention what they do to their family names. 
 11 P.M. (Ovation) SLINGS AND ARROWS Andrew (Chris Leavins) coerces Geoffrey (Paul Gross) into coming clean about his true feelings for the ghostly Olivier (Stephen Ouimette). Sophie (Sarah Polley) and Paul (Aaron Abrams) find their relationship fraying over his infatuation with the singing voice of Megan (Melanie Merkosky). KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); FILM (87%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); WRITERS (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); MUSICAL THEATER (70%); MUSIC (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); SINGLE PARENTS (53%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); BAXTER AS (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); SIC5047 MEDICAL, DENTAL & HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (66%)

PERSON: JERRY BRUCKHEIMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010



407 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Despite Budget Woes, University Still Has Money for Bottled Water

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco.

 BODY:
Times are tough at the University of California. The state's budget crisis has led to cuts, layoffs and higher student fees.
 It is enough to drive someone to drink -- as long as it's not plain old tap water.
Even though money is tight, the university has spent about $2 million in recent years on brand name, commercially produced and delivered bottled water to campuses in San Francisco and Berkeley. With both cities boasting some of the nation's highest-quality drinking water, critics see bottled water as a questionable expense that is bad for the environment. 
 ''Bottled water is, largely, an unnecessary waste of money,'' Peter H. Gleick, president of the Pacific Institute for Studies in Development, Environment and Security in Oakland and a MacArthur genius fellowship recipient for his work on water issues, wrote via e-mail from Alexandria, Egypt, where he was attending a conference on water sustainability. ''But there are also substantial environmental, social and political costs not captured in the price alone.''
 To be clear, university staff members and students are not sitting around sipping emerald bottles of sparkling Perrier. The bottled water tends to be delivered in three-to-five-gallon jugs, then dispensed in rented coolers. Both campuses have contracts with Arrowhead, a division of the Swiss corporation Nestle.
 The University of California, San Francisco, has paid Arrowhead $250,000 to $320,000 a year since 2004, according to estimates supplied by the university.
 At the Berkeley campus, officials said a total of $522,215 had been paid to Arrowhead for the three fiscal years that concluded in 2009.
 Contrast that with the City of San Francisco, where bottled water has been banned in government offices. The move came after a 2006 investigation by The San Francisco Chronicle, which revealed that the city spent $500,000 a year on bottled water and supplies. 
 ''Bottled water is hundreds to thousands of times more expensive than providing tap water,'' said Dr. Gleick, whose new book, ''Bottled and Sold. The Story Behind Our Obsession With Bottled Water,'' explores the issue. 
 Beyond the expense, there is the environmental impact. Tap water to both San Francisco and Berkeley is transported at little cost and pollution free by gravity, while bottled water arrives on trucks that burn fuel.
 Michael Rodriguez, director of strategic sourcing at U.C.S.F., said the university reviewed its bottled-water policy when San Francisco adopted its ban. Purchases of single-use bottles have since declined, he said, but orders for jugs and coolers continue, in part for safety reasons.
 Mr. Rodriguez said that infrequently used faucets and aging plumbing could affect water quality, and that tap water was not readily available in every office of 20 university buildings scattered around the city. And with the U.C.S.F. Medical Center on campus, he said, Arrowhead would supply drinkable water in the event of an earthquake.
 ''I might be taking a conservative approach,'' Mr. Rodriguez said, ''but I'll take that criticism, rather than be unprepared in the event of a disaster.''
 It sounds reasonable, except that the city already has a plan to supply water to the hospital after an earthquake. Also, Mr. Rodriguez said he did not know of any test results that show tainted water from old pipes. And rented coolers are clearly not needed everywhere. On a recent afternoon, Arrowhead made a delivery to the modern Kalmanovitz Library, placing bottled water in a fully-outfitted kitchen, next to a working sink.
 There is an effort in Berkeley to wean the campus from bottled water. Janet Gilmore, the university spokeswoman, said an ''I Love Tap Water'' campaign initiated by the university's health services department had raised awareness of the issue. As a result, Ms. Gilmore said, spending on bottled water is on track to decrease by 25 percent in the current fiscal year.
 Ariel Boone, a student senator at Berkeley, said, ''Our funds are going to bottled water instead of keeping our libraries open,'' and noted that just $15,000 was at stake recently to extend library hours during final exams.
 Ms. Boone said the student government recently banned student organizations from using money on bottled water. ''We decided it mainly for environmental purposes,'' she said, ''but also because we're concerned about money.''
 But does the saving make a difference? All told, the University of California budget is more than $20 billion. Even if the expense of bottled water is cut, that would surely be -- excuse the pun -- just a drop in the bucket.
 But Dr. Gleick does not agree with that argument. ''There are the direct economic costs,'' he said, ''and while they may not be huge, we live in an era where we can no longer afford to waste money unnecessarily.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BOTTLED WATER (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); WATER QUALITY (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (70%)

COMPANY: NESTLE SA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); PACIFIC RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY (56%)

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010



408 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Volcanic Ash Grounds Air Traffic in Northern Europe

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK and LIZ ROBBINS; Nicola Clark reported from Paris, and Liz Robbins from New York. Reporting was contributed by John F. Burns and Julia Werdigier from London, and Alan Cowell and David Jolly from Paris.

 BODY:
PARIS -- A dark and spectacular volcanic cloud shrouded much of northern Europe on Thursday, forcing airlines to cancel thousands of flights as it drifted at high altitude south and east from an erupting volcano in Iceland. The shutdown of airspace was one of the most sweeping ever ordered in peacetime, amid fears that travel could continue to be delayed days after the cloud dissipates. 
 The cloud, made up of minute particles of silicate that can severely damage jet engines, left airplanes stranded on the tarmac at some of the world's busiest airports as it spread over Britain and toward continental Europe. 
 The volcano erupted Wednesday for the second time in a month, forcing evacuations and causing flooding about 75 miles east of Reykjavik, Iceland's capital. Matthew Watson, a specialist at Bristol University in England in the study of volcanic ash clouds, said the plume was ''likely to end up over Belgium, Germany, the Lowlands -- a good portion over Europe,'' and was unlikely to dissipate for 24 hours or more. 
 Even then, any resumption of flights would not be immediate, said John Lampl, a British Airways spokesman in New York. ''For several days you'll have crews and airplanes in the wrong places,'' he said. ''It will take a few days to sort it out.''
 British aviation officials extended the closing of British airspace at least through 1 p.m. local time on Friday, meaning that only authorized emergency flights would be permitted. About 6,000 scheduled flights use British airspace in an average day, aviation experts said. 
 Deborah Seymour, a spokeswoman for Britain's National Air Traffic Service, said the closing of the country's airspace was the most extensive in recent memory. ''It's an extremely rare occurrence,'' she said.
 Eurocontrol, the agency in Brussels that is responsible for coordinating air traffic management across the region, said disruptions to air traffic could last an additional 48 hours, depending on weather conditions, and could extend deeper into continental Europe.
 The ash from the volcano, Eyjafjallajokull (pronounced EYE-a-fyat-la-jo-kutl), was reported to be drifting at 18,000 to 33,000 feet above the earth. At those altitudes, the cloud is directly in the way of commercial airliners but not an immediate health threat to people on the ground, the International Volcanic Health Hazard Network, based in Britain, said on its Web site. 
 According to the Volcanic Ash Advisory Center, during the early afternoon in London there was still ''significant eruption continuing,'' with the plume reaching 15,000 feet, but ''occasionally'' as high as 33,000 feet.
 On Thursday, 5,000 to 6,000 of the 28,000 daily flights across Europe were canceled as a result of the ash plume, said Lucia Pasquini, a Eurocontrol spokeswoman.
 The closing of British airspace disrupted the great majority of trans-Atlantic flights, including those on the New York-London route, the second busiest international route in the world after the Hong Kong to Taipei, Taiwan, route, according to the International Air Transport Association. Eurocontrol said roughly half of the 600 daily flights between North America and Europe would probably face cancellations or delays on Friday. 
 ''It is a significant disruption,'' said Steve Lott, a spokesman for the air transport association. ''What presents more of a challenge is that we don't know the end date.'' He added, ''If this closed airspace continues to grow larger, the airlines will have fewer route options.''
 As the cloud made its way high across the English Channel, French aviation officials decided to close the main Paris airports, Charles de Gaulle and Orly, late in the evening. About 20 other French airports shut down earlier. The Paris airports will remain closed until at least 2 p.m. Friday.
 Major American carriers that fly to Britain were allowing their passengers to rebook flights without penalty on Thursday. Eurocontrol said areas of airspace in northern Germany and Poland closed late Thursday. Ute Otterbein, a spokeswoman for Germany's civil aviation authority, said airports in Hamburg, Bremen and Hanover were closed until at least 8 a.m. Friday, and Berlin's airports -- Schonefeld and Tegel -- were also closed. Airports in Frankfurt and Munich were still open, however, and were able to accept diverted flights from other European airports, Ms. Otterbein said. 
 The potential economic effect of the closings is ''virtually impossible'' to determine at this stage, said Peter Morris, chief economist at Ascend, an aviation consultancy in London.
 ''A ballpark estimate would be that half a million to a million people's travel will be disrupted in the U.K. over a couple of days, assuming things start to clear up soon,'' he said. ''For the long-haul players, especially those headed to the other side of the world, it's a nightmare.''
 Inside Terminal 4 at Heathrow, where flights leave London for Houston, New York and Paris, among many other destinations, all check-in counters were closed. Arrival and departure boards listed all flights as canceled. Some of the travelers seemed stoic about their fate.
 Jai Purohit, a manager from Leicester, England, who had planned fly to the United States to join his wife on vacation in Florida, said: ''It's very sad. I bought some nice presents for my wife and was looking forward to spending some time with her. She's naturally upset, but there's nothing we can do.'' 
 An American traveler, Anne Evans, who had arrived in London from San Francisco, said she had been on her way to take up a teacher training position in Sri Lanka when she learned that her connecting flight was canceled. 
 ''There's nothing you can do,'' she said. ''You can either smile or cry, and I decided to smile.'' 
 Although volcanic ash clouds sometimes limit pilots' visibility, their most serious safety threat is the harm they can cause to engines in flight. In recent decades, more than 90 aircraft have suffered damage from volcanic plumes, according to the International Civil Aviation Authority, an arm of the United Nations. 
 Volcanic ash is primarily made of silicates, or glass fibers, which, once ingested into a jet engine, can melt, causing the engine to flame out and stall.
 It was impossible to predict how long the delays might last or the extent of the flight cancellations, since the volcano was still erupting, said Ms. Seymour of the National Air Traffic Service.
 The perils of volcanic ash are well known to pilots and airline operators. After the 1982 eruption of the Galunggung volcano in Indonesia, for example, a Boeing 747 flying to Australia from Malaysia lost power in all four engines because of ash and descended to 12,500 feet from 36,000 feet before pilots could restart the engines and make an emergency landing in Indonesia. 
 In Iceland, hundreds of people fled their homes to avoid flooding after the eruption early on Wednesday melted the Eyjafjallajokull glacier. But Icelandic airports remained open because they are west of the volcano and wind was blowing the ash away to the south and east.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A volcano in Iceland on Thursday spewed an ash cloud toward the rest of Europe that posed a threat to the engines of airplanes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYNJAR GAUDI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
 No lines at London's Gatwick Airport. All flights in and out of Britain were canceled Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN KITWOOD/GETTY IMAGES) (A6) MAPS: Estimated Spread of Volcanic Ash Cloud (Source: British Met Office) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOLCANIC ASH CLOUDS (92%); 2010 ICELANDIC VOLCANO ERUPTION (90%); AIRLINES (90%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (90%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); WEATHER (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); FLOODS & FLOODING (71%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) EUROPE (94%); NORTHERN EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (91%); ICELAND (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (71%); ENGLAND (58%); GERMANY (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010



409 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1595 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants in Work Force: Study Belies Image

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
ST. LOUIS -- After a career as a corporate executive with her name in brass on the office door, Amparo Kollman-Moore, an immigrant from Colombia, likes to drive a Jaguar and shop at Saks. ''It was a good life,'' she said, ''a really good ride.'' 
 As a member of this city's economic elite, Ms. Kollman-Moore is not unusual among immigrants who live in St. Louis. According to a new analysis of census data, more than half of the working immigrants in this metropolitan area hold higher-paying white-collar jobs -- as professionals, technicians or administrators -- rather than lower-paying blue-collar and service jobs. 
 Among American cities, St. Louis is not an exception, the data show. In 14 of the 25 largest metropolitan areas, including Boston, New York and San Francisco, more immigrants are employed in white-collar occupations than in lower-wage work like construction, manufacturing or cleaning. 
 The data belie a common perception in the nation's hard-fought debate over immigration -- articulated by lawmakers, pundits and advocates on all sides of the issue -- that the surge in immigration in the last two decades has overwhelmed the United States with low-wage foreign laborers. 
 Over all, the analysis showed, the 25 million immigrants who live in the country's largest metropolitan areas (about two-thirds of all immigrants in the country) are nearly evenly distributed across the job and income spectrum.
 ''The United States is getting a more varied and economically important flow of immigrants than the public seems to realize,'' said David Dyssegaard Kallick, director for immigration research at the Fiscal Policy Institute, a nonpartisan group in New York that conducted the data analysis for The New York Times. 
 The findings are significant because Americans' views of immigration are based largely on the work immigrants do, new research shows.
 ''Americans, whether they are rich or poor, are much more in favor of high-skilled immigrants,'' said Jens Hainmueller, a political scientist at M.I.T. and co-author of a survey of attitudes toward immigration with Michael J. Hiscox, professor of government at Harvard. The survey of 1,600 adults, which examined the reasons for anti-immigration sentiment in the United States, was published in February in American Political Science Review, a peer-reviewed journal.
 Americans are inclined to welcome upper-tier immigrants -- like Ms. Kollman-Moore -- believing they contribute to economic growth without burdening public services, the study found. More than 60 percent of Americans are opposed to allowing more low-skilled foreign laborers, regarding them as more likely to be a drag on the economy.
 Those kinds of views, in turn, have informed recent efforts by Congress to remake the immigration system. A measure unveiled last month by Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, aims to reshape the legal system to give priority to high-skilled, high-earning immigrants, offering narrower channels for low-wage workers. (A bill in 2007 by the Bush administration tilted even more sharply toward upper-tier immigrants; it failed in Congress.)
 Yet while visa bottlenecks persist for high-skilled immigrants, on the whole, the census data show, the current system has brought a range of foreign workers across skill and income levels. The analysis suggests, moreover, that the immigrants played a central role in the cycle of the economic growth of cities over the last two decades. 
 Cities with thriving immigrant populations -- with high-earning and lower-wage workers -- tended to be those that prospered the most.
 ''Economic growth in urban areas has been clearly connected with an increase in immigrants' share of the local labor force,'' Mr. Kallick said.
 Surprisingly, the analysis showed, the growing cities were not the ones, like St. Louis, that drew primarily high-earning foreigners. In fact, the St. Louis area had one of the slowest growing economies. 
 Rather, the fastest economic growth between 1990 and 2008 was in cities like Atlanta, Denver and Phoenix that received large influxes of immigrants with a mix of occupations -- including many in lower-paid service and blue-collar jobs.
 In metropolitan Denver, where the economy doubled between 1990 and 2008, 63 percent of immigrants worked in jobs on the lower end of the pay scale. 
 Denver ''did a great job of attracting people from other places in the world,'' said Rich Jones, director of policy and research at the Bell Policy Center, a nonpartisan group in that city that focuses on the impact of economic and fiscal policies in Colorado. ''They are coming with a variety of skills,'' Mr. Jones said. ''They created demand for goods, services and housing that began a dynamic.''
 The figures on jobs and earnings of immigrants in American cities are based on an analysis by the Fiscal Policy Institute of census data for the 25 largest metropolitan areas from 1990 to 2008. The data from 2008 are the most current in-depth census statistics on immigrants' places of residence and earnings; they also include the first year of the severe recession. The analysis includes legal and illegal immigrants and naturalized citizens. 
 St. Louis is a good vantage point to observe the census analysis play out on the ground -- both in the past and, possibly, the future. 
 Here, a pattern of stalled growth and low immigration prevailed for decades. But more recently a new pattern is emerging: even in the recession, some corners of the metropolitan area are sputtering to life, and new immigrants with a mix of skills are playing a conspicuous part. 
 ''If you look at what feeds the core of many American cities, it's the arrival of the immigrant groups,'' said Anna Crosslin, president of the International Institute of St. Louis, a refugee resettlement and immigrant aid agency here. ''Then one generation moves out, and they're replaced by another generation. We didn't have that here in St. Louis.'' 
 In its heyday as a commerce hub in the 1950s, St. Louis was one of the nation's premier cities. Since then, business has stagnated, the population of the city proper declined by more than half, and immigration to the area has been slow. Today, in the St. Louis metropolitan area, only 111,000 residents are foreign-born, out of 2.3 million total, according to the census data. 
 Many immigrants who were drawn here were doctors, researchers and business executives, attracted by the city's corporate headquarters, universities and medical centers. 
 Ms. Kollman-Moore, 60, came to St. Louis in the 1970s and rose through the ranks at Mallinckrodt, a medical supply company, to become president of the Latin American division, a $100 million business. She retired when the company was sold in 2000 and is now a consultant and business school professor. She planted a grove of tropical shade trees in the center of the living room in her home on a posh suburban cul-de-sac, a literal reminder of her roots. 
 ''I made a wonderful career out of understanding the cultures of Latin America and the culture of the United States and how to do business in both,'' said Ms. Kollman-Moore, a naturalized American. 
 During the 1990s, a wider variety of foreigners began to settle in the metropolitan area. Bosnians fleeing the Balkan wars have now made this city their largest community in the United States. Sukrija Dzidzovic, 52, publisher of the Bosnian weekly newspaper SabaH, moved the paper here from New York in 2006 to be closer to the core of his readers. 
 Bosnians run the gamut, from truckers and bakery workers to lawyers and engineers. Many Bosnians hit the ground running here because they came from Europe with savings they had stashed away, Mr. Dzidzovic said. At one time, Bosnians opened so many businesses on blighted streets that hostile rumors spread that they were receiving secret subsidies from the federal government. 
 Now, appreciative city officials make a point of attending Bosnian celebrations, Mr. Dzidzovic said.
 Immigrants from China have also prospered here as entrepreneurs, creating jobs for other immigrants. Sandy Tsai, 59, said she and her husband chose St. Louis to start a business because they noticed it was in the middle of the country. Now their company, Baily, makes egg rolls, noodles and fortune cookies in three local factories that distribute to thousands of Chinese restaurants nationwide. Ms. Tsai said her employees ranged from egg-roll makers earning $8 an hour to laboratory researchers with advanced degrees in food science. 
 ''It's a good group, a good combination,'' Ms. Tsai said. But despite the long hard times in St. Louis, low-wage workers have not always been easy to find, she said, and her business expansion was slowed because of it. 
 Now, those workers have started to arrive in larger numbers. Raul Rico, 31, said he came here 14 years ago from the Mexican state of Queretaro, the first in his family to settle in St. Louis. Today, between parents, siblings, cousins and their offspring, his local clan numbers 56. 
 ''Every year our community is growing with all kinds of people, more workers are coming, more people are coming to invest in businesses and open stores,'' said Mr. Rico, a carpenter. 
 Ms. Crosslin, of the International Institute of St. Louis, said the emerging pattern was changing the face, and possibly the fortunes, of the city. 
 ''We have turned the corner slightly,'' she said. ''And one of the factors is the newcomers who are starting to arrive again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sandy Tsai, an immigrant from China, opened a business with her husband in St. Louis. (A1)
Amparo Kollman-Moore, 60, moved to St. Louis in the 1970s and is now a consultant and business school professor.
 Raul Rico, 31, a carpenter. was the first in his family to settle in St. Louis, 14 years ago. Today, his local clan numbers 56. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHART: More Immigrants In White-Collar Jobs: In more than half of the 25 largest metropolitan areas, more immigrants are employed in mostly higher-paid white-collar occupations than in lower-paid blue-collar and service jobs, according to an analysis of census data. (Source: Analysis of 1990 census data and 2008 American Community Survey data by Fiscal Policy Institute) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LABOR FORCE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); CENSUS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); WRITERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010



410 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Bank Troubles in Georgia

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Georgia on My Mind'' (column, April 12):
 The Georgia bank closings that Paul Krugman mentioned have nothing to do with consumer protection or predatory lending. 
 The troubled loans that traditional community banks are dealing with are not subprime loans. These are commercial loans that hard-working men and women in real estate -- builders, brick masons, plumbers, house painters, grading companies, brokers and others -- can't pay back because the economy tanked.
 Many small banks were simply meeting the demand for homes in an economy that allowed Georgia to grow by an average of 14,000 people per month for two decades. When the real estate market crashed, so did demand for the bank customers' products, making them unable to repay their loans.
 Not one cent of insured deposits has been lost, as they are protected by a Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation fund paid for by the industry, not taxpayers.
 Community banks reflect the communities they serve. When those communities prosper, so do their banks. We've had prosperous times in Georgia, and we're confident that we will again.
 Joe Brannen President and Chief Executive Georgia Bankers Association Atlanta, April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); PREDATORY LENDING (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); WOMEN WORKERS (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PAINT & WALLPAPER CONTRACTORS (56%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%) GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010



411 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Sale of Texas Rangers Is Delayed by Owner's Dispute With Banks

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
The pending sale of the Texas Rangers has become a deepening standoff between the owner of the team, who says he has lost enough money on the franchise and will keep a portion of the proceeds from its sale, and creditors, who say they stand to lose many millions even if his full amount is turned over to them.
 As the Rangers play the Yankees this weekend, officials from Major League Baseball will continue trying to persuade the banks to allow the owner, Thomas O. Hicks, to sell the team to a group led by Chuck Greenberg, who owns two minor league ball clubs, and Nolan Ryan, the Hall of Fame pitcher and president of the Rangers. 
 The deal was first announced in January and included the team, the lease on its ballpark in Arlington and most of the property around the stadium. The sale, which was expected to close by opening day, is believed to be valued at around $575 million.
 But it could be pushed back several more weeks because of a dispute between creditors and Hicks and the Hicks Sports Group, which owns the Rangers and the N.H.L.'s Dallas Stars. The lenders, led by Monarch Alternative Capital, want all of the $300 million or so that Hicks would get from the sale of the Rangers. Hicks is offering to hand over about $270 million.
 The $30 million gap is proving to be a significant. Stung by the global credit crisis, the Hicks Sports Group last March stopped paying the interest on its $525 million in debt. After failing to negotiate new terms with his bankers, Hicks tried to sell a minority stake in the Rangers. When that failed, he agreed to sell a controlling interest in the team.
 Lisa LeMaster, who represents the Hicks Sports Group, said in a statement, that the ''Hicks Sports Group won't put any more money on the table.''
 ''Tom Hicks, personally, loaned H.S.G. over $80 million to support the teams over the last two years,'' LeMaster said. ''The so-called gap will have to be resolved by the lenders, M.L.B. and the representatives of the selected local ownership group.''
 But even if Hicks hands over his entire $300 million payout, his creditors say they still stand to lose about $100 million.
 ''It's not like the lenders are being greedy and grabbing every cent,'' said a banker who asked not to be named because negotiations were under way. ''We're trying to limit our losses.''
 Although baseball is eager to close the deal, if the lenders feel they are pushed too hard to accept less money, they could charge higher interest rates for other borrowers who try to buy clubs in the future, according to lenders and industry experts.
 ''You don't want to adversely affect other franchises in the future,'' said Marc Ganis, president of SportsCorp, a consulting firm. ''The league always has to look at the big picture.''
 If the standoff is not resolved, the creditors could push the Rangers into bankruptcy, where a judge could take several more months to decide who gets what. That would also drive up lawyers' fees and other expenses, eating into any extra money the lenders might get in a court-administered settlement.
 It would also be a blow to Greenberg's group, which is anxious to start new marketing campaigns and make upgrades to Rangers Ballpark.
 ''For the most part, Dallas has not had a lot to sink its teeth into in the 39 years the Rangers have been in Texas,'' said Greenberg, who declined to discuss the negotiations for the team but who said he was working closely with Hicks to resolve the issue. ''You can feel the sense of anticipation for what's possible.''
 A spokesman for the Rangers, John Blake, declined to comment on the pending sale.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS RANGERS (94%); NEW YORK RANGERS (93%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); DALLAS STARS (55%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010



412 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Now It's the President's Plan

DATELINE: When it was unveiled 

 BODY:
in budget documents -- in February, we thought President Obama's new approach to human space flight made good sense. But it drew immediate, fierce opposition from states that feared they would lose jobs and from Congressional boosters of the traditional space program. 
 It called for scrapping the Bush administration's program to return to the Moon by 2020, which had fallen hopelessly behind schedule and relied on outdated technology. It substituted a big investment in developing new technologies to make travel farther into the solar system cheaper and faster. In the meantime, NASA would rely on commercial companies to carry astronauts and cargo to the International Space Station after the aging shuttle fleet is retired.
 In a speech at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida on Thursday, Mr. Obama sought -- personally -- to win over his critics, offering a powerful rationale for his plan and some reasonable modifications. 
 To mitigate the impact of job losses as the shuttle program winds down, the president is now pledging to spend $40 million to promote job creation and economic development in Florida. He will also resuscitate a program to build a space capsule, but a scaled-down version to be parked at the space station for emergency escapes. That would preserve jobs in some battleground states and lay the foundation for upgrading the capsule later. 
 The administration has given no clue as to how much that will cost and which other NASA programs it will pillage to pay the bill. Congress must make certain that vital research programs are not harmed.
 We were concerned that the original proposal had not identified a clear goal for space travel or set deadlines for getting there. On Thursday, the president began to fill in the blanks. He called for picking a rocket design for deep space travel by 2015, allowing production to start earlier than previously planned. 
 He ruled out returning to the surface of the Moon because ''we have been there before'' and called instead for crewed missions into deeper space, starting in 2025 with a visit to an asteroid. By the mid-2030s, he expects humans will orbit Mars. We don't know how realistic these projections are since the administration has yet to put forth a thorough analysis. 
 We also don't know if Mr. Obama will manage to win over opponents. But Thursday's speech suggests that he has learned an important lesson from the yearlong struggle to pass health care reform. He needs to get involved early and not leave it to subordinates to defend plans that will upend vested interests.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE STATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); SPACE INDUSTRY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH'S MOON (93%); MARS (79%); FLORIDA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010



413 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: The Fire Next Time

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
On Tuesday, Mitch McConnell, the Senate minority leader, called for the abolition of municipal fire departments.
 Firefighters, he declared, ''won't solve the problems that led to recent fires. They will make them worse.'' The existence of fire departments, he went on, ''not only allows for taxpayer-funded bailouts of burning buildings; it institutionalizes them.'' He concluded, ''The way to solve this problem is to let the people who make the mistakes that lead to fires pay for them. We won't solve this problem until the biggest buildings are allowed to burn.''
 O.K., I fibbed a bit. Mr. McConnell said almost everything I attributed to him, but he was talking about financial reform, not fire reform. In particular, he was objecting not to the existence of fire departments, but to legislation that would give the government the power to seize and restructure failing financial institutions. 
 But it amounts to the same thing.
 Now, Mr. McConnell surely isn't sincere; while pretending to oppose bank bailouts, he's actually doing the bankers' bidding. But before I get to that, let's talk about why he's wrong on substance.
 In his speech, Mr. McConnell seemed to be saying that in the future, the U.S. government should just let banks fail. We ''must put an end to taxpayer funded bailouts for Wall Street banks.'' What's wrong with that?
 The answer is that letting banks fail -- as opposed to seizing and restructuring them -- is a bad idea for the same reason that it's a bad idea to stand aside while an urban office building burns. In both cases, the damage has a tendency to spread. In 1930, U.S. officials stood aside as banks failed; the result was the Great Depression. In 2008, they stood aside as Lehman Brothers imploded; within days, credit markets had frozen and we were staring into the economic abyss.
 So it's crucial to avoid disorderly bank collapses, just as it's crucial to avoid out-of-control urban fires.
 Since the 1930s, we've had a standard procedure for dealing with failing banks: the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has the right to seize a bank that's on the brink, protecting its depositors while cleaning out the stockholders. In the crisis of 2008, however, it became clear that this procedure wasn't up to dealing with complex modern financial institutions like Lehman or Citigroup.
 So proposed reform legislation gives regulators ''resolution authority,'' which basically means giving them the ability to deal with the likes of Lehman in much the same way that the F.D.I.C. deals with conventional banks. Who could object to that?
 Well, Mr. McConnell is trying. His talking points come straight out of a memo Frank Luntz, the Republican political consultant, circulated in January on how to oppose financial reform. ''Frankly,'' wrote Mr. Luntz, ''the single best way to kill any legislation is to link it to the Big Bank Bailout.'' And Mr. McConnell is following those stage directions.
 It's a truly shameless performance: Mr. McConnell is pretending to stand up for taxpayers against Wall Street while in fact doing just the opposite. In recent weeks, he and other Republican leaders have held meetings with Wall Street executives and lobbyists, in which the G.O.P. and the financial industry have sought to coordinate their political strategy. 
 And let me assure you, Wall Street isn't lobbying to prevent future bank bailouts. If anything, it's trying to ensure that there will be more bailouts. By depriving regulators of the tools they need to seize failing financial firms, financial lobbyists increase the chances that when the next crisis strikes, taxpayers will end up paying a ransom to stockholders and executives as the price of avoiding collapse.
 Even more important, however, the financial industry wants to avoid serious regulation; it wants to be left free to engage in the same behavior that created this crisis. It's worth remembering that between the 1930s and the 1980s, there weren't any really big financial bailouts, because strong regulation kept most banks out of trouble. It was only with Reagan-era deregulation that big bank disasters re-emerged. In fact, relative to the size of the economy, the taxpayer costs of the savings and loan disaster, which unfolded in the Reagan years, were much higher than anything likely to happen under President Obama. 
 To understand what's really at stake right now, watch the looming fight over derivatives, the complex financial instruments Warren Buffett famously described as ''financial weapons of mass destruction.'' The Obama administration wants tighter regulation of derivatives, while Republicans are opposed. And that tells you everything you need to know.
 So don't be fooled. When Mitch McConnell denounces big bank bailouts, what he's really trying to do is give the bankers everything they want. 
 David Brooks is off today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (80%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (71%); CITIGROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (80%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (80%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010



414 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 COLD WEATHER IS A THREAT AFTER EARTHQUAKE IN CHINA
 Rescue workers and supply trucks began reaching Yushu County, China, which was hit Wednesday by a 7.1 magnitude earthquake that killed more than 700 people. Thousands were without heat or shelter, as frigid temperatures threatened to claim more lives. PAGE A4
 RUSSIA HALTS U.S. ADOPTIONS 
 Russia has suspended all adoptions by Americans after a 7-year-old boy was sent back to the country by himself from Tennessee by his adoptive mother. PAGE A4 
 REPORT ON ABUSE IN SENEGAL
 Thousands of children in Senegal are forced to beg on the streets under the pretext that they are receiving religious instruction, according to a Human Rights Watch report. PAGE A9 
 SCHOOL BELL BAN IN SOMALIA
 The Shabab, Somalia's most powerful Islamist insurgent group, outlawed school bells in a southern town after deciding that they sounded like church bells and conflicted with Islam, residents said. PAGE A9
 POPE URGES REPENTANCE
 In his most direct reference to the sexual abuse crisis, Pope Benedict XVI said it was necessary for Christians to repent in light of ''the attacks of the world, which speaks to us of our sins.'' PAGE A10 
 A FIRST IN BRITISH POLITICS
 The debate between the contenders to be prime minister marked a historic innovation for British politics, where opponents have avoided face-to-face debates. PAGE A10 
 2 EXPLOSIONS IN KANDAHAR
 Militants exploded two car bombs in downtown Kandahar, killing at least two people and wounding 23, local officials said. Officials said the second bomb had collapsed some buildings, potentially burying additional people under rubble. PAGE A11 
 National
 U.S. AND MEXICAN OFFICIALS RAID SMUGGLING RING
 With sweeps on both sides of the border, American and Mexican authorities delivered what they called their most serious blow toward dismantling human smuggling organizations. PAGE A14 
 OBAMA FAULTS MINE SAFETY
 President Obama ordered a new round of coal mine inspections and a far-reaching review of mine safety. He said failed management and a lack of oversight were partly to blame for the deadly explosion at a West Virginia mine. PAGE A14 
 WISCONSIN'S STATE MICROBE
 Legislators in Wisconsin are considering a bill to select the state's official microbe. And there's only one contender: Lactococcus lactis, the bacterium used to make cheddar, Colby and Monterey Jack cheese. PAGE A14 
 THE POLITICAL TONE
 With the 15th anniversary of the Oklahoma City bombing approaching, President Bill Clinton drew parallels between the anti-government tone that preceded that devastating attack and the political tumult of today. PAGE A15 
 TEA PARTY RALLIES ON TAX DAY
 Tea Party groups marked tax day with rallies around the country, and they pledged to become a powerful force to root out politicians they do not consider fiscally responsible. PAGE A17 
 New York
 CITY'S UNEMPLOYMENT RATE FELL TO 10 PERCENT IN MARCH
 New York City's unemployment rate declined again in March, falling to 10 percent from 10.2 percent in February. The city's private sector added almost 25,000 jobs in March, lending support to the view that the recession caused by the financial crisis is winding down. PAGE A21 
 Business
 DEBT FEARS SHIFT TO PORTUGAL, SPURRED BY BOND RATES
 Speculators have begun to zero in on Portugal, another small member of Europe's troubled monetary zone, highlighting the same economic flaw that brought Greece to the verge of insolvency. PAGE B1
 REGULATION ARGUMENTS
 As the Obama administration and Senate Republicans clash over the future of the nation's financial regulatory system, there is one principle on which they agree: Taxpayers should never again have to bail out giant financial institutions. PAGE B1 
 G.O.P. MAY BLOCK DEBATE
 The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, tried to unite his caucus in opposition to legislation meant to tighten regulation of the nation's financial system, as Democrats expressed dismay that Republicans were threatening to block the start of debate. PAGE B2 
 PROFIT IS UP 37% AT GOOGLE
 Google reported that its net income in the first quarter jumped more than 37 percent from the recession-mired quarter a year ago. Sales grew 23 percent from the period a year earlier. PAGE B3 
 TOYOTA FREEZES LEXUS SALES
 Toyota said it was testing the safety of all its sport utility vehicles and had suspended sales of the Lexus GX 460 beyond the United States, where sales were halted this week after Consumer Reports magazine issued a safety warning. PAGE B3 
 Sports
 ROONEY SAYS STEELERS PLAN TO PUNISH ROETHLISBERGER
 As more troubling details about Ben Roethlisberger's encounter with a 20-year-old college student in a Georgia bar emerged, the Pittsburgh Steelers' president, Art Rooney II, said the team would discipline him itself. PAGE B11
 Weekend
 BOOS BECOME BRAVOS FOR 'TOSCA' THIS TIME
 Luc Bondy's production of Puccini's ''Tosca,'' which was booed at the Metropolitan Opera in September, returned on Wednesday. The recast ''Tosca'' was one of the most exciting performances of the Met season, thanks to three singers. PAGE C1 
 THE ELIOT SPITZER STORY
 ''Rough Justice,'' a new book by Peter Elkind, provides a succinct and fair-minded overview of Eliot Spitzer's career, chronicling his troubled tenure as New York governor and fall from grace. Books of The Times by Michiko Kakutani. PAGE C23 
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A23 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); POLITICS (90%); ADOPTION (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); MINES & MINING (85%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (77%); TERRORISM (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (69%); SMUGGLING (68%); 2010 WEST VIRGINIA COAL MINE EXPLOSION (67%); SEX OFFENSES (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); BACTERIA (65%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (64%); COAL MINING (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (56%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (79%); BILL CLINTON (55%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); MEXICO (92%); SENEGAL (92%); SOMALIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010



415 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Finance Bill Consensus On a Point: No Bailouts

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As the Obama administration and Senate Republicans clash over the future of the nation's financial regulatory system, there is one principle on which they agree: Taxpayers should never again have to bail out giant financial institutions.
 President Obama says his legislation would let the Treasury Department, with court approval, take over and dismantle failing companies without costing the public a dime. It would resemble the process used since the Depression to take over failing commercial banks.
 Republicans say the bill would make future bailouts even more likely. They worry that designating large financial institutions as ''systemically important'' would feed the markets' perception that the companies have implicit government backing. 
 The truth is actually more nuanced than either side admits, say legal and economic experts. The bill would stop taxpayer-financed bailouts. If a company was on the verge of collapse, leading firms in the financial services industry would have to pay to clean up the mess. 
 While that might look like an admirable approach, there is profound uncertainty about how or if it would work in the next, fast-moving crisis. Other nations, like Britain and Japan, are also trying to figure out how to do it.
 And both sides are actually in closer agreement on the basic approach than the heated rhetoric might suggest. Senator Mitch McConnell, the minority leader, seemed to acknowledge that fact on Thursday when, after objecting to the bill and drawing fierce criticism from Democrats and even some resistance from fellow Republicans, he conceded that flaws in the bill ''can and should be corrected.''
 The Democratic bill in the Senate would try to charge the largest financial companies for the costs -- potential and actual -- of dismantling their failing brethren, and it would ban the use of taxpayer money to do so. 
 F. M. Scherer, a professor of public policy and corporate management at Harvard, does not think bailouts can be legislated away. ''The basic problem is, if the failure of a 'too big to fail' entity would bring others tumbling down through chain effects, the government will be virtually forced to step in and do something,'' he said. 
 Republicans and Democrats alike would love to force reckless companies simply to go bankrupt. But the freezing of credit markets 18 months ago, after the Bush administration let Lehman Brothers go under, suggested that going through the courts could be too time-consuming, risky and disruptive for a global financial system grounded on speed and interconnectedness.
 The bill the Senate Banking Committee approved last month, with no bipartisan support, would give the Treasury secretary new power to step in if a large, complex financial institution, including hedge funds and insurance companies as well as banks, were on the brink of collapse.
 The Treasury secretary would have to convince a special panel of three judges from the Federal Bankruptcy Court in Delaware that the company was ''in default or in danger of default.'' 
 The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation would step in as receiver, with the power to sell the company's assets and liabilities, or to hold and manage parts of the business until a sale became possible. Managers would be fired and shareholders wiped out. The costs of dissolving the company would have to be recouped from a fund generated by levies on the financial services industry.
 Two Senate negotiators, Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, and Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, agreed to that basic framework over months of negotiations. The principal Republican objections have been leveled at three major elements of the bill: the liquidation fund, treatment of creditors and using the F.D.I.C. to handle the winding down of such a company. 
 The first would establish a $50 billion ''orderly liquidation fund,'' financed by assessments on ''systemically important'' financial institutions, as well as banks with at least $50 billion in assets.
 That issue does not fall along neat partisan lines. Sheila C. Bair, a Republican and the chairwoman of the F.D.I.C., which has used a similar process for dealing with bank failures, has been a champion of the idea. The Obama administration has made no secret that it does not support the idea of the fund.
 Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, said Thursday, ''I don't regard it as essential to the bill.'' 
 Mr. McConnell said, ''No one honestly thinks $50 billion would be enough to cover the kind of crises we're talking about'' and added that ''the mere existence of this fund will ensure that it gets used.'' In the recent financial bailout, the government advanced about $700 billion to stabilize the markets and the banks, though the final cost might be less.
 Among finance and legal experts, however, the fund has supporters. ''There is no longer any doubt that the largest financial institutions are too big to fail and will be protected during any future crisis by the federal government,'' said Arthur E. Wilmarth Jr., a law professor at George Washington University. ''The only question is, will we charge 'too big to fail' institutions for the public subsidies they receive?'' 
 Charles A. Trzcinka, a finance professor at Indiana University, said that if a $50 billion fund ''had been available early in the crisis, it certainly would have mitigated the collapse'' of credit markets. 
 A second area of contention surrounds the treatment of the creditors of failed companies that would be seized and dismantled. Some Republican critics, notably Peter J. Wallison, a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, say the proposal could potentially treat bondholders more leniently than they would otherwise be treated in bankruptcy proceedings. That would only encourage lending to troubled institutions, he predicted. 
 Finally, some critics say the F.D.I.C. is more accustomed to garden-variety bank failures and is ill-equipped to deal with the nation's biggest financial institutions. While Mr. McConnell's criticisms have received the most attention this week, critics from the left say the legislation does not go far enough. The Obama administration has ruled out forcing giant banks to break up, for instance, although it has proposed curbs on expansion and risk-taking.
 ''We can't trust banks not to risk the entire economy for their own greed, so we need to limit how big they can be, and what risks they can take, in hard, legislated limits,'' said Zephyr Teachout, a Fordham law professor. 
 The Federal Reserve, which under the bill would be given the task of overseeing the biggest financial institutions, has kept a low profile as the debate rages. 
 Bernard Shull, an economist at Hunter College, said the bill was probably imperfect but better than inaction. ''Just saying no to bailouts is not an approach that has worked in the past, and I don't think it's going to work now,'' he said. ''Whether or not the newly proposed legislation will work is another matter.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (76%); INSURANCE (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010



416 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: In Global Unemployment, A Sea of Young Faces

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
The global recession has caused unemployment rates to rise almost everywhere, and for almost every group. But it was particularly hard on young people, whose unemployment rates rose much faster than those of adults. 
 Just how badly young people were affected appears to have depended partly on how severe the local downturn was and partly on local labor practices and laws. Some of the hardest-hit young people were in countries with the most protections for older workers. 
 The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which includes 29 mostly rich countries, released a study this week of youth unemployment in advance of a meeting of labor ministers from the Group of 20 countries, scheduled for Monday in Washington.
 ''There are currently nearly 15 million youth unemployed in the O.E.C.D. area, about four million more than at the end of 2007,'' stated the study, written by Stefano Scarpetta, Anne Sonnet and Thomas Manfredi, all based at the organization's headquarters in Paris.
 The largest unemployment rate for young people -- defined as ages 15 to 24 in most countries and 16 to 24 in others -- was in Spain, where in the final quarter of last year the unemployment rate was 39.6 percent, more than double the 19.1 percent of two years earlier. For adults, the rate rose to 16.9 percent from 7.4 percent.
 Spain, like many European countries, provides protection for those with permanent jobs, a fact that led some employers to expand the use of temporary jobs, which provide fewer benefits. ''Most of the job losses were recorded among workers on temporary jobs, many of whom are youth,'' the study stated.
 The unemployment rates show the proportion of people in the labor force who do not have jobs. For young people, those still in school are excluded from the base. But so are those who have left school but are not trying to find work, even if that is because they think such an effort would be useless.
 The exception to the trend was in Germany, where unemployment among young people actually declined, to 10.3 percent, over the two-year period. The study attributed that in part to ''a rather successful apprenticeship system that ensures a relatively smooth transition from school to work for most youth.''
 In the United States, the rate rose to 19.1 percent, from 11.1 percent. That left America with a little bit higher rate than the average of 18.4 percent in the 29 countries.
 For most people, the study said, the effects of youthful unemployment are temporary, and they later get jobs that provide adequate incomes. ''But for disadvantaged youth lacking basic education, a failure in their first experience on the labor market is often difficult to make up and may expose them to long-lasting scarring effects.''
 The study praised efforts being made in some countries to provide training for young people who were out of school and out of work, but cautioned that the training had to provide the young people with marketable skills.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Under 25 and Looking for a Job: Youth unemployment is for people ages 15 to 24 in most countries, but for people 16 to 24 in Iceland, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Britain and the United States. The rates show unemployment among youths out of school and in the labor force. People without a job but not seeking one are not considered to be in the labor force. Youth unemployment in the fourth quarter in the 29 countries that make up the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. (Source: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); OLDER WORKERS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (71%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (64%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (93%); NORWAY (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); ICELAND (77%); GERMANY (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010



417 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: 33 States Reported Job Growth In March

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Maryland, Virginia and Pennsylvania recorded sizable gains in employment in March and were among 33 states posting increases. 
 In its monthly look at state job trends, the Labor Department said Friday that Maryland led the country with a gain of 35,800 payroll jobs last month. Virginia and Pennsylvania also posted increases that topped 20,000 in the month.
 By contrast, Michigan continued to have the nation's highest unemployment rate and also led the country in job losses in March with a decline of 9,500. Nevada and Florida also posted sizable job losses and were among 17 states recording job losses in the month.
 Nationally, the unemployment remained unchanged at 9.7 percent in March while payrolls grew by 162,000, the biggest gain in three years.
 The department's report Friday showed how the job gains and losses were distributed among the states.
 The increases in nonfarm payroll employment occurred in 33 states and the District of Colombia. In February, only 23 states had seen job gains while 27 states and the District of Columbia had recorded job losses.
 While Michigan once again led the country with the highest unemployment rate at 14.1 percent, that was unchanged from February. After Michigan, the states with the highest unemployment rates were Nevada, 13.4 percent; California and Rhode Island, both at 12.6 percent; Florida, 12.3 percent, and South Carolina, 12.2 percent.
 The jobless rates for California, Florida and Nevada set new highs for the current slump as did the jobless rate in Georgia, which climbed to 10.6 percent.
 North Dakota continued to have the lowest jobless rate at 4 percent followed by South Dakota at 4.8 percent and Nebraska at 5 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); TRENDS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010



418 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: A Wall Street Invention That Let the Crisis Mutate

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
Can it get any worse?
 Every time you pick up another rock along the winding path that led to the financial crisis, something else crawls out. Subprime mortgages were sold as a way to give low-income people a chance at homeownership and the American Dream. Instead, the mortgages turned out to be an excuse for predatory lending and fraud, enriching the lenders and Wall Street at the expense of subprime borrowers, many of whom ended up in foreclosure. 
 The ratings agencies, which rated the complex investments that were built with subprime mortgages, turned out to be only too happy to be gamed by firms that paid their fees -- slapping AAA ratings on mortgage bonds doomed to fail. Lehman Brothers turned out to be disguising the full reality of its horrid balance sheet by playing accounting games. All over Wall Street, firms pushed mortgage originators to churn out more loans that were doomed the moment they were made. 
 In the immediate aftermath, the conventional wisdom was that Wall Street had simply lost its head. It was terrible, to be sure, but on some level understandable: Dutch tulips, the South Sea bubble, that sort of thing. 
 In recent months, though, something more troubling has begun to emerge. In December, Gretchen Morgenson and Louise Story of The New York Times exposed the role that some firms, including Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank, played in putting together investment structures -- synthetic C.D.O.'s, they were called -- that were primed to blow up. They did so, reportedly, because some savvy investors wanted to go short the subprime market. 
 On Friday, the Securities and Exchange Commission dropped the hammer, charging Goldman Sachs with securities fraud for its purported failure to disclose that the bonds that were the basis for one particular synthetic C.D.O. had been chosen by none other than John Paulson, the billionaire hedge fund investor, who was shorting them. 
 Oh, and one other thing is starting to become clear: synthetic C.D.O.'s made the crisis worse than it would otherwise have been.
 Remember in the months leading up to the crisis, when the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben Bernanke, and Henry Paulson Jr., then the Treasury secretary, were assuring everyone that the ''subprime problem'' could be contained? In truth, if the only problem had been the actual mortgage bonds themselves, they might have been right. At the peak there were well over $1 trillion in subprime and Alt-A mortgages that were securitized on Wall Street. That's a lot, to be sure -- but it was a finite number. You could have only as much exposure as there were bonds in existence.
 The introduction of synthetic C.D.O.'s changed all that. Unlike a ''normal'' collateralized debt obligation, which contained the bonds themselves, the synthetic version contained credit-default swaps -- derivatives that ''referenced'' a particular group of mortgage bonds. Once synthetic C.D.O.'s became popular, Wall Street no longer needed to feed the beast with new subprime loans. It could make an infinite number of bets on the bonds that already existed. 
 And why did synthetic C.D.O.'s become popular? One reason was that the subprime companies were starting to run out of risky borrowers to make bad loans to -- and hitting a brick wall. New Century, a big subprime originator, went bankrupt in early April 2007, for instance. Yet three weeks later, the Goldman synthetic C.D.O. deal, called Abacus 2007-ACI, went through, because it was betting on subprime mortgage bonds that already existed rather than bundling new ones. It didn't even have to go to the trouble of repackaging old C.D.O. tranches into new C.D.O.'s, which was also a common practice. (Goldman has vehemently denied any allegations of wrongdoing, pointing out that it lost $90 million on the particular Abacus deal that is the subject of the S.E.C. complaint.)
 The second reason, though, is that synthetic C.D.O.'s gave people like John Paulson a way to short the subprime market. Mr. Paulson's bet against the subprime market, which famously reaped the firm billions in profits, was the subject of a recent book, ''The Greatest Trade Ever.'' Boy, I'll say.
 Both Gregory Zuckerman, the author of that book, and Michael Lewis, who wrote the current best seller ''The Big Short,'' make it clear that the heroes of their narratives -- the handful of people who had figured out that subprime mortgages were a looming disaster -- were pushing Wall Street hard to give them a way to short the market. Maybe synthetic C.D.O.'s would have been created even without their urging, but it seems a little unlikely. They were the driving forces.
 It is important to note that every synthetic C.D.O. required both investors who were long and others who were short. That is, there needed to be investors who believed the ''referenced'' bonds would rise in value, and others who believed they would fall. Everyone, on both sides of the transaction, understood that. What makes it feel like dirty pool is the allegation that Paulson & Company and Goldman Sachs were actively involved in choosing the bonds that would be bet on -- knowing they were going to be short. In its filing on Thursday, the S.E.C. charged that Goldman never told investors of Mr. Paulson's involvement. ''Credit derivative technology helped people disguise what they were doing,'' said Janet Tavakoli, the president of Tavakoli Structured Finance, and an early critics of many of the structures that have now come under scrutiny. 
 There appear to be other examples of this, as well. Last week, Pro Publica, the nonprofit investigative journalism outfit, reported how a big Chicago hedge fund, Magnetar, helped put together some synthetic C.D.O.'s -- precisely so that it could bet against them. In his book, Mr. Zuckerman seems to have stumbled onto Abacus and similar deals. One banker, he writes, ''suspected that Paulson would push for combustible mortgages and debt to go into any C.D.O., making it more likely that it would go up in flames.'' Which is precisely what the S.E.C. is claiming. But in his quest to lionize his central character, Mr. Zuckerman rushes past what by all rights should have been the most shocking revelation in his book. 
 Mr. Lewis, for his part, recounts a dinner, late in the game, in which one of his heroes, Steve Eisman, is seated next to a man who is taking the long position on many of the C.D.O.'s he is shorting. They get to talking, and the man says to Mr. Eisman: ''I love guys like you who short my market. Without you, I don't have anything to buy.'' He adds, ''The more excited that you get that you're right, the more trades you'll do, the more product for me.''
 As a reader, it is hard not to love that moment, rich as it is in irony and foreboding. The guy on the long side -- who was making investments that the housing and mortgage markets would remain strong -- is an obvious fool; Mr. Eisman, on the short side the trade, is clearly going to be vindicated. (And, by Mr. Lewis's account, Mr. Eisman never ''helped'' a Wall Street firm pick the bonds for the C.D.O.'s he was shorting, the way the S.E.C. says Mr. Paulson did.)
 But on second reading, the passage isn't quite so funny. The people on the short side of those trades were truly savvy investors, who, unlike so many others, did their homework and had insights that made them a great deal of money. But the rise of synthetic C.D.O.'s that they pushed for -- and their ability to use credit-default swaps to short subprime mortgage bonds -- took an already bad situation and made it worse. 
 And here we are now, all of us, paying the price.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Goldman Sachs booth at the New York Stock Exchange on Friday. Shares of Goldman slid after the Securities and Exchange Commission accused the bank of fraud. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS HONDROS/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); PREDATORY LENDING (89%); BONDS (89%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (88%); SYNTHETIC SECURITIES (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); SECURITIZATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); FAIR LENDING (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); ACCOUNTING (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (57%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%); BEN BERNANKE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010



419 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Accuses Goldman Of Fraud in Housing Deal

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY and GRETCHEN MORGENSON; Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Goldman Sachs, the Wall Street powerhouse, was accused of securities fraud in a civil lawsuit filed Friday by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which claims the bank created and sold a mortgage investment that was secretly intended to fail. 
 The move was the first time that regulators had taken action against a Wall Street deal that helped investors capitalize on the collapse of the housing market.
 The suit also named Fabrice Tourre, a vice president at Goldman who helped create and sell the investment. 
 In a statement, Goldman called the commission's accusations ''completely unfounded in law and fact'' and said it would ''vigorously contest them and defend the firm and its reputation.'' 
 The focus of the S.E.C. case, an investment vehicle called Abacus 2007-AC1, was one of 25 such vehicles that Goldman created so the bank and some of its clients could bet against the housing market. Those deals, which were the subject of an article in The New York Times in December, initially protected Goldman from losses when the mortgage market disintegrated and later yielded profits for the bank. 
 As the Abacus portfolios in the S.E.C. case plunged in value, a prominent hedge fund manager made money from his bets against certain mortgage bonds, while investors lost more than $1 billion. 
 According to the complaint, Goldman created Abacus 2007-AC1 in February 2007 at the request of John A. Paulson, a prominent hedge fund manager who earned an estimated $3.7 billion in 2007 by correctly wagering that the housing bubble would burst. Mr. Paulson is not named in the suit.
 Goldman told investors that the bonds would be chosen by an independent manager. In the case of Abacus 2007-AC1, however, Goldman let Mr. Paulson select mortgage bonds that he believed were most likely to lose value, according to the complaint.
 Goldman then sold the package to investors like foreign banks, pension funds and insurance companies, which would profit only if the bonds gained value. The European banks IKB and ABN Amro and other investors lost more than $1 billion in the deal, the commission said.
 ''Goldman wrongly permitted a client that was betting against the mortgage market to heavily influence which mortgage securities to include in an investment portfolio,'' Robert Khuzami, the director of the commission's enforcement division, said in a written statement. 
 The lawsuit could be a sign of a revitalized Securities and Exchange Commission, which has been criticized for early missteps in assessing the causes of the financial crisis. The agency appears to be tracing the mortgage pipeline all the way from the companies like Countrywide Financial that originated home loans to the raucous trading floors that dominate Wall Street's profit machine.
 At a conference in New Orleans on Friday, Mr. Khuzami indicated that he was scrutinizing other deals involving mortgage securities. ''We're looking at a wide range of products,'' he said at a news conference. ''If we see securities with similar profiles, we'll look at them closely.''
 Shares of Goldman Sachs plunged more than 10 percent in just the first half-hour of trading after the suit was announced Friday morning. They closed down 13 percent, at $160.70, wiping away more than $10 billion of the company's market value. 
 Investors sold other bank stocks, as well, as rumors swirled about which other firms might become embroiled in the commission's investigation. Next to Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank's American shares had the steepest decline, falling 7 percent. 
 Goldman issued a second statement after the market closed saying that the firm had lost money on the deal in the S.E.C. case and that it provided investors with extensive disclosure on the deal. The firm said the losses in the deal came from the overall collapse of the mortgage market, not from the way the deal was structured.
 The accusations amount to a black eye for the once-untouchable Goldman Sachs, a money machine that is the epicenter of Wall Street power. For decades, its platinum reputation has attracted top investors and stock underwriting deals. 
 Several of its former chief executives have gone on to high public office, among them Henry M. Paulson Jr., the former Treasury secretary, and Jon Corzine, the former New Jersey governor. (Henry Paulson and John Paulson are not related.)
 In recent months, Goldman has been defiant in the face of criticism, repeatedly defending its actions in the mortgage market, including its own bets against it. In a letter published last week in Goldman's annual report, the bank rebutted criticism that it had created, and sold to its clients, mortgage-linked securities that it had little confidence in. 
 ''We certainly did not know the future of the residential housing market in the first half of 2007 any more than we can predict the future of markets today,'' Goldman wrote. ''We also did not know whether the value of the instruments we sold would increase or decrease.''
 The letter continued: ''Although Goldman Sachs held various positions in residential mortgage-related products in 2007, our short positions were not a 'bet against our clients.' '' Instead, the trades were used to hedge other trading positions, the bank said. 
 Goldman was one of many Wall Street firms that created complex mortgage securities -- known as synthetic collateralized debt obligations -- as the housing wave was cresting. At the time, traders like Mr. Paulson, as well as those within Goldman, were looking for ways to bet against the overheated market. 
 For months, S.E.C. officials have been examining mortgage bundles like Abacus that were created across Wall Street. The commission has been interviewing people who structured Goldman mortgage deals about Abacus and similar instruments. The commission advised Goldman that it was likely to face a civil suit in the matter, sending the bank what is known as a Wells notice several months ago. 
 The S.E.C. action is a civil complaint, but it could be referred to criminal prosecutors who would have to prove that individuals intended to defraud investors.
 The S.E.C. focused on only one Abacus deal in its complaint, but Mr. Khuzami said in a conference call on Friday that the commission continued to look at the rest. All told, $10.9 billion of Abacus investments were sold.
 Mr. Tourre, the Goldman vice president named in the lawsuit, was one of the firm's top workers running the Abacus deals, selling the investment to investors across Europe. Mr. Tourre was raised in France and moved to the United States in 2000 to earn his master's degree in operations at Stanford. The next year, he began working at Goldman, according to his profile on the LinkedIn social network. 
 He rose to prominence working on the Abacus deals under a trader named Jonathan M. Egol. Mr. Egol, who is now a managing director at Goldman, is not named in the S.E.C. suit.
 Goldman structured the Abacus portfolios with a sharp eye on the credit ratings assigned to the mortgage bonds contained in them, the S.E.C. said. In the Abacus deal cited in the S.E.C. complaint, Mr. Paulson pinpointed those mortgage bonds that he believed carried higher ratings than the underlying loans deserved. 
 Goldman placed insurance on those bonds -- called credit-default swaps -- inside Abacus, allowing Mr. Paulson to bet against the bonds while clients on the other side of the trade wagered that they would make money. 
 But when Goldman sold shares in Abacus to investors, the bank and Mr. Tourre disclosed only the ratings of those bonds and did not disclose that Mr. Paulson was on the other side, betting those ratings were wrong.
 Mr. Tourre at one point complained to an investor who was buying into Abacus that he was having trouble persuading Moody's to give the deal the rating he desired, according to the investor's notes, which were provided to The Times by a colleague who asked for anonymity.
 In seven of Goldman's Abacus deals, the bank went to the American International Group for insurance on the bonds. Those deals have led to billions of dollars in losses at A.I.G., which received a $180 billion taxpayer rescue. The Abacus deal in the S.E.C. complaint was not one of them.
 That deal was managed by ACA Management, a part of ACA Capital Holdings, which changed its name in 2008 to Manifold Capital. 
 Goldman told investors the mortgage bond portfolio would be ''selected by ACA Management,'' according to the deal's marketing document, which was given to The Times by an Abacus investor. That document says Goldman may have long or short positions in the bonds. It does not mention Mr. Paulson.
 ACA was not named in the suit. That firm was led to believe that Mr. Paulson was positive on mortgages, not negative, and so it did not see a problem with his involvement, the S.E.C. said. Mr. Tourre was aware of ACA's misconception, the commission said. 
 In February 2007, Mr. Tourre met with both ACA and Mr. Paulson, and he sent an e-mail message to a Goldman colleague acknowledging the awkwardness of the situation. ''This is surreal,'' Mr. Tourre wrote.
 Nine days later, a Goldman colleague wrote Mr. Tourre and said, ''the C.D.O. biz is dead. We don't have a lot of time left.''
 The Abacus deals deteriorated rapidly when the housing market hit trouble. For instance, in the Abacus deal in the S.E.C. complaint, 83 percent of the mortgage bonds underlying it were downgraded by rating agencies just six months later, and 99 percent had been downgraded by early 2008, according to the S.E.C.
 It takes time for such mortgage investments to pay out for investors who make bets against them. Each deal is structured differently, but generally, the bonds underlying the investment must deteriorate to a certain point before those who bet against the bonds get paid. By the end of 2007, Mr. Paulson's credit hedge fund was up 590 percent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Employees in the lobby of the Goldman Sachs headquarters in Lower Manhattan on Friday. The S.E.C.'s suit is a black eye for the firm, a money machine at the epicenter of Wall Street power. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIANE BANDEREFF/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) GRAPHICS: Betting Against Their Own Deal: Goldman Sachs created 25 deals under the name Abacus to help it and some of its clients place bets against the housing market. One of them, created by Goldman and the Paulson hedge fund in early 2007, is at the center of a fraud complaint filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, illustrated here. (Source: S.E.C. complaint) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); BONDS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); HOUSING BUBBLE (76%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); INSURANCE (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (95%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); ABO (ASX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010



420 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: In a Rush To Judge Goldman?

BYLINE: By WILLIAM D. COHAN. 
William D. Cohan, a columnist for nytimes.com, is the author of ''House of Cards: A Tale of Hubris and Wretched Excess on Wall Street.'' Bob Herbert is off today.

 BODY:
The market wasted little time in rushing to a particularly harsh judgment against Goldman Sachs on Friday, slicing some $12.4 billion off the company's market value after the Securities and Exchange Commission filed a blockbuster civil suit against the firm and a vice president who works there. The commission says Goldman failed to disclose to investors how a complicated mortgage-backed security was made and the conflicts that resulted from it. 
 What makes the market's pounding particularly painful is that early next week, Goldman's stock likely would have soared after it announced huge earnings for the first quarter; instead, the S.E.C.'s civil complaint has crushed it. 
 But wait a second. Does the punishment fit the alleged crime? 
 ''Are we suffering from hindsight bias?'' wondered Peter Henning, a professor at Wayne State University Law School and a former lawyer at the S.E.C., after reading the commission's complaint. Has the fact that we are all looking for someone to blame for the financial crisis -- and haven't found anyone yet -- influenced the government sanctions? Or did Goldman actually mess up? 
 Despite the market's reaction, the questions will be answered only after months of discovery, depositions and documents enter the public realm.
 Goldman might also settle -- which is the usual course these things take, witness Quadrangle Group's decision, announced on Thursday, to pay $12 million to settle allegations that it paid kickbacks to win lucrative business from the New York State pension fund -- rather than face a trial and months of negative publicity. Goldman says it won't settle and that ''the S.E.C.'s charges are completely unfounded in law and fact.'' 
 (Disclosure: I own a small amount of Goldman stock.)
 In this unusual shot across Goldman's bow, the S.E.C. certainly makes its case in dramatic fashion. Among other things, the commission alleges that, starting in early 2007, Fabrice Tourre, a vice president working in Goldman's New York headquarters at the time, structured and marketed Abacus 2007-AC1 -- a synthetic collateralized debt obligation tied to the performance of a bunch of residential mortgage-backed securities. The problem was that he did this without telling Abacus investors that John Paulson, a prominent hedge fund manager who made billions of dollars by famously betting against the mortgage market, had selected the mortgage-securities that went into Abacus specifically because they were so lousy. 
 And then, the S.E.C. alleges, Paulson bet against Abacus and made $1 billion, while the investors -- among them, ABN Amro and IKB, two big European banks -- lost $1 billion when the real-estate market collapsed. 
 The S.E.C. spiced its complaint with slices of e-mail messages that certainly make both Tourre and Goldman look unappealing. On Jan. 23, 2007, Tourre sent an e-mail message to a friend, referring to himself as fabulous Fab: ''The whole building is about to collapse anytime now. ... Only potential survivor, the fabulous Fab ... standing in the middle of all these complex, highly leveraged, exotic trades he created without necessarily understanding all the implications of those monstruosities!!!'' This is painful to read, but is it the whole message? The S.E.C. does not say.
 There's something else the complaint doesn't do. It doesn't mention any of Tourre's bosses, let alone David Viniar, Goldman's chief financial officer, or Lloyd Blankfein, its chief executive. This suggests to me that Tourre may have been a lone ranger, not an unheard of occurrence on Wall Street. 
 Goldman did not become the most admired and feared Wall Street firm by cutting corners in legal disclosures for securities sold to sophisticated investors. As has been well documented by now, Goldman started shorting the mortgage market in December 2006 and, in another part of the firm, continued to create and sell securities like Abacus. This might not be good for public relations, but it turned out to be pretty good for business. 
 Goldman also was not above working with a client like Paulson to structure a security -- for a fee -- that Paulson could then short. Would those European banks not have bought Abacus if they had known that Paulson had helped select what went inside it? Possibly. But no one forced them to buy Abacus. 
 And if the housing market had soared for a few more years, and Paulson and Goldman had lost billions instead of making billions, would the S.E.C. have filed a lawsuit against Abacus's investors?
 These might not be the most popular questions to be asking right now, but until we get the answers we can't assume Goldman's guilt. For now, all we have is a media frenzy and billions of lost shareholder value. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); DEPOSITIONS (73%); WITNESSES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); TESTIMONY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); QUADRANGLE GROUP LLC (54%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); ABO (ASX) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010



421 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: White-Water Rift

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

 BODY:
GUNNISON, Colo. -- For years, Mark Schumacher has guided white-water rafts up and down the Taylor, a swift moving river that cuts through the canyons and cliffs outside Gunnison. 
 So when a wealthy developer who had bought a swath of nearby ranch land told local rafting outfitters last year that they could no longer float through his property, Mr. Schumacher was aghast. 
 ''Locals have been running this river since the '40s,'' he said, ''and here was this guy who was going to use every legal means to shut us down.'' 
 Now, the dispute over the Taylor is reviving an old battle in Colorado, long a mecca for white-water rafting. At issue are the state's water and property laws, which say that while the water in local rivers and streams is public, the beds and banks belong to whoever owns the adjacent land. 
 But Colorado's rules for rafters and other boaters have always been vague. A coalition of ranchers, developers and property owners cite a 1979 State Supreme Court decision that found that rafters needed permission to float through private land or face criminal trespassing charges. 
 Commercial rafting outfitters like Mr. Schumacher, however, point to a subsequent state statute that allows rafters to float through private property without the threat of criminal trespass charges provided their boats do not touch anything other than water. The issue of civil trespass charges, however, remains unsettled, opening the door to the dispute in Gunnison. 
 ''The problem is that they want unlimited rights,'' Dick Bratton, a lawyer for the developer, Lewis W. Shaw II, said of commercial rafting companies. ''We're saying they need to modify this and take into consideration the landowner's rights also.'' 
 Among Mr. Shaw's concerns, Mr. Bratton said, is a fear that rafters will interfere with the fishing he wants to offer as an incentive for people who are thinking of buying lots and building homes on his land. 
 Until recently, an uneasy truce existed between rafters and landowners. But that truce quickly disintegrated this year over a bill introduced in the legislature that would bolster rafters' rights to float through private property. 
 The proposal -- introduced by Representative Kathleen E. Curry, an unaffiliated legislator from Gunnison -- would allow commercial rafting companies to continue to operate on certain stretches of Colorado's rivers without risk of civil or criminal trespassing charges. It would also allow rafts to make incidental contact with riverbeds and banks on private land as long as no one got out of the craft except in an emergency. 
 ''We've got an established floating industry that is a major economic driver in our state.'' Ms. Curry said. ''The revenue associated with this business brings in over $140 million a year. It's important that we find a way for both the floating industry and the property owners to coexist.'' 
 The State House of Representatives passed the bill, but a groundswell of opposition has risen from landowners who fear it will erode personal property rights and allow rafters to use what the opponents consider is their land without permission. 
 ''If somebody has an implied invite onto private property, you have a whole host of liability concerns added to the equation,'' said Shawn Martini, spokesman for the Colorado Farm Bureau, which opposes the legislation. 
 Lee Spann, a cattle rancher whose land abuts a number of Colorado rivers, worried that expanding access for rafters would limit his ability to protect his property and would disrupt his private fishing business. 
 ''Until now, we've had virtually no problems,'' Mr. Spann said. ''They come and talk to me and say, 'We'd like to float through.' I say, 'Fine, as long as you stay off the bank and stay off the bottom.' '' 
 The Colorado River Outfitters Association, which comprises more than 50 rafting companies, says commercial rafters are always careful to respect any private property they pass through. Barring rafters from a stretch of river merely because it flows through private property would devastate the rafting industry, said Duke Bradford, a past chairman of the group. 
 According to the rafting association, 16 Western states clearly allow rafters to float freely through private property without the threat of trespassing charges. In Colorado and North Dakota, the association says, the laws are less clear. 
 ''You would wipe us off the map,'' Mr. Bradford said. ''Every river we run has private land. Rivers belong to the public. People don't want them privatized.''
 A State Senate committee decided last month that the issue needed further study, and Ms. Curry said she was reworking the bill in the hope it would be reconsidered. 
 Both sides, meanwhile, have submitted numerous potential ballot measures that would either expand or restrict access to rivers. If enough signatures are gathered, some measures will be put to Colorado voters in November. 
 With the start of rafting season less than a month away, the conflict on the Taylor shows no signs of waning. Mr. Bratton, the lawyer, said Mr. Shaw had offered a proposal that would tie the number of rafts allowed to float through his property to how high the river was running. But the rafting companies rejected the offer as inflexible. At the prompting of Gov. Bill Ritter Jr., a Democrat, both sides agreed to attend a mediation session next week. 
 Still, Mr. Schumacher says he is as uncertain about where he will guide his rafts as he is about the fate of his business. 
 ''At some point,'' he said, ''you have to put your foot down and clarify that we have the right to float.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Schumacher, a rafter, was told that he could no longer float through a developer's property.
Lee Spann, a rancher, fears that greater rafters' access will disrupt his fishing business.
 A bumper sticker available at Mr. Schumacher's business, Three Rivers Resort & Outfitting in Almont, Colo., near Gunnison. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); RIVERS (90%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PROPERTY LAW (75%); EXTREME SPORTS (73%); LITIGATION (71%); LAWYERS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (53%); APPEALS (52%)

PERSON: TAYLOR SWIFT (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010



422 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; REGO PARK JOURNAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: In Recession-Weary Queens, a Bit of Economic Cheer

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
Worlie Steven Moore spent much of his working life selling stylish men's suits in luxury stores like Saks Fifth Avenue. But in February 2009 he was laid off and spent nearly a year out of work, mostly catching up on reading because looking for employment in his field during a recession seemed futile. 
 ''I thought I'd never get another job,'' said Mr. Moore, a tall, genial man of 56 with a shaved Yul Brynner dome. ''I thought I'd have to go to another industry.'' 
 But he did get another job in his field. He is now selling Hugo Boss suits and other designer labels for Century 21 -- if at a steeper discount than he was accustomed to -- just a few blocks from his home in Lefrak City. 
 Mr. Moore is one of more than 1,000 people who have landed or will soon land jobs at a new six-acre mall in Rego Park, Queens. Where a parking lot once stretched, there now stands a streamlined shopping plaza, Rego Center II, shaded by a parachutelike canopy featuring three midrange clothing and housewares stores -- Kohl's, T. J. Maxx and Century 21 -- and with a Costco on the way. 
 The mall, with its jobs for salespeople, cashiers, security officers, cleaning workers and managers, is a bright outpost of economic cheer in the gray sea of the recession. It is also a robust shot in the arm for a city that, according to Barbara Byrne Denham, chief economist of Eastern Consolidated, a Manhattan real estate investment services firm, has lost 167,500 jobs since the recession began. In Queens alone, 30,000 residents lost their jobs just in the 12 months ending February. 
 Shoppers, scouting out the wares in these fresh temples of merchandise near the Long Island Expressway, are excited, too. On a recent rainy Tuesday, Julia Spears, 29, who immigrated from Dublin eight years ago and lives nearby, in Middle Village, was searching for some outfits at Century 21 for her job as a commercial real estate manager. She said the new mall heightened her optimism.
 ''If the major conglomerates think they can do well in this type of environment,'' Ms. Spears said, ''you have to hope that's the case.''
 She offered one skeptical note about the mall, however. With unemployment still high, she asked: ''Can the community support it? Is it sustainable?'' 
 But to the scores of shoppers in the new stores in the mall on this routine workday, such questions were not uppermost. 
 ''I love this place -- I'm going to die here,'' said Yanick Lochard, 60, a retired legal secretary who lives in the neighborhood and was visiting the mall for the second time. ''It's convenient. Everything is right here. You don't have to go far. Everybody's complaining that the economy is so bad, but I don't understand. So many people are shopping.''
 Rego Park, a patchwork of handsome apartment houses and single-family homes known for its Bukharian immigrants and the restaurants that sprout up around them, is part of a bustling shopping mecca. Together with the Queens Center nearby in Elmhurst and the original Rego Center, the neighborhood now has at least three malls with national chains like Macy's, Sears, Marshalls and Old Navy, as well as dozens of smaller chain boutiques. 
 ''Anybody who's traveling from this end of Queens doesn't have to go to Nassau County and Roosevelt Field,'' said Frank Gulluscio, district manager of local Community Board 6. ''Everything's right there -- parking, food and great retail. We're not sending those jobs out to Nassau. We're keeping them right here in New York City.''
 When Kohl's opened on March 3 and offered one-day sales, lines of shoppers snaked in front, waiting to enter. James Avellino, the store's manager, who described its niche as ''value oriented'' and ''family focused,'' said that customers were drawn by the convenient store hours, 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. For its part, Century 21 is offering the deep discounts on designer labels that shoppers would otherwise have to go to its Lower Manhattan store to get at that price.
 Relief seems to be the predominant emotion among the workers within the new stores. Almost every one of them approached had spent considerable time unemployed. 
 Lindora Holmes, 57, another Century 21 salesperson, said she was jobless for more than two years, after she was laid off by an auto parts manufacturer in Long Island City.
 ''It's good to be back,'' she said.
 Sales jobs at the malls generally pay $8 an hour -- not much above the $7.25 minimum wage. But, Ms. Holmes said, ''It's better than not having anything at all,'' adding, ''If your manager sees how you work, it's an opportunity for you to move up to the next level.'' 
 Ana Vigniero, 37, a spirited saleswoman at Kohl's, said she had been out of work for a year after losing her job as a restaurant supervisor.
 ''I was going to two or three interviews a day,'' said Ms. Vigniero, a single mother of two. ''Now, I'm very happy.'' 
 Her colleague Jonathan Giraldo, 24, was without work for close to seven months after losing a construction job.
 ''It felt terrible,'' he said. ''The bills don't wait.''
 The older workers seem to be the most delighted at their good fortune. Some had despaired of ever getting hired again.
 ''I heard about the Great Depression,'' said Mr. Moore, the suit salesman. ''Now I know what it's like to live through the great recession.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shoppers have flocked to the new Rego Center II in Queens, which features three midrange clothing and housewares stores.
 Worlie Steven Moore said he was unemployed for nearly a year before getting a sales position at Century 21 at the mall. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (74%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (67%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (64%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (64%)

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (58%); T J MAXX (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010



423 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Lawsuit Describes Art 'Blacklist' to Keep Some Collectors Away

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
Imagine a market for highly sought-after items in which the makers and sellers work hard to ensure that the items go only to certain buyers, even if other buyers might be willing to pay more. The favored buyers are then expected not to resell the items for many years, even if the values skyrocket. Ideally, in fact, the buyers are expected to give these items away eventually, for the public good. And if the buyers don't abide by these expectations, they risk being cut off, cast out with the other unwashed wealthy who can afford to buy but have no access.
 At least according to Craig Robins, a prominent Miami art collector and real estate developer who filed a federal lawsuit on March 29 in Manhattan, this is a portrait of the workings of the primary market for contemporary art, which, despite the recession, remains immense and highly competitive.
 At its heart, the $8 million suit is a fairly ordinary contract dispute about confidentiality agreements and sales promises. But the details of the disagreement have provided a rare view into a normally very private world of high-end art selling in which membership rules, responsibilities, rewards and reprisals can be so complex and changeable that even art world veterans say they sometimes struggle to decode them. 
 Mr. Robins asserts that he sold a painting of a dark figure by the highly praised South African-born artist Marlene Dumas through the David Zwirner Gallery in Chelsea in 2004 with an agreement that the sale remain confidential. But the gallery, which did not yet represent Ms. Dumas, told her about it, Mr. Robins claims, causing her to become angry with him because, like many artists, she prefers to see her paintings remain long term in prominent collections. 
 Mr. Robins says that Ms. Dumas -- one of whose paintings sold for more than $6 million at Sotheby's in 2008 -- maintains an active blacklist of those she views as speculating in her work, a blacklist that, he says, he is now on (and whose existence his lawyers, who were back in court on the case this week, say they plan to prove). 
 The suit, which claims $3 million in compensatory damages and $5 million in punitive damages from the gallery, also claims that Mr. Zwirner promised to help get Mr. Robins off the blacklist and sell him choice paintings from ''Against the Wall,'' the current show of Ms. Dumas's work at Zwirner (which is now her gallery), but that this did not happen.
 In its legal response, the gallery has called the suit baseless, saying it had never promised choice works or confidentiality after the sale.
 ''By bringing suit,'' the gallery's lawyers argue, ''the wealthy Robins has literally made a federal case of not being able to buy what he wants, when he wants.''
 As for the supposed blacklist, the lawyers added, as if addressing a purely philosophical problem, ''If such a list exists, and if Robins is on it, Zwirner did not put him there and cannot take him off.''
 But several dealers, art advisers and collectors specializing in contemporary art said in recent interviews that with the explosion of the art market over the last several years and a sharp rise in the number of speculative buyers entering the market, those who sell art have become much more wary of collectors' motives -- and that they keep, in addition to secret waiting lists for in-demand artists, another even more secret list of buyers suspected of wanting to flip art for a quick profit.
 ''This is the biggest fear for most artists for whom there is serious demand,'' said Allan Schwartzman, a veteran art adviser and curator, who, like others involved in selling work, described an increasingly complex interplay between contemporary artists' market value, collector base and long-term reputation. 
 ''In general,'' Mr. Schwartzman said, ''there has been so much profiteering in recent years, even from so many people who are seen as being serious collectors.'' (Of course, dealers and auction houses also earn commissions on this kind of profiteering.)
 Jeffrey Deitch, the longtime dealer and art world dealmaker who is closing his SoHo gallery this summer to become director of the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art, described collectors whom ''we have to chase away, who are at the gallery trying to buy, in the primary market, work by desirable artists,'' only to end up selling it a year and a half later at auction for a steep profit.
 ''They humiliate us by this kind of manipulation,'' he said. (He described a collector who bought a work from his gallery after ''intimating'' that it would be donated to a museum but who then quickly sold it at auction. After Mr. Deitch informed him that he would no longer do business with him, he said, ''He was shocked, but he knew what I was talking about.'')
 Of course, some collectors contend that it is the dealers and artists who are guilty of manipulation by operating in such a highly selective manner, artificially suppressing the supply of popular artists' work in order to drive up prices. And if they have paid hundreds of thousands of dollars for a work of art, the collectors ask, why should they necessarily be required to keep the painting -- or to try to shepherd it into a museum collection -- if they decide they no longer like it or want it?
 Even serious collectors who are generally regarded more as keepers than as sellers complain that, in recent years, several dealers -- and highly involved artists like Ms. Dumas -- have gone overboard in their protectiveness and desire to control an artwork's destiny after it is sold. 
 ''I think sometimes there's a fair amount of hypocrisy from some of these dealers,'' said Adam Lindemann, a longtime collector and author of a 2006 book, ''Collecting Contemporary,'' that offers advice to aspiring collectors.
 ''I'm not buying a can of sardines here,'' Mr. Lindemann said. ''I'm buying something that I'm in love with. But times change, and sometimes you need to sell things.''
 Mr. Robins's suit -- and a similar one filed in 2004 against a New York dealer by a prominent European collector, Jean-Pierre Lehmann, who also complained of an inability to buy choice works -- are seen as evidence by some within the collecting world that the contemporary art market has become so contentious that even serious, long-term collectors are now being pushed into fights. Mr. Robins, for example, owns 29 works by Ms. Dumas, and has called her ''one of the top three artists in my collection.'' 
 Mr. Zwirner and Ms. Dumas declined to comment about the lawsuit. Mr. Robins's lawyer, Aaron Richard Golub, also declined to comment, except to offer a general observation about dealers: ''They might say they're motivated by trying to place pieces in museums and the right collections and such, but at the end of the day it's all about profit.''
 Mr. Deitch said that while the tension in the market has calmed since the downturn -- ''We're certainly having to play defense less than we did a few years ago'' -- the international market for contemporary art has now become so large that there never will be a return to a time to which many dealers look back nostalgically. It existed even as recently as the 1980s, built around a much tighter-knit group of dealers and collectors, for whom money played a lesser role.
 ''People laugh at this whole notion of us saying that we 'place' work instead of selling it,'' Mr. Deitch said. ''But in fact that's what we try to do. We want the work to go to people who are as serious about the work as we are. And that job is probably only going to become more difficult.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The real estate developer and art collector Craig Robins at his headquarters in Miami with a sculpture by Antoni Miralda. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CINDY KARP FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (90%); PAINTING (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); DAMAGES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); AUCTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); ART COLLECTING (74%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (74%); LAWYERS (74%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); ART DEALERS (73%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (72%); RECESSION (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010



424 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: After the Housing Bust, Construction Shows Life

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
In a modest sign that the housing market is moving toward more normal conditions, the pace of home building is finally picking up from its near-death levels.
 The Census Bureau reported Friday that housing starts in March rose 1.6 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 626,000. It was the third consecutive monthly increase, and better than analysts had been predicting. The rate is now 31 percent above the record low set last April. 
 Adding to the sense of momentum was a significant upward adjustment to the February numbers, which were originally reported as 575,000, a decline of 5.9 percent, but now revised to 616,000, an increase of 1.1 percent.
 However welcome these numbers are to builders, they are very small improvements when set against the context of construction's steep fall over the last several years. At the height of the boom, more than two million homes were being built annually.
 The increase in construction this winter was most likely spurred by the government's tax credit for homebuyers, which is speeding toward expiration with little likelihood of being renewed. Deals have to be signed by the end of this month to qualify, although they can take two more months to close.
 Joshua Shapiro, an economist with the consulting firm MFR, estimated that a considerable amount of the recent activity was a result of the tax credit, and that housing starts would soon suffer another setback. That in turn would act as a considerable damper on the economy, which would have to recover despite housing, not because of it.
 ''Although signaling something better than the paralyzed conditions that prevailed a year and more ago, these data indicate that home builders are not seeing a dramatic recovery in demand,'' he said.
 While more homes are finally being built, there are reports that the millions of homes in foreclosure limbo might finally be making their way back to the market. Builders have to compete for new buyers with rock-bottom repossessed homes.
 Another reason for caution is that most of the increase in March was in multi-unit construction, which tends to be volatile. Single-family home starts actually fell slightly.
 In addition, a consumer survey released Friday by the University of Michigan sounded a bleak note for the home building industry. 
 Consumers said current conditions were not so bad, but their worries were increasing for the future. The survey's overall index dropped to 69.5 in April from 73.6 in March. The new level was the lowest since November. The historical average is 86.5.
 ''This turnaround, like all good things, takes time,'' said Jennifer H. Lee, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets.
 Builders remain gloomy. Earlier this week, the National Association of Home Builders reported that sentiment among builders as measured by its monthly index had risen to 19 in April, from 15 in March. 
 That rise is roughly equivalent to moods improving from miserable to merely dejected. An index level above 50, which has not been seen since the boom, indicates bullish sentiment. The record low was 8, set in January 2009.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Home construction in Matthews, N.C. Housing starts rose in March, the third straight increase. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KEANE/REUTERS) CHART: Housing Construction: New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REPOSSESSION (78%); CENSUS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); MARKETING SURVEYS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010



425 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Veto Threat Raised Over Derivatives

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT; David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting to this story.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama threatened on Friday to veto the financial overhaul bill making its way through Congress if it failed to include strong restrictions on derivatives, which were at the heart of the financial crisis two years ago. 
 The president's remarks came as the Senate took steps toward tougher derivative regulation. The chairwoman of the Senate Agriculture Committee introduced a bill with provisions even stronger than those the Obama administration had been seeking. The measure would, among other things, require banks and Wall Street firms to spin off much of their derivatives operations into a separate subsidiary, to wall off the potential for huge losses from the rest of their banking and businesses. Financial institutions will fight that provision vigorously. 
 Senator Blanche Lincoln, an Arkansas Democrat facing a tough re-election challenge who is also the committee chairwoman, will be at the forefront of a legislative fight over derivatives by virtue of her leadership of the farm panel, which deals with traditional farm issues as well as commodity futures regulation. Mrs. Lincoln's legislation would require nearly all derivatives trading to occur on a public exchange, for greater pricing transparency, and for trades to be processed through a third party to guarantee against defaults, two measures the Obama administration also favors.
 The bill, which the Agriculture Committee plans to debate next week, is intended to be folded into the larger financial regulatory package.
 The bill has met with strong resistance from Senate Republicans, who complain that Democrats are acting unilaterally. On Friday, all 41 Republican senators signed a letter urging the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, to adopt a more bipartisan approach in developing legislation to tighten regulation of the nation's financial system, including derivatives. 
 The letter signals the possibility of a filibuster that could block the reform legislation from even reaching the floor for debate.
 The derivatives bill and President Obama's comments came on the same day that the Securities and Exchange Commissioncharged Goldman Sachs with civil fraud over a derivatives product that it sold to customers but which the S.E.C. said was structured to fail. Buyers of the derivatives lost billions, the commission said, while Goldman made money betting against the product. 
 Derivatives have been at the center of much of the discussion about financial reform this week. The complex securities contracts, which contributed to the collapse or near failure of many financial services companies and banks when the housing market imploded, are generally exempt from securities or commodities laws or regulation.
 President Obama emphasized his desire for strong derivatives legislation, saying that he would ''veto legislation that does not bring the derivatives market under control and some sort of regulatory framework that assures that we don't have the same kind of crises that we've seen in the past.''
 Mrs. Lincoln said her bill was drafted to do just that.
 ''The days of backroom Wall Street deals are over,'' she said. ''This is the strongest Wall Street reform bill to date and represents an historic opportunity for real reform.''
 She added that the bill was intended to force financial institutions ''to decide if they want to be banks or if they want to engage in the risky financial trading that caused the collapse of firms such as A.I.G.''
 It does so in a novel way, saying that any institution that is a dealer in swaps, one popular type of derivative, cannot have access to federal deposit insurance or the Federal Reserve's emergency borrowing window.
 That would rule out any securities firm that also owns a bank, like JPMorgan Chase, or a Wall Street firm like Goldman Sachs, which became a member of the Federal Reserve system during the financial crisis to gain access to the Fed's discount window, its vehicle for short-term, emergency borrowing.
 As details of the proposed bill have filtered out this week, large banks and Wall Street firms have lined up to oppose it. Trading in derivatives is one of Wall Street's most profitable lines of business. But many companies also have opposed some of the restrictions, saying they will raise their cost of doing business.
 Under the legislation, most derivatives trades would have to be cleared through a middleman to ensure that the bankruptcy of one party to a contract would not put the other party out of business. In clearing, both parties are required to put up a certain amount of cash collateral and possibly add to it depending on short-term changes in the value of the contract.
 The bill also requires most derivatives to be traded on an exchange and for companies that sell derivatives to investors or corporations to be regulated by either the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission would also be required to set up a whistle-blower fund and use it to reward people who provided information about derivatives fraud. 
 Swaps and many other types of derivative have been free of most regulation since at least 2000, when Congress passed and President Bill Clinton signed the Commodity Futures Modernization Act, a deregulation effort. 
 Some derivatives trading could be exempt from tougher restrictions under the Lincoln bill, as a concession by Mrs. Lincoln to companies like airlines, trucking companies, manufacturers and food processors that use derivatives to protect them from wide swings in prices of raw materials.
 The exception in the bill would allow so-called end users of commodities or products that are the subject of a swap to use noncash assets as collateral for the trades. For example, an airline wanting to hedge fuel costs might not have enough cash on hand to use as collateral for a derivative traded through a clearing corporation. But a swaps dealer might be willing to accept the airline's planes as collateral, something that a clearing agency could not do.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama at a meeting on the economy, flanked by Vice President Biden, left, and Paul Volcker, who heads the economic recovery advisory board. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETO (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FUTURES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (78%); HARRY REID (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010



426 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Clearing Mergers For Takeoff

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Ever since the airline industry was deregulated more than three decades ago, the nation's top carriers have operated under a basic premise: bigger is better.
 Consolidation, after all, means more routes, which can then attract more passengers. It means savings, too, as executive ranks are trimmed and reservation systems are combined. And with fewer airlines chasing the same travelers, profits are sure to follow, the argument goes.
 But bigger has not quite turned out to be the cure-all. Major airlines continue to lose huge sums of money. In the last decade, in fact, domestic airlines lost $60 billion.
 As talk of big mergers returns, the question is whether all the old arguments still hold. United Airlines and Continental Airlines have reopened talks that were dropped two years ago, even as United is discussing a tie-up with US Airways. If any of these deals are made, another brand name will disappear, joining TWA, Pan Am and Northwest, among others. 
 But will consolidation help solve the industry's financial woes? At a news conference last week, Gerard J. Arpey, the chairman and chief executive of American Airlines, sounded a note of skepticism. Mergers, he said, are ''not a panacea.'' 
 Michael E. Levine would agree. ''Do mergers make sense?'' asked Mr. Levine, a former senior airline executive who teaches courses on airline regulation at the New York University School of Law. ''It is not obvious that they do. I never understood why tying two people with two injured legs would produce a healthy runner.''
 The industry, in fact, has a long history of botched mergers, given the difficulty of bringing together different flight networks, aircraft models and distinct cultures, seniority lists and union agreements. US Airways is still operating with two sets of employees, five years after its merger with America West.
 Still, two of the executives involved in the latest merger discussions, Glenn F. Tilton of United and W. Douglas Parker of US Airways, have long argued for the need for the industry to consolidate. There are too many planes, they contend, too much competition and too many airlines willing to undercut their rivals to gain market share, even if this means losing money. Mergers would help restore some order in the jungle.
 As events over the last decade show, the airline business is vulnerable in all sorts of ways. It has suffered through the attacks of September 2001, the SARS epidemic of 2004 and the steep rise in oil prices of 2008, not to mention a deep recession -- all of which crimped traveling and increased costs. Thirty-seven airlines have filed for bankruptcy since 2000, according to the Air Transport Association, an industry trade group. Seven have been liquidated.
 While the big network carriers struggled, low-cost airlines like Southwest and JetBlue have proved most nimble, posting consistent profits and grabbing market share. They may have started as bare bones, but the low-cost airlines now attract business travelers thanks to increasingly sophisticated networks.
 In 1995, the major network airlines controlled more than 85 percent of the market. As of last year, that figure had dropped to just 57 percent, according to data compiled by the Bureau of Transportation Statistics. Meanwhile, low-cost carriers accounted for 27 percent of the market last year, up from 11 percent 15 years ago. Southwest, which began as a Texas puddle jumper in 1971, is now the biggest carrier by number of passengers.
 As a result, one of the heralded advantages of airline consolidation -- the ability to raise fares -- has been offset by the growing muscle of the low-cost carriers, said Darin Lee, an economist at LECG, a consulting firm. The Internet has also given consumers a wealth of information, allowing them to shop around and find the best fares on every route. And hubs, which network carriers thought would provide them with a dominant position, have failed to protect their market share. 
 ''The industry has changed so much in the past 10 years,'' Mr. Lee said. ''People used to talk of hub fortresses. But hub after hub has fallen and low-cost carriers have grown and flourished. And the low-costs have imposed tremendous fare discipline.''
 Nevertheless, airline executives have started thinking again about consolidation, particularly in the wake of the success of the merger of Delta Air Lines with Northwest Airlines, which created the nation's biggest carrier. With travel starting to pick up and credit more widely available than it was one or two years ago, airlines may also be trying to position themselves for the expected rebound.
 ''The industry needs to evolve into a more rational structure, and consolidation may be part of that outcome, as it has been in the telecommunication industry,'' said Thomas W. Horton, the chief financial officer of the AMR Corporation, the parent company of American Airlines. ''We have an industry that is too fragmented, with too many competitors, too many different ideas of capacity, pricing and strategic activity.'' 
 The executives also point out that they now compete in a global market, and they fear they could lag many of their international rivals who are setting up global networks. European airlines, in particular, have become formidable competitors, especially Air France-KLM and Lufthansa, of Germany. 
 ''Scale matters in this industry,'' said Gordon M. Bethune, the former chairman of Continental Airlines, who was widely credited for turning around that company's fortunes in the 1990s. ''How many airlines does France or Germany have? I mean, do we really need 19 domestic airlines in the United States? I think three or four network airlines would still give you plenty of competition.''
 Mergers would probably produce another benefit: cutting the number of planes. Airlines have been furiously grounding planes and offering fewer flights to adapt to lower demand during this downturn. United has cut its capacity by 14.5 percent since the first quarter of 2008, American by 10.5 percent and Delta by 9.1 percent, according to the Air Transport Association, an industry trade group. Of the top nine airlines, only JetBlue has added seats in the last two years.
 But John P. Heimlich, the chief economist at the association, argues that that is not enough. ''How can the industry sustain itself? It can't unless it loses a lot of players and sees its footprint shrink,'' Mr. Heimlich said.
 Some analysts, like Severin Borenstein, an economics professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, said it might be difficult to win approval from antitrust officials in Washington, especially with a Democratic administration in power. 
 He argued that airlines could benefit instead by expanding marketing tools like frequent-flier programs that foster loyalty from passengers. 
 ''We are getting to the point where there are very few combinations where there are not some significant overlap that would result in immense dominance in some areas,'' Mr. Borenstein said. ''Mergers clearly give airlines greater clout.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Northwest Airlines ticket counter received its new brand name at the Minneapolis airport in March 2009. The merger of Delta Air Lines with Northwest created the nation's biggest carrier. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIICHIRO SATO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/ THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 CHART: MAJOR AIRLINE MARKET SHARE (Source: Bureau of Transp. Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); MERGERS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (89%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (75%); MARKET SHARE (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (64%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); RECESSION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (50%); EPIDEMICS (50%); SARS (50%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (90%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (50%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (90%); PANASONIC (NSE) (69%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: WILLIAM DOUGLAS PARKER (79%); GLENN TILTON (53%); GERARD ARPEY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010



427 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Sunnis Expect Shift In Allegiance To Bear Fruit

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS and SA'AD AL-IZZI; Duraid Adnan contributed reporting from Baghdad, and an Iraqi employee of The New York Times from Tikrit.

 BODY:
TIKRIT, Iraq -- As he sits in his palatial home's reception hall, Sheik Munaf Ali al-Nidah denounces the governments of both Iraq and the United States and shakes his head over the vilification of the Baath Party. Above his mantel is a photograph of a smiling Saddam Hussein. A Saddam Hussein watch is wrapped around his wrist.
 Mr. Nidah -- well known in Tikrit, Mr. Hussein's hometown -- ran in last month's parliamentary elections but lost to a candidate from the secular party of former Prime Minister Ayad Allawi. He admits that even most of his cousins did not vote for him. 
 Mr. Nidah's poor performance among his own relatives illustrates how thoroughly Mr. Allawi has reordered Sunni allegiances. It might seem odd at first glance that voters in a hard-line Sunni area like Tikrit would support Mr. Allawi, who is not just a Shiite but also an enemy of Mr. Hussein.
 But as a strong secularist and with the strength of his biography as a former ranking member of the Baath Party, he managed to convince Sunnis that he could end the sectarianism they said had gripped past Iraqi governments and protect the rights they believed had been impeded.
 Sunnis, who live primarily in an arc north and west of Baghdad, are seen as crucial to whether Iraq can avoid the sectarian and violence that consumed it after the 2005 parliamentary elections. A spate of explosions and other attacks since the voting on March 7, including bombs detonated outside the Iranian Embassy, have killed more than 100 people and wounded hundreds more. Many blame the political void created by the elections. 
 In Tikrit, elements of Mr. Hussein's Baath Party and Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia remain active, and thousands of unemployed men serve as a recruiting base. There are worries that the ranks of the disaffected men could increase, and so, too, violence, if Sunnis feel disenfranchised.
 ''The Sunnis are concerned about their own participation in the next government, not Allawi's, but they tied their fortunes to Allawi's,'' said Joost Hiltermann, deputy program director with the International Crisis Group, an independent, nonprofit organization. ''They have seen these elections as a possible turning point, an important reason why they joined the surge in 2007,'' he added. ''They were promised a chance to re-enter the new political order through these elections. If they fail in this quest, all bets are off concerning their future behavior.''
 Negotiations between political parties have yielded little progress because voters split almost evenly between Mr. Allawi's Iraqiya coalition and Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki's State of Law alliance. 
 There are growing fears among Sunnis, however, that a coalition of Shiite and Kurdish parties could push them to the political sidelines again. 
 Ibrahim al-Sumydai, an Iraqi political analyst, said that if that happened, the result would be ''a great disaster.'' 
 ''Insurgents have entered the political process to support Allawi,'' Mr. Sumydai said. ''If he is not included, the Sunni street will be angry. Things will go back to square one.''
 Mr. Allawi's rise has corresponded with the decline of the Iraq Islamic Party, which has its voting base in Tikrit and other Sunni areas.
 In the 2005 parliamentary elections, the Islamic Party and its Sunni allies, which had once been a default choice for Sunnis, even those who were not religious, won 44 seats and were given the posts of vice president and speaker of Parliament. 
 The organization represented Sunni aspirations and controlled patronage in Sunni areas, and its members helped persuade tribal leaders to turn against Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia in 2006 and 2007, which together with the American troop surge quelled the insurgency. Since then, the party has been rattled by infighting and defections, including that of Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi, who joined Mr. Allawi's list.
 Now, after winning only six seats in the March elections -- even though the total number of seats in Parliament was increased to 325 from 275 -- the party has little bargaining power and has been largely absent from talks among the coalitions vying to form a new government. 
 Some in the party appear ready to write its obituary. Even some leaders acknowledge that many Iraqis have long believed that the organization was corrupt and incompetent and fomented sectarianism, and that Mr. Allawi's candidacy simply represented a better hope for Sunnis.
 ''The public has seen us for the past seven years defending them, but not changing anything,'' said Rashid al-Izzawi, an Islamic Party leader who was not re-elected. 
 Still, the support for Mr. Allawi in Sunni areas, which constituted his base, appears tepid -- the best choice among lesser options. 
 And though Mr. Allawi's coalition won a majority of the votes in Sunni areas, voter participation was generally down from 2005. In Salahuddin Province, of which is Tikrit is the capital, turnout fell to 73 percent this year from 88 percent in 2005. Turnout was also down sharply in heavily Sunni Diyala Province and increased only slightly in Anbar and Nineveh Provinces, which are also predominately Sunni.
 In Tikrit, Mr. Hussein's coffin rests inside a building closed to the public to prevent it from becoming a gathering point for Baathists.
 Some people go so far as to say that Mr. Allawi represents the best hope for restoring the sense of pride they lost when Mr. Hussein was deposed. 
 ''I think Allawi has views that are close enough to Saddam Hussein, and a personality that is close to Saddam Hussein,'' said Muhammad Majeed, 36, who is unemployed. ''He is not sectarian. He's a tough politician, and he is serious in his work.''
 Many others said they turned to Mr. Allawi only after becoming disenchanted with the Sunni religious party.
 '' ''I know he is Shiite, but he is secular and he will work for us,'' said Ziad Atta, 42, a trader. ''And I think he will work in our interest.'' 
 Others in Tikrit do not believe that Mr. Allawi is the answer for Sunnis. Machsoud Shahb Ahmed al-Mula, who leads the provincial council, declined even to mention Mr. Allawi by name.
 ''It's better to keep our personal views to ourselves,'' he said. ''This is a dangerous time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Saddam Hussein's coffin in Tikrit, Iraq. Many Sunnis in the area have cast their lot with Ayad Allawi, a Shiite and a Hussein foe.
 Sheik Munaf Ali al-Nidah, a Sunni from Tikrit who ran for a seat in Parliament, lost to a candidate from Mr. Allawi's party. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); POLITICS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (65%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (64%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (52%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010



428 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Bank of America, With Merrill's Help, Returns to Profit

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
Bank of America's acquisition of Merrill Lynch, a marriage made under the storm cloud of the financial crisis, has been the subject of government investigations and shareholder lawsuits ever since it became official in early 2009.
 Bank of America's chief executive, Kenneth D. Lewis, was faulted for paying too high a price and for failing to disclose the brokerage firm's worsening condition to his shareholders before they approved the purchase. He lost his job as a result, and the bank's stock has never fully recovered.
 In short, just about everybody regarded this deal as a dud. 
 But on Friday, Mr. Lewis's successor, Brian T. Moynihan, said surging profit from trading at Merrill Lynch helped to cover continued losses from consumer loans, propelling the bank to a first-quarter profit of $3.2 billion, or 28 cents a share, after two consecutive quarters of losses.
 Total revenue was $32 billion, well ahead of a survey of analysts by Thomson Reuters, who had expected revenue of $27.97 billion and earnings of 9 cents a share.
 Those strong results were in contrast to losses of $194 million in the last quarter of 2009 and $1 billion the quarter before that. For the year-ago quarter, strong trading results and favorable accounting adjustments led to a profit of $4.2 billion or 44 cents a share. 
 Mr. Moynihan attributed the improvement to robust gains in investment banking and to a strengthening market for consumer credit. He said the bank's credit card division had turned a profit of $952 million in the quarter as the level of delinquent accounts declined.
 ''All our banking segments were able to make money this quarter except for one, home loans,'' Mr. Moynihan said, noting that it lost $2 billion. Nonetheless, as credit losses eased, he said, ''all of this makes us more confident that the worst of the credit cycle is behind us.''
 The bank's shares declined 5 percent on Friday, to $18.41, as financial stocks were battered by news of a government lawsuit accusing Goldman Sachs of securities fraud.
 Bank of America's results were propelled largely by trading revenue that topped $7 billion, a record, and $4.8 billion more than the previous quarter, officials said. 
 ''It's safe to say that the Merrill Lynch deal seems to be paying off sooner rather than later,'' said Anthony Polini, an analyst at Raymond James and Associates.
 The bank, often considered a bellwether for the American economy, had been battered over the last year by huge losses in consumer loans and the $29 billion merger with Merrill Lynch that sank its share price. 
 Bank of America was the second major bank to report results this week; on Wednesday, JPMorgan Chase announced first-quarter profit of $3.3 billion, topping expectations. 
 But where JPMorgan Chase had weathered the financial downturn better than most, Bank of America was once considered critically ill, requiring $45 billion in government bailout money. Bank of America paid back the money last year. 
 As the nation's largest lender with branches from coast to coast, Bank of America's continued recovery could offer a further glimmer of hope for the broader economy, after positive data in recent weeks on jobs and consumer spending. 
 ''The consumer credit cycle seems to be clearing up, pointing towards recovery mode,'' said Mr. Polini said. Investors seem to agree. Despite Friday's declines, bank shares have enjoyed a nine-week rally, he noted. 
 While optimistic about the economy, Mr. Moynihan said new financial regulations could impinge on revenue as the year progressed. For example, the credit card legislation passed by Congress last year, which is being adopted in phases, could cost the bank $900 million this year, after taxes.
 In addition, he said, limits on overdraft charges, partly the result of new regulations, would reduce fee income in the fourth quarter to about $2 billion, compared with $2.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 2009.
 Mr. Moynihan said the bank was looking for ways to increase revenue from checking accounts, including monthly service fees on customers with low balances. 
 In a speech later Friday, Mr. Moynihan noted that the bank's net credit losses dropped 5 percent in the first quarter compared with the previous one.
 ''Our earnings story at Bank of America for a while will be a credit-quality story,'' he said. ''Certainly the level of losses is still high. But the improving credit picture gives us cause to believe that we are solidly on the road to recovery.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bank of America said its credit card unit posted a profit in the quarter, while its mortgage business continued to lose money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KEANE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); LITIGATION (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); MERGERS (78%); APPROVALS (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (57%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (51%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: BRIAN MOYNIHAN (79%); KENNETH D LEWIS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010



429 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Income Falls to $1.9 Billion, but Tops Forecasts

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
General Electric, reassured by signs that a global recovery was gaining momentum, said on Friday that its profit for the year might exceed expectations.
 ''We feel pretty good about where we're positioned as the recovery continues,'' the chief executive, Jeffrey R. Immelt, told investors in a conference call about first-quarter results. He said G.E. might undertake additional cost-cutting as it refocused the business on its industrial components, which include production of items like wind turbines and jet engines.
 G.E., based in Fairfield, Conn., said it was encouraged by indications that the tide of loan losses at its financial unit, GE Capital, was beginning to reverse. Credit card delinquencies have fallen, the company said, and losses on mortgages in Britain are easing. 
 In total, the company reported net income of $1.9 billion in the first quarter -- a 32 percent decrease from the quarter a year before -- and earnings of 21 cents a share. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected income of $1.8 billion and earnings of 16 cents a share.
 Revenue declined 5 percent, to $36.6 billion, slightly worse than expected. Earnings from continuing operations were $2.3 billion, down 18 percent from a year ago.
 G.E.'s results helped calm jitters about many segments of the economy, since the company has a hand in a variety of enterprises, including network television and health care.
 Analysts were particularly optimistic about the results for GE Capital, which Mr. Immelt said was showing ''solid signs of stabilization'' and had ''turned the corner.'' The unit eked out a profit of $607 million, 41 percent lower than a year ago, and revenue fell 9 percent, to $13.2 billion. That steep decline was partly because the unit received a smaller tax benefit this year.
 G.E. says it expects loan losses to continue to dwindle. But while GE Capital has been profitable, a foundering commercial real estate market continues to take a toll on its finances. To shield itself against further losses, the unit is gradually reducing its portfolio and tightening lending standards.
 Mr. Immelt said G.E. saw indications that the broader economy was strengthening, including increases in airline passenger traffic and a busier market for advertising. The company says it expects orders for new equipment to improve as businesses, particularly in emerging markets, regain confidence. 
 Those factors could allow the company to end 2010 with an increase in overall profit.
 ''A lot of their optimism is driven by the improvement in the credit markets and a general sense of economic improvement,'' said Richard Tortoriello, an analyst at Standard & Poor's. ''But we also have to keep in mind that earnings were cut by more than half over the past two years, so it's going to take a while for them to get back to where they were.''
 At the moment, Wall Street analysts expect G.E.'s profit for 2010 as a whole to fall slightly, hitting $10.9 billion, compared with $11.2 billion in 2009. The company had previously predicted profit to remain flat for the year. 
 G.E.'s stock tumbled on Friday, declining 2.7 percent to close at $18.97 a share, mostly because of broader concern about the ramifications of the Securities and Exchange Commission's lawsuit against Goldman Sachs.
 G.E. revealed on Friday that it was cooperating in a separate matter with the S.E.C. involving statements made by Mr. Immelt in September 2008, when he reassured investors about the company's ability to finance its debt. In a recent book, however, Henry M. Paulson Jr., the former Treasury secretary, suggested that Mr. Immelt had privately expressed doubts about G.E.'s ability to refinance debt in the commercial paper market.
 ''We are fully cooperating with them and are entirely confident our disclosures were accurate,'' a spokeswoman for the company, Anne Eisele, said by e-mail.
 On the industrial side, G.E. has found strength in its service industry, with businesses still reluctant to replace old equipment. Orders for new equipment have steadily declined and demand for big-ticket items like jet engines has dwindled with the decline of the airline industry. Industrial sales were $23.5 billion in the first quarter, down 2 percent from a year ago.
 But there are signs that production may be poised to pick up: backlogs for equipment orders have improved, holding steady at $174 billion in the first quarter, raising the possibility of stronger revenue later this year.
 The energy infrastructure unit was the only segment to show strong earnings growth, rising 12 percent. The company noted particular strength in oil and gas products, including gas turbines and oilfield equipment. 
 Profit on health care products, like ultrasound equipment, rose modestly compared with a year ago.
 Earnings at NBC Universal dropped 49 percent in the quarter, after the company lost more than $200 million on Olympics coverage. But the company said advertising in local markets was strengthening.
 Mr. Immelt has sought to scale back the financial business, which is a major source of revenue, and return G.E. to its industrial roots. Analysts say G.E. has diversified so much that it has been difficult to draft a unified plan to deal with the recession. 
 ''The general strategy is to slim down the financial side of the business and focus on doing things where G.E. has a competitive advantage,'' Mr. Tortoriello said. ''We're looking for broad-based improvement this year, but much of that will depend on the strength of the recovery.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: General Electric's aviation plant in Durham, N.C. G.E.'s chief , Jeffrey R. Immelt, said he saw ''encouraging economic signs.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM R. BOUNDS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); AIRLINES (75%); COMPANY REVENUES (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (57%); EXECUTIVES (57%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (98%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (98%); GEC (LSE) (98%); GE (SWX) (98%); GE (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (98%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (59%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010



430 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Can't Cut Spending? Look Around The Globe

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
AMERICA'S long-run fiscal outlook is bleak, mostly because of an aging population and rising health care costs. To close the gap between expenditures and revenue, we'll likely see a combination of revenue increases and spending cuts. And we'll need to focus especially on reducing spending, largely because that taxes on the wealthy can be raised only so high. 
 Consider the tax burden on high earners once the Bush administration's tax cuts expire next year. Add up the federal, state, city and sales taxes for a lawyer in New York City who earns $300,000 a year. Depending on the circumstances, this individual could be facing marginal tax rates in the range of 60 percent. Higher income tax rates would discourage hard work and encourage tax avoidance, thereby defeating the purpose of the tax increases. 
 The most potent way to add revenue is to impose a value-added tax. As its name indicates, a V.A.T. takes some percentage of the value added at each stage of production. V.A.T.'s raise money so readily and so invisibly that they often climb to a range of 15 to 20 percent; politicians like the revenue, and voters don't always notice the burden.
 A move toward a V.A.T., however, also brings price inflation, a big increase in the tax-collecting bureaucracy and the emergence of favored sectors with exemptions or lower rates. Though we may well end up with a V.A.T., it isn't obviously the best option.
 Burdening citizens with much higher taxes would fundamentally change what this country is about. Our founders envisioned a government that would provide public goods but not guarantee everyone's well-being against every possible obstacle. Immigrants would be offered a franchise to come here and make good if they could -- while bearing considerable risk themselves. To this day, this openness has elevated many millions in health, prosperity and liberty -- and enabled many newcomers to innovate and offer new goods and services, or scientific ideas, to the world. 
 Higher levels of government spending and taxation would also soak up resources that might otherwise foster innovation and new businesses. And sentiment would most likely turn ever stronger against those immigrants who consume public services and make the deficit higher in the short run. Current residents might feel more secure in a larger welfare state, but over time the loss of commerce and innovation takes a toll. 
 The macroeconomic evidence also suggests the wisdom of emphasizing spending cuts. In a recent paper, Alberto Alesina and Silvia Ardagna, economics professors at Harvard, found that in developed countries, spending cuts were the key to successful fiscal adjustments -- and were generally better for the economy than tax increases. Their conclusion was based on data since 1970 from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. 
 The received wisdom in the United States is that deep spending cuts are politically impossible. But a number of economically advanced countries, including Sweden, Finland, Canada and, most recently, Ireland, have cut their government budgets when needed. 
 Most relevant, perhaps, is Canada, which cut federal government spending by about 20 percent from 1992 to 1997. The Liberal Party, headed by Jean Chretien as prime ministerand Paul Martin as finance minister, led most of this shift. Prompted by the financial debacle in Mexico, Canadian leaders had the courage and the foresight to make those spending cuts before a fiscal crisis was upon them. In his book ''In the Long Run We're All Dead: The Canadian Turn to Fiscal Restraint,'' Timothy Lewis describes Canada's move from fiscal irresponsibility to a balanced budget -- a history that helps explain why the country has managed the current global recession relatively well. 
 To be sure, the spending cuts meant fewer government services, most of all for health care, and big cuts in agricultural subsidies. But Canada remained a highly humane society, and American liberals continue to cite it as a beacon of progressive values. 
 Counterintuitively, the relatively strong Canadian trust in government may have paved the way for government spending cuts, a pattern that also appears in Scandinavia. Citizens were told by their government leadership that such cuts were necessary and, to some extent, they trusted the messenger. 
 IT'S less obvious that the United States can head down the same path, partly because many Americans are so cynical about policy makers. In many ways, this cynicism may be justified, but it is not always helpful, as it lowers trust and impedes useful social bargains. 
 Forces like the Tea Party movement argue for fiscal conservatism, though it isn't obvious that they are creating the conditions for success. Over the last year, we have been treated to the spectacle of conservatives defending Medicare against proposed cuts, in large part to curry favor with voters and mobilize sentiment against the Democratic health care plan. 
 Right now there is plenty of concern about debt and deficits, but little consensus on which expenditures should be cut or reined in. Sooner or later, we'll have to reconsider virtually every segment of the federal budget.
 The issue of fiscal responsibility isn't going away. So the question is now this: How deeply will we dig ourselves in before we create a more mature and more forward-looking political culture? 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VALUE ADDED TAX (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); AGING TRENDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SALES TAX (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); AGING (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); INCOME TAX (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



431 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2010 TOYOTA 4RUNNER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Return of a Rock Star That Didn't Cross Over

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
A PLUME of pale-beige dust half a mile long trailed behind a vehicle racing across El Diablo Dry Lake. Ivan Stewart, a legendary off-road racer known as the Ironman, was driving flat-out at triple-digit speeds. He was at the wheel of a new Toyota 4Runner and, man, I wanted one.
 This was in Baja California in 1984. I thought the 4Runner looked sharp, and a lot of people seemed to agree. Toyota went on to sell more than 1.8 million. 
 For 2010 the company has brought out what it considers the fifth generation of the 4Runner, which has changed over the years into a substantial all-terrain vehicle. 
 Though the new S.U.V. is supremely competent, particularly when equipped for off-roading, it has some strikes against it. A big body-on-frame sport utility, it arrives in a market that has begun to ignore, or even scorn, truck-based S.U.V.'s. It no longer offers a V-8 engine -- no great loss, but an omission that might turn away some customers. 
 And most significant, the timing of its introduction coincided with a period of uncharacteristically bad news about Toyota, including reports of unintended acceleration; braking problems with the new Prius, a series of recalls and federal regulators' announcement that they would seek a $16.4 million fine for the company's failure to report safety issues promptly.
 The 4Runner has not been implicated in these controversies -- it even passed the emergency handling test that caused Consumer Reports to issue a ''don't buy'' warning last week for a related vehicle, the Lexus GX 460.
 The 4Runner's upward progression over 26 years serves as a reminder of Toyota's roots -- and the basis for its once-unassailable reputation for bulletproof quality. Like Nissan, Toyota built its success in the United States on small trucks; the early cars imported by both companies ranged from underpowered to unremarkable to truly weird. But the Japanese pickups were inexpensive, dependable and, it turned out, nearly indestructible. In the 1970s and '80s, they seemed to be everywhere.
 That first 4Runner of 1984 was essentially one of these, little more than a small Toyota pickup with a back seat and an integrated camper shell. The latest one is brawny, laden with features and capable of mind-boggling maneuvers. It also comes with a well-earned reputation as a ''Baja tough'' S.U.V. The latest proof came when a 2010 4Runner won its class in the Baja 1000 off-road race last November.
 After driving all the trim levels now offered -- SR5, Limited and the new Trail model -- I'd wager that any driver with a modicum of off-road skill could contend for Baja trophies. The Trail, in particular, seems to regard nasty terrain with a Big Bad Wolf attitude: ''All the better to eat you up!''
 Letting the Trail loose at an off-highway vehicle park in the Mojave Desert of California, I had to work hard to find anything it couldn't handle. That's saying something, since the moguls of the Mojave are often more gnarly than the challenges in the wide-open Baja.
 The 4Runner's ladder-type frame, made of thick-gauge steel, is strong as a jail cell. The front suspension is a double-wishbone with coil-over shock absorbers; the rear is a 4-link supporting a solid axle on coil springs. 
 The S.U.V. is generally unflappable when the going gets rough. If you tackle a diabolical washboard surface at 35 m.p.h. -- ''getting on top of it,'' the racers say -- it will dance across as effortlessly as Fred Astaire. 
 The Trail's list of standard off-road-specific features goes on and on, including electronic locking rear differential, A-TRAC active traction control, Multi-Terrain Select and Crawl Control. The Crawl and Multi-Terrain Select features -- these are preprogrammed throttle, brake and wheel traction settings -- will walk the vehicle up, down, around and through blood-curdling inclines, gumbo-gooey mud and axle-swallowing sand, all without added drama. 
 The optional Kinetic Dynamic Suspension System disengages the antiroll bars and loosens up the suspension settings so the wheels have more articulation (up and down movement) so the vehicle can tackle furniture-size obstacles. The 4Runner's rock-crawling capability seems to be limited only by its 9.6-inch ground clearance and 33-degree approach angle. 
 The vehicle's Kryptonite is actually the highway, where you are unlikely to forget that the 4Runner is essentially a truck. On poorly maintained concrete roads the ride can get bouncy, and the chassis shivers on the worst expansion joints. But its steering is true, its balance is precise and its tracking is unerring. It is a snap to tow up to 5,000 pounds.
 The towing capacity is a subject that opens up a bit of a debate in the Cult of 4Runner. Toyota has discontinued the old 4Runner's optional V-8. I didn't think much of that engine, a rather inefficient 4.7-liter that added too much weight, wasn't particularly powerful and had a drinking problem.
 Now, most 4Runners come with a 4-liter V-6 that generates 270 horsepower -- 10 more than the old V-8 -- and has more torque for towing. Fuel economy for the V-6 4-by-4 has improved to 17 in town and 22 highway from 16/20 last year (and 14/17 for the defunct V-8). Since this more modern V-6 also weighs less than the old V-8, everybody should be happy, yes? 
 Well, some enthusiasts are grumbling on the Internet that Toyota should have borrowed the 4.6-liter V-8 from the Tundra pickup for more towing capacity. 
 Despite a curb weight of nearly 4,800 pounds, the 4Runner Trail accelerates from a stop to 60 m.p.h. in a reasonably quick 7.8 seconds.
 Early 4Runners offered 4-cylinder engines, gutless wonders that seemed to run forever. (I had one.) For 2010, an in-line 4 returns -- a 157-horsepower 2.7-liter engine borrowed from the Tacoma pickup -- on rear-drive models only. 
 But the improvement in fuel economy is minor -- to 18/23 m.p.g. -- and that gain is mostly because the vehicle weighs nearly 500 pounds less than the V-6 with 4-wheel drive. Equipped with the 4, the 4Runner feels lighter and more agile, less like a battering ram. I might even recommend it, if it were available with a 5-speed manual. But a 4-speed automatic is the only transmission. The V-6 models come only with a 5-speed automatic.
 The upscale Limited, which no longer wears the wads of cladding that distinguished it visually from lesser versions, is a gentleman's off-roader -- something you'd use to inspect your herd on the South 40. The Trail is for grown-ups who still like to play in the dirt. The base SR5 4-by-2 is useful for conquering parking stall dividers at Home Depot.
 The Limited comes with full-time 4-wheel-drive; the SR5 and Trail 4-by-4s use a part-time system engaged by a lever next to the shifter.
 Prices for the 2010 4Runner start just under $30,000 and top out above $40,000. 
 The new cabin feels spacious -- the old ones always seemed cramped -- and Toyota has figured out how to jam in an optional third row of seats. But the ride back there isn't pleasant for anyone larger or less compliant than grade-schoolers. With all seven seats in use, the cargo capacity (up to 89.7 cubic feet with the rear seats down) almost vanishes just when it is needed most.
 Without the third row, a sliding rear cargo deck is perfect for tailgating. There is even a whimsical ''party mode'' button, which redirects the stereo's output to the back for maximum gaiety.
 Kudos to Toyota for keeping the one-piece tailgate; it is hinged at the top, and the rear window still rolls down, just as they once did on proper station wagons. This provides flexibility when hauling kayaks, lumber or brass hat racks.
 With General Motors, Ford and Chrysler moving away from body-on-frame S.U.V.'s toward more carlike crossovers, there are now fewer choices for those who need truck-solid performance and off-road abilities. More than ever, there is nothing quite like a 4Runner.
 INSIDE TRACK: Let's play dirty.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TRAIL MIX: As other body-on-frame S.U.V.'s have faded away, the 4Runner has only enhanced its off-road attitude. (AU1)
WAGON, HO: Window in the top-hinged liftgate opens separately for cargo-hauling flexibility.
 CONTROL CENTER: Instrument panel of the 4Runner Trail. (AU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



432 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: Anchor Casts Off Home

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS. 
E-mail: bigdeal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IT'S been an eventful two years on Wall Street. Perhaps you'd heard? And as CNN's chief business correspondent, Ali Velshi has been busy.
 Now that the economy has stopped hyperventilating, Mr. Velshi has taken on another assignment: He's the anchor of a news show that runs every weekday as part of ''CNN Newsroom.'' That comes on top of being the co-anchor of a weekend show called ''Your Money.'' 
 But the new gig is in Atlanta, so he's selling his apartment in New York.
 ''I bought it the first day I saw it and have loved it ever since,'' Mr. Velshi said of his one-bedroom on the Upper West Side. ''But I'm a financial journalist. I can't just hang on to a place for the sake of it -- there's money in it.''
 Mr. Velshi bought the apartment at 186 West 80th Street in 2003. It has about 800 square feet of space, including a home office. It also has a 200-square-foot deck, two-thirds of which Mr. Velshi customized by encasing it behind glass, for a sort of indoor/outdoor room.
 The apartment originally went on the market at the end of last year for $875,000. It was relisted last week for $840,000 with Jason Lanyard and Nicole Grandelli of Prudential Douglas Elliman.
 Mr. Velshi -- who was born in Kenya and raised in Canada -- is excited about the next challenge but sad about leaving New York.
 ''I'm having trouble actually saying the words 'move to Atlanta,' '' he said jokingly. ''I do like it, but I love New York.''
 He will still have a toehold here. He and his wife, Lori Wachs, rent out an apartment that they own at the Harrison, a new building at 205 West 76th Street, not far from the one-bedroom Mr. Velshi is selling.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ali Velshi of CNN has been posted to Atlanta. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CNN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); JOURNALISM (77%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); KENYA (78%); CANADA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



433 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Sin Is Sure Lucrative

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
In tough fiscal times, everything needs to be monetized. Including morality.
 And governors and legislators in many cash-strapped states have decided that vice can be lucrative, in the form of sin taxes.
 Texas, Georgia and Pennsylvania have considered ''pole taxes'' -- for buyers of pornography and patrons of strip clubs and escort services.
 Seven states last year either enacted new taxes on alcohol or raised old ones, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. 
 Since January 2009, 22 states have increased their tobacco taxes, and now South Carolina, which has held its cigarette tax at 7 cents a pack for more than three decades, may follow. In Nevada, the State Senate has discussed expanding, and taxing, legalized prostitution. Proposals for soda and candy taxes are also percolating in places like New York, Colorado and Washington State.
 In California, advocates of marijuana legalization are pointing to the tax revenue that will be generated.
 And 25 states have expanded or considered expanding their sanctioned gambling operations.
 ''The honest way to raise more revenue would be to raise income tax rates,'' said Peter L. Faber, a tax lawyer and partner at McDermott Will & Emery in New York. ''But it is more politically attractive to tax these kinds of things. No one can get mad at you for taxing people who drink too much,'' meaning tipplers are fair game.
 Cloaking taxes in moral terms is not new. Advocates for ending Prohibition during the depths of the Great Depression argued that the ''noble experiment'' hadn't reduced drinking, while desperate social conditions had grown worse. Prohibition, they argued, encouraged cooperation with organized crime and contempt for the law.
 But many historians have documented another reason for the end of Prohibition: the need to create new jobs and additional sales taxes.
 Economists doubt that sin taxes greatly affect the behavior of most Americans, especially when the amounts tacked on are quite small (as they usually are). Demand for things like cigarettes and soda is relatively inelastic. That means modest increases in price don't greatly influence most people's behavior. In other words, a penny-per-ounce soda tax, which has been proposed in New York, is unlikely to deter people from supersizing their Sprites.
 Old habits, especially bad ones, die hard.
 This underscores why the real value of sin taxes is their ability to generate cash. After all, taxes that truly succeeded in changing behavior would be self-defeating. If a cigarette tax forced all puffers to quit, there would be severe withdrawal symptoms not only for smokers -- but for states that relied on the tax for revenue.
 ''On some level, politicians want these taxes to affect behavior,'' said Kim Rueben, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute who studies state and local taxes. ''But they're kind of in trouble if it works too well. If it's actually effective in changing behavior, governments lose that revenue source and have to figure out what else they can start taxing.''
 Clinging to this implausible pretense -- that a few pennies can help someone kick, say, a porn habit -- is understandable. Most Americans like to think that they are guided not so much by their wallets as by their ethics. And American jurisprudence is supposed to be guided by lofty ideals, not the bottom line; our laws should be moral, not mercenary.
 But even if sin taxes exist primarily to balance the budget, they have social value. The debate over enacting a new tax, or hiking an old one, is a window into the country's changing psyche.
 A soda tax, after all, is more than a soda tax. If enacted, it's something of a verdict on who is to blame for rising obesity rates. (The answer: Purveyors of sugary drinks, who will presumably lose a few customers, and those with unhealthy eating habits.) And it tells us something about how we try to ensure that the population is healthy.
 ''Public health used to be about going after the elimination of pathogens, cleaning the well that spread cholera,'' said Katherine Pratt, a professor at Loyola Law School Los Angeles who is researching fat taxes. ''Now we're going beyond that and trying to address behavioral risk factors, which leads to charges of paternalism.''
 The debate surrounding a ballot measure that would legalize, regulate and tax marijuana in California is similarly enlightening. Advocates are not dwelling much on marijuana's harmlessness or acceptance, but rather on the amount of money it could generate. A voter may believe using marijuana is bad, but exactly how bad? Enough to give up its potential tax revenue?
 The answer is not yet in. But California offers the latest example of how fiscal desperation has forced states to think more seriously about priorities. Social values do change over time; economic stress can force a necessary, if uncomfortable, review of whether current policies are still relevant.
 In other words, sin taxes can spur us to rethink what behaviors are bad enough to be taxable -- like drinking sugary sodas. Or in the case of marijuana legalization, what behavior is worth tolerating for the money.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CHEERS!: Advocates for ending Prohibition talked about moral values. But filling state coffers was also on the agenda. These days, taxing sin often reflects the same dynamic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IMAGNO/AUSTRIAN ARCHIVES -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EXCISE TAX (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PROSTITUTION (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); SALES TAX (77%); SMOKING (75%); PORNOGRAPHY (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (69%); INCOME TAX (69%); CANNABIS (68%); LAWYERS (68%); NEWS BRIEFS (65%); HISTORY (63%); GAMING (52%); JOB CREATION (50%)

COMPANY: MCDERMOTT WILL & EMERY LLP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



434 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Keep the Fed on Main Street

BYLINE: By THOMAS HOENIG. 
Thomas Hoenig is the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City.

DATELINE: Kansas City, Mo. 

 BODY:
 LAST week, I visited Santa Fe, N.M., and spoke to one of America's many Main Streets: more than 300 small-business owners, real estate developers, artists, bankers and other citizens. A good number of them, experiencing the fallout of the financial crisis and feeling the stress it put on New Mexico's banks, were angry and frustrated.
 You see, New Mexico's financial institutions were not too big to fail. They were never invited to meetings and told to accept financing from the Troubled Asset Relief Program. As a result, banks and residents of Santa Fe, like those in towns all over Middle America, have struggled mightily through this recession. It was clear that, like politics, the effects of financial crises are mostly local. 
 This explains why it undermines the very foundation of our economic system when the government decides that a financial institution is too big or too powerful to fail. The big banks and investment companies hold a significant advantage in the competition for funds (for example, from depositors and bond holders), because creditors know that they will be bailed out when a crisis occurs. This advantage has systematically undermined the competitive position of every smaller bank, and has enabled the largest banking organizations to more than double their share of industry assets since the 1990s. These trends serve neither the national economy nor communities like Santa Fe. And in the end, they are a burden on taxpayers. 
 Unfortunately, the proposal for regulatory reform now before the Senate does not eliminate the concept of too-big-to-fail, and it deliberately narrows the central bank's focus to Wall Street alone. This undermines reform in at least two important ways. 
 First, the decision to close a large financial firm that is failing would depend on the Treasury Department's petitioning a panel of three United States Bankruptcy Court judges for approval to place the firm in receivership with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The panel would have 24 hours to make a decision, and if it turned down the petition, the Treasury could re-file and subsequent appeals could be considered. So a decision to put the firm in receivership might not be timely enough under the circumstances. And experience tells us that the urgency of the moment would likely motivate politically sensitive officials to simply pursue a bailout. 
 Instead, the new law should require that any institution deemed insolvent, based on an established, objective set of criteria, be placed into receivership and resolved in an orderly fashion -- just as banks on Main Street are.
 Second, the proposed financial reform legislation would significantly narrow the supervisory role of the Federal Reserve, so that it would oversee only the very largest institutions, most of which are headquartered in New York City. Congress established the Federal Reserve System in 1913 with 12 banks in a federated structure, like our political system, so that it would include regional perspectives to counterbalance the influence of Wall Street and Washington. To now narrow the Fed's supervision to just the largest banks would be to devalue those broader perspectives. The Federal Reserve would no longer be the central bank of the United States, but only the central bank of Wall Street. 
 The flawed logic of this proposed change is that only the biggest firms are systemically important; that only they require the contingency lending that the Fed provides at its discount window; that only they will be involved in future crises; and that overseeing these firms is sufficient to provide the ''macro-prudential supervision'' the central bank's charter requires. By this reasoning, the 6,700 other banks and the communities they serve are of no immediate consequence to the mission of the Federal Reserve. 
 Who outside of Wall Street can legitimately support such thinking? As a commissioned examiner and head of supervision in the Fed's Kansas City district in the 1980s, I am a veteran of financial crises involving energy, real estate and agriculture in the Midwest and West. I can say with confidence that a regional financial crisis and its accompanying loss of jobs is just as harmful as the current Wall Street crisis has been for communities like Santa Fe. 
 Because the Federal Reserve supervises banks and bank holding companies of all sizes, it is able to address regional as well as national banking problems when they erupt. In addition, I and other Fed presidents can take information about regional financial and economic conditions into monetary policy discussions. 
 Without the Fed seeing the view from every corner of America, without every bank knowing it will be treated the same, the Federal Reserve cannot do its job and direct the same attention to the smallest firms as the largest. It cannot serve Main Street. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); PETITIONS (85%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); POLITICS (74%); BONDS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (67%); JUDGES (62%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (64%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (94%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



435 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PREOCCUPATIONS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Debunking The Myths Of the Telecommute

BYLINE: By SYLVIA MARINO. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen. E-mail: preoccupations@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I'M executive director of community operations at Edmunds.com, which provides information to car buyers, sellers and drivers. I lead the team that develops systems and policies for anyone submitting comments, reviews and questions to the site. My team also works with engineering to decide how parts of the site should appear to users -- the forums, the car and dealership reviews, blogs and the question-and-answer area.
 I've been telecommuting since I started with this company over 10 years ago. Going from reporting to an office before I joined Edmunds to working at home has been an evolution. I started in the financial services industry and wore a suit and heels every day. When I moved to the software industry, I wore jeans and flip-flops to work and brought my dog along with me. If she barked once in a while, it was no big deal. 
 I still get up, shower and get dressed in the morning as if I'm going to work. It's important to have structure and routine. I also don't like the thought of neighbors or the FedEx person seeing me in pajamas when I get the mail or a delivery. Now, if I'm on a conference call and my dog barks, I apologize, lead her out of my office and shut the door.
 My children are 4, 7, and 9. I learned early not to tell anyone at their schools that I work at home, because some people think you can take time off at will. This way, no one can expect I will automatically chaperon field trips or take traffic duty at school in the morning. I do volunteer at the school as my schedule permits -- just as other working parents do. 
 My children know that Mommy is working when they come home from school. They come to the office door to say hello -- the way parents get phone calls at the office when their kids get home from school. When I have my headset on, they know I'm on the phone. On the rare occasions when they really need me, they'll mouth a question or use pantomime to communicate. Sometimes they try so hard to make me understand what they want that it's hard to keep from laughing.
 I couldn't imagine working in an office again. I joke that I'd be unemployable if I had to show up at the office on a daily basis. I like visiting our office and catching up with colleagues. But when I'm there I have a list of things I need to discuss with people, and I get right to the heart of it. I'm sure that I come across as intense to people who haven't known me that long, but I typically have a long list of items. My goal is to maximize my in-office time. 
 I like the peace and quiet at home and the ability to work uninterrupted. I always found the conversations in the office distracting. I multitask well and get more done in several hours at home than I ever did over several days in the office. Sometimes I glance at the clock and four hours have gone by.
 Some telecommuters say it gets lonely, but I'd say a bigger problem for most of this group is feeling that they always have to be available. If I call people at the office and the phone goes to voice mail, I figure that they've stepped away from their desk for a minute or are in a meeting. But if someone calls me, I feel that I'm expected to pick up the phone within three rings -- no matter what time of day or night.
 People think that I'm always at my desk. But I have conference calls and meetings, just as my colleagues in the office do, and I get up to get coffee or grab lunch, too. I don't ever want to be perceived as holding up people's work because they can't reach me, so I make sure to get back to everyone as soon as I can.
 There was a day when people thought you had all kinds of free time if you worked from home. There's still some of that stigma, but the remote workers I know have strict accountability. None of us would last long if we weren't really working when we were supposed to.
 Some telecommuters say office workers complain about a communication problem with remote workers. I say that's an excuse. The real problem for people in the office is that they can't get up and walk over to your desk. But there's no reason they can't pick up the phone or send an instant message.
 EDMUNDS has a telecommuting policy. People know what's required and what to expect, and it helps them figure out if they're good candidates for a role that lets them work from home. If they need a lot of direction, they probably won't do well.
 Successful telecommuters are self-starters and can manage their time. Many, like me, are list-oriented. If you thrive on working face to face with colleagues, you'll do better in the office.
 It's hard to believe, but some people still don't understand telecommuting. For example, I shop online a lot because it saves time, and some of my relatives know that. I'm constantly online for my job, too, and I think one of them is confused. He once said he thought I didn't really work but spent my days chatting and shopping online. 
 It would be nice to be paid to shop all day, but I'm not that lucky. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sylvia Marino, 39, with her son Harry, 7, in Mill Valley, Calif. She telecommutes at Edmunds.com, which is based in Santa Monica, 350 miles away. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUTING (91%); CHILDREN (89%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



436 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Just Doing It

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: St. Louis 

 BODY:
 You've heard that saying: As General Motors goes, so goes America. Thank goodness that is no longer true. I mean, I wish the new G.M. well, but our economic future is no longer tied to its fate. No, my new motto is: As EndoStim goes, so goes America.
 EndoStim is a little start-up I was introduced to on a recent visit to St. Louis. The company is developing a proprietary implantable medical device to treat acid reflux. I have no idea if the product will succeed in the marketplace. It's still in testing. What really interests me about EndoStim is how the company was formed and is being run today. It is the epitome of the new kind of start-ups we need to propel our economy: a mix of new immigrants, using old money to innovate in a flat world. 
 Here's the short version: EndoStim was inspired by Cuban and Indian immigrants to America and funded by St. Louis venture capitalists. Its prototype is being manufactured in Uruguay, with the help of Israeli engineers and constant feedback from doctors in India and Chile. Oh, and the C.E.O. is a South African, who was educated at the Sorbonne, but lives in Missouri and California, and his head office is basically a BlackBerry. While rescuing General Motors will save some old jobs, only by spawning thousands of EndoStims -- thousands -- will we generate the kind of good new jobs to keep raising our standard of living.
 It all started by accident. Dr. Raul Perez, an obstetrician and gynecologist, immigrated to America from Cuba in the 1960s and came to St. Louis, where he met Dan Burkhardt, a local investor. ''Raul was unique among doctors,'' recalled Burkhardt. ''He had a real nose for medical investing and what could be profitable in a clinical environment. So we started investing together.'' In 1997, they created a medical venture fund, Oakwood Medical Investors.
 Perez had a problem with acid reflux and went for treatment to the Mayo Clinic in Arizona, where he was helped by an Indian-American doctor, V. K. Sharma. During his follow-ups, Dr. Sharma mentioned those four words every venture capitalist loves to hear: ''I have an idea'' -- use a pacemaker-like device to control the muscle that would choke off acid reflux. 
 Burkhardt, Perez and Sharma were joined by Bevil Hogg -- a South African and one of the early founders of the Trek Bicycle Corporation -- who became C.E.O. Together, they raised the initial funds to develop the technology. Two Israelis, Shai Pollicker, a medical engineer, and Dr. Edy Soffer, a prominent gastroenterologist, joined a Seattle-based engineering team (led by an Australian) to help with the design. A company in Uruguay specializing in pacemakers is building the prototype. 
 This kind of very lean start-up, where the principals are rarely in the same office at the same time, and which takes advantage of all the tools of the flat world -- teleconferencing, e-mail, the Internet and faxes -- to access the best expertise and low-cost, high-quality manufacturing anywhere, is the latest in venture investing. You've heard of cloud computing. I call this ''cloud manufacturing.'' 
 ''In the aftermath of the banking crisis, access to public markets is off-limits to start-ups,'' explained Hogg, so start-ups now have to be ''much leaner, much more capital-efficient, much smarter in accessing worldwide talent and quicker to market in order to do more with less.'' He added, ''$20 million is the new $100 million.'' 
 And technology is making this all possible. Chris Anderson of Wired Magazine pointed this out in a smart essay in February's issue, entitled ''Atoms Are the New Bits.''
 '' 'Three guys with laptops' used to describe a Web startup,' '' he wrote. ''Now it describes a hardware company, too'' thanks to ''the availability of common platforms, easy-to-use tools, Web-based collaboration, and Internet distribution. ... Global supply chains have become scale-free, able to serve the small as well as the large, the garage inventor and Sony.''
 The clinical trials for EndoStim are being conducted in India and Chile. ''What they have in common,'' said Hogg, ''is superb surgeons with high levels of skill, enthusiasm for the project, an interest in research and reasonable costs.'' This is also part of the new model, said Hogg: Invented and financed in the West, further developed and tested in the East and rolled out in both markets.
 What's in it for America? As long as the venture money, core innovation and the key management comes from here -- a lot. If EndoStim works out, its tiny headquarters in St. Louis will grow much larger. St. Louis is where the best jobs -- top management, marketing, design -- and shareholders will be, said Hogg. Where innovation is sparked and capital is raised still matters.
 You don't hear much about companies like this. Our national debate today is dominated by the ignorant ramblings of Sarah Palin, talk-show lunatics, tea parties and politics as sports -- not ESPN but PSPN. Fortunately, though, we still have risk-takers who are not paying attention to any of this nonsense, who know what world they're living in -- and are just doing it. Thank goodness! 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); MEDICAL DEVICES (76%); GASTROENTEROLOGY (75%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%)

COMPANY: TREK BICYCLE CORP (61%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); RIM (TSX) (54%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (61%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); URUGUAY (91%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



437 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: This Bailout Is a Bargain? Think Again

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
IT'S way too early to tally the costs of the government's various efforts to help our nation's financial institutions survive the credit debacle. But that hasn't stopped anonymous Treasury officials from claiming in recent days that their Armageddon-avoidance will wind up costing far less than many feared. 
 One Treasury estimate, leaked to The Wall Street Journal last week, put a price tag of $89 billion on the financial bailout. That's far below the $250 billion the Congressional Budget Office estimated last year or other analyses that put the all-in number at $1 trillion or more.
 It is understandable, of course, that Treasury might want to transmit good news about bailouts the same week Americans were rushing to meet the I.R.S.'s tax deadline. And given that Treasury is run by Timothy F. Geithner, the man who doled out bailout billions as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, his current minions certainly have an interest in peddling the view that the price of these rescues has become less onerous. 
 But before we break out the Champagne, let's look at the costs this estimate included -- as well as those it left out. 
 What the $89 billion included were costs associated with stabilizing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance giants; loan guarantees by the Federal Housing Administration; and liquidity programs offered by the Federal Reserve, such as those authorizing the purchase of mortgage-backed securities from financial institutions. It also included the Troubled Asset Relief Program -- which, nameless Treasury officials contended, may someday generate a profit.
 But if the Treasury wants to provide a full assessment of the costs of this financial debacle, it will have to add some more beads to its abacus.
 ''If you are going to do a ledger, you have to do a full and complete ledger,'' said Christopher Whalen, editor of the Institutional Risk Analyst. ''To talk about making money on short-term transactions with the TARP while you have this huge cost to the nation is incongruous.''
 A major factor missing from Treasury's math is the vast transfer of wealth to banks from investors resulting from the Fed's near-zero interest-rate policy. 
 This number is not easy to calculate, but it is enormous. The Fed's rock-bottom interest-rate policy bestows huge benefits on banks because it allows them to earn fat profits on the spread between what they pay for their deposits and what they reap on their loans. These margins are especially rich on credit cards, given their current average rate of 14 percent and up. 
 The losers in this equation are savers and investors, especially people on fixed incomes. ''All interest-sensitive investors have been transferring what they should be receiving to Uncle Sam and the banking industry,'' Mr. Whalen said. ''And you are talking about a lot of money.''
 Then there are the losses suffered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation when it has to take over faltering institutions. The estimated cost to its insurance fund is $6.65 billion for the 43 banks that have failed this year. The fund is financed by bank fees. 
 Treasury's recent figures also don't reflect hits that may result from loss-sharing arrangements the F.D.I.C. set up with healthy banks to persuade them to take on the assets of failing ones. How much the government might have to swallow as part of that program is unknowable now, but Mr. Whalen said he expects such losses to hit $400 billion when all is said and done. 
 There are also costly consequences of our government's relatively easygoing approach to bank assistance, a practice Mr. Whalen calls ''extend and pretend.'' 
 ''The refusal of the Washington political class to address the issue of bank insolvency quickly via restructuring and recapitalization has extended the economic recovery process by years,'' he said. ''Lending will continue to shrink and real economic activity is suffering. The cost of 'extend and pretend' goes into the trillions of dollars of lost economic activity.''
 By allowing the banks to keep bad loans valued on their books at unrealistic levels, the government has prolonged the agony of this downturn. Mr. Whalen suggested that the government should have made the banks write down loans to realistic levels a long time ago, while letting them keep the TARP money as a financial cushion. 
 Instead, the banks were encouraged to pay back TARP and put off the day of reckoning when it came to assessing the real-world value of the toxic assets lurking on their books. And so the shrinkage of the banking system continues. 
 Of course, the $89 billion estimate also excludes big costs associated with the implied government guarantees of large, interconnected and clubby financial institutions. Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington, estimated last year that 18 large banks that the market viewed as too big to fail received advantages -- such as artificially cheap funding costs -- worth $34 billion a year. 
 Such financial benefits represent yet another cost of the banking crisis and the continuing actions the government is taking to protect our system from the mistakes of megabanks. Even if Treasury doesn't want to acknowledge them, they're real. 
 ANDREW G. HALDANE, executive director for financial stability at the Bank of England, examined some of these costs in an excellent speech last month before the Institute of Regulation and Risk in Hong Kong. Calling such costs ''banking pollution'' and the ''noxious byproduct'' of systemic risk, Mr. Haldane took a stab at measuring some of them. 
 In past financial crises, Mr. Haldane noted, costs appeared to be ''large and long-lived, often in excess of 10 percent of pre-crisis G.D.P.'' But he said that current estimates in the United States that peg bailout losses at around $100 billion represent less than 1 percent of domestic output. (This is the relatively rosy view Treasury is promoting.)
 He said low-ball accountings ''are almost certainly an underestimate of the damage to the wider economy'' as a result of the crisis. World output last year was thought to have been 6.5 percent lower than it might have been had the crisis not occurred. Globally, this translates to $4 trillion in lost output, he said.
 He also says such losses can be ''permanent'' or ''persistent.''
 ''Measures of the costs of crisis, or the implicit subsidy from the state,'' Mr. Haldane said, ''suggest banking pollution is a real and large social problem.'' 
 Sadly, it is one that our leaders here at home seem more willing to underplay than control. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BUDGETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (70%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



438 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DIGITAL DOMAIN; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Two Billion Laptops? It May Not Be Enough

BYLINE: By RANDALL STROSS. 
Randall Stross is an author based in Silicon Valley and a professor of business at San Jose State University. E-mail: stross@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ONE LAPTOP PER CHILD is a nonprofit group that thinks big. Since 2007, it has sold inexpensive but rugged laptop computers to the governments of less-developed countries. The goal is to equip each of the two billion children in the developing world with his or her own computer.
 It's been slow going. About 1.6 million of the group's laptops have been distributed to date, said Matt Keller, vice president for global advocacy at the O.L.P.C. Foundation, based in Cambridge, Mass. Today, the largest concentrations are in Uruguay, at around 400,000, and Peru, at 280,000, followed by Rwanda (110,000) and Haiti and Mongolia (15,000 each). 
 In 2006, the O.L.P.C. Web site pitched its laptop as a technology that ''could revolutionize how we educate the world's children.'' Today, the ''R'' word is gone. Now the site speaks in more muted language of ''developing an essential resource -- educated, empowered children.''
 ''The biggest obstacle to our spreading the dream is cost,'' Mr. Keller said.
 Ninety percent of the machines have been paid for by the recipient countries' governments, whose resources are extremely limited. I asked Mr. Keller if project leaders had reconsidered the ''per child'' part of the program. ''One Laptop Per Classroom'' certainly doesn't have the same ring, to be sure, but it would better diffuse the benefits in the short term, helping a greater share of those almost two billion children who have not been reached.
 He said that such a change was out of the question.
 ''One-on-one, child-to-laptop -- the interactive nature of that experience is the heart of what we do,'' he said. 
 When a child owns a laptop, he added, the school day is effectively extended from a few hours to 12 to 14 hours -- however long the child is awake, and wherever he or she happens to be.
 Some Microsoft researchers in India have investigated how to give those same children better use of PCs that are already in place, even though one machine is shared by many. In one project, Microsoft's programmers developed software that added multiple cursors on the screen, each controlled by a separate mouse. Software written for the paradigm allows students to compete or collaborate on multiple-choice questions. It was well received in schools, and Microsoft turned it into a free product called MultiPoint.
 ''We jokingly call it 'One Mouse Per Child,' '' said Kentaro Toyama, who led the project while he spent five years in the Technology for Emerging Markets group at Microsoft Research India.
 Mr. Toyama, who received a computer-science doctorate at Yale, left Microsoft last December and is now a research fellow at the School of Information at the University of California, Berkeley. He has been giving talks at American universities about the ''technological utopianism'' that he sees in initiatives like One Laptop Per Child, Intel's Classmate PC, and even MultiPoint. He says such initiatives rest upon a myth that ''technology is the bottleneck in developing countries.'' 
 Lots of other things are bottlenecks, too, he says -- including institutional limitations, economics, the basic service infrastructure and politics. Nor is technology synonymous with education. 
 ''Initially, we had the idea that PCs could make up for teacher absenteeism or poor training,'' he said. ''But studies of PCs in schools are mixed, at best. Most show that a good school with good teachers can do positive things with PCs, but that PCs don't fix bad schools.''
 Describing technological utopianism, he said, ''What it comes down to is this: Everybody is looking for a shortcut.''
 Mr. Keller said of Mr. Toyama's remarks: ''There is no silver bullet, he's right.'' But Mr. Keller argued that literacy skills and access to information were prerequisites for economic and political growth and that ''technology can help foster these things.''
 Among the infrastructure problems that the Microsoft research team saw in rural India was unreliable electrical power. It spurred another Microsoft research project that provided farmers in one district with cellphones that supplied the same information via text messaging that the farmers had obtained from PC centers.
 Many O.L.P.C. laptops are equipped with solar panels that can recharge the machine in three hours, providing four to six hours of use. Mr. Keller said a new model would be introduced early next year that would demand much less power. The new machines will have cranks and charge quickly: a minute of cranking will yield 10 minutes of use. 
 MR. KELLER has some moving stories to tell about his visits to villages that have received laptops -- and about the natural facility with computers of children everywhere.
 ''I've been in Rwanda where the laptop was introduced into an environment where previously there had been no electronic devices,'' he said, ''and within three to four days you have 10-year-old girls and 8-year-old boys who are using the laptop as efficiently and effectively and creatively as I can.''
 He is now lobbying to secure funding from the United States government to provide an Internet-connected laptop for every child in Afghanistan. At a cost of $250 a laptop, the project would cost about $750 million.
 In Kabul, Mr. Keller said, Afghanistan's education minister told him that the project ''would allow girls to study and connect within the safety of their own homes.'' 
 It's an almost irresistible vision. But a skeptic would point to the lessons of history and say that technology never works in isolation. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Students in Tamil Nadu, India, trying a Microsoft program that allows multiple users on a single computer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UDAI SINGH PAWAR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAPTOP COMPUTERS (93%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) INDIA (91%); RWANDA (79%); HAITI (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); URUGUAY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



439 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Middle East Boyhood

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR. 
Neil MacFarquhar is the United Nations bureau chief for The Times. His latest book is ''The Media Relations Department of Hizbollah Wishes You a Happy Birthday.''

 BODY:
CROSSING MANDELBAUM GATE
 Coming of Age Between the Arabs and Israelis, 1956-1978
 By Kai Bird
 Illustrated. 424 pp. Scribner. $30
 When playing the ''conquer the world'' board game Risk as an adolescent growing up in a well-to-do Cairo suburb, Kai Bird avoided occupying the Middle East. So did his American friends. Their very surroundings schooled them in the difficulty of holding the crossroads of three continents. 
 Bird's education in the region's seemingly endless cycles of war and armistice actually began when he was 4. In 1956, his father, Eugene Bird, an adventurous sort if not a terribly worldly one, moved his young family from Oregon to East Jerusalem, where he was to begin his new job as the American vice consul. 
 The 1948 Arab-Israeli war had left the city divided in two, with soldiers, minefields and coiled barbed wire gashing an often tense cease-fire line between Palestinian East and Israeli West. The line also divided the twin pillars of Kai's life. The family's rented house stood on the Arab side, but Kai attended the Anglican Mission School across the barbed wire. So he was driven almost daily through Mandelbaum Gate, the single crossing, its name drawn from the remnants of a once splendid family villa on the spot. (Technically the ''gate'' was two facing checkpoints.)
 Ordinary Arabs and Jews could not cross, but Kai was an outsider. ''My perspective was privileged,'' he writes. The schoolboy's commute across the chasm dividing the Middle East continued in a sense through more than two decades, culminating in his marriage to Susan Goldmark, the American-born daughter of Holocaust survivors. It is Bird's various transits that inform his memoir, ''Crossing Mandelbaum Gate: Coming of Age Between the Arabs and Israelis, 1956-1978.''
 The result is a meandering family scrapbook cobbled together with an earnest, condensed history of the region during those years. It illuminates a common experience among expatriates who crisscross the Middle East without being emotionally bonded to any side. They grow frustrated that the Arabs and Israelis -- whom they come to know as two vital, charming, urbane, hospitable peoples -- cannot see past the sense of their own victimhood to accept the other as a neighbor. 
 ''Most of the time I feel like telling Jews and Arabs alike that the best thing the U.S. could do is leave them their silly pile of rocks to fight over -- for we couldn't care less,'' Bird's mother, Jerine, wrote in a letter. (Bird relies heavily on his parents' letters to reconstruct the family history.) 
 Ultimately, many foreigners do walk away, saddened that both sides would rather stunt their futures than compromise. Bird did. After leaving the Middle East, he worked as an editor at The Nation and wrote a string of biographies about major American figures, winning a Pulitzer Prize in 2006 together with Martin J. Sherwin for their book about J. Robert Oppenheimer. 
 But he was pulled back to the Middle East both by the dramatic tales of his in-laws' fleeing Nazi Austria and by nostalgia for his childhood spent among Palestinians, Saudis, Lebanese and Egyptians. Ignoring the region, he writes, was an ''abdication.''
 The Birds experienced the Middle East at a more innocent time. In 1965, Eugene was assigned to Cairo, and the family started its Egyptian sojourn with a three-week road trip in an American station wagon across North Africa from Casablanca. 
 This being the Middle East, however, each decade was punctuated by at least one major crisis. During the 1956 Suez war, Bird was evacuated from Jerusalem to Beirut, which he fondly remembers for his sudden access to hamburgers. At the start of the next war, in 1967, he was evacuated from Cairo to Greece; he packed his snorkeling gear. The United States, Bird notes, once made considerable progress in the Middle East by not hesitating to throw its weight around. The Eisenhower administration, for example, brokered a cease-fire during the Suez crisis by threatening Israel with economic sanctions. 
 Revisiting the Middle East after an extended hiatus, Bird sometimes strains to braid himself into current events. Maadi, his teenage home, he notes, was also where Ayman al-Zawahiri, Al Qaeda's second in command, was raised. Bird never met him, but writes, ''I can easily imagine myself bicycling past the 14-year-old Ayman.'' 
 Bird makes occasional mistakes. It was Tahseen Bashir, a witty Egyptian diplomat, who uttered the famous phrase that (except for his motherland) Middle Eastern countries were merely ''tribes with flags.'' Bird attributes it to former President Gamal Abdel Nasser. The Arabic for a consultative council, or majlis al-shura, is rendered incorrectly as majlis al-shurwa. 
 And while Bird covers a lot of history, sometimes he tries to do too much too quickly, resulting in groaning sentences like this one about Saudi Arabia: ''In the early morning hours of Nov. 20, 1979, some 300 to 500 extremists, led by a former national guardsman, Juhayman ibn Muhammad ibn Saif al-Uteybi, seized control of Islam's holiest shrine, the Grand Mosque of Mecca, which surrounds the Kaaba, the granite cuboidal structure draped with a black silk curtain, to which Muslims turn in prayer.'' 
 Still, Bird sprinkles his book with engaging miniature portraits of overlooked characters and events. There is George Antonius, the Jerusalem author of a seminal work, ''The Arab Awakening,'' with his utopian vision of a democratic, multiethnic Palestine with all Jews, Arabs and Christians living as equal citizens. And there is Hillel Kook, confronting the United States about rescuing Europe's Jews and then battling to keep Israel secular. Bird also recounts how the Saudi royal family ruthlessly put down a budding labor movement in the oil fields -- political suppression feeding the tumor of Muslim extremism. 
 Bird experienced the Arab world at a distance, mostly from inside the cloister of American diplomatic compounds and expatriate schools. But the final quarter of the book, devoted to his in-laws' escapes from the Nazis, gains vibrancy from his closeness to his subjects. Here the book rips along like a spy novel (even though we know how it comes out). Will Viktor Goldmark survive the war in a southern Italian internment camp or be dispatched to a more certain fate? When Helma Bluhweis uses her fluent German and Aryan looks to work as a secretary at a Luftwaffe command center in Rome, will the officers discover that she is a Jew hoping to steal authentic letterhead for the resistance? 
 By the end, the book has succeeded in explaining the perspectives of two peoples who view the Middle East conflict through different lenses. One filters it through the Holocaust, or Shoah, the other through the Nakba, the Arabic word for the disaster wrought by Israel's war of independence. Bird tells the sad twin stories of Mrs. Goldmark, his mother-in-law, being unable to reclaim her lost home in Graz, just as Dr. Vicken Kalbian, a Palestinian family friend in East Jerusalem, cannot recover his confiscated Jerusalem house. 
 These are mirror images, but the trauma engendered blocks each side from seeing its reflection in the other. What's more, Bird argues, outsiders, in Washington in particular, have exploited the conflict for their own interests rather than pursuing true reconciliation. 
 At the age of 5, Bird attended a reception with his parents at Jerusalem's landmark American Colony Hotel, where an elderly American heiress offered $1 million to anyone who could solve the Arab-Israel dispute. Tugging on his father's sleeve, he says, ''Daddy, we have to win this prize.'' Sadly, more than 50 years later, no one has. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kai Bird at Giza, above, 1958. At top, an Israeli at the Mandelbaum Gate, 1956. (PHOTOGRAPH, TOP, BY JOHN CHILLINGWORTH/PICTURE POST -- GETTY IMAGES
 ABOVE, FROM ''CROSSING MANDELBAUM GATE'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BOARD GAMES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); FAMILY (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); RELIGION (66%); HOLOCAUST (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) OREGON, USA (79%) ISRAEL (95%); EGYPT (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



440 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: For Goldman, A Deal's Stakes Keep Growing

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY and GRETCHEN MORGENSON; Graham Bowley and Jack Ewing contributed reporting.

 BODY:
For Goldman Sachs, it was a relatively small transaction. But for the bank -- and the rest of Wall Street -- the stakes couldn't be higher. 
 Accusations that Goldman defrauded customers who bought investments tied to risky subprime mortgages have only just begun to reverberate through the financial world. 
 The civil lawsuit that the Securities and Exchange Commission filed against Goldman on Friday seemed to confirm many Americans' worst suspicions about Wall Street: that the game is rigged, the odds stacked in the banks' favor. It is the first big case -- but probably not the last, legal experts said -- to delve into a Wall Street firm's role in the mortgage fiasco. 
 It is a particularly sensitive time for Wall Street. Washington policy makers are hotly debating a sweeping overhaul of the nation's financial regulations, and the news could embolden those seeking to rein in the banks. President Obama on Saturday stepped up pressure for financial reform by accusing Republicans of ''cynical and deceptive'' attacks on the measure. 
 The S.E.C.'s action could also hit Wall Street where it really hurts: the wallet. It could prompt dozens of investor claims against Goldman and other Wall Street titans that devised and sold toxic mortgage investments. 
 On Saturday, several European banks that lost money in the deal said they were reviewing the matter. They could try to recoup the money from Goldman.
 And it raises new questions about Goldman, the bank at the center of more concentric circles of economic and political power than any other on Wall Street. Goldman -- whose controversial success has leapt from the financial pages to the cover of Rolling Stone -- has fiercely defended its actions before, during and after the financial crisis. On Friday, it called the S.E.C.'s accusations ''unfounded.'' 
 Wall Street played a complex and, at times, seemingly conflicted role in the mortgage collapse. Goldman and others worked behind the scenes, bundling home loans into investments for sale to investors the world over. Even now, more than 18 months after Washington rescued the teetering financial system, no one knows for sure how much money was lost on those investments.
 The public outcry against the bank bailouts was driven in part by suspicions that a heads-we-win, tails-you-lose ethos pervades the financial industry. To many, that Goldman and others are once again minting money -- and paying big bonuses to their employees -- is evidence that Wall Street got a sweet deal at taxpayers' expense. The accusations against Goldman may only further those suspicions.
 ''The S.E.C. suit against Goldman, if proven true, will confirm to people their suspicions about the total selfishness of these financial institutions,'' said Steve Fraser, a Wall Street historian and author of ''Wall Street: America's Dream Palace.'' ''There's nothing more damaging than that. This is way beyond recklessness. This is way beyond incompetence. This is cynical, selfish exploiting.''
 On Friday, Goldman's stock took a beating, falling 13 percent and wiping out more than $10 billion of the company's market value. It was a possible sign that investors fear that the S.E.C. complaint will damage Goldman's reputation and its ability to keep its hands on so many sides of a trade -- a practice that is immensely profitable for the firm.
 It is unclear whether the S.E.C. can prevail against Goldman. The bank has long maintained that it puts its clients first and, in a letter in its latest annual report, it reiterated that position. Goldman said it never ''bet against our clients'' in its trades but rather was trying to hedge against other trading positions. 
 The transaction cited in the S.E.C. complaint cost investors just over $1 billion, relatively small by Wall Street standards.
 Still, Wall Street analysts said Goldman and other banks, having navigated the financial crisis, might now face a new kind of risk: angry investors. Most major Wall Street banks also created collateralized debt obligations, which are at the heart of the Goldman case. C.D.O.'s, which are essentially bundles of securities backed by mortgages or other debt securities, turned out to be among the most toxic investments ever devised. 
 ''Any investor who bought these C.D.O.'s and lost a significant amount of money is probably looking at their investment and wanting to know: what were the details behind the sale?'' said William Tanona, an analyst at Collins Stewart. ''Will they contact the S.E.C. and say, 'Here's the transaction we participated in, and we'd love to know who is on the other side of it?' ''
 The biggest victim among investors, the S.E.C. complaint said, was the Royal Bank of Scotland, which inherited a loss of $841 million after it took over the Dutch bank ABN Amro. According to a person briefed on the matter, the Royal Bank, now controlled by the British government, is studying the documents but is not ready to decide whether to try to recoup money from Goldman.
 The German bank IKB Deutsche Industriebank, as well as the German government, which in 2007 put up billions to prevent IKB from collapsing, still seemed to be sorting out who might have legal standing to pursue a possible claim.
 Goldman faces a dilemma in its response. Wall Street firms tend to settle cases like this one, but Goldman's statement on Friday indicated it intended to dig in its heels and fight, perhaps in part to discourage suits by investors. That strategy could set it up for a long, messy and public battle.
 The S.E.C. complaint named just one Goldman employee: Fabrice Tourre, a vice president in the bank's mortgage operation who worked on the questionable transaction. 
 But securities lawyers say Mr. Tourre appears to be a small fish. Federal investigators may try to gain his cooperation and extend their investigation to other Goldman employees. On Friday, Mr. Tourre's lawyer did not provide a comment on the complaint.
 A big question is how far up this might go. The S.E.C. said the deal in its complaint had been approved by a panel at Goldman, the Mortgage Capital Committee. 
 ''It's typical that they'd start with someone lower down on the chain and try to exert pressure on that person,'' said Bradley D. Simon of Simon & Partners, a white-collar defense lawyer in New York. ''Is it really conceivable that no one else was involved in this?'' 
 As the housing market began to fracture in 2007, senior Goldman executives began overseeing the mortgage department closely, said four former Goldman Sachs employees, who spoke on the condition they not be identified because of the sensitivity of the matter.
 Senior executives routinely visited the unit. Among them were David A. Viniar, the chief financial officer; Gary D. Cohn, then the co-president; and Pablo Salame, a sales and trading executive, these former employees said. Even Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, got involved. 
 Top executives met routinely with Dan Sparks, the head of the mortgage trading unit, who retired in spring 2008. Managers instructed several traders to sell housing-related investments. Indeed, they urged Mr. Tourre and a colleague, Jonathan Egol, to place more bets against mortgage investments, the former employees said. 
 A Goldman spokesman said Saturday that the top executives were not involved in the approval process for Abacus, the deal cited by the S.E.C., and that their involvement with the mortgage department in 2007 was related to their desire to counterbalance the positive bets on housing the banks had already made. 
 Mr. Blankfein has already been questioned by a Congressional commission about the toxic vehicles Goldman devised and sold, even as the bank realized the housing market was in trouble.
 Recent public statements made by Mr. Blankfein seem to conflict with the S.E.C. account.
 In testimony in January before the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, the panel appointed by Congress to examine the causes of the crisis, for example, he described Goldman's approach to dealing with its clients: ''Of course, we have an obligation to fully disclose what an instrument is and to be honest in our dealings, but we are not managing somebody else's money.'' 
 But the S.E.C. complaint says Goldman misled investors who bought one of the bank's Abacus deals. The bank failed to tell them the mortgage bonds underpinning the investment had been selected by a hedge fund manager who wanted to bet against the investment, the S.E.C. says. Those bonds were especially vulnerable, the commission says. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The main office of Goldman Sachs in Lower Manhattan. The company could face a drawn-out, messy and public legal battle. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS)
 A Congressional panel has questioned Lloyd Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, about some of its products. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMIN TALAIE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); LITIGATION (71%); POLITICS (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



441 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: This Rally Must Clear Some Tall Hurdles

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WITH a profit recovery in full swing -- and the first-quarter earnings reporting season under way -- the bar on Wall Street is set high. Analysts forecast that profits for companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index soared by an average of 39 percent in the first quarter, versus the period a year earlier.
 So far, many companies that have reported their results, including JPMorgan Chase and Intel, have had little difficulty clearing Wall Street's lofty hurdle. But as the earnings season continues, market strategists will be looking at the breadth of the rebound -- and how investors react to it in coming weeks. 
 Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial in Boston, points out that the last three significant pullbacks in the stock market rally began during the last three earnings reporting seasons, or just before them. Each of those sell-offs took stock prices down by at least 5 percent. 
 The most recent example was the 8 percent slide in the S.& P. 500 from Jan. 19 to Feb. 8, at the start of the earnings reporting season for the fourth quarter of 2009. Stock prices plummeted even though fourth-quarter profits tripled -- up 206 percent.
 Mr. Kleintop says he thinks the market is ''due for another 5 to 10 percent pullback as this earnings season gets under way.''
 What might prompt such a decline? For starters, there are those high expectations. 
 Mr. Kleintop says that when investors are hopeful, they tend to follow that classic investing strategy of ''buying on the rumor and selling on the news.''
 Right now, there's a growing sense of optimism that earnings will be strong. But what gives investors that feeling?
 The companies themselves have hinted at it. In the days before earnings season, it's common for companies to tell analysts whether or not they're likely to beat expectations. 
 John Butters, an earnings analyst at Thomson Reuters, noted that more often than not, companies that are likely to fall short tend to pre-announce their results, in part to lower the market's expectations.
 Historically, two companies pre-announce bad news for every company that hints at better-than-expected results to come. But at the moment, Mr. Butters said, the ratio is just 1.1 to 1 -- which means that far fewer companies than usual are preparing the market for disappointment.
 That may sound like a positive sign, but it isn't. Oddly, when the pre-announcement ratio has been this low over the last decade, it ''corresponds with a decline of about 6 percent in the S.& P. 500 during the earnings season,'' Mr. Kleintop said. It may be that without an early warning of trouble, investors become too ebullient, leading to market declines later. 
 Even if earnings don't disappoint investors, sales could. While a profit rebound began in earnest in the fourth quarter, with the tripling of those S.& P. 500 earnings, it came without much increase in overall revenue. 
 Indeed, quarterly sales per share for those earnings grew just 1 percent in the fourth quarter versus the period a year earlier, S.& P. said -- a sign that the economy wasn't improving nearly as much as the profit figures would indicate.
 ''The overall market may continue to trend higher if earnings expectations are surpassed and we get encouraging revenue-growth news,'' Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at S.& P., said in a recent report. But if the market again sees earnings growth without much gain in revenue, he said, ''investors may take some short-term money off the table.'' 
 Currently, analysts are forecasting sales growth of around 10 percent in the first quarter of 2010 over the period a year ago. 
 Finally, there's the breadth of the profit recovery. While the fourth-quarter growth was spectacular, a vast majority of it came from just one sector: financials.
 That wasn't a sign of how well financial companies performed at the end of last year. Instead, it's a reflection of how much money banks, brokerage firms and insurance companies lost in the credit crisis -- and how those losses made their modest fourth-quarter earnings look good by comparison. 
 If financial companies in the S.& P. 500 were removed from consideration, overall corporate earnings would have grown 18 percent in the fourth quarter -- not the 206 percent officially reported, according to Thomson Reuters.
 THAT'S why investors will now want to see that the broad market also had a robust profit rebound in the first quarter this year, market strategists said.
 Here too, expectations are high. Jack A. Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago, said that, excluding financial stocks, ''analysts predict year-over-year S.& P. 500-profit growth to have exceeded 27 percent in the first quarter.'' That would still be a bigger-than-average jump.
 But investors have already bid up stocks 7 percent this year. As a result, the market will most likely demand bigger and broader earnings gains to keep stock prices climbing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (72%); LPL FINANCIAL CORP (70%); INTEL CORP (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (72%); JPM (LSE) (72%); 8634 (TSE) (72%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (70%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



442 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Philosophical Waxing Eases the Ouch

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
A CLIENT'S giggles bubbled up from a treatment room at the J. Sisters Salon in Midtown, which would be nothing remarkable were the client undergoing a regular salon treatment. But the laughter came over the rip-rip-rip of muslin strips covered in hot wax that were pulling hairs from her bikini area: the woman was in the midst of a Brazilian wax.
 That the woman was laughing, not screaming, was thanks to Janea Padilha, one of the seven J. Sisters (their first names all start with J), who helped popularize the Brazilian wax in the United States. The ''Brazilian,'' as its devotees call it, is a bikini-area wax that borrows from the gynecological-exam handbook, with the waxer throwing ankles hither and thither to remove all traces of hair from the area. During the painful procedure, Ms. Padilha distracts clients with her laissez-faire brand of advice, which she has packed into a book called ''Brazilian Sexy,'' out this month. 
 She has gotten a peculiarly intimate view of a certain genus of Americans -- particularly a species of high-maintenance New Yorkers -- in the more than two decades J. Sisters has been operating. Her book is full of stories from her clients and tips for them. ''They are insecure,'' Ms. Padilha said of her clients. ''All the women, from all over the world, they are a little scared about tomorrow,'' she said.
 Well, all except Brazilians, she said. ''The Brazilian girls, they are more flexible, they are more open-minded, they are a little more, 'Let it go,' '' she said. ''The Americans are too conservative. They think too much.'' 
 As she puts it in the book, which she wrote with the author Martha Frankel, ''There's an expression in Brazil: 'You cannot dance rock 'n' roll to a samba song.' Meaning that if you dance to the right song, your life will be easier.''
 Still, it is a strange time for Ms. Padilha to be promoting her brand of Brazilian sexy, since the full-frontal bikini wax is no longer the spa treatment of the moment. She conceived of it decades ago when she was working at a salon in Brazil, she said. (The seven Padilha sisters now all work at the salon, while the seven Padilha brothers remain in Brazil.) She saw a woman in a thong bikini at the beach with errant hairs, and that inspired Ms. Padilha to try waxing the full bikini line. 
 The sisters opened their salon in 1987 and began offering Brazilian waxes soon after. The Padilhas ''were certainly the zeitgeist pushing Brazilian bikini waxes to this part of the world,'' said Marcia Kilgore, the founder of Bliss Spas, who now runs a shoe and a cosmetics company.
 As the 1990s brought a culture of excess, the once-shocking Brazilian became de rigueur for Manhattan women. It started to gain celebrity fans like Naomi Campbell, and it was featured as a central point in a 2000 ''Sex and the City'' episode. 
 But 9/11 spurred a rethinking of the materialistic life. ''Sex and the City'' ended in 2004, taking everyday talk about waxing regimens with it. By 2007, even the male version of the Brazilian was popular enough that the Vanity Fair writer Christopher Hitchens underwent one in a self-improvement effort. ''The combined effect was like being tortured for information that you do not possess,'' he wrote. (In an e-mail message, he declined to expound further on the experience, but noted that ''it's not as if I went back for a repeat performance.'')
 By the time the 2008 recession hit, the Brazilian -- which costs $75 at J. Sisters, and requires monthly appointments -- seemed almost a relic of the bull market. 
 ''It was really well known for being a factory of a Brazilian place, but I think you need to evolve,'' Ms. Kilgore said. ''It was a national zeitgeist change.''
 And other treatments, like laser hair removal and bikini-line trims, had become popular.
 ''I don't think you could sustain just Brazilian bikini waxes for a long time,'' said Alison Brod, the founder of the beauty-focused public relations firm Alison Brod Public Relations, who worked on the J. Sisters account early on. ''Then the wave of laser came in, and that sort of surpassed Brazilians, then the crest and waves of what people decide they want in fashion regarding bikini waxes. I think that was tough.''
 Ms. Padilha said that her clients cut back last year and that the salon began offering discounts. ''Every business was affected,'' she said. 
 On a recent afternoon, the salon was hardly bustling. In the post-lunch lull, a few women stopped in for quick waxing sessions, while idle hairstylists colored and cut one another's hair. The salon, in a brownstone on 57th Street, could have used a fresh coat of paint on the ceilings. (It will soon open a branch in Chelsea, in the former church-turned-Limelight-nightclub space that is now becoming a marketplace.) 
 Ms. Padilha, though, was booked for the afternoon. ''Hellooo!'' she called in accented English to arriving clients as she did a little dance past the reception desk. Ms. Padilha, 55, is barely five feet tall in platform heels. She wears little makeup and usually pulls her black hair into a ponytail. She likes all-white outfits, which help hide the talcum powder that gets on her clothes during waxes, and she is warmly intense -- perhaps necessary when she spends her days talking to naked-from-the-waist-down customers.
 There are still die-hard J. Sisters devotees. Alysha Rampersad, an executive assistant, was laid off from Bank of America in January 2009 but continued her monthly Brazilian waxes, which have been a ritual since 2001, even before landing a new job. ''It was the one monthly regimen that I will not sacrifice,'' she said.
 Roseanne Martin splits her time between Philadelphia and Montecito, Calif., but still keeps monthly appointments at the salon, where head therapy seems to be part of the package. ''They're really wise,'' she said of the sisters. ''I've been through breakups and marriages and deaths, and you come here and they sense things.'' 
 For all the real-life concerns of her clients, the stories in Ms. Padilha's book are those of women in gilded cages of their own design. It's rarely troubles about, say, mortgages or jobs, but about fading looks and private-school admissions.
 Ms. Padilha's advice tends to fall into two categories. Category One: stop worrying, and accept who and what you are. Category Two: if you can't accept it, fake it. The tips in Ms. Padilha's book include going to dinner alone but acting as if you're meeting someone, or imagining everyone on the street is blind and thus can't see or judge you. 
 Back in the treatment room, Ms. Padilha sent off her waxing client with a spray of Sea Breeze (to close her pores) and some final advice: ''Try to live -- today. Tomorrow is another day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NOT A TRACE: Janea Padilha of J. Sisters Salon, one of seven sisters who helped popularize the Brazilian wax in this country. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAIR STYLING SERVICES (90%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%); WRITERS (72%); POP & ROCK (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



443 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: Knowing the Score

 BODY:
Students and universities alike want a piece of this glitzy industry and the big bucks that seem to go along with it. But come diploma time, fantasy meets reality. ''It's not for fans,'' warns Matt Winkler, associate dean of Georgetown University's sports management program. ''It's not a hobby.'' Is it for you? 
 JOB MARKET Even established programs are having trouble placing graduates in jobs. It's not just the recession. Too many schools are turning out too many graduates looking to fill too few jobs in an industry that runs lean. Glenn Wong, who led the University of Massachusetts program for 11 years, counsels prospective students to do a reality check before investing at least $50,000 (out-of-state tuition for his university's dual master's in sports management and business administration). ''Figure out what you want to do in sports and the likelihood that you can really do it,'' Mr. Wong says. Teamworkonline.com is the go-to site for jobs, but internships and networking are usually critical to getting hired.
 RETURN ON INVESTMENT A newly minted M.B.A. in the sports field earns about $35,000 -- less than half what a counterpart earns elsewhere.
 JOB DESCRIPTION Mr. Wong's book, ''The Comprehensive Guide to Careers in Sports,'' describes jobs and salaries. Jobs in the field range from ticket sales and facility management to being Mickey Loomis and assembling a Super Bowl championship team. Most positions tend toward the humdrum. Some 80 percent are in sales and marketing. The hot jobs are in technology, new-media strategies and ''moneyball,'' the evaluation of player statistics for recruiting and game strategy.
 WHERE TO TRAIN Industry leaders are UMass, Ohio University, the University of Oregon and the University of Central Florida, where every student has tuition covered by scholarship or graduate assistantships.
 Programs have also cropped up to provide fast-track or part-time entree into the field: Georgetown, New York University and Columbia University boast big-name faculty members and easy pipelines to internships with D.C. and New York teams. Columbia aims its program at young sports professionals looking to advance.
 Those who work in sports advise caution. ''I feel bad for students coming out now,'' says Haynes Hendrickson, senior vice president at the market-research company Turnkey Sports. ''Sports management tends to be a sexy degree.'' And many programs are put together ''just to bring students to the school,'' he says. ''They are not preparing them for the business.''
 The North American Society for Sport Management lists programs at nassm.com, with a stamp of approval to those meeting curriculum standards (caveat: the review is voluntary, and not all universities seek it).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (79%); CURRICULA (79%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (79%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (74%); TICKET SALES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (63%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (63%); FACILITIES MANAGEMENT (50%)

COMPANY: TECTONIC NETWORK INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



444 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Volcanic Ash Hobbles Travel for Third Day as Europe Fears Broader Impact

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and JACK EWING; Steven Erlanger reported from Paris, and Jack Ewing from Frankfurt. Reporting was contributed by Julia Werdigier from London, Nadim Audi from Paris, Nicolas Kulish from Warsaw, Bettina Wassener from Hong Kong, Ian Urbina from Washington, and Liz Robbins and Donald G. McNeil Jr. from New York.

 BODY:
PARIS -- As an increasingly large part of European airspace was shut down for the third day on Saturday and the towering fountain of ash from an Icelandic volcano showed no signs of letting up, questions about the long-term impact of the eruption were being raised in a continent trying to recover from recession.
 With airports closed from Ireland to Ukraine, officials expressed hope that some air travel could resume Sunday, or possibly Monday, but the workings of Iceland's volcano were too mysterious to make rational predictions about it. Winds pushed the particulate ash farther south and east on Saturday, as far as northern Italy.
 About 17,000 flights were canceled Saturday, and travelers scrambled to find accommodation or land routes home during what is already the worst disruption in international air travel since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, when all air travel in and out of the United States was halted for three days. 
 While the closing of the airways has already laid waste to the immediate plans and business of industry, the arts and world leaders, the possibility that it could drag on for days, if not weeks, is raising concerns about the longer term consequences for public health, military operations and the world economy.
 The disaster is estimated to be costing airlines $200 million a day, but the economic damage will roll through to farms, retail establishments and nearly any other business that depends on air cargo shipments. Fresh produce will spoil, and supermarkets in Europe, used to year-round supplies, will begin to run out.
 But unless flights are disrupted for weeks, threatening factories' supply chains, economists do not think the crisis will significantly affect gross domestic product. 
 ''If it really drags on another week that could be really serious,'' said Peter Westaway, chief economist for Europe at the Nomura investment bank. The air travel shutdown could affect productivity, he said, if hundreds of thousands of people miss work or are not able to do business because they are stuck in limbo somewhere.
 He would know. He was speaking by cellphone from Tokyo where he was watching British soccer on a barroom TV at 3 a.m. and waiting for news of when he might be able to get back to his office in London.
 ''We don't understand how interconnected we are until you can't do it anymore,'' he said.
 The shutdown has also affected American military operations. Military supplies for operations in Afghanistan have been disrupted, and a spokeswoman for the Pentagon said that all medical evacuation flights from Iraq and Afghanistan to Germany, where most injured soldiers are typically treated, were being diverted directly to Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland.
 Within the European Command, some routine resupply missions and movement of personnel missions have been diverted or delayed, she said.
 The World Health Organization issued an advisory saying that as long as the ash remains in the upper atmosphere, there is not likely to be increased health risk. So far, analysis of the ash shows that about a quarter of the particles are smaller than 10 microns, making them more dangerous because they can penetrate more deeply into the lungs, the W.H.O. said. 
 In Britain, where a layer of fine dust is already covering large areas of the country, the authorities are advising those with respiratory problems to stay indoors or wear masks out of doors.
 But experts said most people had no reason to be alarmed. Dr. Neil W. Schluger, chief scientific officer for the World Lung Foundation, said people with asthma or lung disease could stay indoors or wear a mask to avoid irritation, but that there was little real danger, especially with the ash falling so far from the source.
 ''The bottom line,'' said Dr. Ronald G. Crystal, chief of pulmonology at New York Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Hospital, ''is there's no longterm health effect from volcanic ash.''
 International transportation, however, was still what the front page of the French newspaper Le Parisien called ''La Grande Pagaille'' -- the big mess.
 Europe's three largest airports -- London Heathrow, Frankfurt and Paris-Charles de Gaulle -- were all shut on Saturday, with officials hoping that flights could resume sometime on Sunday or, more likely, Monday. Britain, France, Germany and Ireland banned most commercial air traffic for another day. Airports in northern Italy were closed on Saturday. European airlines said that up to 70 percent of flights scheduled for Saturday were canceled as backlogs increased. .
 The ash cloud was also wreaking havoc on sporting events and concerts as athletes and musicians canceled appearances.
 It also scuttled routine diplomacy, an effect most evident in the dwindling guest list of dignitaries planning to attend the state funeral on Sunday for President Lech Kaczynski of Poland and his wife, who died in a plane crash last week. On Saturday, at least a dozen delegations canceled plans to attend, including those of President Obama, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Prince Charles of Britain.
 President Valdis Zatlers of Latvia embarked Saturday on a 14-hour car trip so he could attend.
 Mrs. Merkel had to spend Friday night in Lisbon after returning from the United States. She made it to Rome on Saturday and was expected to continue her journey by bus after spending the night in northern Italy, The Associated Press reported.
 European finance ministers, meeting in Madrid, cut short sessions and press conferences to try to get home. Hotel cars were charging $5,600 to drive to Paris, according to Reuters, while journalists were being offered a bus ride to Brussels.
 The airline industry was the first economic casualty. Steve Lott, a spokesman for the International Air Transport Association, said that with the conservative estimate of a $200 million loss in revenue per day, ''we could easily hit a billion dollars' loss in revenue next week.''
 ''The bottom line is that it could not have happened at a more difficult time for airlines that are trying to climb out of the global recession,'' he said. ''It's been that way, many airlines feel like they take one step forward, two steps back.''
 At Air France, Herve Erschler, a company spokesman, sounded exhausted. ''We don't know exactly how many of our flights got canceled,'' he admitted, ''but I can tell you that right now there is literally no traffic.''
 Even FedEx abandoned its pledge to absolutely, positively get it there overnight, if ''there'' meant northern Europe. More than 100 FedEx flights have been rerouted, diverted or canceled, said Carla Boyd, a company spokeswoman. She said 15 airports that FedEx serves directly have been closed.
 At least one major airline, Lufthansa, expressed frustration at what it suggested was excessive caution by the German authorities, who kept every German airport closed to air traffic for a second day. Amelie Schwierholz, a Lufthansa spokeswoman in Frankfurt, said the company had flown a large jet from Munich to Frankfurt on Saturday without passengers but without incident, although at a lower altitude than normal. 
 But German officials defended their decision. ''What's more important, the safety of passengers or business?'' asked Helmut Malewski, a meteorologist at the German Weather Service. ''No one knows how to deal with this situation. We're erring on the side of safety.''
 So was British Airways, which canceled all flights until Monday morning, and Asian airlines, which canceled flights in and out of Europe. Cathay Pacific said it would stop taking such reservations for several days, while Qantas encouraged ''customers who have somewhere to stay to remain where they are.''
 The volcano, meanwhile, continued to defy predictions. Clive Oppenheimer, a volcanologist at the University of Cambridge, said the average span of a volcanic eruption is a month or two. In the case of Iceland's Eyjafjallajokull volcano, he said, scientists need to know more about how much molten rock is beneath it, but concluded, ''We could see intermittent activity over the coming months.''
 But Leo Liao, a Hong Kong businessman who was stranded at the Frankfurt airport, was cheerful and philosophical. ''It's a natural issue,'' he said. ''Never complain. You can't change this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: People waited Saturday in London for Eurostar tickets after the cancellation of most flights. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOLCANIC ASH CLOUDS (90%); 2010 ICELANDIC VOLCANO ERUPTION (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); AIRPORTS (76%); AIRLINES (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); AIR FORCES (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); MILITARY BASES (72%); AIR FREIGHT (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); TERRORISM (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (67%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); SOCCER (50%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%) MARYLAND, USA (91%) EUROPE (94%); ICELAND (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (92%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



445 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 3015 words

HEADLINE: An Open Mind

BYLINE: By KATIE HAFNER. 
Katie Hafner, co-author of ''Where Wizards Stay Up Late: The Origins of the Internet,'' writes about the Internet and society from San Francisco.

 BODY:
At 83, Marian C. Diamond has been teaching anatomy at the University of California, Berkeley, for 50 years. Her class is so popular that it's difficult for students to get in, though she holds court at the campus's largest lecture hall, with room for 736.
 She begins by opening a colorful hatbox. Dressed in an elegant suit and scarf with her hair swept back into a chignon, Professor Diamond pulls on a pair of latex gloves and reveals the box's contents: a human brain. It is in alcohol, she says, ''because alcohol will preserve the brain. Need I say more?'' The students laugh as they take this in. She has the room in the palm of her hands. 
 Professor Diamond is one of the tweedy celebrities of cyberspace. Videos of her anatomy course, Integrative Biology 131, have been viewed nearly 1.5 million times on YouTube, where they have been available since 2005 to anyone with an Internet connection. Some of the world's foremost scholars are up there for viewing, tuition free. From Yale, you can tune into an economics class by a professor with his own home-price index, Robert Shiller, or a course by the Milton scholar John Rogers. The undisputed rock star academic is Walter H. G. Lewin of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who flies across the room to demonstrate that a pendulum swings no faster or slower when there is an added mass (Professor Lewin) hanging at the end.
 A decade has passed since M.I.T. decided to give much of its course materials to the public in an act of largesse. The M.I.T. OpenCourseWare Initiative helped usher in the ''open educational resources'' movement, with its ethos of sharing knowledge via free online educational offerings, including podcasts and videos of lectures, syllabuses and downloadable textbooks. The movement has also helped dislodge higher education from its brick-and-mortar moorings.
 ''Everyone is in one way or another doing O.E.R. today,'' says Roger C. Schonfeld, research manager at Ithaka S+R, a nonprofit service that helps academic institutions use technology for research and teaching.
 If the mission of the university is the creation of knowledge (via research) and the dissemination of knowledge (via teaching and publishing), then it stands to reason that giving that knowledge away fits neatly with that mission. And the branding benefits are clear.
 The Open University, the distance-learning behemoth based in England, has vastly increased its visibility with open courses, which frequently show up in the Top 5 downloads on Apple's iTunes U, a portal to institutions' free courseware as well as marketing material. The Open University's free offerings have been downloaded more than 16 million times, with 89 percent of those downloads outside the U.K., says Martin Bean, vice chancellor of the university. Some 6,000 students started out with a free online course before registering for a paid online course.
 In December, iTunes U itself surpassed the 100 million download mark.
 Undoubtedly, open educational resources have given higher education unprecedented reach.
 So, a decade in, what has it taught us?
 This is not an idle question.
 Open course material on the Internet may be free, but getting it there definitely isn't. The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, the principal financial backer of the open educational movement, has spent more than $110 million over the past eight years, with more than $14 million going to M.I.T. The cost of re-creating the educational experience is high. Only 33 of the 1,975 courses posted by M.I.T. have videos of lectures. Another hundred or so contain multimedia material like simulations and animations. The rest is simply text: syllabuses, class notes, reading lists, problem sets, homework assignments.
 Relying largely on money from Hewlett, Yale has spent $30,000 to $40,000 for each course it puts online. This includes the cost of the videographer, generating a transcript and providing what Diana E. E. Kleiner, who runs Open Yale Courses, calls ''quality assurance.'' By next fall, Yale will have reached its initial goal of putting up 36 courses, and has plans to add more.
 Mr. Schonfeld estimates that $150 million has been spent on open education over the past decade, and more money is coming in from other sources, including $8 million contributed last year by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
 But now the Hewlett Foundation is pushing its grant recipients to do more than just make courseware available. In a letter to grantees in February, the foundation said that the current financial climate had forced it to reduce its education grant-making budget by 40 percent since 2008, stiffening the competition. Hewlett would hew more closely to its primary goals: ''to increase access to knowledge for all and improve the practices of teaching and learning.''
 ''We think O.E.R. can be the most cost-effective way to improve education and we'd like to see continued growth and expansion,'' says Victor Vuchic, the Hewlett program officer responsible for open education. ''We'd like to see data being gathered, and see these materials being improved, and we'd like to see new models of learning.''
 Mr. Vuchic says the foundation is interested in projects that track and analyze who is using programs, look at how open education enhances learning, and examine how it is changing the future of education.
 The Educated Consumer
 M.I.T. officials like to tell about an unsolicited comment they received one day about the online course ''Introduction to Solid State Chemistry.'' ''I learned a LOT from these lectures and the other course material,'' the comment said. ''Thank you for having it online.'' The officials did a double take. It was from Bill Gates. (Really.)
 Mr. Gates, the former Microsoft chairman, is not exactly M.I.T.'s target audience. Part of its original intent was to provide teachers with the raw materials to lead a course, especially in the outer reaches of the globe. (Independent groups have translated some of M.I.T.'s courses into Chinese, Persian, Spanish, Thai and Portuguese.)
 But just 9 percent of those who use M.I.T. OpenCourseWare are educators. Forty-two percent are students enrolled at other institutions, while another 43 percent are independent learners like Mr. Gates. Yale, which began putting free courses online just four years ago, is seeing similar proportions: 25 percent are students, a majority of them enrolled at Yale or prospective students; just 6 percent are educators; and 69 percent are independent learners.
 Instructors tell heartwarming stories about where their teaching has ended up.
 Ramamurti Shankar, who has been teaching physics at Yale for more than 30 years and is one of its most popular lecturers, says he has received scores of e-mail messages, including one from a stay-at-home mother in northern Maine who lives 100 miles from the nearest campus (''Thank you again and again and again for giving me a way to expand my mind without losing my mind!'') and from a former investment banker in Spain (''Perhaps I should have pursued a physics degree'').
 Professor Shankar is working on his second semester of recorded videos, and says that the experience has improved his teaching. This time around, he is trying to liven up his lectures. As a theoretical physicist, rather than an experimental one, his lectures are not particularly visual. ''I tend to emphasize a lot of pretty ideas and the elegance of physical laws,'' he says. Professor Lewin of M.I.T., on the other hand, can wow his students with in-class demonstrations.
 So Professor Shankar has begun inserting links to specific portions of Professor Lewin's course, and, ''since any mistake would affect larger numbers of students listening online,'' he says, he thinks harder about every topic he teaches in the classroom.
 Yale's videos are single-camera cinema verite (as much for economy as style). Dressed in jeans and black Converses, Shelly Kagan, a professor of philosophy,, sits on his desk, legs crossed, and occasionally springs down from his perch to pace the room. His intense, animated ruminations -- the title of his course is ''Death'' -- have brought fan mail from Mexico, Iraq, Korea and China. Several months ago, he got a response from somebody suffering from a brain injury and who was using the lectures to exercise his mind. ''I don't think anyone knows what this will do to education 15 years from now,'' Professor Kagan says. ''But even if it does nothing more than that, that's enough.''
 Hewlett and the foundations that have followed its lead in supporting open education don't think that's enough.
 The Carnegie Mellon Approach: Doing More
 The backers of free courseware acknowledge the benefit of self-enrichment. Still, they say they expect open education not only to expand access to information but also to lead to success in higher education, particularly among low-income students and those who are first in their family to go to college.
 Joel Smith, vice provost and chief information officer at Carnegie Mellon, sums up the challenge: ''Free lectures and open syllabi and reading lists are great if the goal is enrichment for people who are already successful in formal higher education. But if the goal is to truly give access to high-quality postsecondary education to most people, well, for that you need to do a lot more.''
 Carnegie Mellon's Open Learning Initiative is working with teams of faculty members, researchers on learning and software engineers to develop e-courses designed to improve the educational experience. So far there are 10 complete courses, including logic, statistics, chemistry, biology, economics and French, which cost about $250,000 each to build. Carnegie Mellon is working with community colleges to build four more courses, with the three-year goal of 25 percent more students passing when the class is bolstered by the online instruction.
 The intended user is the beginning college student, whom Dr. Smith describes as ''someone with limited prior knowledge in a college subject and with little or no experience in successfully directing his or her own learning.''
 It works like this: Virtual simulations, labs and tutorials allow for continuous feedback that helps the student along. The student's progress is tracked step by step, and that information is then used to make improvements to the course. Several studies have shown that students learn a full semester's worth of material in half the time when the online coursework is added. More students stick with the class, too. ''We now have the technology that enables us to go back to what we all know is the best educational experience: personalized, interactive engagement,'' Dr. Smith says.
 While independent students can sense if they're learning by how well they get through questions and exercises, there are no grades and no certificates of completion. As with all open courses, students can get academic credit only if enrolled at an institution that deems to award it.
 That leaves many students without the official recognition they want.
 Kevin Carey, the policy director of Education Sector, a research institution in Washington, audited Professor Kagan's course. He enjoyed it. But in an essay in Inside Higher Ed in 2008, he wrote, ''I would like one more thing from Yale. A small thing, but an important one. I would like a grade.''
 Not only would he have liked to send in the three papers assigned and have them graded, but he also was willing to pay Yale for it. And if his grades were good enough, he would have liked credit for his new understanding of death. ''Credit that I could apply, if I wish, toward a degree at Yale, or any other institutions of higher learning that will have me,'' he wrote.
 That won't happen, and in the terms-of-use section of Open Yale Courses, the university makes that clear. Besides not granting degrees or certificates, open courses do not offer direct access to faculty. They, in other words, are strictly ''for those who wish to learn,'' as the Web site says. ''Its purpose is not to duplicate a Yale education.''
 Mr. Carey's point is that while a university is willing to share some of its lectures, the job of ensuring that a student has learned a subject -- and certifying that fact with credits and degrees -- remains Yale's province. Yale is exclusive.
 Mr. Schonfeld of Ithaka S+R agrees. ''There's no question that breaking down barriers wherever they exist is usually a good thing,'' he says. ''But you still have people who can't actually sit in the class. It's like they're up on their tiptoes peeking in the window and seeing it happening, but they still can't sit in the lecture hall as matriculated students receiving credit.''
 A Wiki New World
 Open courseware is a classic example of disruptive technology, which, loosely defined, is an innovation that comes along one day to change a product or service, often standing an industry on its head. Craigslist did this to newspapers by posting classified ads for free. And the music industry got blindsided when iTunes started unbundling songs from albums and selling them for 99 cents apiece.
 Some imagine a situation in which the bulk of introductory course materials are online, as videos or interactive environments; students engage with the material when convenient and show up only for smaller seminars. ''In an on-demand environment, they're thinking, 'Do we really need to show up face to face at 8 a.m. with 500 other students to take Psychology 101?' '' Mr. Schonfeld says.
 Some campuses are already experimenting. To alleviate overcrowded classrooms and test new e-learning tools at California State University, Chico, students taking a twice-weekly introductory course in psychology go just once a week and work online the rest of the time.
 Mr. Schonfeld sees still more potential in ''unbundling'' the four elements of educating: design of a course, delivery of that course, delivery of credit and delivery of a degree. ''Traditionally, they've all lived in the same institutional setting.'' Must all four continue to live together, or can one or more be outsourced?
 Edupunks -- the term for high-tech do-it-yourself educators who skirt traditional structures -- are piloting wiki-type U's that stitch together open course material from many institutions and combine it with student-to-student interaction. In September, Neeru Paharia, a doctoral student at Harvard Business School, and four others from the open education field started up Peer 2 Peer University, a tuition-free, nonprofit experiment financed with seed money from the Hewlett and Shuttleworth foundations.
 Ms. Paharia doesn't speak the same language as traditional educators: P2PU ''runs'' courses. It doesn't ''offer'' them. There are currently 16 courses, in subjects as diverse as behavioral economics, music theory, cyberpunk literature and ''managing election campaigns'' (and all with a Creative Commons license that grants more freedom of use than a standard copyright). Several hundred people are taking classes, Ms. Paharia says.
 P2PU's mission isn't to develop a model and stick with it. It is to ''experiment and iterate,'' says Ms. Paharia, the former executive director of Creative Commons. She likes to talk about signals, a concept borrowed from economics. ''Having a degree is a signal,'' she says. ''It's a signal to employers that you've passed a certain bar.'' Here's the radical part: Ms. Paharia doesn't think degrees are necessary. P2PU is working to come up with alternative signals that indicate to potential employers that an individual is a good thinker and has the skills he or she claims to have -- maybe a written report or an online portfolio.
 ''We live in a new society,'' Ms. Paharia says. ''People are mobile. We have the Internet. We don't necessarily need to work within the confines of what defines a traditional education.''
 David Wiley, associate professor of instructional psychology and technology at Brigham Young University, is an adviser to P2PU. For the past several years, he has been referring to ''the disaggregation of higher education,'' the breaking apart of university functions. Dr. Wiley says that models like P2PU address an important component missing from open courseware: human support. That is, when you have a question, whom can you ask? ''No one gets all the way through a textbook without a dozen questions,'' he says. ''Who's the T.A.? Where's your study group?''
 ''If you go to M.I.T. OpenCourseWare, there's no way to find out who else is studying the same material and ask them for help,'' he says. At P2PU, a ''course organizer'' leads the discussion but ''you are working together with others, so when you have a question you can ask any of your peers. The core idea of P2PU is putting people together around these open courses.''
 A similar philosophy is employed by Shai Reshef, the founder of several Internet educational businesses. Mr. Reshef has used $1 million of his own money to start the University of the People, which taps open courses that other universities have put online and relies on student interaction to guide learning; students even grade one another's papers.
 The focus is business administration and computer science, chosen because they hold promise for employment. He says he hopes to seek accreditation, and offer degrees.
 Mr. Reshef's plan is to ''take anyone, anyone whatsoever,'' as long as they can pass an English orientation course and a course in basic computer skills, and have a high school diploma or equivalent. The nonprofit venture has accepted, and enrolled, 380 of 3,000 applicants, and is trying to raise funds through microphilanthropy -- ''$80 will send one student to UoPeople for a term'' -- through social networking.
 ''A lot of people are telling us, 'It's you or nothing,' '' he says. ''We're the alternative to nothing.'' Mr. Reshef says he received a letter from a young man in Ghana who had just enrolled. ''He said, 'I feel like a rich American student studying in an American university.' '' And that, perhaps, is the broadest impact of all.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: E-STARS: Marian Diamond with brain and blackboard at the University of California, Berkeley
 a video being made of Ramamurti Shankar's Yale class, left. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); DISTANCE LEARNING (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (89%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); BRAIN (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (73%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); PODCASTING (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (62%); RANKINGS (60%); HOME PRICES (51%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (50%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (50%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (51%); ENGLAND (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



446 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED GUEST COLUMNIST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: Africa Reboots

BYLINE: By BONO. 
Bono, the lead singer of the band U2 and a co-founder of the advocacy group ONE and (Product)RED, is a contributing columnist for The Times.

 BODY:
I SPENT March with a delegation of activists, entrepreneurs and policy wonks roaming western, southern and eastern Africa trying very hard to listen -- always hard for a big-mouthed Irishman. With duct tape over my gob, I was able to pick up some interesting melody lines everywhere from palace to pavement ...
 Despite the almost deafening roar of excitement about Africa's hosting of soccer's World Cup this summer, we managed to hear a surprising thing. Harmony ... flowing from two sides that in the past have often been discordant: Africa's emerging entrepreneurial class and its civil-society activists. 
 It's no secret that lefty campaigners can be cranky about business elites. And the suspicion is mutual. Worldwide. Civil society as a rule sees business as, well, a little uncivil. Business tends to see activists as, well, a little too active. But in Africa, at least from what I've just seen, this is starting to change. The energy of these opposing forces coming together is filling offices, boardrooms and bars. The reason is that both these groups -- the private sector and civil society -- see poor governance as the biggest obstacle they face. So they are working together on redefining the rules of the African game. 
 Entrepreneurs know that even a good relationship with a bad government stymies foreign investment; civil society knows a resource-rich country can have more rather than fewer problems, unless corruption is tackled.
 This joining of forces is being driven by some luminous personalities, few of whom are known in America; all of whom ought to be. Let me introduce you to a few of the catalysts:
 John Githongo, Kenya's famous whistleblower, has had to leave his country in a hurry a couple of times; he was hired by his government to clean things up and then did his job too well. He's now started a group called Inuka, teaming up the urban poor with business leaders, creating inter-ethnic community alliances to fight poverty and keep watch on dodgy local governments. He is the kind of leader who gives many Kenyans hope for the future, despite the shakiness of their coalition government.
 Sharing a table with Githongo and me one night in Nairobi was DJ Rowbow, a Mike Tyson doppelganger. His station, Ghetto Radio, was a voice of reason when the volcano of ethnic tension was exploding in Kenya in 2008. While some were encouraging the people of Kibera, one of the largest slums in Africa, to go on the rampage, this scary-looking man decoded the disinformation and played peacemaker/interlocutor. On the station's playlist is Bob Marley and a kind of fizzy homespun reggae music that's part the Clash, part Marvin Gaye. The only untruthful thing he said all evening was that he liked U2. For my part, I might have overplayed the Jay-Z and Beyonce card. ''They are friends of mine,'' I explained to him, eh, a lot. 
 Now this might be what you expect me to say, but I'm telling you, it was a musician in Senegal who best exemplified the new rules. Youssou N'Dour -- maybe the greatest singer on earth -- owns a newspaper and is in the middle of a complicated deal to buy a TV station. You sense his strategy and his steel. He is creating the soundtrack for change, and he knows just how to use his voice. (I tried to imagine what it would be like if I owned The New York Times as well as, say, NBC. Someday, someday...)
 In Maputo, Mozambique, I met with Activa, a women's group that, among other things, helps entrepreneurs get seed capital. Private and public sectors mixed easily here, under the leadership of Luisa Diogo, the country's former prime minister, who is now the matriarch in this mesmerizing stretch of eastern Africa. Famous for her Star Wars hairdo and political nous, she has the lioness energy of an Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, a Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala or a Graca Machel.
 When I met with Ms. Diogo and her group, the less famous but equally voluble women in the room complained about excessive interest rates on their microfinance loans and the lack of what they called ''regional economic integration.'' For them, infrastructure remains the big (if unsexy) issue. ''Roads, we need roads,'' one entrepreneur said by way of a solution to most of the obstacles in her path. Today, she added, ''we women, we are the roads.'' I had never thought of it that way but because women do most of the farming, they're the ones who carry produce to market, collect the water and bring the sick to the clinics. 
 The true star of the trip was a human hurricane: Mo Ibrahim, a Sudanese entrepreneur who made a fortune in mobile phones.
 I fantasized about being the boy wonder to his Batman, but as we toured the continent together I quickly realized I was Alfred, Batman's butler. Everywhere we went, I was elbowed out of the way by young and old who wanted to get close to the rock star reformer and his beautiful, frighteningly smart daughter, Hadeel, who runs Mo's foundation and is a chip off the old block (in an Alexander McQueen dress). Mo's speeches are standing-room-only because even when he is sitting down, he's a standing-up kind of person. In a packed hall in the University of Ghana, he was a prizefighter, removing his tie and jacket like a cape, punching young minds into the future.
 His brainchild, the Ibrahim Prize, is a very generous endowment for African leaders who serve their people well and then -- and this is crucial -- leave office when they are supposed to. Mo has diagnosed a condition he calls ''third-termitis,'' where presidents, fearing an impoverished superannuation, feather their nests on the way out the door. So Mo has prescribed a soft landing for great leaders. Not getting the prize is as big a story as getting it. (He doesn't stop at individuals. The Ibrahim Index ranks countries by quality of governance.)
 Mo smokes a pipe and refers to everyone as ''guys'' -- as in, ''Listen, guys, if these problems are of our own making, the solutions will have to be, too.'' Or, in my direction, ''Guys, if you haven't noticed ... you are not African.'' Oh, yeah. And: ''Guys, you Americans are lazy investors. There's so much growth here but you want to float in the shallow water of the Dow Jones or Nasdaq.'' 
 Mr. Ibrahim is as searing about corruption north of the Equator as he is about corruption south of it, and the corruption that crosses over ... illicit capital flight, unfair mining contracts, the aid bureaucracy. 
 So I was listening. Good for me. But did I actually learn anything?
 OVER long days and nights, I asked Africans about the course of international activism. Should we just pack it up and go home, I asked? There were a few nods. But many more noes. Because most Africans we met seemed to feel the pressing need for new kinds of partnerships, not just among governments, but among citizens, businesses, the rest of us. I sense the end of the usual donor-recipient relationship.
 Aid, it's clear, is still part of the picture. It's crucial, if you have H.I.V. and are fighting for your life, or if you are a mother wondering why you can't protect your child against killers with unpronounceable names or if you are a farmer who knows that new seed varietals will mean you have produce that you can take to market in drought or flood. But not the old, dumb, only-game-in-town aid -- smart aid that aims to put itself out of business in a generation or two. ''Make aid history'' is the objective. It always was. Because when we end aid, it'll mean that extreme poverty is history. But until that glorious day, smart aid can be a reforming tool, demanding accountability and transparency, rewarding measurable results, reinforcing the rule of law, but never imagining for a second that it's a substitute for trade, investment or self-determination. 
 I for one want to live to see Mo Ibrahim's throw-down prediction about Ghana come true. ''Yes, guys,'' he said, ''Ghana needs support in the coming years, but in the not-too-distant future it can be giving aid, not receiving it; and you, Mr. Bono, can just go there on your holidays.''
 I'm booking that ticket.
 In South Africa, with Madiba, the great Nelson Mandela -- the person who, along with Desmond Tutu and the Edge, I consider to be my boss -- I raised the question of regional integration through the African Development Bank, and the need for real investment in infrastructure ... all the buzzwords. As Madiba smiled, I made a note to try not to talk about this stuff down at the pub -- or in front of the band. 
 ''And you, are you not going to the World Cup?'' the great man chided me, changing the subject, having seen this wide-eyed zealotry before. ''You are getting old and you are going to miss a great coming-out party for Africa.'' The man who felt free before he was is still the greatest example of what real leadership can accomplish against the odds. 
 My family and I headed home ... just in time, I was getting carried away. I was going native, aroused by the thought of railroads and cement mixers, of a different kind of World Cup fever, of opposing players joining the same team, a new formation, new tactics. For those of us in the fan club, I came away amazed (as I always am) by the diversity of the continent ... but with a deep sense that the people of Africa are writing up some new rules for the game. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CALEF BROWN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (71%); SOCCER (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); SLUM DWELLINGS (66%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (66%); CORRUPTION (64%); ETHNICITY (61%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%)

PERSON: JAY-Z (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (78%) AFRICA (98%); KENYA (94%); EASTERN AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



447 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: When Pizza Becomes Predatory

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
By 9 o'clock each morning, the arithmetic of debt jams the courthouses of New York City, the far end of a trail that begins on Wall Street and is paved with securitized bonds and chits for appliances bought on credit.
 A pastor from Queens does the math. 
 ''You have a $2.50 slice of pizza bought with a debit card, and if the person is over the limit, the card is not rejected,'' said the Rev. Patrick H. O'Connor of First Presbyterian Church in Jamaica. ''Instead, you have a $35 fee. So the slice of pizza is $37.50.''
 On average, 1,000 cases involving credit card debt are filed in the city's courts every day. The era of the subprime couch -- in which household furniture is bought on credit cards with 29 percent interest rates -- has been transformed into the period of predatory pizza.
 Now, Pastor O'Connor is part of an interfaith group of clergy members from the city who are urging state officials to take billions in public money from the banks -- and bank stocks -- that are built on these kinds of rates. Representatives of the group, part of the Metro Industrial Areas Foundation, have met with the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli. 
 ''We've said to Comptroller DiNapoli, look at your portfolio and see the banks that are operating in New York,'' Pastor O'Connor said. ''Tell them, if you are going to be operating in New York, then stay away from certain practices. Our people want to be able to pay what they owe. They want reasonable credit if they are good customers.''
 That pressure has had some success in Massachusetts, where the state treasurer announced last week that he would block new investments with three big banks, Citibank, Bank of America and Wells Fargo, and pull out $243 million now in those banks because they would not agree to limit their interest rate to 18 percent. 
 The New York State pension fund owns more than $1 billion in stock in those three banks. Mr. DiNapoli is the sole trustee for the pension fund, worth about $160 billion.
 ''We're trying to be constructive and helpful,'' said Robert Whalen, a spokesman for Mr. DiNapoli. ''Our primary duty is a fiduciary one to the fund.'' 
 The banks say that when they take risks on customers with shaky credit, they need to be rewarded with higher interest. Moreover, they say it would be very difficult to charge different rates in different states. 
 ''The vast majority of our customers, 85 percent, have rates of 18 percent or less,'' said Tony Allen of Bank of America. ''As a national bank, it would be very difficult to run our business and serve our customers effectively if we made rate distinctions on a state-by-state basis.''
 In fact, until 1978, banks were subject to laws in every state that banned lending at exorbitant interest rates. The term for such lending, ''usury,'' can be found in the ancient texts of civilization. A ruling by the United States Supreme Court in 1978, followed by an act of Congress in 1980, effectively made those state laws irrelevant. Although Congress passed legislation last year that put some limits on when credit card interest could be raised, it has declined to create a national cap. 
 So New York State, which limits the interest on loans to 16 percent, cannot control nationally chartered banks. 
 ''New York State has a usury law,'' Pastor O'Connor said. ''Even without a national law, as the comptroller you still have the power to move money if they do not want to comply with the state law.''
 The banks say they have to be able to judge the value of their risks. ''Credit cards are unsecured lines of credit with no set expiration date, which makes them one of the riskiest forms of consumer lending,'' said Lisa B. Westermann, a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo.
 Before the usury laws were doused three decades ago, Pastor O'Connor noted, ''banks made money, and people understood the risks and responsibilities of borrowing.''
 In fact, the Industrial Areas Foundation has some experience with credit risks: Starting in the 1980s, it has been behind the development of the Nehemiah houses, nearly 4,000 homes built on abandoned land in the Bronx and Brooklyn. Not a single house is known to have gone into foreclosure. The group suggested that Mr. DiNapoli look at Hudson City Savings Bank and the Community Preservation Corporation as two examples of successful lenders that do not gouge their customers.
 ''There has to be a reasonable way of banks making money and the consumers being able to pay it back,'' Pastor O'Connor said. ''There really is no gain if the people who are trying to climb in society are saddled with these kinds of debts and fees.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ON A MISSION: The Rev. Patrick H. O'Connor is part of a group urging state officials to press banks on their credit rates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); SECURITIZATION (90%); RELIGION (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PENSION FUNDS (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); CREDIT CARDS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



448 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Ski and Snowboard Team Feels Pinch Except at the Top

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS and ANDREW W. LEHREN

 BODY:
The United States Ski and Snowboard Association continues to revel in its record-breaking success at the Vancouver Olympics, where 17 Americans took home 21 medals, the biggest haul in the organization's 100-year history.
 But below the surface, discontent is simmering among skiers who say budget cuts have sliced too deeply into athlete financing, forcing elite competitors to pay for everything from airline tickets to training camps even as the organization's top executives are among the highest paid in the Olympic world.
 In conversations and on ski-themed Web sites, several athletes focused on the compensation of Bill Marolt, the chief executive of the association, which oversees star athletes like Bode Miller, Lindsey Vonn and Julia Mancuso. During the fiscal year that ended last April, Marolt earned nearly $652,000 -- more than the chief executive of the United States Olympic Committee and most other leaders of Olympic sports. 
 ''I don't know where that's justified, especially when every single one of our coaches took a pay cut last year,'' said Jake Zamansky, an Alpine skier who competed at the Vancouver Olympics in February. ''I don't think the people who are making as much money as they are -- the executives -- deserve it.'' 
 In a series of cuts announced in January 2009, Marolt joined the organization's more than 200 employees in taking a 10 percent salary reduction. But a large portion of Marolt's compensation in recent years has been based on bonuses, which were not affected by the austerity measures and are one reason his overall compensation declined 1 percent compared with the previous fiscal year.
 ''We're quite frankly really pleased with Bill's leadership,'' said Dexter Paine, the chairman of the association's 21-member board, adding that Marolt was likely to earn his $250,000 bonus again this year. ''Given the performance at the Olympics, it was certainly extraordinary.''
 Marolt declined to comment for this article. 
 In addition to his salary and bonus package, Marolt is given access to two cars provided by Audi, a ski team sponsor, and federal tax documents show that top executives are given first-class or charter air travel for themselves and a companion. 
 Marolt earned far more than the leaders of other Winter Olympic sports organizations. USA Hockey has more members and annual expenses that are $10 million greater than the ski association's, but its chief executive, David Ogrean, earned $288,000 in its most recent fiscal year. Marolt earned more than the chief executive of the United States Olympic Committee, an organization with more than $231 million in expenses in 2008, its most recently reported fiscal year -- more than 10 times that of the ski association, which spent about $18 million during a similar period. His compensation was more in line with the leaders of high-profile summer sports like swimming, although he still earned more than the leaders of gymnastics and soccer.
 According to Charity Navigator, an independent group that analyzes nonprofit budgets, Marolt earns more than three times the average salary for nonprofits with similar expenses.
 Such comparisons can be unfair, said Tom Kelly, a ski association spokesman, because Marolt also oversees several related nonprofits and entities, including the United States Ski Team Foundation, which had a budget of $11 million in the fiscal year that ended in April 2008. 
 Athletes considered most likely to qualify for the Vancouver Olympics were shielded from the budget cuts, but several of the team's most promising up-and-comers felt the impact. The team reduced financial support to Alpine athletes selected for the national B, and development teams, asking a greater number than usual to pay thousands toward their own training costs, several skiers said. The Nordic combined team, which won four medals at the Vancouver Games, withdrew travel money for some emerging athletes. 
 The reductions have led several skiers to question whether the association is living up to its mission to support top athletes, said Scott Macartney, who represents Alpine skiers on the board. 
 ''It really is what they're charged with, isn't it?'' said Macartney, who raced in the Salt Lake and Turin Games. ''I mean, these are tough economic times, but in the end, that's your job.''
 In addition to reductions in athlete programs, the organization had layoffs, but Kelly would not say how many jobs were eliminated. The budget cuts were made in response to a dip in revenue of 14 percent, to $18.5 million in the period ending April 2009 from $21.5 million in the previous fiscal year.
 Kelly said the association tried to cut other areas before trimming athletic programs. But, he said: ''We are a business, and just like any other business, we have to make decisions on spending. Anyone can advance their own position by simply moving up the athletic pipeline. And as you have more success and you move up, you will have more program costs covered.''
 But winning races was no guarantee of financial support. After the association eliminated $12,000 in prize money, the cross-country skier Colin Rodgers, ranked as high as eighth nationally last year, lost out on $3,000 for winning the sprint category on the SuperTour racing series last year. ''Not getting awarded that money was huge, especially going into the Olympic year,'' he said. 
 Paine, the board chairman, and others cautioned against drawing connections between cuts to athletes and Marolt's salary.
 ''Our goal is to be athletically successful,'' Paine said. ''Whether it's what we pay Bill or our budgets, it is all focused on that goal.''
 Marolt, 66, has spent much of his career with the ski team. He competed in Alpine events in the 1964 Olympics and served as the Alpine ski director from 1978 until 1984, overseeing the program during one of its most successful periods. Marolt left the team to become athletic director at the University of Colorado, then returned in 1996 as chief executive.
 He has been widely credited with transforming the organization into a financial powerhouse that sharpened its focus on athletes.
 ''You look at their financial condition, you look at their athletic success, you look at the quality of their programming,'' said Scott Blackmun, the chief executive of the U.S.O.C. ''Bill is clearly one of our highest-performing executive directors.''
 The board recently renewed Marolt's contract through 2014. ''You have to look at what college coaches make, you have to look at what college athletic directors make,'' Paine said. ''Those are the types of jobs that we're competing against.''
 Several athletes praised Marolt's leadership skills. ''Whether or not you agree with Bill's salary, without Bill, we wouldn't bring in nearly as much money,'' said Kris Freeman, a member of this year's Olympic cross-country team. 
 Through the years, Marolt has had to discipline athletes for bad behavior. Miller was chastised for disclosing that he skied while drunk, and at the last two Olympics, two others, Jeret Peterson and Scotty Lago, were sent home for inappropriate behavior. Last month in Park City, Utah, Marolt was charged with driving under the influence in a 2009 Audi provided by the automaker.
 One of the crowning achievements of Marolt's tenure is the Center of Excellence, a $24.4 million training facility that opened last May in Park City. Its completion on time and under budget was cited as one reason Marolt earned his bonus last year. 
 Yet months after it opened, a decision by executives to set up a for-profit entity to operate the facility -- and shieldthe nonprofit from potential lawsuits -- backfired. Officials in Summit County, Utah, denied the association's request for a property tax exemption because they said it was owned by a for-profit corporation whose sole purpose was to collect rent. That decision means the association must pay an additional $123,000 in annual taxes.
 Last fall, Mark Lampe, the association's chief financial officer, told county officials that the group had never expected to receive property tax bills, let alone have to apply for an exemption. But this month, Kelly said that the property tax was an anticipated expense and that the association was appealing the county's decision.
 Ski association leaders are meeting this month to plan their budget for the coming year. Despite heightened visibility from the team's performance in Vancouver, Paine said, fund-raising is a continual challenge. ''Signing major corporate deals is difficult in this environment,'' he said. 
 As the athletes prepare for the Winter Games in Sochi, Russia, Macartney wonders whether extended budget cuts could hurt the team's performance. 
 ''Does one less week of training mean that in 2014 you won't be scoring medals?'' he said. ''I mean, I doubt it, but as time goes on, some people could lose that competitive edge if you have enough of those lost weeks of training -- if the team can't provide for its athletes.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bill Marolt, the team's chief executive, made up for a pay cut with bonuses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES) (SP1)
 Bill Marolt at the national Alpine ski championships in 1963 in Anchorage. He has spent most of his career with the United States ski team. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (SP10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (93%); SNOWBOARDING (92%); WINTER OLYMPICS (92%); OLYMPICS (91%); ATHLETES (90%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BONUS PAY (76%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (76%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (76%); TRAVEL TICKETS (71%); SPONSORSHIP (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); LAYOFFS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES SKI & SNOWBOARD ASSOCIATION (91%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



449 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: Forecasts on Coming Up for Air

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
FOR the New York City area's underwater homeowners - that is, those whose mortgage debt exceeds the value of their homes - this could be a very long decade.
 According to a report released last month by First American CoreLogic, www.facorelogic.com a real estate consulting business, these homeowners may not begin to see positive equity until 2017, possibly even later.
 Sam Khater, a senior economist at First American and the author of the report, said the average shortfall was 39 percent. He predicted that housing prices would stabilize, then rise slowly over the next seven years, but that owners would recover equity mostly by paying down the loan during that time. 
 Recovery forecasts, Mr. Khater said, are based on historical data from housing market cycles and the average home-price appreciation over the last 30 years.
 ''The danger is that seven years might be a little optimistic,'' Mr. Khater said, referring to the predicted recovery time for New York's underwater borrowers. ''We may not revert to the average long-term appreciation in the next five or six years.''
 One big question mark, he said, is how mortgage rates will fare.
 Rates and terms have been more generous recently for those taking out jumbo mortgages, or loans of more than the $729,750 tristate region threshold, but it is unclear whether this trend will continue. If it doesn't, sales could lag in the New York area, which has an abundance of high-priced homes, Mr. Khater said.
 Robert S. Duquette, president of the New York Association of Mortgage Brokers, took issue with this time frame. ''The economy already seems to be bouncing back ahead of a lot of projections,'' he said. ''Even though it won't happen overnight, I think it is very pessimistic to think it will be seven years.''
 The average mortgage holder in the New York area has a loan of 70 percent of the home's value, Mr. Khater said. (There are no estimates for the number of homes owned outright, but about half of the homes in the United States are not mortgaged.)
 Of the roughly 1.1 million mortgage holders in the New York City area, including sections of northern New Jersey and Westchester County, about 116,000, or over 10 percent, are underwater, according to First American.
 That percentage is lower than in other areas. First American estimates that over all more than 11.3 million, or 24 percent, of mortgage holders have negative equity. Among areas with the most is Detroit, where borrowers may not be in the black until 2020. New Yorkers in this fix are actually in worse shape than many others. The average underwater mortgage in New York exceeds the home's value by 39 percent, versus 34 percent nationally.
 A new program being used by some lenders since January could help borrowers recover more quickly. The program, RHReward.com, administered by the Loan Value Group of Rumson, N.J., identifies distressed borrowers whom it considers at risk for ''strategic default.'' Such borrowers might simply abandon their homes, even though they can afford the monthly mortgage payments, because they fear the homes may not fully recover their value anytime soon.
 Loan Value Group will, on a lender's behalf, offer to forgive part of the loan balance, pending the retirement of the mortgage through a refinance, a sale or the payoff of the remainder.
 Say a borrower owed $400,000 on a home now worth $300,000. The lender might tell the borrower that if he could sell the home for $350,000, or find a new mortgage for $350,000, he would fulfill his obligation to the bank. If the borrower fully repaid the loan at $400,000, he would receive a check for $50,000.
 Loan Value Group helps identify the borrowers best suited for such offers, and also calculates an amount most likely to avoid each borrower's default.
 Frank Pallotta, an executive vice president of the Loan Value Group, declined to identify the three lenders already sending such offers to borrowers.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (77%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%)

COMPANY: BROOKE CORP (85%); CORELOGIC INC (58%)

TICKER: CLGX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS812210 FUNERAL HOMES & FUNERAL SERVICES (85%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (85%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (85%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (85%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (58%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (58%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



450 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: From Dung To Brew, No Aftertaste

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

 BODY:
SAGADA, the Philippines -- Goad Sibayan went prospecting recently in the remote Philippine highlands here known as the Cordillera. He clambered up and then down a narrow, rocky footpath that snaked around some hills, paying no heed to coffins that, in keeping with a local funeral tradition, hung very conspicuously from the surrounding sheer cliffs.
 Reaching a valley where coffee trees were growing abundantly, he scanned the undergrowth where he knew the animals would relax after picking the most delicious coffee cherries with their claws and feasting on them with their fangs. His eyes settled on a light, brownish clump atop a rock. He held it in his right palm and, gently slipping it into a little black pouch, whispered:
 ''Gold!'' 
 Not quite. But Mr. Sibayan's prize was the equivalent in the world of rarefied coffees: dung containing the world's most expensive coffee beans. 
 Costing hundreds of dollars a pound, these beans are found in the droppings of the civet, a nocturnal, furry, long-tailed catlike animal that prowls Southeast Asia's coffee-growing lands for the tastiest, ripest coffee cherries. The civet eventually excretes the hard, indigestible innards of the fruit -- essentially, incipient coffee beans -- though only after they have been fermented in the animal's stomach acids and enzymes to produce a brew described as smooth, chocolaty and devoid of any bitter aftertaste.
 As connoisseurs in the United States, Europe and East Asia have discovered civet coffee in recent years, growing demand is fueling a gold rush in the Philippines and Indonesia, the countries with the largest civet populations. Harvesters are scouring forest floors in the Philippines, where civet coffee has emerged as a new business. In Indonesia, where the coffee has a long history, enterprising individuals are capturing civets and setting up minifarms, often in their backyards.
 Neither the Indonesian government nor the Association of Indonesia Coffee Exporters breaks down civet coffee's tiny share of Indonesia's overall coffee production. The Association of Indonesian Coffee Luwak Farmers, created in 2009 to handle the rising demand for civet coffee, or kopi luwak, as it is called in Indonesian, said most civet producers were small-time businessmen who exported directly overseas.
 Given the money at stake, fake and low-grade civet coffee beans are also flooding the market.
 ''Because of its increasing popularity, there is more civet coffee than ever, but I don't trust the quality,'' said Rudy Widjaja, 68, whose 131-year-old family-owned coffee store in Jakarta, Warung Tinggi, is considered Indonesia's oldest.
 Competition is touching off fierce debates. What is real civet coffee, anyway? Does the civet's choice of beans make the coffee? Or is it the beans' journey through the animal's digestive tract? Can the aroma, fragrance and taste of beans from the droppings of a caged civet ever be as tasty as those from its wild cousin?
 Vie Reyes, whose Manila-based company, Bote Central, entered the civet coffee business five years ago, said she bought only from harvesters of the wild kind. Ms. Reyes exports to distributors overseas -- Japan and South Korea are her biggest markets -- and also directly sells 2.2-pound bags for $500, or about $227 a pound.
 Maintaining quality was a constant challenge because distinguishing the real stuff from the fake was never easy. One time, harvesters sold her regular beans glued to unidentified dung.
 ''I washed it,'' she said. ''But the glue wouldn't come off.''
 One of her suppliers, Mr. Sibayan, 37, buys beans from collectors throughout the Cordillera, a mountainous region in the north that can be reached only after a punishing 12-hour drive from Manila. On a recent day, he dropped by to see the Pat-ogs, who own a 1.7-acre lot just outside this town.
 Until Mr. Sibayan began buying their civet coffee four years ago, the Pat-ogs had never given much thought to the droppings left behind by the civets that came to munch on the family's coffee trees at night. They discarded the beans or mixed them with regular beans they sold to agents. Now, they were getting about $9 a pound for the civet beans, or about five times the price of regular coffee beans, which, furthermore, required labor-intensive harvesting. 
 Mr. Sibayan inspected their batch and said he would pay just under top-grade price. He had found some impurities -- inferior beans that the civet had spat out; beans chewed on, not by civets, but bats -- that were indiscernible to all but Mr. Sibayan's expert eye or, rather, tongue.
 Licking one bean, he explained that real civet coffee beans should have lost their natural sweetness and acquired a rough texture. ''This is pure, good quality,'' he said, adding, ''Once, some farmers tried to fool me by slightly roasting regular beans to remove the sweetness.''
 Alberto Pat-og, 60, a retired school principal, said he did not understand why foreigners were willing to pay so much for a cup of the stuff. 
 ''We are a bit surprised,'' he said. ''A bit perplexed.''
 His son, Lambert, 20, added, with a big grin, ''We are ignorant.''
 The Pat-ogs wished they could expand their business but said there were simply not enough civets around. Compounding the problem, farmers around these parts tended to trap civets, which also have a taste for chicken. Local residents still prized civets less for their coffee-picking ability than their meat, which was typically dried before being prepared adobo-style.
 ''It's very difficult to convince my neighbors not to kill civets because they're considered such a delicacy here,'' the father said.
 In Indonesia, too, a shrinking civet population is creating obstacles for those hoping to ride the civet coffee boom. Civet coffee has long been centered in the western island of Sumatra, where a growing human population, economic development and deforestation have eroded their habitats. 
 Mr. Widjaja, the Jakarta store owner, said that the Dutch, who ruled Indonesia for more than three centuries, and Japanese soldiers, who occupied the country during World War II, were the most die-hard drinkers of civet coffee. But the coffee all but disappeared after the late 1950s, he said, and resurfaced on the market only after its reputation began spreading overseas. After he began fielding inquiries in 2007 from interested buyers in the United States, Japan and Taiwan, he secured a regular supply of wild civet coffee and began selling it only last year -- at $150 a pound.
 In Liwa, a small town in southwestern Sumatra, more than 30 families were involved in civet coffee.
 Mega Kurniawan, 28, entered the business two years ago by setting up shop in the backyard of his family home. He had already expanded to three other locations and was now in civets full time. With a total of 102 civets, he gathered about 550 pounds of beans a month.
 During the day, Mr. Kurniawan's civets slept inside their small wooden cages before growing active at dusk. At night, the animals ate from fresh plates of coffee cherries, replenished every two hours, or paced back and forth at a brisk, caffeinated clip.
 Though caged, the civets ate only about half of the beans placed before them, choosing only the best specimens, Mr. Kurniawan insisted. He dismissed connoisseurs' criticism that stress felt by the caged animals invariably affected the taste of the beans.
 ''It's the same,'' he said, acknowledging, however, that some buyers preferred wild civet coffee. ''Maybe it's the prestige.''
 A few blocks away, Ujang Suryana, 62, had his own firm opinions about what constituted real civet coffee. A reflexologist, Mr. Suryana began moonlighting in civets three months ago after catching a local television report on the brew's popularity abroad. He pooled $1,000 to buy three civets and cages.
 He had already found a way to increase the civets' output exponentially by mechanically stripping the coffee beans from the cherries and mixing them in a banana mash. The civets gobbled it all up. This way, no beans were wasted. What is more, he had raised the dung production from 2.2 pounds a week to a whopping 6.6 pounds a day.
 But wasn't Mr. Suryana denying the civet its renowned ability to sniff out the best beans?
 He scrunched up his face as if to wave away the suggestion. ''The most important thing is that the beans go through its stomach and are fermented,'' he said. ''It all tastes the same, anyway.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A civet farm in Liwa, a town in Sumatra, where the catlike animals eat coffee cherries. Their droppings contain coffee beans fermented in their stomachs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEMAL JUFRI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Lambert Pat-og top, collected civet droppings in Sagada, in the Philippines. Above, Mr. Pat-og and Goad Sibayan counted the coffee beans they found. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JES AZNAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: More than 30 families are involved in the civet coffee business in Liwa. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE (91%); COFFEE FARMING (90%); COFFEE & TEA (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); COFFEE MARKETS (76%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (71%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); ENZYMES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (54%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (79%) INDONESIA (97%); PHILIPPINES (93%); ASIA (91%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); EUROPE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



451 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: New York Offers Costly Lessons On Insurance

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
When her small executive search firm in New York City canceled its health insurance policy last year because of the recession and rising premiums, April Welles was able to buy her own plan and still be covered for her cancer and multiple sclerosis. 
 She was lucky to live in New York, one of the first states to require insurance companies to offer comprehensive coverage to all people regardless of pre-existing conditions. But Ms. Welles, 58, also pays dearly: Her premium is $17,876 a year.
 ''That's a lot of groceries,'' she said.
 New York's insurance system has been a working laboratory for the core provision of the new federal health care law -- insurance even for those who are already sick and facing huge medical bills -- and an expensive lesson in unplanned consequences. Premiums for individual and small group policies have risen so high that state officials and patients' advocates say that New York's extensive insurance safety net for people like Ms. Welles is falling apart. 
 The problem stems in part from the state's high medical costs and in part from its stringent requirements for insurance companies in the individual and small group market. In 1993, motivated by stories of suffering AIDS patients, the state became one of the first to require insurers to extend individual or small group coverage to anyone with pre-existing illnesses. 
 New York also became one of the few states that require insurers within each region of the state to charge the same rates for the same benefits, regardless of whether people are old or young, male or female, smokers or nonsmokers, high risk or low risk. 
 Healthy people, in effect, began to subsidize people who needed more health care. The healthier customers soon discovered that the high premiums were not worth it and dropped out of the plans. The pool of insured people shrank to the point where many of them had high health care needs. Without healthier people to spread the risk, their premiums skyrocketed, a phenomenon known in the trade as the ''adverse selection death spiral.''
 ''You have a mandate that's accessible in theory, but not in practice, because it's too expensive,'' said Mark P. Scherzer, a consumer lawyer and counsel to New Yorkers for Accessible Health Coverage, an advocacy group. ''What you get left clinging to the life raft is the population that tends to have pretty high health needs.'' 
 Since 2001, the number of people who bought comprehensive individual policies through HMOs in New York has plummeted to about 31,000 from about 128,000, according to the State Insurance Department. 
 At the same time, New York has the highest average annual premiums for individual policies: $6,630 for single people and $13,296 for families in mid-2009, more than double the nationwide average, according to America's Health Insurance Plans, an industry group.
 Rates did not rise as high in small group plans, for businesses with up to 50 workers, because the companies had an incentive to provide insurance to keep employees happy, and so were able to keep healthier people in the plans, said Peter Newell, an analyst for the United Hospital Fund, a New York-based health care research organization.
 While premiums for large group plans have risen, their risk pools tend to be large enough to avoid out-of-control rate hikes. 
 The new federal health care law tries to avoid the death spiral by requiring everyone to have insurance and penalizing those who do not, as well as offering subsidies to low-income customers. But analysts say that provision could prove meaningless if the government does not vigorously enforce the penalties, as insurance companies fear, or if too many people decide it is cheaper to pay the penalty and opt out. 
 Under the federal law, those who refuse coverage will have to pay an annual penalty of $695 per person, up to $2,085 per family, or 2.5 percent of their household income, whichever is greater. The penalty will be phased in from 2014 to 2016.
 ''In this new marketplace that we envision, this requirement that everybody be covered, that should draw better, healthier people into the insurance pool, which should bring down rates,'' said Mark Hall, a professor of law and public health at Wake Forest University. But he added, ''You have to sort of take a leap of faith that that's going to happen.''
 As part of the political bargain to get insurance companies to support insurance for all regardless of risk, called community rating, New York State deregulated the market, allowing insurers to charge as much as they wanted within certain profit margins. The state can require companies to retroactively refund overcharges to consumers, but it seldom does.
 Now, Gov. David A. Paterson has proposed to reinstate prior approval by the state of rate increases for the small group and individual plans, as a way to reverse New York's death spiral of healthy people fleeing the market. The change would affect about 3 million of the 10 million New Yorkers insured through private plans, according to the Insurance Department. Most of those are in small group plans, though the biggest beneficiaries might be those seeking individual coverage, where premiums are highest.
 New York's insurance companies are vigorously fighting prior approval. Mark L. Wagar, the president of Empire BlueCross BlueShield, said New York's problem was not deregulation of rates, but the lack of an effective mandate for everyone to buy insurance. To illustrate, he offered a statistic on how many people in the 18-to-26 age group, who are largely healthy, have bought individual insurance coverage through his company: 88 people out of 6 million insured by his company statewide.
 New York is ''the bellwether,'' Mr. Wagar said. ''We have the federal health reform on steroids in terms of richness and strictness.''
 The federal health care overhaul contains some protection for people who buy into the new insurance exchanges -- organized marketplaces -- created by the law. Beginning in 2014, states will be able to recommend that the Department of Health and Human Services ban companies from the exchanges if they impose rate increases the states consider unreasonable.
 Mr. Wagar also said that New York's medical costs, universally acknowledged as being among the highest in the country, were a factor in its high premiums. He noted that the state already regulated insurance company profit margins, allowing them to allocate no more than 25 cents of every dollar for profits and administration in small group plans and 20 cents for individual plans. The governor is proposing to lower both margins to 15 percent. 
 Troy Oechsner, deputy superintendent for health at the State Insurance Department, blamed the insurance companies for raising rates beyond what was necessary -- by being off on their projections -- thus accelerating the exodus of healthy people.
 ''What we saw them do is they really jacked up rates because they could,'' Mr. Oechsner said. 
 To a large extent, insurance companies police themselves, according to Mr. Oechsner. From 2000 to 2007, insurance plans reported that they exceeded state profit allowances just 3 percent of the time, resulting in about $48 million in refunds to policyholders, Mr. Oechsner said. Yet subsequent Insurance Department investigations found that insurers should have refunded three times as much.
 The governor's budget projects that reinstating prior approval would help the state close its $9 billion deficit, saving taxpayers $70 million in the first year, and $150 million after that, by stemming the exodus of people from high-priced plans into state-subsidized plans.
 An analysis of the governor's plan released recently by the Business Council of New York State, whose membership includes insurance companies, contested the governor's savings estimate, saying that it was ''at best speculative,'' and that the savings would probably be nominal.
 Mr. Hall, the Wake Forest professor, said that with the risk spread over a bigger pool of insured people under federal changes, insurers would be expected to reduce their prices, especially in New York. But Mr. Hall said that insurers might hesitate to do that until they were sure people were going to buy coverage, which could lead to a sort of mutual paralysis.
 ''You can literally think of people standing around a swimming pool, saying let's jump in at once,'' he said.
 As for Ms. Welles, she is not sure how much longer she can keep paying rising rates.
 ''This is not something that will be sustainable for the rest of my life,'' she said. On the other hand, she added, ''frankly, with the kind of cancer I have, I don't think I'll be paying this for too many years.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: A Spiral: As health insurance membership declines, premiums increase, and the cycle reinforces itself. (Source: New York State Insurance Department) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); SMOKING (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (72%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (57%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



452 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; BOOKS M.B.A.'S.; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Are Business Schools Failing?

BYLINE: By PAUL M. BARRETT. 
Paul M. Barrett is an assistant managing editor of Bloomberg BusinessWeek.

 BODY:
The aftermath of a historic financial crisis seems an appropriate time to take stock of graduate business education. What are we teaching these people before they head off to the executive suite?
 Three Harvard Business School scholars, Srikant M. Datar, David A. Garvin and Patrick G. Cullen, address this question in ''Rethinking the M.B.A.: Business Education at a Crossroads,'' a thought-provoking examination of the curriculums that shape many top investment bankers, consultants and chief executives. After studying the nation's most prestigious business schools, the authors conclude that an excessive emphasis on quantitative and theoretical analysis has contributed to the making of too many wonky wizards. M.B.A. recipients, according to this book, haven't learned the importance of social responsibility, common-sense skepticism and respect for the dangers of taking risks with other people's money.
 Put even more bluntly: Business schools played a contributing role in creating the geniuses who brought us the economic meltdown of 2008. 
 ''Postcrisis, executives and deans identified a number of gaps in M.B.A. teaching, largely in applied areas,'' the authors note. These include risk management, internal governance, behavior of complex systems, regulation and business/government relations and socially responsible leadership. The authors lend credence to critics who ''question whether business schools do a good job of alerting students to the imperfections and incompleteness of the models and frameworks they teach.''
 Further diminishing the chances that M.B.A. programs will produce wise stewards of capitalism, students are both strikingly disengaged from classes and overly confident about their capabilities, the authors observe. Introspection is rare; avarice, rampant. Several deans reported to the Harvard researchers that the time students spend in, or preparing for, class has declined significantly -- at one institution, to 30 hours a week in 2003-4 from about 50 in 1975. The authors add: ''Rather than devoting themselves to academics, students were spending increasing amounts of time networking, attending recruiting events, planning club activities and pursuing the best possible job.'' One unnamed dean is quoted as mourning: ''The focus has shifted from learning to earning.''
 Based on my interaction with business school students, graduates and professors since the 1980s, when I attended college and law school at Harvard, I question whether the tilt toward money over scholarship is all that new. Be that as it may, the stark landscape portrayed in ''Rethinking the M.B.A.'' ought to prompt Harvard, Stanford, Wharton and all the rest to start doing just that.
 The authors describe themselves as optimistic that business schools will rise to the challenge. ''We have already seen a number of schools experimenting and reinvigorating their programs'' since 2008, they write.
 Their evidence, unfortunately, seems scant. At the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, the dean told the authors that ''the most important change needed was not new curricular materials or courses but faculty and student behaviors that encouraged deep questioning and professional communication without trading substance for deference.'' You don't need an M.B.A. to interpret that mumbo-jumbo as a prescription for inaction.
 Harvard Business School, meanwhile, is ''considering'' some new courses; task forces are ''reviewing options.'' Not exactly the degree of urgency one might expect coming out of what very nearly was a repeat of the Great Depression. It's worth noting, as well, that in 2002, in the wake of the Enron scandal, many business schools vowed to examine eroded values and balance-sheet shenanigans. Apparently those reforms didn't take.
 The authors urge their colleagues to move quickly to ''rebalance their programs to take a more managerial perspective.'' This advice brushes uncomfortably close to parody. In their next book, will they suggest that law schools take a more legal perspective? New courses, the scholars write, should stress ''risk management, the design of incentive systems, regulatory oversight, the degree of interconnectedness of the global economy and the limitations of mathematical models.''
 One might reasonably ask why these issues haven't played a prominent role in graduate business education. Better late than never, I suppose. Now the vital question is whether schools will, in fact, adopt such courses. They had better, if they plan on surviving. On many campuses, the full-time business school enrollment has fallen off as students shift to less expensive part-time programs. Employers are expressing increased doubt about the value of a traditional M.B.A.
 If the universities do not respond, this book indicates, they may see their graduate business programs eventually go out of business.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RETHINKING THE M.B.A.: BUSINESS EDUCATION AT A CROSSROADS: By Srikant M. Datar, David A. Garvin,Patrick G. Cullen
Harvard Business Press
 hardcover 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (92%); WRITERS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CURRICULA (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



453 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; THE EUROPE ISSUE PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: The Jingle of Change in Europe

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
IF you've searched for a flight to Europe this summer and gasped at all the four-digit fares on your screen, there is some good news to report: the favorable exchange rate should help you save money once you land.
 In the last six months, the dollar has increased about 10 percent against the euro and 5 percent against the pound. While the 0.75 euros you can now get for $1 is well below the 1.2 euros travelers had to spend on croissants and cappuccinos in late 2000, it is an improvement over the measly 0.63 euros the dollar bought at its 2008 low. 
 That means you'll save more than $100 on four nights at a hotel that costs 200 euros a night, and a 28 euro train ticket from Rome to Florence will cost $37 instead of $41 -- small change in some cases, but the savings add up over a 10-day vacation.
 According to travel executives and industry analysts, the strengthening dollar, combined with fading panic over the economy and Americans' fondness for cobblestone streets and Riviera promenades, has already contributed to an increase in bookings to Europe this summer.
 ''Leisure travelers are really back,'' said Jean-Philippe Perol, the United States chairman of the European Travel Commission, which expects overall peak travel to be up slightly this year, though tempered by soft business travel numbers. 
 That bullish leisure travel outlook meshes with double-digit increases in summer bookings to Europe, as reported by American Express, with London, Paris, Rome, Athens and Barcelona as the top five destinations so far.
 The Airlines Reporting Corporation, which handles ticketing for most travel agencies in the United States, has seen about a 20 percent increase in the number of tickets sold through March for travel in May and June to Britain, France, Germany, Greece, Italy and Spain -- sales that a company spokesman called ''phenomenal.''
 But with the number of seats on flights to Europe this summer remaining about the same as last, the laws of supply and demand are working in the airlines' favor, allowing them to raise prices as more people plan trips.
 ''Fares to Western Europe are up 17 percent,'' said Genevieve Shaw Brown, senior editor at Travelocity, referring to tickets the company sold through March for travel from Memorial Day to Labor Day.
 ''That's not to say that getting a decent fare is out of the question,'' Ms. Shaw Brown said, suggesting that booking a flight and hotel package was one way to save. ''But it's going to be a lot harder this year than last to score a last-minute deal.'' 
 Prices also vary depending on your destination. 
 According to Travelocity's sales data, the average round-trip fare to Western Europe was $1,330, compared with $1,141 in the same period last year, but the price is roughly the same as it was in 2008. The average fare to Eastern Europe is actually down 5 percent, to $1,255. Flying to Dublin is still generally less expensive, with an average fare of $1,006.
 While fare information is fuzzy until actual tickets are sold, the consensus among fare watchers is that prices to Europe will be higher this summer, owing in part to increased demand and to reduced competition on trans-Atlantic routes.
 Hubert Horan, an airline consultant based in Phoenix, said the recent consolidation of cross-Atlantic traffic into three strong airline alliances -- SkyTeam, Oneworld and the Star Alliance -- has contributed to higher fares, as carriers coordinate prices and the number of competitors on routes to Europe shrinks. 
 ''Fares are going to be worse this summer because all of a sudden the airlines have gotten conservative with capacity, which is coming on top of the long-term effect that North Atlantic fares have been rising three times as fast as domestic fares because of reduced competition,'' Mr. Horan said.
 Hotel rates are a bit more difficult to predict, given the wide range of properties across Europe and the effect of the local economy and exchange rates on prices. But most markets experienced a significant decrease in hotel prices in 2009, and analysts expect that any increases will be modest this year.
 ''I would expect hotels are trying to be level with last year or push rates up a little bit,'' said Konstanze Auernheimer, marketing director for Smith Travel Research Global, which tracks the hospitality industry.
 According to the company's data, which tracks prices in dollars, in 2009 hotel rates fell 12 percent in Paris, 19 percent in London, 17 percent in Rome and 22 percent in Madrid, although those decreases are partly caused by the strengthening dollar, Ms. Auernheimer said.
 This summer, hotel rates in Southern and Eastern Europe are likely to be softer than in Western Europe, she said, adding that London hotels are doing well because the pound has weakened against the euro, so travelers from the Continent are crossing the channel for bargains. 
 ''I think people have become more sophisticated and actually consider the exchange rate in their travel plans,'' she said.
 That sentiment was echoed by Steve Born, vice president for marketing at Globus Family of Brands, which has seen a 66 percent increase in bookings to Europe so far this year. The favorable exchange rate has enabled the tour company to lower its prices about 20 percent, Mr. Born said. 
 As with hotels, forecasting car rental rates is tough, said Neil Abrams, president of the Abrams Consulting Group, which advises car rental companies. But he said they are benefiting from the same equation as the airlines: fewer cars plus more renters equals higher prices.
 ''They've ordered a lot less cars than they have historically,'' Mr. Abrams said. ''So as the market comes back, unless fleets were to come back at the same pace you're going to have this artificial supply and demand dynamic, which pushes prices up. They actually had shortages during the peak periods last summer in Europe.''
 As an example, he cited the cost of a one-week economy car rental in Malaga, Spain: 152 euros this year, versus 93 euros last year. Though he cautioned that prices vary wildly between markets and do fluctuate daily, booking early may be the best way to save.
 ''As soon as you know you're going to be traveling, get your car locked in,'' he advised.
 That seems to be the prevailing advice for anyone thinking about a European vacation: book now, or find a less popular destination for your summer travels.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY THOMAS FUCHS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); AIR FARES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (75%); TICKET SALES (73%); US LABOR DAY (73%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (54%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (79%); ITALY (79%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



454 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SLAP SHOT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Deal for Coyotes Raises Eyebrows

BYLINE: By JEFF Z. KLEIN and STU HACKEL; Vincent M. Mallozzi contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Even as the Phoenix Coyotes' amazing season continues before sellout crowds dressed in playoff white, the intrigue surrounding the N.H.L.-owned club persists.
 Last week, the city council in Glendale, Ariz., approved the lease agreement negotiated by Jerry Reinsdorf's Glendale LLC Group for use of the city-owned Jobing.com Arena, clearing the path for his group to finally assume ownership from the league.
 But the process is controversial. A rival bidding group of Canadian and American investors the N.H.L. had also courted, Ice Edge Holdings, had its leasing plan rejected by the council. 
 Reinsdorf, owner of the Chicago White Sox and the Chicago Bulls, has worked with local government because the White Sox hold spring training there.
 ''Jerry will be a great owner in Phoenix,'' Wayne Gretzky, a former Coyotes coach and ownership partner, said last week in Manhattan. ''He's got a relationship with the city of Glendale because of the White Sox, and he lives in Phoenix periodically in the winter. The sports teams he already owns have been very successful, so I think he's the right guy coming in to do the right job for that city.''
 The deal calls for Reinsdorf to pay the league $100 million for the Coyotes, with Glendale kicking in as much as an additional $65 million. The N.H.L. bought the club for $140 million last October and brought it out of bankruptcy.
 Glendale will pay for its portion through the creation of a special funding district near the arena, in which commercial landowners will charge higher parking fees and finance bonds to raise the $65 million. Some of the cost of the bonds would be passed along to fans, concertgoers and other visitors who park, shop and dine in the area.
 Those landowners include Steve Ellman, who once owned the Coyotes and was responsible for their move from downtown Phoenix to Glendale, an area where he could develop property adjacent to the arena. Ellman sold controlling interest in the club to Jerry Moyes, who had been a minority partner, in 2006.
 When the Coyotes declared bankruptcy last May, Moyes said the team lost more than $300 million in his eight years of ownership. 
 Part of the new agreement protects Reinsdorf's group from losing money. In addition to the $65 million Glendale plans to raise through the special district, another $25 million annually is to be set aside in a reserve fund so that the city can fully reimburse the Reinsdorf group if the Coyotes remain unprofitable after five years. 
 After five years, the Reinsdorf group would be free to sell the team, although Glendale would get first crack at finding another buyer to keep the team in town.
 The Phoenix-based Goldwater Institute, which has successfully challenged municipal subsidies in the area, contends this new agreement may violate state law prohibiting public subsidies of private enterprises.
 ''The Reinsdorf deal creates serious legal questions,'' Carrie Ann Sitren, a Goldwater lawyer, said last week. ''It puts a huge amount of risk on the city, whereas Reinsdorf takes on virtually none. It could be a contract without a give and take from each side, which would be illegal. Beyond that, the city might make substantial payments to support Reinsdorf's ownership and still lose the team after five years.'' 
 Economists have called Glendale's agreement unprecedented for its generosity to a prospective owner. The city is still paying off a $180 million debt for the rink, and would have no chance to pay it off if the Coyotes left.
 ''I have worked with dozens of government entities, and I can't think of anyone who would entertain anything like this,'' Marc Ganis, a sports-business consultant, told The Arizona Republic. ''But the whole bankruptcy situation has been unprecedented.''
 N.H.L. owners must approve Reinsdorf's bid for the Coyotes. 
 Boucher Ends Dry Spell
 When Brian Boucher shut out the Devils in Game 1 of their first-round series Wednesday, it was his first playoff victory since May 20, 2000. His gap between postseason victories of 9 years 329 days is the third longest in N.H.L. history.
 Sugar Jim Henry went 10 years 1 day between victories, from when he was a Ranger in 1942 until when he was a Bruin in 1952. Sean Burke had the second-longest gap, 9 years 347 days between wins as a Devil in 1988 and as a Flyer in 1998.
 Arena Turns 100
 Last Friday was the 100th birthday of Matthews Arena, the world's oldest indoor hockey rink. The building, home of Northeastern University hockey, is the cradle of the game in Boston. 
 It opened on April 16, 1910, as Boston Arena, and was the home of the Bruins from their first game in 1924 until they moved to Boston Garden four years later. It was the birthplace of the New England Whalers (now the Carolina Hurricanes), the hockey programs of Northeastern, Boston College and Boston University, the Beanpot tournament and the region's schoolboy tournaments. 
 ''I think a lot of hockey purists would agree with me when I say it's a hockey cathedral,'' said Greg Cronin, the Northeastern men's hockey coach. ''The crowd energy, the noise, the intensity goes right into your blood.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BASEBALL (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (77%); CITIES (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (93%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (91%); PHOENIX COYOTES (84%); CHICAGO BULLS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



455 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEW JERSEY DINING EDISON; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: The Soul of a Bistro In the Form of a Diner

BYLINE: By DAVID CORCORAN

 BODY:
THE Skylark Diner is one strange bird. Perched on the traffic-choked flyway that is U.S. 1, its multicolored neon plumage poised for liftoff, it looks garish, flamboyant, possibly radioactive.
 The Skylark had been on my radar since it opened in 2006, when I received a press kit mentioning that the designer was none other than Morris Nathanson, whose credits include some of the metropolitan area's handsomest restaurants. But it didn't occur to me to review the place until late last year, when the grapevine yielded another name, that of the new consulting chef, Craig Shelton.
 Pause for double take. Mr. Shelton, as few New Jersey foodies need to be told, was the chef and owner of the nationally acclaimed haute-cuisine temple Ryland Inn, in Hunterdon County, until its 15-year run was ended in 2007 by a catastrophic flood and a foundering economy. Hyperarticulate, detail-obsessed and blazingly talented, he would seem to be the last person on earth to lend his reputation and culinary gifts to a diner. 
 Enter Constantine Katsifis, 39, the owner of the Skylark, along with two other Central Jersey diners and the Pines Manor wedding-reception palace in Edison. Mr. Katsifis, impressively articulate himself, had been a frequent patron at the Ryland. When he heard its chef might be available, the two men had some persuasive conversations.
 In a telephone interview after my visits, Mr. Shelton, 49, told me the proposed business model -- essentially, a midmarket bistro embedded in the round-the-clock infrastructure of a popular diner -- appealed to him. So did the challenge, not to mention the need to support his family. (He was briefly a consultant last year for a more conventional restaurant, Doc's, in Sparta.) He joined the team last June, he said, and estimates he is spending 50 to 60 hours a week at the Skylark these days.
 For the executive chef, Ron Caudill, Mr. Shelton devised a menu that offers few of the Ryland's royal fireworks but also none of its prices: entrees top out at $23, and the best dish we tried -- sensationally tender and flavorful short ribs in a porcini-scented Barolo sauce -- was a head-turning bargain at $18.
 The Skylark has 250 seats. Mr. Shelton says that at any given dinnertime, about half the occupants are having bistro dishes and the other half are having diner standbys like burgers, pancakes and chicken fingers. We stuck to the bistro side and were well rewarded, though the execution was uneven.
 How many diners have their own sommelier? Skylark's is Courtney Smith, a young specialist who is as bubbly and outgoing as the Alsace blanc de blancs at the top of her intriguing, gently priced wine list.
 Sometimes, unfortunately, the wine turns out to be the highlight of the meal. A thick pork chop was fatty and bland; grilled tournedos of beef was thoroughly ordinary; Vietnamese chicken had a subtle lemon-grass marinade, but the meat was dry and under-flavored.
 Other times, the wine is what it should be -- a match for the food, especially when it comes to the urbane, expertly composed cheese platters, which are specifically chosen for red or white wine. (At dessert time, cheese is vastly preferable to diner-issue standards like cheesecake and carrot cake.)
 Appetizers of Vietnamese ground-pork sticks and grilled Moroccan lamb chops were juicy and vibrant with flavor; a crab cake was sweet and almost creamy. Two seafood entrees -- seared mahi-mahi with merguez sausage, couscous and arugula-fennel salad; and sauteed shrimp and scallops with a subtle kick of heat -- were simply terrific.
 Mr. Nathanson's interior is more hoot than handsome -- a tongue-in-cheek homage to the early space age, all checkerboard tiles and hanging clamshell lamps and two-tone leatherette booths. And service can vary from attentive and knowledgeable to fumbling and disengaged. Still, the Skylark is serious fun -- a must-visit for anyone who misses Craig Shelton's brilliance and wants to experience it in this eccentric new incarnation.
 Skylark Fine Diner and Lounge
 17 Wooding Avenue (at Route 1)
 Edison 
 (732) 777-7878
 skylarkdiner.com
 DON'T MISS
 THE SPACE Well, it's a diner -- 250 seats, with a self-consciously kitschy retro design. Wheelchair-accessible.
 THE CROWD A mix: families and couples in search of burgers and fries, and sophisticates in search of Craig Shelton, the famed consulting chef.
 THE STAFF Also a mix, but generally friendly and efficient.
 THE BAR Its own wing, with flat-screen TVs and beverage options that include designer martinis and a first-rate wine list.
 THE BILL Very reasonable, with sandwiches around $9 and dinner entrees $11 to $23. All major credit cards are accepted.
 WHAT WE LIKE Moroccan lamb chops, Vietnamese pork sticks, crab cake; sauteed shrimp and scallops, short rib, mahi-mahi; all cheeses.
 IF YOU GO Open Monday to Saturday, 7 a.m. to 2 a.m.; Sunday, 7 a.m. to 1 a.m. Reservations recommended.
 RATINGS Don't Miss, Worth It, O.K., Don't Bother.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OPTIONS: Besides traditional diner fare, the Skylark offers dishes like sauteed shrimp and scallops, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); WINE (84%); MENU PRICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BEVERAGE PRICES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



456 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; CONTINUING ED SPORTS MANAGEMENT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: So You Want to Be a Player?

BYLINE: By CECILIA CAPUZZI SIMON

 BODY:
If you call the Tri-City ValleyCats, a minor league team in Troy, N.Y., and get put on hold, you will be treated to a loop of Abbott and Costello's ''Who's on First?'' routine. It is a sure sign that you are about to enter baseball land, with all its history and trappings. But when Heather LaVine, the director of fan development, picks up the line, it is a sure sign of another kind: the game has changed. The question for a modern-day Abbott and Costello might be, ''Who's in the front office?''
 Ms. LaVine, 32, has pixie features and a haircut to match but an authoritative bearing honed in the classroom, first teaching fourth grade and later English as a second language. She has been with the ValleyCats, an affiliate of the Houston Astros, for two years. After campaigns that helped set attendance records (one honored local women who were business leaders, another drew attention to childhood obesity), she was named woman executive of the year in the league the ValleyCats play in. And she was promoted to the No. 3 spot, overseeing ticketing, merchandising, human resources and community relations. 
 Hers is an unusual background, and quick ascent, for a manager in a minor league team's office. But Ms. LaVine's route into pro sports has become increasingly common: she went back to school to study sports management.
 Thirty years ago, sports management was a barely known curriculum, and the field itself was limited and poorly defined. Front-office jobs were usually filled with former players or coaches. Ohio University pioneered the major in 1968, followed in 1971 by the University of Massachusetts, where Ms. LaVine studied. But by the 1990s, when the ESPN generation was introduced to Tom Cruise as the superagent Jerry Maguire, the number of institutions with coursework or degrees in sports management had mushroomed. Today there are more than 300 -- half of those offering master's degrees, the leading avenue into the field for career changers.
 Some 6,000 graduate students and 24,000 undergraduates are enrolled in such programs, according to SportsBusiness Journal -- all feeding into an employment glut exacerbated by a recession that has drained game attendance and the budgets from pro teams and college athletics. It is not the best time to enter a field that by its nature is highly competitive. Despite (or maybe because of) its glamour -- celebrity athletes, multimillion-dollar contracts, the expertly packaged hype of televised games -- sports is one of the toughest industries to work in.
 It is not exactly what it appears to be. Pay is low, staffing spare and turnover in coveted spots rare.
 ''Everyone wants to be a G.M. or a C.E.O.,'' says Jim Kahler, executive director of Ohio University's Center for Sports Administration. ''But those guys get carried out in wooden boxes. I tell students it's easier to become a U.S. senator.''
 For those who successfully climb the ranks, Mr. Kahler says, the sporting life is ''dysfunctional, like joining the circus.'' He moved 14 times in 28 years of marriage while building his career, which included 11 years with the Cleveland Cavaliers. Still, he says: ''I woke up every morning with a smile. I got paid to go to professional basketball games!''
 In sports, fantasies die hard. (Somebody has to fill the good jobs!) And Ms. LaVine's dream of working in baseball was no exception.
 She remembers vividly the instant she connected to the game: She was in second grade and had gone with her father to see the Mets play in Montreal, an easier drive from her home in Queensbury, N.Y., than Shea Stadium in Queens. The excitement of the day and the bond she began to form with her father never left.
 She became obsessed with the idea of working in the business and scoured game-day programs for women writers and executives. In high school, she wrote game recaps for the Adirondack Lumberjacks, the minor league team near her home. She played softball through her sophomore year, but, realizing the game wouldn't ''take her anywhere,'' she gave it up and focused on academic pursuits.
 Ms. LaVine majored in history at Bryn Mawr College -- her senior thesis analyzed media portrayals of Mickey Mantle and Willie Mays.
 ''Baseball,''she says, ''is all about the relationship with my father.'' But when she graduated from Bryn Mawr, she ended up in her mother's profession, teaching.
 Through Teach for America, the elite corps that trains and places high achievers in disadvantaged schools, Ms. LaVine landed in a Washington, D.C., elementary school and was quickly consumed by the demands of the job. But after six years at the same school, burned out and approaching 30, she turned back to the game. ''I knew if I didn't start putting a plan together then, it wouldn't happen,'' she says.
 She also knew that the leap from teaching would seem farfetched to the folks in the dugout, and that her plan had to include a return to school. She chose UMass, impressed by its alumni network (3,500 strong, among them general managers like Neal Huntington of the Pittsburgh Pirates and Chris Antonetti of the Cleveland Indians).
 ''It's a competitive marketplace,'' says Lisa Masteralexis, who heads the University of Massachusetts program. ''Who you know is what gets you in.''
 AT UMass, students can pursue a one-year master's in sports management if they already have an M.B.A. or business experience or, as Ms. LaVine did, a two-year dual degree in which the first year is spent completing an M.B.A. Ms. LaVine says that the M.B.A. -- with its courses in finance, economics and accounting -- was a challenge. She wondered often if she had made a mistake. During Year 2, however, the principles learned for the M.B.A. began to make sense once applied to sports. Courses included real-world assignments like marketing the university's basketball program and explored situations unique to the field, like player negotiations or ticket pricing.
 Ms. LaVine's required intern ship was with the Philadelphia Eagles' Youth Partnership, a foundation that raises funds for educational and health initiatives. That educational connection helped her bridge professions and ''come to terms'' with her decision to leave teaching. It also confirmed her desire to work in the minor leagues, where she wouldn't be lost in a large organization and would have opportunities to develop into a ''well-rounded professional.''
 ''I knew in the minors I would be able to make an impact and make it quickly,'' she says. ''You can bring ideas to the table and be heard. At the major league level, it takes a long time to be able to do those things, if at all.''
 The business of the major leagues is marketing big-game matchups and players with outsize personalities. In the minors, it is impossible to build steam around ''the field product,'' Ms. LaVine says, because you don't know from season to season who will be on a team. (The ValleyCats are one of six affiliates from which the Astros groom their draft picks, and alumni include Hunter Pence, now an Astros outfielder; Ben Zobrist of the Tampa Bay Rays; and Roger Clemens's son Koby, who last year moved up to the Astros' affiliate in Corpus Christi, Tex.)
 So, in the minors, executives work at staging a community event. Games are ''fun, affordable, family entertainment,'' Ms. LaVine says without missing a marketing beat. For $25, a family of four can get tickets, hot dogs and sodas. There are kids' activities (bouncies, speed pitching, mini-golf) and promotional events (dancing on the dugout, mascot races, fireworks).
 ''It is truly a community gathering place,'' Ms. LaVine says.
 Ms. LaVine landed her job through her own initiative, and not the UMass network that helped sell her on the program.
 She sent about 15 resumes to minor league teams, as well as the Astros and the Milwaukee Brewers. Troy, an hour and a half from her hometown, wasn't at the top of her destination list. But it was one of the few she heard back from, and she connected quickly with the team's general manager, Rick Murphy. Her postgraduate degrees, professionalism and ''unconditional love for the minor leagues'' won her the job, he says.
 And now, what if the majors came calling? ''No!''she laughs. It is a question she is asked at least once a week, she says.
 ''My goal is to continue working in the minor leagues, and at some point be the No. 1 executive with a team.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: IN THE DUGOUT: With a new degree, Heather LaVine landed a job with a minor league baseball team in Troy, N.Y. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS BUSINESS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); CURRICULA (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (74%); MULTILINGUALISM (73%); HUMAN RESOURCES (72%); TICKET SALES (72%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (68%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (52%); OBESITY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON ASTROS (56%)

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



457 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: A Fight to Save the House That Built Ruth

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
BALTIMORE -- The hardscrabble field where George Herman Ruth Jr. learned baseball from a Xaverian brother is now a lovingly landscaped diamond. The little trees that he saw when he looked uphill from the field have grown into tall, graceful oaks.
 And the concrete fine arts building where he was taught shirt making in tailoring classes is intact but renovated.
 Ruth would recognize what became of St. Mary's Industrial School for Boys, although the stone wall that gave it the look of a grim fortress no longer surrounds it and home plate is just about where center field once was. But this essential part of Ruth's history -- a place where the slogan the House That Built Ruth adorns the back of the baseball team's jerseys -- could soon be demolished in much the same way as the old Yankee Stadium, now a crumbled wreck in the Bronx.
 Ruth spent the better part of 12 years at St. Mary's until 1914, when he left at age 19 to sign with the Baltimore Orioles. After he joined the Yankees in 1920, he took the St. Mary's band to major league ballparks to raise money to replace the main school building destroyed in a fire. 
 St. Mary's closed in 1950, and for 48 years it has been the site of the all-boys Cardinal Gibbons School. Last month, the Archdiocese of Baltimore said that Gibbons and 12 other schools would close in June because of falling enrollment, rising costs and financial problems exacerbated by the recession. Nationally, 1,603 parochial schools have closed or consolidated since 2000, leaving 7,094, according to the National Catholic Educational Association.
 Justin Fratantuono, a junior on the baseball team, said that after learning on March 3 about the archdiocese's decision to close the school, he cried. 
 ''We marched to the archdiocese building to protest in a very respectful way,'' he said, ''but the archdiocese ignored us.''
 Mike Matejevich, a board member from the class of 1968, said, ''We were blindsided.'' When Archbishop Edwin F. O'Brien announced the closings, he recalled thinking, ''Oh, my God, where did that come from?''
 The school's board is resisting the archdiocese's order to shut Gibbons. Board members say the school balanced its budget as the archdiocese requested. They say that the diocese did not deter the school from sending out acceptance letters to freshmen or indicate in advance that the school was on a doomsday list. 
 The board is hoping to raise the millions of dollars necessary to buy the property and turn it into a Catholic school that would be independent of the archdiocese. After initial confidence that the archdiocese was open to such a plan, that door slammed shut. Instead, board members fear that the valuable land, which is across the street from a sprawling hospital complex and about a half-mile from Interstate 95, will be sold to a developer.
 ''They've stacked the deck against us,'' said Wayne McDowell, a board member who graduated in 1967 and is considering wearing a sign on the back of his jacket that says, ''Save Cardinal Gibbons, Fire the Archbishop,'' and starting a radio ad campaign to force O'Brien to negotiate. 
 ''My faith is being tested,'' he said. ''I can't believe this is my archdiocese doing this.''
 John Dillow, who played football at the school in the 1980s, said: ''What if we put up $5 million? Six million? Will they sit down for that? I think they have a number in mind.'' But he said that the archdiocese would not say and that O'Brien had not responded to the board.
 The archdiocese, which recently reported more than $30 million in market losses for the year ended June 30, 2009, will not discuss its plans for the Gibbons property until the school year ends. But a spokesman, Sean Caine, said that Gibbons was no longer viable as a Catholic school. 
 He said that enrollment was down to less than one-third of its capacity, or 297 students, during its first school year since the diocese removed the sixth and seventh grades, that it had nearly $4 million in deferred maintenance, that it had fallen behind on pension payments, and that it had been hurt by parents unable to keep up with tuition bills.
 ''Academically, we've just run out of time,'' Caine said. ''It's a sad reality.''
 Caine maintained that if Gibbons closed, Ruth's local profile would not be diminished. He is celebrated in a museum at his birthplace near Oriole Park at Camden Yards, which is built, in part, over the site of a bar operated by Ruth's father. 
 ''The building he went to school in has been gone for 75 years or so,'' Caine said. ''All that's left is the grounds.''
 Linda Ruth Tosetti, Ruth's granddaughter, hoped for a grand farewell tribute to him at Yankee Stadium before it closed. 
 She said: ''Babe is more than brick and mortar. I'm not worried about him disappearing. He'll always be a part of the American fabric. But I'm upset with these treasures disappearing.''
 Indeed, Yankees and Boston Red Sox fans regularly visit to see Babe Ruth Field and to see some of what he saw as a boy. Those visits may soon end.
 Michael L. Gibbons, the executive director of the Babe Ruth Birthplace and Museum, said that the demise of the field and the school would be a significant historical loss. 
 ''It's like a Gettysburg experience,'' he said. ''He learned the game on that soil. You can touch it. It's tangible.''
 One of the museum's treasured artifacts is a brown hymnal found under a floorboard in an old St. Mary's building when Gibbons was being built. ''On the inside was the inscription: 'George H. Ruth, Worlds Worse singer, worlds Best Pitcher,' '' said Gibbons, the museum director. ''It's in his handwriting. It may be the oldest signature of Babe Ruth.'' 
 On a tour of the school last week, Mike Hoos, the school's admissions director, pointed to a patch of grass overlooking the field where Ruth and 10 of his St. Mary's teammates posed for a photograph in front of a long-gone gazebo. He then gestured to where Ruth was told to stand when he misbehaved, between the big children's and little children's yards.
 ''If this campus goes away, something will be lost,'' said Hoos, who has worked at Gibbons for 42 years. ''St. Mary's served the kind of kid Babe Ruth was: kids in trouble, orphans, kids whose parents couldn't care for them. We've always been a school for kids without a home life they wanted to go home to.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Babe Ruth, top left, and teammates during his days at St. Mary's Industrial School for Boys, now the site of Cardinal Gibbons. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRANSCENDENTAL GRAPHICS -- GETTY IMAGES)
Babe Ruth, top right in 1912 at St. Mary's, which closed in 1950. Above, the baseball team at Cardinal Gibbons, which is scheduled to be closed by the Archdiocese of Baltimore in June. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TRANSCENDENTAL GRAPHICS -- GETTY IMAGES
 MATTHEW ROTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); BUDGETS (73%); SCHOOL BOARDS (71%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



458 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: In Bear Times, A Bull Market For Sitcoms

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

DATELINE: BURBANK, Calif. 

 BODY:
 FROM his second-floor perch on the Warner Brothers lot here, Chuck Lorre juggles the two most popular sitcoms on television, ''Two and a Half Men'' and ''The Big Bang Theory,'' for CBS, more than enough work for any show runner. But these days he's finding time to work on a third show, ''Mike and Molly.''
 So far ''Mike and Molly'' is just a pilot prospect for CBS, a love story about two people who meet at Overeaters Anonymous, partly inspired by the 1955 film ''Marty.'' Next month CBS, which dominates Monday nights largely thanks to Mr. Lorre, will decide whether to order a full series. ''It's a very poignant story,'' Mr. Lorre said. ''I have a lot of hopes for it.'' 
 People like Mr. Lorre are particularly in demand this spring, amid a renaissance of sorts for the network TV sitcom, which not too long ago was pronounced terminally ill. On studio lots, where dozens of new shows are being fretted about and fought over ahead of the networks' scheduling decisions in May, the number of sitcoms in development has spiked. ''I think we're on the cusp of a bull market for comedy,'' said Kevin Reilly, Fox's entertainment chief, whose No. 1 priority for the fall is adding more live-action comedies to his schedule.
 It is evident that comedy success begets more comedy. The sitcom blocks on CBS, ABC and NBC are looking more stable than they have in years, thanks to shows like ABC's ''Modern Family,'' the season's breakthrough new sitcom; ''The Big Bang Theory,'' with surging ratings in its third season; and NBC's ''30 Rock,'' still piling up awards well into its fourth season.
 Despite some exaggerated claims to the contrary, the sitcom never died. What happened in the unfunny middle of the last decade, post-''Friends,'' post-''Frasier,'' post-''Everybody Loves Raymond,'' turned out to be merely an anemic period. But it did deprive many comedy writers and producers of jobs as reality TV stole time slots from underwhelming scripted shows.
 ''We, the networks, drove comedy into the ground by being derivative,'' said Stephen McPherson, the president of entertainment for ABC. The ''Friends'' copycats, like ''Coupling'' and ''Joey,'' all flopped, and for a time it was conventional wisdom that viewers had turned from comedy entirely.
 ''The TV industry is very, very adept at creating self-fulfilling prophecies,'' Bill Lawrence, who co-created ''Scrubs'' and ''Cougar Town,'' said wryly. He noted that the writers' strike three years ago further hampered sitcom growth.
 Luckily for viewers, the bust has been followed by a comedy boom. ABC in particular took a risk when it introduced two hours of new comedy programming on Wednesdays last fall.
 ''I lost a few nights of sleep'' over the scheduling move, Mr. McPherson admitted. But the extra emphasis on comedy worked, for the most part: along with ''Modern Family,'' the fellow first-year series ''The Middle'' and Mr. Lawrence's ''Cougar Town'' were renewed for next season. The block's fourth show, ''Hank,'' was canceled, a reminder that many new network shows face an early death.
 Executives and producers cite several reasons for the boom, including the desire, according to some studios' internal research, for lighter fare in a limp economy. ''I do believe that the economy has created a need for escapist entertainment,'' Mr. Lawrence said, before he emphasized that the economic climate sometimes gets too much credit. ''First and foremost it's an issue of quality.''
 In a crowded television landscape, network executives say, they are able to sustain shows like NBC's ''Community,'' which made its debut in the fall, with lower ratings than they may have demanded in the past. And, compared with reality shows at least, sitcoms have better prospects for future profits in syndication.
 The 22-minute length of most sitcoms may also have something to do with their perceived bump in popularity. More people than ever are watching television online, and they prefer those choices in smaller pieces. Half-hour comedies like ''The Office'' and ''Modern Family'' regularly outrank almost all the hourlong dramas on Hulu.com. ''Comedy is a much lower barrier to entry,'' said Mr. Reilly, who nurtured ''The Office'' while at NBC.
 Analysts say networks are producing about 40 comedy pilots this season, 4 to 10 more than last season, depending on who is counting.
 One network takes exception to this talk of a sudden comedy revival: CBS. ''Two and a Half Men,'' which stars Charlie Sheen and Jon Cryer, has ranked among TV's Top 20 for seven years in a row, beating back the industry trends. ''It feels like we've remained consistent, and everybody else has sort of made a decision to jump into comedy and stick with it,'' said Wendi Trilling, the executive vice president for comedy development for CBS.
 CBS has established a second night of comedies on Wednesdays this season, with shows like ''The New Adventures of Old Christine'' and ''Accidentally on Purpose,'' though so far that block has not been able to replicate the Monday ratings. The network is developing seven comedy pilots this spring (the same number as last year), including one tentatively titled ''Bleep My Dad Says,'' which was inspired by a vulgar-named Twitter account and stars William Shatner as the dad. 
 Virtually all the executives interviewed said that sitcoms are harder to make work than dramas. ''You can sort of read a drama script and know what it could be,'' said Angela Bromstad, the president for prime-time entertainment at NBC. ''But you can read a really funny script and make a very unfunny pilot and a very unfunny show. It's such alchemy and such chemistry.''
 The shows depend enormously on the viewers' connecting with the characters. ''It's haiku,'' Mr. Lorre said of the sitcom format. ''It's a kind of poetry. It may not be considered high art, but it has its own art form.''
 Given the importance placed on characters above plot or special effects, comedy casting is especially critical, executives say. In brainstorming reasons for recent comedy successes, Ms. Bromstad cited a ''resurgence of great comedic talent,'' thanks in part to proving grounds like ''Saturday Night Live'' and ''The Daily Show With Jon Stewart.'' 
 Ms. Bromstad said NBC hopes its spring pilots are sufficiently promising that it can schedule a second night of sitcoms in the fall. NBC's slate includes pilots starring Matthew Broderick, Katharine McPhee and Adam Carolla. 
 Of all the networks, Fox has had the hardest time with sitcoms this season, canceling two so far. ''We're going to recommit'' to sitcoms next season, Mr. Reilly said, with 10 live-action ones in development, up from 6 last season. They include ''Wilde's Kingdom,'' whose writers include the creator of ''Arrested Development,'' about a love-hate relationship between characters played by Will Arnett and Keri Russell. 
 Given the boom-and-bust cycles of television, perhaps it is once again comedy's turn. The reality genre -- which several years ago had ''funnier, more surprising, more outrageous characters than some of the canned sitcoms on the air,'' Mr. Reilly said -- is now starting to seem canned itself.
 ''The audience,'' he said, ''is starting to feel that sitcoms are the freshest shows now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The longtime CBS sitcom ''Two and a Half Men,'' center, with, from left, Charlie Sheen, Jon Cryer and Angus T. Jones
and two first-year series: ''Modern Family,'' top, with, center from left, Sofia Vergara, Ed O'Neill, the guest-star Shelley Long and Ty Burrell
and ''Cougar Town,'' bottom, with, from left foreground, Courteney Cox and Christa Miller. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GREG GAYNE/WARNER BROTHERS
ADAM TAYLOR/ABC
 ERIC McCANDLESS/ABC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION COMEDIES (93%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (70%); WRITERS (70%); FAMILY (63%)

ORGANIZATION: OVEREATERS ANONYMOUS (57%)

PERSON: CHARLIE SHEEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



459 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Doing Fine, but Angry Nonetheless

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
It makes sense that people would take to the streets to protest government spending and enormous deficits during the Great Recession, when they are feeling economic pain most acutely.
 But the Tea Party supporters now taking to the streets aren't the ones feeling the pain.
 In the results of the latest New York Times/CBS News poll, they are better educated and wealthier than the general public. They are just as likely to be employed, and more likely to describe their economic situation as very or fairly good.
 Yet they are disproportionately pessimistic about the economy and the nation. A breathtaking 92 percent said the country is on the wrong track.
 What accounts for this gap between how they are faring and how they feel the country is faring? History offers some lessons. The poll reveals a deep conviction among Tea Party supporters that the country is being run by people who do not share their values, for the benefit of people who are not like them. That is a recurring theme of the previous half-century -- conservatives in liberal eras declaring the imperative to ''Take America Back.'' 
 ''The story they're telling is that somehow the authentic, real America is being polluted,'' said Rick Perlstein, the author of books about the Goldwater and Nixon years.
 Liberal regimes tend to bring out these resentments, Mr. Perlstein said, because conservatives have equated liberalism in the popular mind with the expansion of government power, something that has always stirred distrust among Americans.
 The Tea Party supporters recycle their language from the conservative movements of the early 1960s in response to the Kennedy presidency, the resistance to busing, gay rights and the Carter administration in the mid 1970s, and the opposition to the Clinton health care plan in the early 1990s.
 ''It is entirely predictable,'' Mr. Perlstein said. In the poll, Tea Party supporters said they want to focus on economic issues. But the widest gulfs between Tea Party supporters and others -- Republicans and the public in general -- are in their responses to questions about social issues, from gay marriage to abortion to immigration to global warming.
 And they were almost unanimous in their dislike of President Obama. Overwhelmingly, they said he does not share the values most Americans live by and does not understand the needs and problems of people like them. They are significantly more likely than Republicans or the general public to say that too much attention has been made of the problems facing black people, and that the policies of the Obama administration favor blacks over whites and the poor over the rich or the middle class.
 And 3 in 10 do not think he was born in this country.
 The president's race adds a new element to conservative anger, historians say. But it's not the whole story. Consider the echoes of the early 1960s, as Lisa McGirr describes them in ''Suburban Warriors,'' her 2001 book about the rise of the new American right.
 The first years of that decade were ''a time of effervescent liberalism,'' she writes, ''a climate of change boosted by the energy, dynamism, and youth of the Kennedy administration.''
 The censure of Senator Joseph McCarthy and the death of Robert A. Taft in the 1950s had left conservatives feeling bereft of power and influence, she writes, and Republicans had been losing more seats to a rejuvenated Democratic party.
 Conservative activists felt compelled to enlist ''because of their sense of the widening chasm between the world of the New Deal liberal state and the values they found meaningful.''
 Groups pledged to repeal ''the socialistic laws now on our books,'' a phrase that might be lifted from last week's tax day rallies, where Tea Party supporters pledged to overturn the recent health care legislation.
 Then, as now, conservatives embraced the Constitution and declared that ''a sleeping giant has awakened.''
 The books of W. Cleon Skousen, an anti-Communist snubbed by conservatives like William F. Buckley because of his extremism, are now promoted by Glenn Beck (a Tea Party favorite, according to the poll). The National Center for Constitutional Studies, which Mr. Skousen founded, says that it is on track to teach twice as many courses this year as it did last, many of them to Tea Party organizations.
 Rick Shenkman, a history professor at George Mason University, said in some respects, he is inclined to take the Tea Party supporters at their word, that they are like the founding fathers in fighting an ideological battle -- this one against what they believe is socialism.
 ''They are concerned that the federal government is too big, and these numbers are incomprehensible in terms of deficits and budgets,'' he said. ''They are so large that nobody can grasp them. It's no wonder that people are baffled by what's going on.''
 Still, he and others argue that race and age are the biggest factors in shaping the mindset of Tea Party supporters. They tend to be white and male, with a disproportionate number above 45, and above 65. Their memories are of a different time, when the country was less diverse.
 Conversations with Tea Party supporters often wind their way into nostalgia. Even those out of work aren't mourning the loss of a job so much as what they see as a loss of an era.
 ''The Tea Party is saying, 'We're tired of this, you guys caused this, and if we don't wake up to this, the American dream we've talked about since the '50s will die,' '' said Jeff McQueen, a Tea Party organizer in Rochester, Mich., who was laid off from his job in international sales for an auto parts company. ''Things we had in the '50s were better. If a mom wanted to work, she could, if she didn't, she didn't have to. Tell me how many mothers work now? Now it's a necessity.''
 Mr. McQueen is 51 -- born into the 1960s, not the '50s. But he is not alone among Tea Party supporters in his conviction that something has been taken away from him.
 ''I'm the 50 percent stuck paying for the other 50 percent,'' read one sign on the Mall in Washington Thursday as Tea Party supporters gathered for tax day rallies.
 It was a thought echoed in interviews with those who identified themselves as Tea Party supporters in the poll.
 ''I do believe we are responsible for the widow and the orphan, but I think there is a welfare class that lives for having children and receiving payment from the government for having those children,'' said Richard Gilbert, a 72-year-old retired Air Force officer and teacher in South Carolina. Perhaps, the most telling evidence that these avowed critics of big government are really mourning an America of the past is in their shifting attitude toward George W. Bush. Only a short time ago, he was reviled on the right for his spendthrift ways (his Medicare expansion), his federalizing of education standards (No Child Left Behind) and his creation of a vast new government agency, Homeland Security.
 At rallies, Tea Party supporters often nod to President Bush's role in creating the deficit. Yet in the poll, 57 percent of them view Mr. Bush favorably -- about the same percentage in the general population that has an unfavorable view.
 In the new world led by President Obama, Mr. Bush is apparently a figure these new populists can pine for.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Planting a Flag: A Tea Party activist at a rally last week outside Albany, N.Y. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (WK1)
 POWER PROTEST: Jesse Brown, 11, attended a Tea Party rally in Boston, Mass. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRETCHEN ERTL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); GAYS & LESBIANS (74%); WRITERS (71%); HISTORY (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (68%); LGBT RIGHTS (63%); ABORTION (63%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (63%); IMMIGRATION (50%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); MARRIAGE (50%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



460 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Obama Accuses the G.O.P. Of Blocking Fiscal Reform

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama on Saturday accused Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, of waging a ''cynical and deceptive'' attack against a measure to tighten regulation of the nation's financial system, and vowed to move ahead on the bill with or without the minority party's support. 
 Mr. Obama used his weekly address to make the case for the bill, which would create a new consumer protection authority and impose new rules aimed at avoiding a repeat of the conditions that led to the economic meltdown of 2008. Republicans, led by Mr. McConnell, have asserted that the measure would encourage future bailouts by creating a fund to rescue companies whose failure would damage the broader economy.
 Some Democrats have also raised concerns about that fund, and the White House has suggested that it is not wedded to it. During a briefing with reporters last week, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner noted that the fund was not in the White House's original proposal for the financial legislation. 
 Given the White House's position, a spokesman for Mr. McConnell called the president's comments about the senator ''especially disappointing.''
 Mr. Obama, using Mr. McConnell's title but not his name, suggested that the Republican leader is being duplicitous, and said Mr. McConnell had met recently with top Wall Street executives to talk about ''how to block progress'' on the bill.
 ''Lo and behold, when he returned to Washington, the Senate Republican leader came out against the common-sense reforms we've proposed,'' Mr. Obama said. ''In doing so, he made the cynical and deceptive assertion that reform would somehow enable future bailouts -- when he knows that it would do just the opposite.''
 Republicans and Democrats have been tussling all week over the measure, with Republicans threatening to vote not only against the bill itself but against allowing it to come to the floor for debate. Mr. Obama attacked ''special interests'' for opposing the measure, and vowed that Democrats would move ahead however they could.
 There is broad agreement between the two parties that taxpayers should never again have to bail out financial institutions. But there is deep disagreement about the measure being drafted in the Senate. The bill would establish a $50 billion ''orderly liquidation fund,'' financed by assessments on ''systemically important'' financial institutions, as well as banks with at least $50 billion in assets. The measure would give the Treasury secretary authority to step in if such ''systemically important'' institutions were on the verge of failure.
 Republicans are concerned about designating certain large financial institutions as ''systemically important,'' and say that to do so would create a foundation for future bailouts. Democrats say the measure, approved last month by the Senate Banking Committee on a party-line vote, would not put taxpayers at risk, because banks themselves would be financing the rescue fund.
 ''My hope is that Democrats and Republicans can find common ground and move forward together,'' Mr. Obama said in his address. ''But this is certain: one way or another, we will move forward.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); BANK FAILURES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); APPROVALS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MITCH MCCONNELL (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



461 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Whose Side Are They On?

 BODY:
Last month Democrats on the Senate banking committee passed a reasonably tough financial regulatory reform bill. Now Republican leaders have suddenly begun lashing out against it. 
 Did they belatedly discover some problem? No. They suddenly realized that their bet that reform would be watered down as it moved along might not pan out. 
 Their battle cry of ''no more bailouts'' is disingenuous. They are not worried that reform will make bankers' lives too easy, they are worried that it will make them too hard. 
 The Republicans started loudly objecting only after Senator Blanche Lincoln, an Arkansas Democrat who is chairwoman of the agriculture committee, took an unexpectedly strong stand in favor of reining in financial derivatives, the complex and largely unregulated instruments that were at the heart of the financial crisis. (Her committee has jurisdiction, because derivatives have long been used to trade commodities.)
 The agriculture committee's bill will be folded into the banking committee's larger legislation, which includes other important reforms like consumer protection and the systemwide regulation of risk. 
 Of all the regulatory changes under consideration, the outcome of derivatives reform is arguably the single most important issue for the banks. Why? Because derivatives are where the money is. 
 An overarching aim of reform must be to ensure that all derivatives deals -- many of which currently trade as one-on-one private contracts -- are moved onto transparent, fully regulated exchanges. If that happens, banks stand to lose potentially billions of dollars in earnings. In addition to reducing systemwide risk, transparent trading would lead to more competitive pricing. 
 Ms. Lincoln's proposal is not perfect. But among other smart reforms, it would require that nearly all derivatives be traded on exchanges. The only exemptions would be for unique contracts, which would be policed by regulators, and for a tightly defined group of companies that use derivatives for a narrow range of purposes. 
 It would be better -- and safer -- if there were no corporate exemptions. Legislators should fight to make that the law when reform is debated on the Senate floor. The proposal is a very good start, and if strengthened in a few areas, it would be a huge improvement over the status quo. And that is why Republicans are so upset. 
 Of course, they are not saying that. Instead, they are criticizing the banking committee's plan for its so-called resolution authority -- in which regulators would be able to seize and dismantle too-big-to-fail firms at imminent risk of destabilizing the system. They denounce it as ''bailout'' authority. 
 It is not. It is akin to the authority of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to take over failing banks. It would wisely prohibit regulators from providing support to keep failing institutions open, which -- if done the right way -- should prevent bailouts a la American International Group. This provision, too, needs improvement, but it also would be better than the status quo. 
 There is still time to make necessary fixes in both committees' bills. Ms. Lincoln has given Congress a chance to get derivatives regulation right. 
 The White House and Democratic leaders need to push back hard against Republican posturing, making it clear to Americans that robust reform is the only way to protect the system -- and taxpayers -- from a repeat catastrophe. When Republicans try to block reform, they are doing nothing more than shilling for the banks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%)

PERSON: BLANCHE LINCOLN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



462 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: History From Unexpected Characters

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH JENSEN

 BODY:
THE first clue that ''America: The Story of Us'' isn't your typical PBS-style documentary comes five minutes in. After actors re-create the early travails of the settlers at Jamestown and their eventual success building a tobacco business, the very first expert who comes on camera to put it all in context is not an eminent Harvard historian or noted archaeologist, but the businessman Donald J. Trump. 
 This sweeping 12-hour history of the country, which will be shown on the History channel for six Sundays beginning April 25, is full of such odd juxtapositions. In the first episode the actor Michael Douglas comments on the pilgrims, while Jimmy Wales, a Wikipedia founder, reflects on the communications revolution brought by the Pony Express. Commentary from the NBC News anchors Brian Williams and Tom Brokaw is interspersed with that of Gen. Colin L. Powell, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York and yes, some academic historians, like Henry Louis Gates Jr. of Harvard and Annette Gordon-Reed of Rutgers and New York Law School. 
 The notables (who in a bit of cross-promotion include Richard Harrison, the patriarch of History's ''Pawn Stars'') are a naked attempt by the producers to rope in viewers whose experience of United States history may be limited to their school history classes. ''In that attempt to make it feel epic, it's actually quite refreshing to see big personalities commenting on what history means to them and what that moment in the story means to them, and how that has inspired them,'' said Nancy Dubuc, the president and general manager of the History channel. ''It sort of ups the entertainment value of the show.'' 
 ''It's not about dates, facts and dead people,'' she added. ''It's about presenting a very rich story in an engaging and entertaining way, and along the way, lo and behold, hopefully millions of people will watch something that they hadn't anticipated they would watch.''
 The History channel under Ms. Dubuc has expanded what qualifies for its programming lineup, incorporating popular series like ''Pawn Stars'' and ''Ice Road Truckers.'' Ms. Dubuc, apologizing for being ''testy,'' dismissed criticisms that the new shows take History away from its core mission, saying they aren't reality shows but ''verite documentaries on people doing history today.'' ''America: The Story of Us'' may also get some criticism for its eclectic approach to its subject. 
 It was the election of Barack Obama that sparked the series. With an African-American president, a recession dwarfed only by the Great Depression and two wars, History executives were taken with ''the idea that we are living in historic times,'' Ms. Dubuc said. 
 The message of the series is meant to be inspiring, she said: ''The genesis of the idea for me came from this notion of showing people that you can get through difficult times and that this country has been in difficult times many, many times. And the perseverance and the strength and the determination and the sacrifice that so many millions of people have had to endure to form this country is far greater than anything that we can really imagine. I'm a big believer in: Show people that path and it becomes easier in some ways.''
 A similar sweeping history of the country hasn't been done since Alistair Cooke's 13-part ''America: A Personal History of the United States,'' in 1972, executives at History said. (PBS broadcast the eight-hour ''Freedom: A History of Us,'' based on Joy Hakim's books for grade schoolers, in 2003, but History isn't counting that.) The executive producer of ''America: The Story of Us'' is Jane Root, a former Discovery Channel president who was involved in the production of Simon Schama's 15-part ''History of Britain'' when she was a top BBC executive a decade ago. 
 In addition to the re-creations, which employed some 1,600 actors and extras, this series makes liberal use of computer-generated imagery, which, Ms. Root said, lets viewers ''experience things they might only have been able to think about before,'' whether the sight of 400 British ships in the waters surrounding Manhattan or the building of the Statue of Liberty. 
 In a move that provoked much internal debate -- including some questioning from the Pulitzer Prize-winning historian Daniel Walker Howe, who with David M. Kennedy, also a Pulitzer winner, is a ''specialist consultant'' on the project -- the producers left out a swath of history. They jumped from the Plymouth Colony, which was established in 1620, to the Revolution, some 150 years later, in just 90 seconds. 
 ''In the end we decided that was the most immersive, energizing thing to do,'' Ms. Root said. The post-World War II period is also given just a quick once-over; instead the series ends with a discussion of the American character. Ms. Dubuc said, ''I think those are stories that people know so well, and much of our audience has actually lived through.'' 
 The channel has a lot invested in the series, although Ms. Dubuc won't say how much, for competitive reasons. But it's the network's largest programming investment to date and expectations are high: Ms. Dubuc said she hopes it will be among the highest-rated specials of the year. History's top special, ''Life After People,'' in January 2008, had 5.4 million viewers.
 In 2006, the year before Ms. Dubuc joined the channel, it drew an average 1.1 million viewers in prime time. For the first three months of 2010 the channel has averaged 1.5 million viewers in prime time. 
 ''America: The Story of Us'' is also receiving the network's largest ever educational outreach. A DVD set of the series is being offered, free, to any school, college or university in the country that requests one. More than 30,000 have already signed up, History executives said.
 Apart from telling the actual history the program is meant to be ''a conversation,'' Ms. Root said. ''We want everyone to join in with their story of what it is to be an American.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Westward, with wagons, in Episode 3 of ''America: The Story of Us,'' a 12-hour History series that begins April 25. Experts include Donald J. Trump. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE ALBLAS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (91%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (72%); ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (70%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: America The Story of Us (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



463 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: So Many Ways to Almost Say 'I'm Sorry'

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
The parade of bankers called to account for the financial crisis continued last week when Kerry K. Killinger, head of Washington Mutual, the largest bank ever to fail, apologized, sort of, as have many before him. But he also said that his firm ''should have been given a chance.'' Here are some of those mea culpa moments.
 Angelo R. Mozilo
 Co-founder, former chairman and chief executive, Countrywide Financial 
 QUOTE ''No single entity or industry sector is responsible for the collapse in housing prices. ... The issue is not so much the products, but the housing market.''
 BLAME In testimony before a House panel in March 2008, he faulted real estate speculators, rating agencies, a sharp decline in investor appetite for certain mortgages, and market psychology.
 TOTAL COMPENSATION $530.9 million.
 Kenneth D. Lewis
 Former chairman and chief executive, Bank of America
 QUOTE Mr. Lewis has never apologized for the Merrill Lynch deal, which caused the bank to seek a second bailout from Washington. ''Some observers have said the price to which we agreed looked steep given the economic environment of the moment,'' Mr. Lewis said, referring to his ill-fated purchase of Merrill Lynch. ''I believe the price we paid represented a good value, given the full value of the company in a more normal economic environment.''
 BLAME Mr. Lewis said the economic downturn has many causes, but said the primary contributor was a massive bubble in home values and housing finance over several years.
 TOTAL COMPENSATION $251.5 million
 Kerry K. Killinger
 Former chief executive, Washington Mutual
 QUOTE ''As C.E.O., I accept responsibility for our performance and am deeply saddened by what happened.''
 BLAME In his testimony before a Senate panel, he also said that federal regulators and Wall Street's ''too clubby to fail'' culture contributed to WaMu's demise. ''For those outside the club, the penalty was severe,'' he said.
 TOTAL COMPENSATION $95.7 million
 Robert E. Rubin
 Former chairman of the executive committee and board member, Citigroup
 QUOTE ''We all bear responsibility for not recognizing this, and I deeply regret that.''
 BLAME In testimony before the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission on April 8, Mr. Rubin stopped short of accepting personal responsibility for Citigroup's troubles. He blamed at least a dozen forces -- from trade imbalances to a surge in the use of complex derivatives.
 TOTAL COMPENSATION $101 million
 E. Stanley O'Neal
 Former chairman and chief executive, Merrill Lynch
 QUOTE ''The bottom line is, despite our best efforts, a lot of money was lost in this one area'' -- mortgage securities -- ''and I, as the chief executive of the firm, was held accountable,'' he told The New Yorker in a written statement in March 2008. ''At the same time, the record over all is that we -- the firm under my leadership -- did a lot of things that benefited Merrill Lynch greatly and will continue to benefit the firm in the years ahead.''
 BLAME In testimony before a House committee in March 2008, Mr. O'Neal blamed an ''unprecedented meltdown in the credit market'' and noted that credit rating agencies failed to foresee the magnitude of the risk. In the latest issue of Fortune magazine, Mr. O'Neal said he recognized Merrill's mortgage problems in August 2007 but failed to persuade Merrill's directors to sell the company at the time. (Bank of America bought it a year later at a much lower price.)
 TOTAL COMPENSATION $201.9 million.
 Lloyd C. Blankfein
 Chairman and chief executive, Goldman Sachs
 QUOTE ''We participated in things that were clearly wrong and have reason to regret and apologize for,'' he said at a conference last November in a response to a question about impact the crisis has had on the firm's image. ''Some of this is real and some of this is extrapolated.''
 BLAME In an appearance before the financial crisis panel in mid-January, Mr. Blankfein said overdependence on credit ratings, risk models that substituted data for judgment, and a fundamental mispricing of risk also contributed to the crisis.
 TOTAL COMPENSATION $391.2 million
 Alan Greenspan
 Former chairman of the Federal Reserve
 QUOTE ''I was right 70 percent of the time but I was wrong 30 percent of the time.''
 BLAME In testimony before the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission on April 7, Mr. Greenspan pointed to an undercapitalized banking system and inadequate risk management by banks. He said that the Fed's limited powers restricted it from doing more to stop abusive lending practices.
 TOTAL COMPENSATION $2.6 million.
 Richard S. Fuld
 Former chairman and chief executive, Lehman Brothers
 QUOTE ''I take full responsibility for the decisions that I made and for the actions that I took,'' he told a House committee in October 2008. ''I feel horrible about what has happened to the company and its effects on so many -- my colleagues, my shareholders, my creditors and my clients.''
 BLAME Mr. Fuld said he acted prudently but Lehman was done in by higher borrowing costs, naked short attacks, accounting rules that forced the bank to mark down the value of its assets, and credit rating agency downgrades. He suggested that the Federal Reserve was unwilling to save the firm.
 TOTAL COMPENSATION $167.5 million. (He lost about $900 million in stock when his firm went bankrupt.)
 Charles O. Prince III
 Former chairman and chief executive, Citigroup
 QUOTE ''Let me start by saying I'm sorry. I'm sorry the financial crisis has had such a devastating impact for our country. I'm sorry about the millions of people, average Americans, who lost their homes. And I'm sorry that our management teams, starting with me, like so many others could not see the unprecedented market collapse that lay before us.''
 BLAME In his testimony before the financial crisis commission on April 8, he also said that other factors -- from rating agencies, to patchwork regulation, to the explosive growth of securitization -- contributed to the crisis.
 TOTAL COMPENSATION $132.7 million.
 James E. Cayne
 Former chairman, Bear Stearns
 QUOTE ''I have no anger, only regret,'' he told employees at a final meeting in May 2008. ''Fourteen-thousand families were affected. I personally apologize. I feel an enormous amount of pain and management feels an enormous amount of pain.''
 BLAME In a Fortune magazine article in August 2008, Mr. Cayne blamed himself. ''I didn't stop it,'' he said. ''I didn't rein in the leverage.''
 TOTAL COMPENSATION $424.3 million. (He lost about $900 million in stock when Bear was taken over by JP Morgan Chase.)
 Total compensation includes career salary, bonus, proceeds from stock and options sales and accumulated stock and retirement benefits, according to publicly available filings. For executives who left their firms, their stock is valued at their date of departure. For those who remained, their stock was valued as of Friday's market close. Data analyzed by Equilar, James F. Reda & Associates.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER AND MARIA HOEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (79%); KERRY K KILLINGER (78%); STAN O'NEAL (58%); ANGELO R MOZILO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



464 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2412 words

HEADLINE: Trench Warfare: Send In the Deputies

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
 ON a recent afternoon, Neal S. Wolin entered the ornate limestone headquarters of the United States Chamber of Commerce, across Lafayette Park from his office at the Treasury Department here, and stood before scores of corporate chieftains, financiers and lobbyists.
And then he blasted away.
 ''The Chamber of Commerce -- funded, no doubt, with a good deal of your money -- has launched a lavish, aggressive and misleading campaign to defeat the proposed independent agency,'' said Mr. Wolin, who, as deputy Treasury secretary, is helping to shape the Obama administration's proposal for a new federal entity charged with monitoring financial products sold to consumers. 
 As Mr. Wolin spoke, some of the executives shifted uncomfortably in their seats. When he was done, there was scant applause. Then Thomas J. Donohue, president of the chamber, one of the most potent lobbies in the capital, spoke up. 
 ''I think the Constitution is very clear on our right to raise our issues,'' he responded. ''And you have every right to raise the government's issues.'' 
 As Congress and Wall Street wrestle over the contours of what may be the most far-reaching and pivotal overhaul of financial regulations in nearly 80 years, the White House is intensifying its effort to cajole or browbeat Republicans into supporting changes that so far have been almost entirely the handiwork of Democrats.
 Behind the scenes, for more than a year, the White House has relied on Mr. Wolin and two other officials -- Diana Farrell, deputy director of the National Economic Council, and Michael S. Barr, assistant Treasury secretary for financial institutions -- to handle the day-in, day-out bargaining, battling and drudgery that such efforts entail. 
 In countless meetings with lobbyists and legislators, they have pressed the case for enhanced oversight. They know the minutiae of the legislation better than their bosses do (and their bosses include President Obama and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner). As the regulatory battle heats up, they are absorbing much of the collateral damage while enjoying little of the glory.
 ''They're the front-line generals, and this is trench warfare,'' said Scott E. Talbott, a lobbyist for the Financial Services Roundtable, an industry association that represents banking interests. 
 Mr. Barr, who works until midnight and sees his family in Ann Arbor, Mich., only on weekends, concedes that the process has been grueling. ''It's a hard slog,'' he says. ''We're up against a financial industry that's willing to spend enormous sums to get what they want out of the bill. That makes it tough.''
 He adds: ''The intensity, ferocity and the ugliness of the lobbying in the financial sector -- it's gotten worse. It's more intense.''
 Ms. Farrell, one of two deputies to Lawrence H. Summers, Mr. Obama's top economic counselor, said she has had ''darker days'' but expressed hope that the legislation would pass. 
 When Mr. Obama took office 15 months ago, his financial team -- and Mr. Geithner in particular -- were criticized as being slow off the mark and too friendly to Wall Street. Since then, political setbacks and calls for more vigorous action have catalyzed the White House. Mr. Wolin, Ms. Farrell and Mr. Barr have emerged as the on-the-ground leaders of the effort. 
 Mr. Geithner, for one, is appreciative. ''They're very secure,'' he says of the three. ''They have no ego. They're not worried about how things appear, or who gets the credit.''
 MR. WOLIN and Mr. Barr worked at Treasury during the Clinton administration. After George W. Bush was elected, Mr. Wolin went to the Hartford Financial Services Group, and Mr. Barr to teach at the University of Michigan. Ms. Farrell had been in San Francisco directing the McKinsey Global Institute, the consulting firm's research arm. 
 Mr. Summers and Mr. Geithner, along with Rahm Emanuel, Mr. Obama's chief of staff, brought the trio together. Mr. Wolin was sent to Treasury from the White House counsel's office, and Mr. Barr from the National Economic Council, where Ms. Farrell works. The three have formed a strong alliance, especially by Washington standards.
 ''They've created a very congenial team that has not been off-message once,'' says Stuart E. Eizenstat, a veteran of the Johnson, Carter and Clinton administrations who was deputy Treasury secretary under Mr. Summers. ''The conjunction of politics and substance -- and the interest groups -- are as ferocious as you can imagine. But these guys have hung together.''
 Mr. Barr, 44, has been the architect of much of the policy-making, particularly the proposal for an independent consumer financial protection agency. He tends to wear his passion on his sleeve; some critics find him grating. 
 In a debate at a forum last September, Mr. Barr butted heads with Peter J. Wallison, a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research organization, and a critic of the regulatory overhaul. 
 ''He's very smart and he's a good advocate for his position, but he's not someone who is willing to listen,'' says Mr. Wallison, who was the Treasury's top lawyer and White House counsel in the Reagan administration. ''That's just not in his nature. He has an inflexibility about him that I think is somewhat off-putting.'' 
 Mr. Barr brushes off the criticism. ''I enjoy the rough-and-tumble of it,'' he says. ''It would be a disadvantage if I were stiff-necked and not willing to learn from other people. I certainly have seen that trait in some people, and I don't admire it.''
 Raised in the Maryland suburbs of Washington, the son of a union lawyer and a high school teacher, Mr. Barr was a Rhodes scholar and a law clerk for Supreme Court Justice David H. Souter before joining the policy planning staff at the State Department.
 Mr. Barr quickly moved to the Treasury, as an assistant to the secretary, Robert E. Rubin, in 1995. He worked on community development financial institutions, which offer credit in low-income neighborhoods. After the administration released an 89-page financial reform blueprint last June, Mr. Barr helped transform it into concrete language.
 Although Mr. Rubin has been widely criticized for the deregulatory policies he oversaw at Treasury, and for problems that emerged at Citigroup during his subsequent tenure there, Mr. Barr says he ''learned a tremendous amount'' from Mr. Rubin, adding, ''I have no regrets.''
 Some critics who are sympathetic to the administration say its regulatory effort hasn't gone far enough. ''There is only one plausible way to ensure banks that are currently 'too big to fail' can actually fail, and this is to make them substantially smaller,'' says Simon Johnson, an M.I.T. economist and a critic from the left. 
 Others have slammed the Obama administration as backing the Bush-era bailouts while being slow to aid homeowners facing foreclosure -- another part of Mr. Barr's portfolio. Mr. Barr points to the homebuyer tax credit, help for mortgage refinancings and the rescue of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, but adds that ''I certainly agree that not all of our programs have been perfect.''
 And Mr. Barr has had to endure losses so far in putting together the proposed regulatory overhaul. For example, an effort to force issuers to offer simplified, ''plain vanilla'' financial products met fierce resistance from banks, which would have seen some of their most profitable lines of business wither. It was dropped after intense industry lobbying, but Mr. Barr says he still believes the provision would have been reasonable.
 After the legislation went to Congress, Mr. Barr continued to hone and refine it, working with aides to Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, its chief sponsors. 
 ''The job of walking them through, section by section, subsection by subsection, page by page, line by line, semicolon by semicolon, fell to Michael and to his team,'' notes Mr. Wolin.
 Mr. Barr accepts that he may have to settle for whatever emerges from the horse-trading in Congress. ''It's not 100 percent what we would want, but Washington is not that kind of town,'' he says of the legislation.
 In January, two days after a Republican upstart, Scott Brown, won the Massachusetts Senate seat of the late Edward M. Kennedy, in an election widely viewed as a negative referendum on the Obama administration, the White House veered left on financial reform. 
 The president endorsed a proposal by the former Federal Reserve chairman Paul A. Volcker to limit the free-wheeling trading and heady expansion banks had enjoyed ever since financial deregulation accelerated in the 1990s. The Volcker Rule, as it came to be known, was seen as an overtly political and populist maneuver, one made with only grudging support from Mr. Geithner and Mr. Summers, who were on the opposite side from Mr. Volcker in the White House's own financial reform debate. 
 Two weeks later, Mr. Volcker and Mr. Wolin appeared before the Senate Banking Committee to explain the proposal. Mr. Volcker said the timing of the announcement was ''sheer coincidence,'' but senators from both parties seemed unpersuaded.
 But it was Mr. Wolin -- not the 82-year-old Mr. Volcker, a revered inflation fighter -- who took the heat. 
 Mr. Dodd said the announcement ''seemed to many to be transparently political and not substantive, and it's adding to the problem of trying to get a bill done.'' 
 In the end, the Volcker Rule stayed in the bill, although much of the fine-tuning would be left to regulators. One of Mr. Wolin's overseers, Mr. Summers, acknowledges that Mr. Wolin has sat on the firing line but isn't the only member of Team Obama to have done so.
 ''Everybody has been part of the to-and-fro, the cut-and-thrust, of this thing,'' says Mr. Summers. 
 Mr. Wolin is, in some ways, an accidental deputy. He wasn't the administration's first choice for the No. 2 job at Treasury. But the slot opened when two previous candidates, H. Rodgin Cohen, a mergers-and-acquisitions lawyer, and Annette Nazareth, a former member of the Securities and Exchange Commission, withdrew. 
 It helped that as a young lawyer in the 1990s, he worked for William H. Webster and Robert M. Gates (now the defense secretary), two directors of the Central Intelligence Agency appointed by Republicans. He had been through the confirmation process before, serving as the Treasury's general counsel at the end of the Clinton administration. He sailed through again this time.
 At 48, Mr. Wolin is three months younger than Mr. Geithner. Their offices are adjacent, and they have an easy rapport. ''He's the best combination of policy smarts, legal judgment and political strategy,'' Mr. Geithner says.
 While Mr. Geithner is routinely intense, Mr. Wolin is relentlessly cheerful. He laughs at his penchant for legalese.
 At a recent press briefing, he said the White House would resist efforts to weaken consumer finance protections. ''A carve-out for auto dealers would be sort of a paradigmatic example of such a weakening move,'' he said.
 ''It would be a what example?'' one reporter asked.
 ''A good example,'' he replied. 
 AT a briefing last fall with members of the House Financial Services Committee, lawmakers kept trying to find divisions within the Obama administration.
 ''They were fishing and fishing,'' Ms. Farrell recalls. ''At which Michael turned very serious and said, 'I'm sure I'm not supposed to tell you, but the deepest and most profound conflict is when we have our lunch meetings: Diana insists on having salad and I insist on having grilled cheese.''
 For her part, Ms. Farrell, 45, is the suave, poised member of the trio, a former consultant who makes sure deadlines are met. At McKinsey, she oversaw research on productivity, information technology and financial systems. 
 ''She's not a Ph.D. in economics, but she's more on top of the issues than many Ph.D.'s you'll meet,'' says Martin N. Baily, a fellow at the Brookings Institution and a former colleague of Ms. Farrell at McKinsey. Her training and her natural inclination, he said, ''are to avoid theoretical debates and focus on what are the facts and what do they tell us.'' 
 Ms. Farrell's diplomacy softens the rougher edges of her boss, Mr. Summers. The daughter of a Colombian mother and an American father, she attended boarding school and college in Connecticut. She was an analyst at Goldman Sachs before attending Harvard Business School.
 ''Without her efficiency, it would have been a slower-moving process,'' says Mr. Summers. ''Without her idealism, it would have been a process with less vision.''
 Ms. Farrell is comfortable explaining such concepts as securitization in Spanish (as she did in a recent Univision interview) but acknowledges that the transition from McKinsey to government wasn't always smooth.
 ''I would get frustrated every time the process slowed down,'' she recalls. ''But colleagues who've spent time in government would say, 'You have no appreciation for how fast this is going.' '' 
 For three people with five Ivy League degrees among them, Mr. Wolin, Ms. Farrell and Mr. Barr are hardly ordinary consumers. But asked about the bill's provisions that most affect taxpayers' pocketbooks, they offered examples from their own lives. Mr. Wolin, who recently bought a house, said that closing that purchase was an eye-opener.
 ''The documents are literally impenetrable,'' he notes. ''Here I was -- former general counsel of the Treasury, former general counsel of a Fortune 100 financial services company -- asking my lawyer to help me through 100 pages of incomprehensible, turgid gobbledygook.''
 All three say finance has a crucial role in allocating savings and investment, but should not be the sole driver of economic growth.''We created a false sense of wealth creation in a sector of the economy that was not necessarily creating sustainable wealth,'' says Ms. Farrell. 
 And Mr. Wolin, who helped work on Gramm-Leach-Bliley, the signature deregulatory measure of the Clinton era, says officials were ''intoxicated by the success of the markets'' and went too far. He thinks current reform proposals could address that problem, but acknowledges not knowing how the story will end. 
 ''Only in Washington,'' Mr. Wolin said in his speech to the Chamber of Commerce last month, ''would anyone think of saying that we are 'rushing' to enact financial reform.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The administration's push for financial reform is led by Neal Wolin, left, Michael Barr and Diana Farrell, who face intense pressure from lobbyists. (BU1)
 Neal Wolin, left, Michael Barr and Diana Farrell. ''They have no ego,'' Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner says. ''They're not worried about how things appear, or who gets the credit.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (84%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



465 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: After Health Care Passage, Obama Pushes to Get It Rolling

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Mindful that the new health care law's ability to slow rising medical costs will depend to a great extent on how it is put in effect, President Obama is assembling a high-level team to carry out key elements of the overhaul and is considering moving faster than the law requires to put them into action.
 The president has tapped Pete Rouse, one of his closest White House advisers, to oversee what one insider described as an ''elaborate implementation plan.'' And he personally pressed Nancy-Ann DeParle, who directed the legislative effort and has long experience in the health sector, to shelve her plans to leave; she will instead manage construction of the machinery for extending coverage to about 30 million uninsured Americans while also moving toward the law's long-run goal: cost containment. 
 Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services and, before that, insurance commissioner and then governor of Kansas, has assumed a higher-profile role both within the administration and publicly. 
 Ms. Sebelius has begun work on the first of what will be numerous regulations for Medicare, Medicaid and private health care providers. Within her department, she has reorganized the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to make room for an innovation center intended to test ways of reimbursing providers that could reduce spending while improving patient care.
 The secretary can expand successful ideas nationwide without Congress's permission.
 Mr. Obama, whose legacy will be shaped less by the law's passage than by how well it works, has begun marshaling what is ''essentially the biggest transformation of government since World War II,'' said David M. Cutler, a Harvard economist who was Mr. Obama's chief campaign adviser on health policy.
 The law's main provisions, including those creating state insurance exchanges where uninsured Americans can shop for competitively priced policies, will not take effect until 2014 -- two years after the next presidential election.
 But Mr. Obama has urged advisers to consider moving sooner to set up an Independent Payment Advisory Board for controlling Medicare spending. Some administration officials, however, fear that creating the board much before 2014 could prematurely make it a target for attacks of the ''death panel'' sort, leaving it politically vulnerable before its powers to impose changes take effect.
 The board was a top priority for Mr. Obama during the long legislative battle. He faced down Democratic leaders, who opposed delegating powers to an unelected board for the government's popular health insurance programs.
 Even some skeptics of the health insurance law say that the board, and the law more generally, could prove more effective at restraining spending than estimated by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office -- if only because of the nation's bleak fiscal future.
 With the federal debt projected to rise to levels that many economists consider unsustainable, mainly due to growing health costs and an aging population, Congress might have little choice in coming years but to accede to unpopular limits on payments for doctors, hospitals and other health care providers of the kind that lawmakers have ignored in the past. The board would give them political cover to do so.
 ''I'm modestly optimistic because the fiscal environment which we will be in, in three or four years, will be so desperate that the Congress and the administration will be looking for any mechanism or device that can hold down the growth of spending,'' said Robert Reischauer, an economist, health policy expert and former director of the Congressional Budget Office. ''This act sets a foundation, I think, upon which effective cost controls can be built.''
 The president will nominate the 15 members of the Independent Payment Advisory Board; Senate confirmation is required for the six-year terms at what are to be full-time jobs, for better bureaucratic clout. Each year that Medicare spending exceeds annual targets, as most analysts expect it will, the board must propose ways to reduce payments to care providers.
 Unlike an existing Medicare commission whose recommendations Congress routinely disregards, the board could put its proposals into effect unless Congress modified or rejected them within 30 days. Even then, the president could veto a disapproval resolution; it would take a two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress to override the veto. 
 ''It's a very promising structure,'' said Peter R. Orszag, Mr. Obama's budget director. ''But like anything else in life, it's what you make of it. So whether it realizes its potential depends on how it's implemented.''
 The administration and Democratic lawmakers created a more muscular board in consultation with the Congressional Budget Office, which otherwise would not have ''scored'' it as producing many savings. 
 Because of Congress's restrictions and the board's delayed start-up, however, the board's savings over the next decade would be a small fraction, $15.5 billion, of the law's nearly $500 billion in total Medicare reductions projected through 2019. After 2014, the board can move to alter payments for doctors, but not for hospitals until 2019. It cannot change benefits and out-of-pocket costs for Medicare recipients.
 Tom Daschle, the former Senate Democratic leader who was Mr. Obama's first choice for health secretary, said the board should ultimately be expanded to deal not only with Medicare but also with health insurance generally. Otherwise, he said, doctors will shift their costs that Medicare does not fully reimburse to patients with private insurance, ''which really exacerbates the problem.'' 
 Mark B. McClellan, who headed the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in the second Bush administration, said, ''The board is going to be pretty constrained in what it can do.''
 ''A more promising avenue'' for reducing costs, he said, is likely to be found in the law's many pilot programs and the Medicare and Medicaid innovation center.
 Mr. McClellan and other health economists hope that those experiments that prove successful ultimately replace Medicare's fee-for-service system -- which they say rewards doctors and hospitals for ordering multiple and often unnecessary procedures -- with bundled payments that encourage each patient's various caregivers to coordinate care for a fixed sum.
 ''You could get people into huge fights about which of those is the most important, and the short answer is, we just don't know,'' said Mr. Cutler of Harvard, who is optimistic about the law's potential to ''bend the cost curve,'' as health economists say.
 Gail R. Wilensky, who ran Medicare and Medicaid during the first Bush administration, said she was not optimistic. 
 ''Just getting these pilots going is no small matter,'' she said. ''This is going to take a lot of leadership.'' And the history of expanding pilot projects nationally, she added, ''is pretty grim.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama is calling on Pete Rouse, above (at a birthday celebration last year), Kathleen Sebelius, and Nancy- Ann DeParle, far right, to play major health care roles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETE SOUZA/THE WHITE HOUSE
CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES
 CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); MEDICARE (89%); INSURANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); WORLD WAR II (63%); MEDICAID (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); PETE ROUSE (88%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (85%); NANCY-ANN DEPARLE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



466 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Denies Role In Sinking Of Warship

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- North Korea on Saturday denied involvement in the mysterious sinking of a South Korean warship in waters disputed between the two Koreas.
 The denial came a day after South Korea blamed an ''external explosion'' for the sinking, fueling speculation that the ship might have been hit by a North Korean torpedo or mine. 
 In its first official reaction to the March 26 sinking, North Korea also accused South Korea of ''fabricating'' the cause.
 ''They are using the media to attribute it to us,'' the North's state-run news agency, K.C.N.A., quoted a military official as saying. ''This is all a plot against'' North Korea, he added.
 The explosion split the ship's hull into two pieces, killing 38 sailors and leaving 8 others missing. Although South Korean officials have not directly blamed North Korea, saying only that they were investigating the possibility of its involvement, South Korean news media and analysts have already begun speculating on how Seoul could retaliate.
 The sinking came at a delicate time for President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea, as well as for American-led international efforts to bring North Korea back to six-nation nuclear disarmament talks.
 Before the sinking, Mr. Lee had reportedly been seeking a summit meeting with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il. If signs of North Korean involvement emerge, a weak reaction on Mr. Lee's part could undermine his credentials among his conservative base ahead of mayoral and gubernatorial elections scheduled for June. 
 Mr. Lee has repeatedly vowed a ''stern'' action once it becomes clear who was to blame. 
 But few South Koreans expect their government to risk war with North Korea. 
 The South is scheduled to host to the Group of 20 summit meeting of leaders of major economic powers in November. South Koreans also fear that an escalating military tension will hurt their economy.
 Still, if investigators conclude that North Korea sank the ship, Mr. Lee will come under fire for the hole in the country's defense, analysts say. Some experts speculate that the ship may have sunk not in a premeditated attack but by hitting a mine left over from the cold war.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); COLD WAR (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); GOVERNORS (70%); CONSERVATISM (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (79%); KIM JONG IL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (89%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



467 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Obama v. Roberts

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- They are two of the smartest men of their generation, both magna cum laude products of Harvard Law School, both cerebral and charming and ambitious. They vaulted to the highest offices in the land after just short stints at the next level down, and each was seen initially as a conciliator only to lead on the strength of his own majority.
 Many years after their campus days in Cambridge, Mass., President Obama and Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. have emerged as the intellectual gladiators in a great struggle over the role of government in American society. In this moment of churning uncertainty and ideological ferment, it is a struggle that is already defining the selection of the next Supreme Court justice and could easily help shape the course of the nation for years to come.
Much more so than last year, when he made his first nomination to the court, Mr. Obama has Chief Justice Roberts on his mind as he mulls his second, according to Democrats close to the White House. For an activist president, the chief justice has emerged clearly in recent months as a potentially formidable obstacle, and Mr. Obama has signaled that he plans to use the political arena and his appointment power to counter the direction of the Roberts court. 
 ''He's very concerned about the activism of the court in recent terms,'' said Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, ticking off a series of cases that angered liberals, most notably allowing corporations to spend freely in election campaigns. ''He wants to make sure he puts somebody on there who is not going to take radical steps like that.''
 But the chief justice's defenders said his rulings have simply upheld a textual analysis of the Constitution and they cast Mr. Obama's focus on the court as opportunistic and ideological. ''The president is willing to attack the Supreme Court in a calculated political manner,'' said Shannen W. Coffin, a friend of Chief Justice Roberts's and a former counsel to Vice President Dick Cheney.
 Either way, the search for a replacement for the retiring Justice John Paul Stevens is centered on finding a justice who will not just replicate his liberal votes but also bring intellectual heft and powers of persuasion to the court to win the swing vote of Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, according to people close to the search who insisted on anonymity to discuss it. While activists on the left often say they want a liberal Antonin Scalia, the fiery conservative justice, Mr. Obama is looking for a liberal John Roberts, who can forge a five-vote majority rather than write satisfying but ultimately meaningless dissents.
 The urgency is greater this year since the Citizens United decision in January, in which the Roberts court threw out precedents to rule that corporations have First Amendment rights to spend money in election campaigns. Advisers said the ruling crystallized for Mr. Obama just how sweeping the chief justice was willing to be. Indeed, some around the president suspect that Chief Justice Roberts, after moving incrementally in his first few years on the bench, has taken a more assertive approach since Mr. Obama took office.
 Conflict between the executive and judicial branches, of course, traces its roots to the early days of the republic. Thomas Jefferson and John Marshall wrestled over states' rights versus federal power. Abraham Lincoln and Roger B. Taney struggled over the extent of the president's wartime power. Theodore Roosevelt, angry at the position taken by his own appointee, Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., snapped that ''I could carve out of a banana a judge with more backbone than that.''
 And then, of course, there was Franklin D. Roosevelt's open war with the Supreme Court in the 1930s. After it invalidated much of his New Deal program, Roosevelt mounted a frontal assault by proposing to expand the court with new justices -- all appointed by him, of course -- only to have the so-called court-packing scheme backfire amid bipartisan opposition. Still, Roosevelt argued that he had lost the battle but won the war, as turnover and evolving positions led to a court more disposed to his measures.
 By comparison, of course, the struggle between the current president and chief justice so far has been quite tame. But it is conceivable that legal challenges already filed against Mr. Obama's health care program could eventually wind up before the Roberts court; indeed, Justice Stephen G. Breyer just last week told a House committee that he expected it to within three or four years. And other signature Obama initiatives, like federal regulation of carbon emissions by power plants, may likewise be challenged all the way to the Roberts court.
 ''This is a very old argument in which they're engaging,'' said Jeff Shesol, author of ''Supreme Power: Franklin Roosevelt vs. the Supreme Court.'' ''It never really goes away but it acquires a particular urgency in times of economic distress.''
 The relationship between Mr. Obama and Mr. Roberts, of course, has been strained from the beginning. The two did not overlap at Harvard -- Mr. Roberts, 55, went there straight out of college and graduated in 1979, while Mr. Obama, 48, worked as a community organizer first and graduated in 1991. But they soaked in the debates that flavored the campus at the time.
 ''Obama's view of the court is by far the more prevalent view at Harvard Law School, or at least it was when we were there,'' said Bradford A. Berenson, who studied with Mr. Obama and served as a White House lawyer under President George W. Bush. Mr. Roberts, he added, held the opposite view, even though it was ''very much in the minority'' on campus.
 When the two met in 2005 after Mr. Bush nominated Judge Roberts (then on the United States Court of Appeals), Mr. Obama (then a United States senator) pronounced himself impressed but voted against confirmation.
 ''There is absolutely no doubt in my mind Judge Roberts is qualified to sit on the highest court in the land,'' Mr. Obama said then. He added that Judge Roberts told him ''he doesn't like bullies and has always viewed the law as a way of evening out the playing field between the strong and the weak.'' But after studying the record, Mr. Obama said, ''he has far more often used his formidable skills on behalf of the strong in opposition to the weak.''
 The two met up again on the day Mr. Obama was sworn into office. In an embarrassing gaffe, the chief justice fumbled the order of words in the oath of office, forcing a do-over the next day just to make sure no one could question the legitimacy of the new president.
 But it was the Citizens case that exposed the tension between the men and their philosophies. Mr. Obama criticized the ruling repeatedly, including during his State of the Union address, with Chief Justice Roberts and other members of the court sitting in the chamber quietly, and Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. mouthing, ''Not true.''
 The chief justice later said that he found the political atmosphere of the event ''very troubling'' and that he was not sure justices should attend.
 Mr. Obama and his Democratic allies are preparing legislation to try to counter the effects of Citizens United, and the president plans to make the issue a theme on the stump heading into campaign season. He cited it specifically the day Justice Stevens retired as an example of what he did not want the next justice to support.
 The debate between the men, by necessity, takes place in this way -- indirectly, and soon through the confirmation hearing of a new nominee. Christopher Edley Jr., an Obama adviser and dean of the law school at the University of California at Berkeley, said it was a shame the two could not have at it one on one.
 ''Televise this chief justice and this president on stage at the Kennedy Center for three hours talking about the role of government and the future of our polity,'' Mr. Edley said. ''This historic clash of intellectual titans would be the most powerful civics lesson since the Federalist Papers, and we could sure use it.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES (OBAMA), CAROL POWERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (ROBERTS)) (WK1)
 DO-OVER: The chief justice readministering the oath of office to President Obama. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETE SOUZA/THE WHITE HOUSE) (WK7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN RITTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN ROBERTS (89%); ANTONIN SCALIA (58%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (56%); DICK CHENEY (55%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (55%); PATRICK LEAHY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



468 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; POLITICS; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Carmel Lawmaker In Front Line on Health

BYLINE: By DANIEL WEINTRAUB. 
Daniel Weintraub has reported on California politics for 25 years. He is the editor of the California Health Report at healthycal.org.

 BODY:
It is difficult to say which life experience will come in handier for Assemblyman Bill Monning, the new chairman of the State Assembly's Health Committee.
 A lawyer, Mr. Monning has taught classes on negotiation at the Monterey Institute of International Studies. He has worked with doctors shuttling medical supplies to war-torn El Salvador. And his wife is a physician who has spent her career caring for people without insurance.
 ''It's been an interesting trajectory getting here,'' Mr. Monning said last week. 
 Mr. Monning, who is from Carmel, represents a district that stretches from Santa Cruz to Morgan Hill. He takes over the Health Committee just as California prepares to put into effect the first pieces of the federal health care overhaul passed by Congress last month.
 At the same time, he will be near the front lines as he and his fellow Democrats fight to preserve publicly financed health programs that Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has proposed to trim or eliminate to help erase a persistent multibillion-dollar deficit.
 Mr. Monning's expertise in international relations and negotiations would seem to serve him well in a legislative body that is as polarized as any this side of Baghdad. 
 ''It's been most useful in the committees,'' he said, ''where you can meet with stakeholders on either side of an issue and help bring them to some level of consensus or compromise.''
 Mr. Monning did this last year, working with Republicans, business leaders and labor on ways to bring the state's vast underground economy to the surface.
 But on bigger issues, including the budget, he said, the differences are so intractable that they seem beyond resolution.
 ''That's frustrating,'' he said. ''There is such polarization.''
 Carrying out a health care overhaul might not be as big a challenge, because most of the partisan battles were fought in Washington. But the new law, which will roll out over the next several years, will not be simple to untangle.
 ''So much of this is a patchwork of eligibility and funding sources and mandates,'' Mr. Monning said. 
 The state's biggest task will probably be the creation of a new health insurance exchange that will allow individuals who can't get coverage through an employer to join in a pool that will give them the kind of bargaining power with insurance companies that large groups already enjoy. 
 California will also be adding millions of people to the rolls of Medi-Cal, the state and federal partnership that provides health care to the poor.
 Mr. Monning said he and his fellow Democrats in the Legislature would try to accelerate the federal timelines by adopting some of the law's provisions ahead of the schedule approved by Congress. The state, for example, might require insurers to cover dependents until age 26 or provide coverage without regard to pre-existing conditions.
 California Democrats will also try to go beyond what Congress adopted. A priority for them is state regulation of health insurance premiums.
 ''Health care is a service that is essential to human life,'' Mr. Monning said, ''so some oversight or regulation seems essential.'' 
 Although Mr. Monning is a lawyer, his life story has put him in frequent contact with the medical profession. As a young man, he was director of Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War. Later, he worked with a relief fund that sent medicine, doctors and health workers to El Salvador at the height of that nation's civil war.
 And his 32-year partnership with his wife, Dana Kent, has given him a front-row seat on the challenges of delivering care to the indigent. Ms. Kent, a former nurse, has been a physician and medical director at hospitals and clinics serving the poor in Monterey County.
 ''I've lived vicariously through my wife's involvement in the health care system,'' Mr. Monning said.
 From that experience, he said, he has concluded that the system is fragmented and reactive, focused too much on the back end and not enough on prevention. Family medicine doctors who can keep people healthy are not as valued as the specialists who fix things after they are broken.
 Now Mr. Monning is in the role of legislative specialist, coming in to help fix a health system that often seems to be in critical condition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); APPROVALS (74%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



469 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Europe-Bound Travelers in U.S. Struggle to Cope

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS; Sarah Wheaton contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Thousands of travelers bound for Europe remained in limbo in the United States on Saturday, waiting for a volcanic ash cloud an ocean away to clear. 
 United States carriers canceled the majority of their transatlantic flights again, and Continental said it was adding Rome and Barcelona to its list of canceled destinations on Saturday. Most American carriers extended their travel waivers until April 22 for passengers to rebook, but even that date was not a guarantee that operations would return to normal. 
 At Kennedy International Airport, about 1,000 people are camping out at the terminal with no place to go. The nearby hotels are booked and staying in Manhattan is not a financial option for some. 
 Officials at the airport are providing baby formula, diapers and water, along with cots, said John Kelly, a spokesman for the Port Authority for New York and New Jersey, which operates the New York area's three airports. 
 ''We recognize we have to look after people'' because some have no choices, Mr. Kelly said in a telephone interview. ''So far people have been calm and cool-headed.''
 Concessions are open, and some airlines have provided vouchers for food. The lack of shower facilities is a concern. 
 More than 30 New York City hotels were offering a 15 percent discount to stranded travelers through Monday, on every kind of level from the trendy (Ace Hotel) to the economical (Econo Lodge Times Square). The discount applied to some airport shuttle bus services as well. 
 About 200 people were stranded at Newark Liberty International Airport early Saturday evening, Mr. Kelly said, and that number was decreasing. However, other international airports that do not serve as major hubs seemed to be avoiding the temporary conversion to campground.
 ''We're not seeing large numbers stranded at Dulles at all,'' said Courtney Mickalonis, a spokeswoman for the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority. A spokesman for Massport said Boston's Logan International Airport also had only a few people stranded after the first day of ash-related cancellations.
 Delta canceled 91 flights Saturday and 86 for Sunday, said a spokesman, Anthony Black. ''Our goal is to keep U.S. passengers from arriving in hubs and getting stuck,'' Mr. Black said in an e-mail, adding that Delta has advised passengers not to travel if their flight to Europe is not assured. The airline is offering full refunds for canceled flights. He added that passengers in Europe are ''either home waiting to travel or we are assisting them getting reduced-rate hotels.''
 Continental canceled 67 flights into and out of Europe, mostly out of its Newark hub, and the airline was offering travel waivers to 26 destinations, including Barcelona and Rome, where air travel had previously been less affected by the ash cloud.
 United Airlines was still flying from the U.S. to Rome on Saturday afternoon, said Charlie Hobart, a spokesman for the airline, but ''that's even a little iffy right now.'' United canceled 54 flights into and out of Europe on Saturday.
 American Airlines said it had canceled most of its flights into and out of Europe, for a total of 56 flights. Tim Smith, a company spokesman, said that the airline had been able to operate flights into and out of Spain and Italy on Saturday. 
 ''At this point,'' Mr. Smith said in a statement, ''we don't have a clear indication of when we'll be able to resume a normal schedule.'' 
 British Airways has canceled all of its 40 daily flights into and out of 19 U.S. cities. 
 Yet there was good news for passengers booked on Icelandair flights from Boston and Seattle on Saturday evening to Reykjavik, 85 miles east of the volcano responsible for all the cancellations: both flights were expected to depart on schedule. That airport has not closed since the eruption.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); VOLCANIC ASH CLOUDS (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); AIRPORT OPERATION (76%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (71%); INFANT FORMULA (69%); INTERVIEWS (67%); CITIES (65%)

COMPANY: TRAVELERS COS INC (91%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); METROPOLITAN WASHINGTON AIRPORTS AUTHORITY (53%)

TICKER: TRV (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



470 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: Fighting Words

 BODY:
Senate Republicans took a hard line against a Democratic proposal to regulate the financial system.
 ''We cannot allow endless taxpayer-funded bailouts. That's why we must not pass the financial reform bill that's about to hit the floor. The fact is this bill wouldn't solve the problems that led to the financial crisis.'' MITCH MCCONNELL, OF KENTUCKY, THE SENATE REPUBLICAN LEADER. 
 ''There's a clear choice in this debate: to stand with American families or stand on the side of the big Wall Street banks and their lobbyists. The Senate bill explicitly mandates that a large financial firm that faces failure be allowed to fail.'' JEN PSAKI, DEPUTY WHITE HOUSE COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR, IN RESPONSE.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



471 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: Online

 BODY:
Podcast Scheduled to appear this week are Anna Quindlen on her novel ''Every Last One''; Daniel Gross on new books about the financial crisis; Motoko Rich with notes from the field; and Jennifer Schuessler with best-seller news. Sam Tanenhaus, the editor of the Book Review, is the host. 
 Paper Cuts The Book Review's blog covers books and other forms of printed matter.
 ExcerptsSelections from ''Parrot and Olivier in America,'' by Peter Carey; ''The Lake Shore Limited,'' by Sue Miller; and other books.
 Books Update E-MailReceive a selective overview of new book reviews and features every Friday.
 nytimes.com/books 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); PODCASTING (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (85%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



472 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1759 words

HEADLINE: The Long-Haul Degree

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN. 
Patricia Cohen is a culture reporter for The Times.

 BODY:
Law students get a diploma in three years. Medical students receive an M.D. in four. But for graduate students in the humanities, it takes, on average, more than nine years to complete a degree. What some of those Ph.D. recipients may not realize is that they could spend another nine years, or more, looking for a tenure-track teaching job at a college or university -- without ever finding one.
 As the recession has downsized university endowments and departments, the sense of crisis that has surrounded graduate education for more than a decade has sharpened. ''What's worse than desperate?'' asks William Pannapacker, an associate professor of English at Hope College, in Michigan, who writes a column for The Chronicle of Higher Education under the name Thomas H. Benton.
 A graduate-school Cassandra, Dr. Pannapacker calls the graduate apprenticeship system bankrupt and warns students against the heartbreak of pursuing a Ph.D. While finishing his own degree in American civilization at Harvard in 1999 (another difficult job year), he helped organize a protest at the annual meeting of the Modern Language Association, an organization of scholars and professors of language and literature. 
 On a large reproduction of Goya's bloody painting ''Saturn Devouring His Son,'' he wrote, ''Enjoying your apprenticeship yet?''
 First- and second-year Ph.D. students in, say, English literature may not face the same aching course load or backstabbing competition as their friends in medical and law schools, but they have a longer haul ahead. Doctoral students are expected not only to master a wide swath of material to pass general and oral exams, but to produce a nearly book-length dissertation of original research that, depending on the subject, may ultimately sit on a shelf as undisturbed as the Epsom salts at the back of the medicine chest. These students must earn their keep by patching together a mix of grants and wages for helping to teach undergraduate courses -- a job that eats into research time. Third-year medical students may be bleary eyed from hospital rotations, but at least the work goes toward their degree.
 This system of financing is partly responsible for the absurdly long time it can take to get a degree in the humanities, says Debra W. Stewart, president of the Council of Graduate Schools. In many countries, the government pays students to complete Ph.D.'s within a certain time frame, perhaps three or four years.
 In the United States, given that most students take time off, nearly a dozen years can pass between receiving a B.A. and Ph.D. About half who enter a humanities doctoral program drop out along the way. The average student receiving a Ph.D. today is 35 years old, $23,000 in debt and facing a historically bad job market. Adjunct jobs -- with year-to-year contracts, no benefits and no security -- may be the only option.
 Louis Menand, an English professor at Harvard and another longtime critic of the Ph.D. production process, notes: ''Lives are warped because of the length and uncertainty of the doctoral education process.'' In his new book, ''The Marketplace of Ideas,'' he writes, ''Put in less personal terms, there is a huge social inefficiency in taking people of high intelligence and devoting resources to training them in programs that half will never complete and for jobs that most will not get.''
 In the spring issue of the Modern Language Association's newsletter, Sidonie Smith, an English professor at the University of Michigan and president of the organization, resuscitated a proposal that had been swirling around blue-ribbon task forces and educational panels for years: to broaden the range of research options beyond the classic dissertation to include already-published peer-reviewed essays, research portfolios and digital publications and presentations. Aside from shortening the Ph.D. process, she argues, this would make scholarship less arcane and more relevant.
 Despite high-level support for reform, educators say that wholesale change is not likely any time soon. For one, any meaningful transformation in doctoral requirements must be adopted universally, says Richard Wheeler, interim vice chancellor for academic affairs and former dean of the graduate college at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. Who would want to attend a program that another university -- and potential employer -- doesn't recognize as valid? ''It hasn't reached enough of a crisis point yet,'' Dr. Wheeler says.
 ''It's very hard to get through the graduate student experience,'' he adds.
 The union of graduate students at Illinois staged a brief strike in November over guarantees that their tuition would be waived. Dr. Wheeler attributes the protest to general discontent as much as specific employment issues. ''There's despair, anger, frustration,'' he says. ''A lot of people are unhappy.''
 Dr. Wheeler, who received his English Ph.D. in 1969, took four years to finish. Graduate programs have since added more stringent requirements, he says, and expectations for what a degree holder is supposed to have accomplished have radically increased. He had not published anything when he was hired; today, applicants are expected to have a list of published research on their resumes.
 The job problem has been brewing for years. In 1989, William G. Bowen and Julie Ann Sosa issued a widely publicized report that forecast a huge turnover in faculty and suggested the creation of a federal program to increase humanities and social sciences Ph.D.'s. Many students -- Dr. Pannapacker included -- took that advice to heart. Ph.D. production in English and American language and literature grew 61 percent between 1987 and 1995; history Ph.D.'s rose by 51 percent.
 By the late 1990s, though, the spanking-new degree candidates discovered just how mistaken the Bowen-Sosa report was. The end of mandatory retirement and the increase in the use of part-time and adjunct faculty meant there were many more exceptionally qualified job seekers than jobs. The current recession has only exacerbated the problem, with many institutions imposing hiring freezes or layoffs. The M.L.A., for example, reported that its total job listings dropped by a quarter in the 2008-2009 academic year, the largest single-year decline in the 34 years that the organization has been doing job counts. And these numbers don't include postings that were subsequently canceled because of budget cuts.
 At the same time, the practice of hiring off-tenure teachers is growing. According to a new survey of humanities departments by the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, half of the faculty members in English and foreign languages -- more than any other department -- are not on a tenure track. Part of the reason for the large number is that freshman composition classes, which are often required, are taught by those departments, and adjuncts.
 Unlike in life science or engineering, the number of doctoral degrees awarded in the humanities -- the pool of fields that generally include languages, history, philosophy, music, drama and archeology -- has actually dipped in the last few years, with 4,722 recipients in 2008 (down from 5,112 in 2007), according to the National Science Foundation.
 But more than a third of those degree-holders had no definite job (part or full time, off or on a tenure track) or any postdoctoral study commitment.
 The number of degrees may dip further. Some major universities, including Harvard, Princeton, the University of Chicago, Emory and Northwestern, reduced the number of doctoral students in the humanities and social sciences they admitted this past year. Much more radical cuts would be required to bring the supply of graduates and the demand for them into balance, and that would be a solution that stirs up its own problems. If enrollment drops too low, there may not be enough students to justify courses in specialized areas.
 Other practical reasons exist for resisting reductions. Doctoral programs bring prestige to a university and help retain faculty members who want to mentor the next generation of scholars. They also provide the staff for courses offered to first- and second-year undergraduates -- a task many tenured faculty members resist. Even graduate students on full scholarships are cheap labor if they are teaching enough tuition-paying undergraduates.
 Dr. Wheeler would like to reverse that practice, at least. ''Putting as many faculty in front of undergraduates as possible,'' he says, would not only improve the quality of education but would also increase the demand for more tenured faculty members over time.
 Funding to hire the professors in the first place has to be there, however.
 Dr. Pannapacker has rebuked graduate schools for perpetuating a culture in which unattainable academic careers are portrayed as the only worthwhile goal, and for failing to level with students about their true prospects. With more transparency -- if every graduate program published its attrition rate, average debt of its students, time to completion, and what kind of job its graduates got -- undergraduates, he says, could make more-informed choices.
 ''Academe encourages students to think of what they're doing as a special kind of calling or vocation which is exempt from the rules of the marketplace,'' he says. Those who look to work outside the scholarly world are seen as rejecting the academy's core values. ''They socialize students into believing they can't leave academe or shouldn't, which is why they hang on year after year as adjuncts, rather than pursue alternative careers.''
 A bad job market, too, tempts graduate students to stay even longer, since being out on the job circuit for more than a year tends to taint candidates.
 As the number of tenure-track jobs shrink, Ms. Stewart of the Council of Graduate Schools says, the profession needs to address these failings.
 ''Humanities Ph.D.'s have focused exclusively on the academic job market,'' Ms. Stewart says. ''They don't have anyplace else to go, or they don't perceive that they have anyplace else to go.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 25, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in the special Education Life section last Sunday about the long road to a Ph.D. misstated the title of Richard Wheeler, who said doctoral requirements should be adopted universally. He is interim vice chancellor for academic affairs at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. He is not interim chancellor. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: How many Ph.D. students does it take to screw in a light bulb?: One, but it takes 9.3 years.
The road to a doctorate in the humanities is long, with no assurance of reward at the end. Half do not finish the program, and more than one-third of Ph.D. recipients in 2008 had no full- or part-time job.
The median age of a recipient of a humanities doctorate is 35, with an average education-related debt of $23,315.
The Modern Language Association, a professional organization, projects that next year there will be fewer jobs for those with doctorates in English or foreign language than in any of the past 35 years. (Source: National Science Foundation
 Modern Language Association) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LITERATURE (89%); ENDOWMENTS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); ACADEMIC TENURE (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%)

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (56%); MODERN LANGUAGE ASSOCIATION (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010



473 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION: Sunday, April 18th 2010

 BODY:
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Saturday, April 3rd 2010, at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount and department stores; and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book&#8217;s sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Among those categories not actively tracked are: perennial sellers; required classroom reading; text, reference and test preparation guides; journals and workbooks; calorie counters; shopping guides; comics; and crossword puzzles. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 


	 	 		Weeks		This	On		Week	List	PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION		 	 	1	1	CONSERVATIVE VICTORY, by Sean Hannity. ($14.99 Harper) The Fox News host calls for action against the policies of Barack Obama.		 	 	2	14	ARE YOU THERE, VODKA? IT&#39;S ME, CHELSEA, by Chelsea Handler. ($16 Simon Spotlight Entertainment) Humorous personal essays from the comedian.		 	 	3	27	THE BLIND SIDE, by Michael Lewis. ($13.95 Norton) The evolving business of football, viewed through the rise of the left tackle Michael Oher.		 	 	4	165	EAT, PRAY, LOVE, by Elizabeth Gilbert. ($15 Penguin) A writer&#8217;s yearlong journey in search of self takes her to Italy, India and Indonesia.		 	 	5	75	MY HORIZONTAL LIFE, by Chelsea Handler. ($14.95 Bloomsbury) A memoir of one-night stands.		 	 	6	8	THE SURVIVORS CLUB, by Ben Sherwood. ($14.99 Grand Central) True stories of how faith, luck and genetics play into the ability to overcome adversity.		 	 	7*	166	THREE CUPS OF TEA, by Greg Mortenson and David Oliver Relin. ($16 Penguin) A former climber builds schools in villages in Pakistan and Afghanistan.		 	 	8	10	THE LOST CITY OF Z, by David Grann. ($15.95 Vintage Departures) A New Yorker writer searches for a British explorer lost in the Amazon in 1925.		 	 	9	287	THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. ($15.99 Back Bay/Little, Brown) A study of social epidemics, otherwise known as fads.		 	 	10*	8	A PATRIOT&#39;S HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES, by Larry Schweikart and Michael Allen. ($25 Sentinel) America as a &#34;city on a hill.&#34;		 	 	11	129	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. ($15.99 Back Bay/Little, Brown) Instinct in the workings of the mind.		 	 	12	22	LIAR&#39;S POKER, by Michael Lewis. ($15.95 Norton) Wall Street&#8217;s tumultuous 1980s, as witnessed by a young bond trader.		 	 	13	32	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. ($15.99 Harper Perennial) A scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to nearly everything.		 	 	14	131	I HOPE THEY SERVE BEER IN HELL, by Tucker Max. ($15.95 Citadel/Kensington) Life as a self-absorbed, drunken womanizer.		 	 	15	5	COLUMBINE, by Dave Cullen. ($15.99 Twelve) A full account of the massacre at Columbine High School in 1999.		 	 	16	171	90 MINUTES IN HEAVEN, by Don Piper with Cecil Murphey. ($13.99 Revell) A minister on the other&#173;worldly experience he had after an accident.		 	 	17*	4	HELMET FOR MY PILLOW, by Robert Leckie. ($16 Bantam) A Marine&#8217;s story of his experience in the Pacific in World War II is now part of an HBO series.		 	 	18	2	WITH THE OLD BREED, by E. B. Sledge. ($16 Presidio) A memoir of fighting in the Pacific theater during World War II.		 	 	19	1	THE BULLPEN GOSPELS, by Dirk Hayhurst. ($14.95 Citadel/Kensington) A pitcher&#8217;s memoir of life in minor league baseball.		 	 	20	131	THE OMNIVORE&#8217;S DILEMMA, by Michael Pollan. ($16 Penguin) Tracking food from soil to plate.		 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); WRITERS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BONDS (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%)

PERSON: CHELSEA HANDLER (73%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



474 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION: Sunday, April 18th 2010

 BODY:
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending Saturday, April 3rd 2010, at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount department stores and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book&#8217;s sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Among those categories not actively tracked are: perennial sellers; required classroom reading; text, reference and test preparation guides; journals and workbooks; calorie counters; shopping guides; comics and crossword puzzles. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List			 	 	 	1	1	3	THE BIG SHORT, by Michael Lewis. ($27.95 Norton) The people who saw the real estate crash coming and made billions from their foresight.		 	 	 	2	2	4	CHELSEA CHELSEA BANG BANG, by Chelsea Handler. ($25.99 Grand Central) More humorous personal essays from the comedian.		 	 	 	3	3	5	THE PACIFIC, by Hugh Ambrose. ($26.95 NAL Caliber) Stories of Marines and a Navy pilot during World War II; companion volume for an HBO mini-series.		 	 	 	4	5	4	COURAGE AND CONSEQUENCE, by Karl Rove. ($30 Threshold Editions) President George W. Bush&#8217;s senior adviser and deputy chief of staff explains his choices.		 	 	 	5	0	1	MOUNT PLEASANT, by Steve Poizner. ($25.95 Portfolio) A technology entrepreneur spends a year teaching 12th grade at a public high school and is changed by the experience.		 	 	 	6	4	4	CHANGE YOUR BRAIN, CHANGE YOUR BODY, by Daniel G. Amen. ($25.99 Harmony) Using the brain-body connection to lose weight and avoid depression.		 	 	 	7	9	5	NO APOLOGY, by Mitt Romney. ($25.99 St. Martin&#8217;s) The former Massachusetts governor and Republican presidential candidate calls for economic and civic&#173; &#173;revitalization. (&#8224;)		 	 	 	8	7	12	GAME CHANGE, by John Heilemann and Mark Halperin. ($27.99 Harper/HarperCollins) Behind the scenes in 2008.		 	 	 	9	8	9	THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. ($26 Crown) The story of the woman whose cancer cells were cultured without her permission in 1951.		 	 	 	10*	6	4	AMERICAN CONSPIRACIES, by Jesse Ventura with Dick Russell. ($24.95 Skyhorse) The former Minnesota governor questions the official explanation of events like the Kennedy assassination and 9/11.		 	 	 	11	0	1	13 BANKERS, by Simon Johnson and James Kwak. ($26.95 Pantheon) A call to restructure the banking industry.		 	 	 	12	12	72	OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. ($27.99 Little, Brown) Why some people succeed, from the author of &#8220;Blink.&#8221;		 	 	 	13	10	26	HAVE A LITTLE FAITH, by Mitch Albom. ($23.99 Hyperion) Lessons about the comfort of belief.		 	 	 	14	0	1	OBAMA ZOMBIES, by Jason Mattera. ($25 Threshold) How Obama and his allies staged a high-tech assault to capture the minds of young Americans.		 	 	 	15	0	1	THE BEST KIND OF DIFFERENT, by Shonda Schilling. ($25.99 Morrow/HarperCollins) A family&#8217;s experience with Asperger&#8217;s syndrome. (The author&#8217;s husband is the Red Sox pitcher Curt Schilling, who contributes an introduction.)		 	 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); NEWSSTANDS (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (67%); WORLD WAR II (65%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (61%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (50%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

PERSON: CHELSEA HANDLER (68%); MITT ROMNEY (50%); KARL ROVE (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



475 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SLAP SHOT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Deal for Coyotes Raises Eyebrows

BYLINE: By JEFF Z. KLEIN and STU HACKEL

 BODY:
Even as the Phoenix Coyotes' amazing season continues before sellout crowds dressed in playoff white, the intrigue surrounding the N.H.L.-owned club persists.
 Last week, the city council in Glendale, Ariz., approved the lease agreement negotiated by Jerry Reinsdorf's Glendale LLC Group for use of the city-owned Jobing.com Arena, clearing the path for his group to finally assume ownership from the league.
But the process is controversial. A rival bidding group of Canadian and American investors the N.H.L. had also courted, Ice Edge Holdings, had its leasing plan rejected by the council. Reinsdorf, owner of the Chicago White Sox and the Chicago Bulls, has worked with local government because the White Sox hold spring training there. 
 ''Jerry will be a great owner in Phoenix,'' Wayne Gretzky, a former Coyotes coach and ownership partner, said last week in Manhattan. ''He's got a relationship with the city of Glendale because of the White Sox, and he lives in Phoenix periodically in the winter. The sports teams he already owns have been very successful, so I think he's the right guy coming in to do the right job for that city.''
 The deal calls for Reinsdorf to pay the league $100 million for the Coyotes, with Glendale kicking in as much as an additional $65 million. The N.H.L. bought the club for $140 million last October and brought it out of bankruptcy.
 Glendale will pay for its portion through the creation of a special funding district near the arena, in which commercial landowners will charge higher parking fees and finance bonds to raise the $65 million. Some of the cost of the bonds would be passed along to fans, concertgoers and other visitors who park, shop and dine in the area.
 Those landowners include Steve Ellman, who once owned the Coyotes and was responsible for their move from downtown Phoenix to Glendale, an area where he could develop property adjacent to the arena. Ellman sold controlling interest in the club to Jerry Moyes, who had been a minority partner, in 2006.
 When the Coyotes declared bankruptcy last May, Moyes said the team lost more than $300 million in his eight years of ownership. Part of the new agreement protects Reinsdorf's group from losing money. In addition to the $65 million Glendale plans to raise through the special district, another $25 million annually is to be set aside in a reserve fund so that the city can fully reimburse the Reinsdorf group if the Coyotes remain unprofitable after five years. 
 After five years, the Reinsdorf group would be free to sell the team, although Glendale would get first crack at finding another buyer to keep the team in town.
 The Phoenix-based Goldwater Institute, which has successfully challenged municipal subsidies in the area, contends this new agreement may violate state law prohibiting public subsidies of private enterprises.
 ''The Reinsdorf deal creates serious legal questions,'' Carrie Ann Sitren, a Goldwater lawyer, said last week. ''It puts a huge amount of risk on the city, whereas Reinsdorf takes on virtually none. It could be a contract without a give and take from each side, which would be illegal. Beyond that, the city might make substantial payments to support Reinsdorf's ownership and still lose the team after five years.'' 
 Economists have called Glendale's agreement unprecedented for its generosity to a prospective owner. The city is still paying off a $180 million debt for the rink, and would have no chance to pay it off if the Coyotes left.
 ''I have worked with dozens of government entities, and I can't think of anyone who would entertain anything like this,'' Marc Ganis, a sports-business consultant, told The Arizona Republic. ''But the whole bankruptcy situation has been unprecedented.''
 ''If they had given us this deal two years ago, there would not have been a bankruptcy,'' Jeff Shumway, the former Coyotes C.E.O., told the newspaper.
 N.H.L. owners must approve Reinsdorf's bid for the Coyotes.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BASEBALL (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROVALS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); CITIES (77%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (93%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (91%); PHOENIX COYOTES (84%); CHICAGO BULLS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010



476 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ABROAD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2166 words

HEADLINE: D.I.Y. Culture

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
Berlin
 IT wasn't so many years ago that Europeans loved to moan about American culture overrunning homegrown art forms. In the 1990s and early 2000s some in Europe were arguing for regulatory barriers to hold off the New World barbarians, particularly from Hollywood. In France, President Jacques Chirac's culture minister, Jacques Toubon, warned about how the United States entertainment industry was trying ''to impose domination by any means,'' and Regis Debray, among other French intellectuals to hop on the same bandwagon, predicted that ''the American empire will pass, like the others.'' 
 ''Let's at least make sure,'' Mr. Debray continued, ''it does not leave irreparable damage to our creative abilities behind it.'' 
 That was then. The other day President Nicolas Sarkozy was reiterating the virtues of what the French call ''l'exception culturelle,'' a modern policy of government protection and promotion of French culture, particularly the film industry. Mr. Sarkozy's poll numbers have been plummeting, and l'exception culturelle feeds into his current strategy to identify himself with whatever, in the midst of an increasingly diversified, fractious and disapproving French society, French people say makes France French. 
 But Sarko l'Americain, as the French used to call him, is also the friendliest French president the United States has had in a while, and in America last month he stressed that rarely in history had ''the community of views been so identical'' between his country and the United States. Complaints about the American cultural juggernaut still arise across Europe, of course, but their intensity doesn't seem as fierce. Something has changed, and it's not just that Barack Obama has replaced George W. Bush or, in France's case, that the film industry is doing O.K. 
 It's a widening realization, I think, that globalism, beyond banking, climate change and warfare, has always been a dubious concept, a misleading catchall for how the world supposedly works, to which culture, in its increasing complexity, gives the lie.
 The integration of markets and the Internet have certainly brought billions of people into closer contact. Everybody has access to the same American movies and music now, and not just American, also Indian, Romanian, South African and Chinese. But far from succumbing to some devouring juggernaut, culture -- and Europe, with its different communities and nations living cheek by jowl, is a Petri dish to prove the point -- has only atomized lately as a consequence of the very same globalizing forces that purportedly threaten to homogenize everything. 
 That's been my own subject over here for the last couple of years, and will regularly be this column's. Nationalism, regionalism and tribalism are all on the rise. Societies are splitting even as they share more common goods and attributes than ever before. Culture is increasingly an instrument to divide and differentiate communities. And the leveling pressures of globalization have at the same time provided more and more people with the technological resources to decide for themselves, culturally speaking, who they are and how they choose to be known, seen, distinguished from others.
 Culture means many things in this context, but at heart it is a suite of traits we inherit and also choose to disavow or to stress. It consists in part of the arts. It is something made and consumed, in socially revealing ways. When Mats Nilsson, a Swedish product-design strategist for Ikea, not long ago told The New York Times that he loves to browse for handmade baskets in Spain, bird cages in Portugal, brushes in Japan and hardware on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, he was creating his own cultural identity out of the bric-a-brac of consumer choices made available by the globalizing forces of economic integration. Bricolage, it's called. Anyone may now pick through the marketplace of global culture.
 This may sound like the essence of globalization, but the fact that everybody from Yerevan to Brasilia, Jakarta to Jerusalem, knows songs by the Black Eyed Peas or wears New York Yankees caps doesn't mean that culture is the same everywhere. 
 The common denominator of popular culture -- which these days encompasses so many things that you could even include all sorts of high culture -- seems to have just intensified the need people now feel to distinguish themselves from it. And global technology has made this easier by providing countless individuals, microcultures and larger groups and movements with cheap and convenient means to preserve and disseminate themselves. Years ago a language like Cimbrian, a Bavarian dialect today preserved by just a few hundred speakers in northern Italy, would have been doomed to extinction; now Cimbrian speakers, according to a recent German newspaper article, turn out to be getting their own online newspaper and television show. The language is being sustained by the same global forces that might promise to doom it. 
 Partly the problem with globalization has always been that the term, culturally speaking, is so vague. In one respect, it's another word for empire, or at least its effects are as old as empire. What's new is the power available to wide swaths of the populace, thanks above all to cheap travel and the Web, to become actors in the production and dissemination of culture, not simply consumers. A generation or more ago, aside from what people did in their home or from what's roughly called folk or outsider art, culture was generally thought of as something handed down from on high, which the public received. 
 Today it's made and distributed in countless different ways, giving not just governments and institutions but nearly everyone with access to the Web the means to choose and shape his or her own culture, identity, tribal fidelities -- and then spread this culture, via Youtube or whatever else, among allies (and enemies) everywhere, a democratizing process. The downside of this democratization is how every political niche and fringe group has found a culture via the Web to reinforce its already narrow views, polarizing parts of society despite the widened horizon. Neo-Nazis across borders now bond around cultural artifacts available over the Internet. Democrats and Republicans move further apart, digesting news from their own cable network shows.
 There are other consequences of this democratization. Generally speaking, culture operates within the mainstreams of power. The myth of an avant-garde serves the same market forces avant-gardism pretends to overthrow. Art may challenge authority; and popular culture (this includes clownish demagogues like Glenn Beck) sometimes makes trouble for those in charge, the way Thomas Nast's cartoons did for Boss Tweed in Tammany Hall. But art doesn't actually overthrow anything except itself, and never has, not in 19th-century France or 20th-century Russia or 21st-century China or Iran. Even when it manages to tilt popular thinking, it still ends up within the bounds of existing authority, and there has never been a true ''outside'' that really stayed outside: public consumption, by definition, adapts to the change, co-opts and normalizes all culture. 
 Instead culture (often unconsciously) identifies crucial ruptures, rifts, gaps and shifts in society. It is indispensable for our understanding of the mechanics of the world in this respect, pointing us toward those things around us that are unstable, changing, that shape how we live and how we treat one another. If we're alert to it, it helps reveal who we are to ourselves, often in ways we didn't realize in places we didn't necessarily think to look.
 Shortly after I moved to Berlin from New York, for example, I noticed there were bookstores all over town. They were on nearly every other street in my neighborhood. There was one just below my bedroom window, next to the high-end pet-supply store, specializing in New Age and self-help literature, and there was another one, a biography bookstore, around the corner. Shakespeare & Company (Berlin's version) was beside the church square where the neighborhood children played when the weather was warm. And I began to stop into Marga Schoeller's bookshop at Savignyplatz, which has a nice English-language section, en route to the subway, where a large art bookstore sprawls below raised tracks. 
 Berliners looked nonplussed when I asked them to account for all the bookshops. Along with currywurst and nude saunas, bookstores have long been such a banal fact of life here, as they are across Germany, that only an outsider might bother to think their number was remarkable. The proliferation turned out to derive from a very conscious decision after the war to restore civilization in West Germany by supporting a kind of ecosystem of small publishers and small bookstores to which, in certain small towns, trucks that delivered books to the bookstores overnight also delivered drugs to the drugstores: drugs for the body, books for the mind, a metaphor of recovery. 
 This was more than just a system of distribution and sales; it was a cultural as well as economic affair. It influenced civic life and social relations in ways that browsing books on Amazon or Google can't. So what was to me as a clueless foreigner an urban curiosity, noticeable just because it wasn't my usual experience -- it was for me a cultural rift or rupture -- ended up suggesting some larger truth about the country's history and ambition. Culture is something we propagate but also something naturally there, existing in and around us, which makes us who we are but which may rise to the level of our consciousness only when one of those ruptures or rifts appear -- when some little psychic clash happens between it and our more or less unconscious sense of the everyday world. 
 I also went to Gaza before the last Israeli incursion a couple of years ago. Naturally, the stories that tend to come from there revolve around one crisis or another: the rocket attacks, the border closures, clashes between Hamas and Fatah, Hamas and Israel. But what was life like, I wondered, under Hamas? What were the limits to Gazans' freedom? The effects of isolation? How did Gazans see themselves in relation to everybody else?
 These seemed to me cultural questions. The people I spoke with there said that culture was not just an escape for them from the everyday hardships from deprivation and a repressive regime, but that it was essential to survival, a lifeline, their steady connection to an outside world, a glimpse of what was beyond the conflict.
 It represented normalcy, in other words, a precious commodity in that place. In the garden of a restaurant in Gaza City where a sign on the front door said, ''No weapons, please,'' I joined families of Gazans one evening watching episodes of ''Friends'' and a wildly popular Turkish soap opera, ''Noor,'' on a big screen. And in a video store nearby I thumbed through shelves of pirated Jennifer Lopez CDs and copies of ''You Don't Mess With the Zohan,'' Adam Sandler's comedy about a Mossad agent-turned-hairdresser in a New York City salon run by a Palestinian woman. There were also the predictable audiotapes extolling Fatah, Hamas and Islamic Jihad. 
 Some Gazans spoke sadly and nervously about their fears that extremists within Hamas, whose factional split was revealed by this cultural divide, had begun to crack down on local theaters and on art and the Web in Gaza, even as these same people spoke about culture being a fragile but essential link to the West. Via satellite dishes and the Internet, the West meant something to them other than guns and territory: culture was a potential bond, they suggested, through which some dialogue might yet arise. 
 Not incidentally, Gazans, like that Swedish Ikea designer, made their own culture from the bricolage of global choices. I thought most of what passed for art in Gaza wasn't very good, truth be told, but quality seemed beside the point. We miss much about how culture works today -- including how what might be called local standards of quality vie with the global aesthetic of sensationalism and fashion -- if we stick only to seeing it as critics and consumers through our own aesthetic lens. 
 Hollywood and Broadway, the major museums and art fairs and biennials and galleries, buildings designed by celebrity architects and the music business are all the traditional focus of big media, and they tell us a lot about ourselves. They constitute our cultural firmament, the constellation of our stars. But scientists say most of the universe is composed not of stars but of dark matter. It is the powerful but invisible force that exists everywhere and requires some leap of imagination on our part, some effort, to identify.
 Most culture is dark matter. 
 Put another way, whether in Berlin or Gaza or New York City, there's a universe of life and death affairs beyond globalism. And culture is our window onto it. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Berlin is a city of bookstores, the result of a postwar decision to help restore German culture in ways great and small. Right, looking into a bookstore in Savignyplatz under a raised railway track.
 Other book outlets in Berlin include, top, a Shakespeare & Company and, above, a ''book forest,'' where people can leave or find old volumes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEATRICE DE GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR19) DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER AND MARIA HOEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (76%); JACQUES CHIRAC (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (95%); GERMANY (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



477 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 POPE TAKES TRIP TO MALTA
 Amid an Abuse Scandal
 Pope Benedict XVI's visit to Malta -- aimed at commemorating the 1,950th anniversary of the shipwreck of Saint Paul on the island -- comes at the most turbulent moment in Benedict's five-year-old papacy. PAGE 8
 FROM DUNG TO BREW
 As coffee connoisseurs have discovered civet coffee -- found in the droppings of the civet, a catlike animal -- growing demand is fueling a gold rush in the Philippines and Indonesia, the countries with the largest civet populations. PAGE 6 
 PHILIPPINES DROPS CHARGES
 The Philippine government dropped charges against two prominent members of a powerful political family accused of the mass killing of 57 people in November. PAGE 10 
 2 EXPLOSIONS IN SOUTH INDIA
 At least 15 people were wounded by two explosions near a cricket stadium in Bangalore as spectators were arriving for a match in India's professional league. PAGE 10
 U.N. BACKS KARZAI'S PICK
 President Hamid Karzai chose a new head of Afghanistan's election commission, who received the immediate endorsement of the United Nations. PAGE 12 
 National
 OBAMA PUSHES TO GET HEALTH CARE REFORM ROLLING
 The new health care law's ability to slow rising medical costs will depend to a great extent on how it is put in effect. So, President Obama is assembling a high-level team to implement the overhaul. He is also considering moving faster than the law requires. PAGE 16 
 OBAMA FAULTS G.O.P. LEADER
 President Obama accused Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, of waging a ''cynical and deceptive'' attack against a measure to tighten regulation of the nation's financial system. PAGE 22 
 ROMNEY ENDORSES RUBIO
 Two years after he was shunned by Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida during that state's Republican presidential primary, former Gov. Mitt Romney endorsed Marco Rubio, Mr. Crist's opponent in Florida's Republican Senate primary. PAGE 23 
 Metropolitan
 AN INTERFAITH GROUP PUSHES TO TAME CREDIT CARD RATES
 An interfaith group of clergy members are urging state officials to take billions in publicly invested money from banks that are built on onerous credit and debit card rates. About New York by Jim Dwyer. PAGE 1
 Sports
 MAKING THE MOST 
 Of a Second Chance
 Brandon Crawford, has dreamed of being in the N.F.L. since he was a child. But he has dreamed much longer than the others hoping to be selected in this week's draft. He is 33, an age when most professional athletes are icing their knees and pondering retirement. PAGE 1
 SKI TEAM FEELS THE PINCH
 The United States Ski and Snowboard Association continues to revel in its success at the Vancouver Olympics. But discontent is simmering among many of the team's top athletes, who say budget cuts have sliced too deeply. PAGE 1 
 CAVALIERS DOMINATE BULLS
 LeBron James and Shaquille O'Neal combined for 36 points as the Cavaliers opened the Eastern Conference playoffs with an efficient 96-83 victory over the Bulls. O'Neal had not played since Feb. 25. PAGE 5 
 Obituaries
 DAVID G. SIMONS, 87
 A physician turned Air Force officer, he ascended to more than 19 miles above the Earth in an aluminum capsule suspended from a helium balloon. The trip, in 1957, set an altitude record and helped put the United States on the road to manned space flight. PAGE 24
 Sunday Business
 IMAGINING A BARGAIN IN THE U.S. BAILOUTS
 It is too early to tally the costs of the government's efforts to save the financial system. But that has not stopped Treasury officials from claiming that the programs will wind up costing far less than many had feared. Fair Game by Gretchen Morgenson. PAGE 1
 SEND IN THE DEPUTIES
 As Congress and Wall Street wrestle over an overhaul of financial regulations, the White House has designated three officials to handle the day-in, day-out bargaining, battling and drudgery. PAGE 1 
 Arts
 COURTNEY LOVE'S IMPROBABLE SECOND ACT
 Courtney Love is concentrating on ''taming the Courtney Monster,'' she says. Essential to this project is ''Nobody's Daughter,'' her new album, which is poised to be her best-received work since 1994's ''Live Through This.'' PAGE 1 
 D.I.Y. CULTURE
 The forces of globalism were expected to erode local cultures. But globalization has given more people the resources to decide, culturally, who they are. Abroad by Michael Kimmelman. PAGE 1
 Magazine
 AN ONLINE FORUM ON PSYCHOACTIVE DRUGS
 A vast and trippy symposium about the human mind has been under way on the Web site Psycho-Babble for almost 12 years. The nominal subject is pills. But the conversation mixes technology, neurology, poetry and madness. PAGE 26
 DR. DOES-IT-ALL
 He publishes books, writes for magazines, hosts TV and radio shows, and still performs surgery every Thursday. Just how did Mehmet Oz become America's doctor? PAGE 42 
 Book Review
 BACKSTAGE ON WALL STREET ON THE EVE OF DESTRUCTION
 Many writers have weighed in on the Wall Street debacle. So if you're showing up late, you had better come with an original take or with an elegant narrative. Michael Lewis has done the former; Roger Lowenstein has done the latter. PAGE 14
 Sunday Styles
 OUT OF THE CLOSET AND UP, UP AND AWAY
 Gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender comic-book fans are expressing themselves in increasing numbers in blogs, peer groups, Web comics and more, simultaneously articulating their sexual identity and their devotion to comic books. PAGE 1
 LOVE ISN'T ALWAYS ENOUGH
 For families in the United States that have gone through the process of international adoption and know how difficult the adjustment can be, the case of a boy sent back to Russia has struck a chord. PAGE 2 
 Automobiles
 RETURN OF A ROCK STAR
 That Didn't Cross Over
 Toyota's fifth generation of the 4Runner seems to regard rough terrain with a Big Bad Wolf attitude. The S.U.V. has strikes against it, but is mostly unflappable in the rough. PAGE 1
 Week in Review
 IN TEA PARTY, DOING FINE BUT ANGRY NONETHELESS
 It makes sense that people are protesting government spending and deficits during the recession, when they are feeling economic pain most acutely. But the Tea Party supporters taking to the streets aren't the ones feeling the pain. PAGE 1
 Editorial
 WHOSE SIDE ARE THEY ON?
 The White House and Democratic leaders need to push back hard against Republican posturing on the financial regulatory reform bill. Robust reform is the only way to prevent a repeat catastrophe. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 A SAFE, LOVING HOME
 The ordeal of Artyom Savelyev, who was sent back to Russia by his American adoptive mother, must not be repeated. It has threatened the dreams of thousands of other children and prospective families. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 Op-Ed
 THOMAS FRIEDMAN
 EndoStim, a small company in St. Louis, is the epitome of the new kind of start-ups we need to propel our economy: a mix of new immigrants, using old money to innovate in a flat world. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 It wasn't inevitable that the Catholic Church would grow so addicted to male domination, celibacy and rigid hierarchies. The Vatican could learn a thing or two from the priests and nuns who are devoted to helping the poor and the sick out in the real world. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
 THE PUBLIC EDITOR
 The Times continues to misuse anonymous sources despite written ground rules to the contrary and promises by top editors to do better . WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); SPORTS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); HEALTH CARE LAW (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); SCANDALS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); HOMICIDE (70%); BUDGETS (68%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (66%); OLYMPICS (64%); SKIING (64%); BUDGET CUTS (63%); SNOWBOARDING (62%); CREDIT CARDS (61%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (61%); WINTER OLYMPICS (60%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (92%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); HAMAD KARZAI (69%); MITCH MCCONNELL (54%); CHARLIE CRIST (54%); MARCO RUBIO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH INDIA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (57%) INDIA (93%); PHILIPPINES (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010



478 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LINK BY LINK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: What Would Daniel Ellsberg Do With the Pentagon Papers Today?

BYLINE: By NOAM COHEN

 BODY:
BEFORE Wikileaks, or even the Internet, there were just plain leaks.
 Two weeks ago, Wikileaks.org released a classified video showing a United States Apache helicopter killing 12 civilians in Baghdad. The reaction was so swift and powerful -- an edited version has been viewed six million times on YouTube -- that the episode provoked many questions about how such material is now released and digested. 
 Put another way: if someone today had the Pentagon Papers, or the modern equivalent, would he still go to the press, as Daniel Ellsberg did nearly 40 years ago and wait for the documents to be analyzed and published? Or would that person simply post them online immediately? 
 Mr. Ellsberg knows his answer. 
 ''As of today, I wouldn't have waited that long,'' he said in an interview last week. ''I would have gotten a scanner and put them on the Internet.''
 In early 1971, Mr. Ellsberg, an analyst at the RAND Corporation, passed a New York Times reporter a copy of a top-secret report casting doubt on the war in Vietnam, the so-called Pentagon Papers. For months, he said, he waited, unsure if The New York Times would ever publish. 
 When the Nixon administration went to court and prevented The Times from publishing the full report, Mr. Ellsberg gave copies to The Washington Post and other newspapers.
 Today, he says, there is something enticing about being independent -- not at the whim of publishers or government attempts to control release. ''The government wouldn't have been tempted to enjoin it, if I had put it all out at once,'' he said. ''We got this duel going between newspapers and the government.''
 He does concede that something might have been lost had Wikileaks been around in 1971. ''I don't think it would have had the same impact, then or now, as having it in The Times,'' he said. The government's attempt to block publication -- something ended by the Supreme Court -- was the best publicity, he said.
 But playing the government off newspapers, and newspapers against each other, still does not compare with the power of the World Wide Web. ''Competition worked in a useful way,'' he said. ''But the Internet has this viral aspect. It gets sent around and gets a broader audience.''
 In all his strategizing about getting attention for the material he leaked, Mr. Ellsberg can sound a lot like Julian Assange, the head of Wikileaks, who is unabashed in saying that one of his group's principal obligations is ''to get maximum political impact -- to do justice to our material.''
 Mr. Assange, true to that pledge, has been on a publicity tour that included a stop on Comedy Central's ''Colbert Report.'' In an interview in a Greenwich Village cafe last week, Mr. Assange (seated facing the door, Colbert show gift bag in tow) was quick to explain his place in the media landscape. 
 Someone connected like Mr. Ellsberg today, he said, is best advised to go to a mainstream outlet to get maximum publicity -- much as Mr. Assange will speak to whoever gives him a microphone -- but use Wikileaks as a home for the entire cache of documents.
 He also acknowledged that April 5, the release date of the Apache video, was picked in anticipation of a slow news day (though, as it happened, the mining disaster in West Virginia occurred that day).
 Mr. Assange has been criticized for creating an edited version of the video (he also published the longer, unedited version) and for concluding that the killings were ''murders.'' 
 The United States Army has said military protocol was followed in the incident, as its review at the time concluded. And Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said last week that the Apache video was misleading and lacked context -- the equivalent of seeing the war ''through a soda straw.''
 But beyond questioning whether the use of deadly force was justified, Mr. Assange said the videos were needed to bring the reality of war to Americans. 
 ''Some people say that war is war and that we should expect these kinds of casualties to occur in war,'' Mr. Assange said. ''But these kinds of war-is-war arguments are superfluous unless the public knows what war is.''
 One of the consequences of the publicity surrounding the video is that the military may keep fewer of them and certainly will not circulate them as freely, said Fred Burton, vice president of intelligence at Stratfor, a global intelligence agency, who has written about his experiences as a counterterrorism agent for the government. 
 ''It's the same kind of argument you have with your kids,'' he said. ''Be careful what you post to Facebook, because it will come back to haunt you when you go to a job interview.''
 The timing couldn't be worse, he added: ''Ultimately, it hurts the U.S. intelligence operation'' because it hinders efforts to improve communication among agencies. 
 For Mr. Ellsberg, leaking is about informing the American public. ''The Internet is there to bring out this evidence, when a terribly wrongful, reckless criminal act is being prepared.'' He said that earlier on, Wikileaks tried to recruit him as an adviser but he was skeptical. It looked like a way for the authorities to monitor leakers, he said, either by design or through surveillance. 
 ''I didn't believe that the technology could keep them away,'' he said. ''But the anger of the government over this leak suggests that they have been successful so far.''
 Mr. Ellsberg said that he had made a donation to Wikileaks after watching the Apache video. Given the surveillance he has undergone in the last 40 years or so, he doubts that the contribution raised any eyebrows in government circles.
 ''I am sure I didn't get on any new list by giving a contribution,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daniel Ellsberg, left, at a news conference in 1973 in Los Angeles. In 1971, he leaked secret Vietnam War documents. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); PUBLISHING (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (65%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (69%); WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: JULIAN ASSANGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (92%); IRAQ (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



479 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DRILLING DOWN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: Falling Sales for the Printed Word

BYLINE: By TEDDY WAYNE

 BODY:
Overall book sales in the United States dropped 1.8 percent in 2009, to approximately $23.9 billion not adjusted for inflation, according to the annual estimate released by the Association of American Publishers this month, though there is some hope for the beleaguered industry. 
 E-books accounted for just 1.3 percent of all book sales. But their sales skyrocketed 176.6 percent over the previous year. The introduction of the Nook from Barnes & Noble and the iPad from Apple are expected to bolster sales further in 2010.
 Educational books for kindergartners through 12th graders took the steepest hit among several categories, declining 13.9 percent, yet books for higher education rose by nearly the same percentage. ''K-12 school textbook spending, unlike higher education, is driven predominantly by government procurement funding by local municipality and state budgets, many of which were either cut or deferred across the country in 2009,'' said Tina Jordan, vice president of the association.
 Ms. Jordan attributed growth in costlier adult hardcover books to a ''welcome upward readjustment following the recessionary impact on hardcover sales at the end of 2008,'' when sales fell 13 percent from 2007.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 6.9: Percentage increase in sales for adult hardcover books from 2008 to 2009
 5.2: Percentage decrease in sales for adult paperback books for the same period 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN PUBLISHERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



480 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: American Aid Official Visits Kandahar After Attacks on Contractors

BYLINE: By TAIMOOR SHAH, CARLOTTA GALL and THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
KANDAHAR, Afghanistan -- The top American aid official in Afghanistan traveled to this embattled southern city to reassure Afghan officials here that assistance programs would continue uninterrupted after a series of attacks on United States contractors, including devastating car bombings three days ago.
 The visit by the aid official, William M. Frej, the Afghan director for the United States Agency for International Development, was announced by the governor of Kandahar Province, Tooryalai Wesa. Usaid officials here could not immediately be reached for comment. For his part, Mr. Wesa expressed relief at the support and said that new security measures would be taken here to check and register all vehicles entering the city. 
 ''They are committed to their promises and stand by their pledges to carry on their plans,'' Mr. Wesa said of the contractor companies. The attacks have been taken as a sign that Taliban militants are mounting a new campaign aimed at disrupting development assistance programs, and the violence has already forced Afghans working with foreign governments or companies here to leave their jobs. 
 It is particularly troubling because American and European officials have identified the civilian aid program as a critical complement to the expanded military offensive against the Taliban, designed to keep the population supporting the government rather than insurgents.
 ''There has been an increase in attacks on soft targets across the whole country,'' one Western official said. A European official here echoed that concern: ''Will it continue? My sense is it is stepping up.'' Both officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the delicate security situation. 
 Two car bombings in the city of Kandahar on Thursday left three Afghans dead and dozens wounded, including 10 foreigners working for United States government contractors. One of the car bombs was aimed at houses rented by several contracting companies, and they came just days after an Afghan woman working for another American partner in Kandahar was shot dead on her way home from work. 
 Among the companies hit by the bomb were Louis Berger, a construction firm; the Afghan Stabilization Initiative, or A.S.I., which works on developing local government; and Chemonics, which runs agricultural programs, all of which work with Usaid here. The Central Asian Development Group, another Usaid contractor, also had a number of personnel wounded and suffered damage to its offices nearby. The Afghan woman shot worked for Development Alternatives Inc., another group contracting with Usaid. 
 The attacks have had a devastating effect on personnel, and a number of Afghans working in Kandahar for foreign organizations said they were leaving their jobs or considering quitting. All those contacted spoke on the condition of anonymity because of fear of the Taliban. The offices of Louis Berger and A.S.I. have been badly damaged, and Afghan staff members have been told to stay home for two weeks, but some said they are weighing whether to return to work at all. Several Afghans working at Development Alternatives Inc. said they had received threats and left their jobs since the killing of their colleague, a 22-year-old woman named Hosai, on April 13. She used to catch a motorized rickshaw on the street to travel home from work, and that day two men on motorbikes drove close to the vehicle, stopped it and opened fired on her and then escaped, a colleague recounted. 
 Another colleague said: ''She was a well-educated girl with a sense of humor and had good relations with all her work colleagues. It is a big tragedy and loss for our office. The Taliban have shown that can target any of the D.A.I. personnel. She was assassinated just 200 meters from the office.''
 Afghanistan Frees Aid Workers
 KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) -- The Afghan authorities released three Italian medical workers who had been detained for a week, clearing them of allegations that they were part of a Taliban plot to kill a provincial governor, Italian and Afghan officials said.
 The Afghan intelligence service said the three Italians as well as five Afghan employees of the Italian aid group called Emergency were freed Sunday because they were no longer believed to be part of the plot. A sixth Afghan employee remained in custody.
 The nine Emergency employees were taken into custody on April 10 after Afghan and British forces found explosives and handguns in an Emergency hospital in Helmand Province.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); SHOOTINGS (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); WOMEN (67%)

COMPANY: DEVELOPMENT ALTERNATIVES INC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (96%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



481 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ALBUQUERQUE JOURNAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: On a Dusty Mesa, No Water or Electricity, But Boundless Space

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
ALBUQUERQUE -- Fermin Roman knew he was a pioneer when he bought his homestead on the Pajarito Mesa, a treeless plateau outside Albuquerque. But the seller assured him that water and power would arrive in a year or two. 
 ''I'm still waiting,'' he said the other day, nearly 20 years later. 
 Now home to more than 400 families, the mesa is one of the largest communities, other than some along the Mexican border, to survive entirely off the grid -- without running water, electricity, streets or mail. Here is a maze of unnamed dirt roads, with nary a grocery store or barbershop in sight. Adding to the sense of dislocation, Albuquerque's skyline shimmers, Oz-like, on the horizon, a half-hour's drive away. 
 Mr. Roman, like many of the hardy residents of the mesa, has improvised a frugal kind of comfort. Working evenings after his construction job, he wore out three wheelbarrows leveling an arroyo to build his cinder-block house. He hauls purchased water to elevated tanks that feed the kitchen sink, showers and flush toilets. Four solar panels run lights and television, while the refrigerator, stove and even his wife's hair curler run on propane. 
 Many more recent arrivals are far less comfortable, crowding into dilapidated trailers, running noisy generators for electricity whenever they can afford the gasoline, using buckets for bathing and ice chests to keep milk. 
 The Pajarito Mesa community, scattered over 28 square miles, is 90 percent Hispanic and mostly poor, and includes an uncounted but large number of illegal immigrants. But they are not squatters: residents buy or rent their plots, and the owners pay property taxes, one of the many oddities of a community that is isolated in plain sight. 
 Access to water and electricity has been stymied by a legal mess and a lack of political power in the largely nonvoting community. The mesa was never legally subdivided, no streets or rights of way for power lines were set aside, and the area was never licensed for housing. 
 In a small step forward, this month the mesa will finally get its first water supply -- a metered spigot at a single site where people can fill their barrels, instead of having to drive anywhere from 10 to 18 miles. Getting even this much took 10 years of organizing residents and pestering state and county officials, a campaign led by Sandra Montes, a former housewife who moved to the mesa in 1997 ''without realizing how hard it was going to be,'' she said. 
 In 2005, Ms. Montes, who now works for the Southwest Organizing Project in Albuquerque, corralled Gov. Bill Richardson during a public appearance in distant Las Cruces, describing the plight of the mesa and getting him to provide state aid for the water project. 
 Progress has come in small increments. Doctors from the University of New Mexico have started offering free medical care in a mobile clinic once a month. new neighborhood association has worked with the county to give each home a Global Positioning System address so that sheriffs and ambulances can find their way to emergencies, rather than waiting for a guide at the base of the plateau. 
 Art De La Cruz, who was elected last year as a commissioner of Bernalillo County, has taken an interest in the mesa and hopes to straighten out land rights and eventually bring basic services. But no one has illusions about how quickly this will happen. 
 ''In a nutshell, it's an illegal community,'' he said. ''But I think that on a humanitarian level we have an obligation to help.''
 ''There's no political capital for me in this at all,'' Mr. De La Cruz added. Spending tax money on the mesa is not popular with many in the valley below, who feel that the settlers benefit by avoiding regulations and license fees that others have to pay, yet are now demanding equal services, he said. 
 Mr. De La Cruz hopes to get a federal grant to develop a master plan for the area. The dirt tracks used by mesa residents cross over neighbors' properties, and the biggest expense of such a plan, he said, would be buying rights of way from landowners. 
 In meetings on the mesa, the commissioner has had a taste of the feisty individualism that could slow things down. ''Almost certainly, some will say, 'I don't want a road splitting my 10 acres,' '' Mr. De La Cruz said. 
 For all the hardships -- including, in the spring, skin-stinging dust storms that turn the cobalt sky brown -- many of the settlers like the remoteness, and they have adapted to life with minimal water and energy, conserving by necessity. Many love the stark vistas, the elbow room and the waking up to roosters, and are even feeling a bit wistful about the prospect of development. 
 While they want running water and roads that will not turn to slime in thunderstorms, some worry about the higher prices, traffic and crime that would follow.
 ''I'm very happy to be up here,'' Ms. Montes said, expressing a typical sentiment. ''We like the open spaces, and kids can wander safely.'' Neighbors help one another, and the main crime problem, she said, is illegal dumping by outsiders -- of trash, stolen cars and the occasional murder victim. 
 Maria Sandoval and her husband, who is from Mexico, bought two and a half acres here four years ago ''to get away from utility bills and a big mortgage,'' she said. ''My husband loves it here,'' she said. ''If he got a job, he'd buy more animals.'' 
 They share a trailer with their boys, 10 and 14, while her parents live in another trailer with a niece and a nephew. 
 While the extended family has created a homey compound, with chickens, goats and a vegetable garden, they cannot afford solar panels or a propane refrigerator, and the recession has pushed their thriftiness to a harsh extreme. Ms. Sandoval's real estate job petered out, her husband cannot find carpentry work and her unemployment benefits will soon expire. 
 Ms. Sandoval, now studying to become a court reporter, said that nearly all their money goes for gas for the car and generator and for basic foods like corn, rice and beans. ''It's tough now,'' she said, ''and we seldom have meat.''
 Bernadette Soto, who moved here four years ago to cut expenses, is less romantic about life on the Pajarito Mesa. She does not have an elevated water tank and must carry buckets to the sink and toilet. She runs a generator when she can afford the gas, burning up to four gallons a day ''so I can watch my soap operas,'' she said. Sometimes she uses a car battery, and ''sometimes we just have candles.''
 If offered a modern apartment in the city, ''sure I'd move,'' she said. ''Then I could take a shower every day.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Pajarito Mesa, a treeless plateau never licensed for housing but home to more than 400 families, is one of the largest communities, other than some on the Mexican border, to exist off the grid.
Lacking electricity, Alicia Montes, with her grandson Jairo, relies on a wood-burning stove.
Bernadette Soto, a resident for four years, has to carry water to her sink and toilet.
 Fermin Roman uses elevated water tanks to feed his showers, toilets and kitchen sink. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: This month, the mesa is to get a single metered water spigot. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); PROPANE (70%); COUNTIES (68%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (63%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (95%) NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



482 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Before Kyrgyz Uprising, a Dose of Russian Soft Power

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
BISHKEK, Kyrgyzstan -- Shortly before the uprising in Kyrgyzstan two weeks ago, online news sites posted a series of hard-hitting exposes accusing the family of President Kurmanbek Bakiyev of skimming money from the public coffers, an allegation that touched a nerve in this poor country and galvanized opposition to his government.
 When the authorities responded by blocking the Web sites on local servers, complaints came in from the usual places -- the Committee to Protect Journalists and Freedom House -- but also from an unlikely advocate for free media in the wired world: the Russian Foreign Ministry. 
 Rather than a change of heart on press freedoms, still stifled at home, Russia's stance in Kyrgyzstan appeared to be a new tactic in dealing with the former Soviet republics it regards as within its sphere of influence. Backing freedom of expression -- in this case to oppose a leader with whom it was unhappy -- was just one element of a wider, behind-the-scenes role in the uprising that may help Russia win influence in the new government. 
 Russia and the United States have been dueling for the upper hand in this small but strategically important Central Asian country, where the United States maintains an air field outside the capital as a logistics and refueling hub for the war in Afghanistan.
 But Russia appears to have learned well the lessons of the so-called color revolutions in Georgia, Ukraine and Kyrgyzstan in the past decade. In those uprisings, which overthrew governments allied with Russia but that had become alienated from their own populations, the West provided open support for opposition elites and free media.
 This time, the Russians staked out a remarkably similar position and used it to their advantage. In Kyrgyzstan, an American diplomat said, the Russians ''had a color revolution of their own color.'' 
 Russia's use of so-called soft power mirrored a long policy of American support for civil society in the former Soviet republics, under programs like the Freedom Support Act and financing for nongovernmental groups. Just five years ago that support, including United States financing for a publishing house in the Kyrgyz capital, Bishkek, which produced reports of corruption, was credited with preparing the ground for the previous Kyrgyz uprising, the so-called Tulip Revolution.
 Russia's newfound influence is likely to affect elections scheduled in six months to establish a permanent government in Kyrgyzstan, and it could also ripple throughout the region as the authorities in Moscow have cultivated ties with opposition figures in Georgia and Belarus.
 In Kyrgyzstan, Mr. Bakiyev had been trying to play the Russians and the Americans against each other for his own benefit. He had particularly angered the Kremlin by accepting $450 million in Russian aid tacitly linked to an agreement to close the American base at Manas airport but then allowing the base to remain, renamed as a ''transit center.''
 In July, the same month the Bakiyev government concluded the base renewal agreement with the United States, Kyrgyz opposition leaders began to get audiences with leaders in Moscow, according to Aleksandr A. Knyazov, then director of a Russian-backed nongovernmental group in Bishkek, the CIS Institute.
 Mr. Knyazov said he brokered the meetings, which he said began with relatively unimportant members of the Russian Parliament but evolved into audiences with influential figures, whom he declined to name. 
 In March, Roza Otunbayeva, now the head of the interim government, traveled to Moscow to attend a conference of former Soviet political parties and to meet Sergei M. Mironov, speaker of the upper chamber of the Russian Parliament and a close ally of Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin. According to Mr. Knyazov, she warned the Russians that popular discontent in Kyrgyzstan was exploding and that a mass protest would soon take place.
 While it is not clear whether she received any explicit commitments from the Russians, Moscow was already applying pressure on the Kyrgyz government.
 That month, Russian state television and local opposition media in Kyrgyzstan stepped up the publication of incriminating stories about the Bakiyev government, which responded by blocking access to the news Web sites Ferghana and Bely Parus and the blog site LiveJournal, and by seizing the print runs of two newspapers.
 The Russian Embassy in Bishkek then issued a statement saying that it had ''heard from a large number of Russian and Kyrgyz citizens who had trouble accessing Russian Internet sites because they are blocked'' and that the Russian government was ''concerned'' about online censorship.
 On April 1, Russia raised tariffs for refined petroleum products exported to Kyrgyzstan, causing a spike in gasoline prices and inflation that further fanned discontent. Russia also shut down some banking transactions with Kyrgyzstan, and Russia's allies Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan tightened their borders, curtailing Kyrgyzstan's lucrative trade in smuggled Chinese consumer goods.
 With these tactics gaining traction, the United States was at a loss for how to respond, according to the American diplomat in Bishkek, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Though the negative reporting on Mr. Bakiyev dovetailed with a Russian agenda, to counter Russian influence would have required the United States to publicly support the closing of newspapers and blocking of Internet news sites.
 To have thrown support behind the president, no great friend of the United States anyway, would have meant ''we would have been seen as aiding in the repression'' of civil society and the free press that the United States had spent years and millions of dollars building, the diplomat said.
 By early April, the role reversal for the United States was clear when one of the leaders of the Kyrgyz opposition walked into the American Embassy and told a political officer, ''The revolution begins on Wednesday.''
 The diplomat said he replied by saying, ''Really?''
 On Wednesday, April 7, protests broke out around the country to protest the government's brutality and corruption, as well as the increase in utility rates. Within 24 hours, the government had fallen. 
 But it was hardly a clean sweep for Russia, producing an interim government that includes members with close ties to Russia and the United States.
 Since then, both countries have actively courted the new leaders, resuming the contest for influence in this rugged, landlocked country of about five million people. The United States has offered support for the new government, which has promised to extend the lease on the American air base. Russia has offered $50 million in aid and subsidized fuel in the future.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Kurmanbek Bakiyev left Kyrgyzstan last week. He tried to play Moscow and Washington against each other. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAXIM SHIPENKOV/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) MAPS: The United States maintains a military base in Kyrgyzstan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); CORRUPTION (73%); WRITERS (71%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (70%); PUBLISHING (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: FREEDOM HOUSE (57%)

PERSON: KURMANBEK BAKIYEV (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); KYRGYZSTAN (97%); GEORGIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); BELARUS (79%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



483 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: China's Offer of $20 Billion in Loans to Venezuela Extends Needed Cash to Chavez

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
CARACAS, Venezuela -- President Hugo Chavez said over the weekend that China had agreed to extend $20 billion in loans to Venezuela, pointing to deepening ties between the two countries as China seeks to secure oil supplies here. 
 The announcement of the loans follows other financing agreements with China that have softened a sharp economic downturn in Venezuela, including a $12 billion bilateral investment fund. China's ties with Venezuela have grown increasingly warm in recent years, marked by rising Venezuelan oil exports to China, the Chinese launching of a satellite for Venezuela and the sale of Chinese military aircraft to Venezuela. 
 If the loans materialize, they could give Mr. Chavez a much-needed cash infusion. Some financial analysts, including the American investment bank Morgan Stanley, have said that Venezuela could soon face a cash crunch as it grapples with low oil revenues and a dearth of foreign investment. 
 ''All the oil that China needs for its growth and consolidation as a power is here,'' Mr. Chavez said at a ceremony on Saturday announcing the loans. 
 Details about the new financing deal were sparse. Xinhua, the Chinese government's news agency, said it involved ''soft loans'' channeled through the China Development Bank. 
 The linchpin of the loans appears to be China's thirst for oil, with the China National Petroleum Corporation, or C.N.P.C., agreeing to form a venture with Venezuela's national oil company to explore for oil in southern Venezuela. Eventually the companies could produce 400,000 barrels a day in the area. Venezuela's energy minister, Rafael Ramirez, said C.N.P.C. would need to pay $1 billion to move the venture forward. 
 Venezuela, faced with a slump in oil production, has recently been seeking to reach similar deals with energy companies from Russia, India and Spain, as well as the Chevron Corporation from the United States. Mr. Ramirez also made a rare trip to Washington this month where he spoke about oil projects. 
 While the United States remains the top buyer of Venezuela's oil, China is emerging as a new market. But the precise nature of energy relations between Venezuela and China remains something of a mystery. Venezuela claims it is exporting 460,000 barrels a day of oil to China, while Chinese government data show the country importing around 132,000 barrels a day. 
 Moreover, Venezuela's government has announced dozens of oil-exploration and refining ventures with companies from an array of countries including Iran, Uruguay and China itself. But almost none have been completed during Mr. Chavez's 11 years in power; the refurbishment of an oil refinery in Cuba is a rare exception to this record. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); OIL EXPLORATION (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); BANKING IN CHINA (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (70%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (64%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (55%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (55%)

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORP (67%); CHEVRON CORP (64%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); CHINA DEVELOPMENT BANK INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%)

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (64%); MS (NYSE) (58%); 1062 (HKSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (67%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (67%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (64%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (64%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS335999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT & COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3629 ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIAL APPARATUS, NEC (55%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (79%); SPAIN (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



484 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Obama Health Team Turns to Carrying Out Law

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The success of the new health care law depends to a large degree on a handful of Obama administration officials, who are scrambling to make the transition from waging political war on Capitol Hill to managing one of the most profound changes in social policy in generations.
 For these officials, the task of carrying out the law may be as much of a challenge as getting it enacted. 
 Jay Angoff, a longtime consumer advocate and nemesis of the insurance industry, will lead efforts to regulate insurers and insurance markets. 
 Jeanne M. Lambrew, an idealistic veteran of the Clinton White House, is carrying out provisions of the law aimed at expanding coverage.
 And Phyllis C. Borzi, a top Labor Department official, will police the conduct of employers, who provide health benefits to more than 150 million Americans.
 Their task is to translate the promise of the law into reality, with help from the private sector, if possible.
 Joseph R. Antos, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, asked: ''After spending so many months trashing the health insurance industry, will officials be able to calm down enough to be able to talk to the industry and the experts who will be running the new system? You need their input. It's essential to get technical insights from people in the industry who were largely ignored in the political process.''
 Here are profiles of three top members of the Obama team.
 Jay Angoff
 After graduating from Oberlin College in 1973 and Vanderbilt Law School in 1978, Mr. Angoff began his career as an antitrust lawyer at the Federal Trade Commission and then worked as a lobbyist at Congress Watch, a Ralph Nader organization.
 Michael Pertschuk, a former chairman of the trade commission, wrote admiringly of Mr. Angoff in ''Giant Killers,'' his 1986 book about public interest lobbyists. He described Mr. Angoff as ''tough, prickly, righteous, slow to compromise.''
 Mr. Angoff worked for a nonprofit group, the National Insurance Consumer Organization, before moving to New Jersey, where he was a deputy insurance commissioner and health policy adviser to Gov. Jim Florio, a Democrat.
 As director of the Missouri Insurance Department from 1993 to 1998, Mr. Angoff got to know Kathleen Sebelius, who was the insurance commissioner and then the governor of Kansas. 
 Ms. Sebelius, now the secretary of health and human services, recruited him to be director of a new Office of Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight.
 Mr. Angoff said effective regulation of insurers ''could have a greater impact on costs and coverage'' than the public insurance option liberals championed unsuccessfully.
 And Mr. Angoff has made it clear that he means to be aggressive in setting ''marketplace rules.'' He will enforce a section of the law that requires insurers to file detailed justifications for any ''unreasonable increases in premiums.'' One of his first tasks is to define ''unreasonable.''
 A former law partner, Cyrus Mehri, said: ''Having been a state insurance commissioner, Jay can see through the games insurance companies play. He will put teeth into the law. He will create a whole new federal regulatory regime to rein in the abuses and excesses of the industry.''
 As a Missouri official, Mr. Angoff won a legal battle with the state's Blue Cross and Blue Shield plan, which agreed to help set up an independent charitable foundation after it switched from nonprofit to for-profit status. As a lawyer in private practice, he secured tens of millions of dollars for consumers in class-action lawsuits against insurers.
 Calvin W. Call, executive director of the Missouri Insurance Coalition, a trade association, said Mr. Angoff's appointment did not bode well for health insurers.
 ''The industry's survival is probably limited in time, and Jay will be right there to watch it perish,'' Mr. Call said. ''Here in Missouri, Jay seemed to be a proponent of confrontation and almost invited litigation to decide issues that could have been resolved in the General Assembly or through compromise.''
 On the other hand, Mr. Call said: ''Jay kept us challenged every day. He may have made the industry better, more attuned to detail.'' 
 Jeanne M. Lambrew
 When President Bill Clinton's plan for universal health insurance collapsed in 1994, many Democrats, exhausted and disillusioned, turned to other issues. Ms. Lambrew never wavered. She kept plugging away at efforts to expand coverage.
 In Mr. Clinton's second term, she worked at the White House, as senior health analyst at the National Economic Council and as an associate director of the Office of Management and Budget. In those roles, she was an architect of the Children's Health Insurance Program.
 During the Bush administration, Ms. Lambrew refined her ideas as a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, a sort of government in exile for liberal policy experts. She became an associate professor at the University of Texas and collaborated with former Senator Tom Daschle on a book that laid out many ideas incorporated in the new health care law.
 Ms. Lambrew is leading efforts to expand coverage as director of the Office of Health Reform established by Ms. Sebelius. Ms. Lambrew is racing to meet a deadline set by the new law: Within 90 days, every state must have an insurance pool where uninsured people with medical problems can buy coverage at reduced rates. 
 Even people who disagree with her politics say Ms. Lambrew is a pragmatist, focused on results, not ideological purity.
 Ms. Lambrew picked up her interest in health care from her father, Dr. Costas T. Lambrew, a cardiologist in Maine; her mother, Patricia, a nurse; and her maternal grandfather, Dr. James Travers, a family doctor in New York.
 While working at academic medical centers, her father said, ''I ran clinics for people who could not afford private care.'' 
 In 2003, Ms. Lambrew helped local officials overhaul the health care system in Maine, her home state. ''Jeanne has a passion for the uninsured,'' said Trish Riley, director of the Office of Health Policy and Finance in Maine.
 Phyllis C. Borzi
 Ms. Borzi, an assistant secretary of labor, has been working on employee benefits for 35 years, since she answered a job advertisement on a bulletin board at Catholic University while attending law school.
 For 16 years, from 1979 to 1995, she worked for House Democrats on the subcommittee responsible for pensions and employee health benefits. She was a research professor at George Washington University and has extensive practical experience as a lawyer advising multiemployer health benefit plans.
 Ms. Borzi said her goal now was to write regulations that provide clear guidance to employers without being ''overly prescriptive.''
 ''I am committed to preserving the employment-based system and encouraging employers to keep their health plans in place,'' Ms. Borzi said.
 Though she is a Democrat with pro-employee sympathies, Ms. Borzi is respected by Republicans and employer groups like the United States Chamber of Commerce. They describe her as one of the nation's leading experts on the law that governs workplace benefits, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, known as Erisa.
 Mark J. Ugoretz, president of the Erisa Industry Committee, a trade association of big companies, said Ms. Borzi knew as much about employee health benefits as anyone in the field. But he said he worried that her agency would be tempted to over-regulate health plans.
 ''If the regulations become too stringent, too burdensome, too costly, it could strangle the system,'' Mr. Ugoretz said. ''Employers would retreat from providing innovative, comprehensive health benefits, just as many companies have dropped traditional pension plans in favor of 401(k) plans.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Phyllis C. Borzi, an assistant secretary of labor, is in charge of writing regulations to guide employers' actions under the new law. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Jeanne M. Lambrew, with President Obama as he announced appointments in late 2008, is working to expand coverage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); LOBBYING (89%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); LAWYERS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); POLITICS (72%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RALPH NADER (79%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



485 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Gates Pushes Back on Report Of Memo About Iran Policy

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates acknowledged Sunday that he had written a classified memorandum to the White House in January raising significant questions about long-term Iran policy, but said his goal had been only ''to contribute to an orderly and timely decision-making process.''
 The New York Times reported in its Sunday editions that Mr. Gates had warned in a secret three-page memo that the United States did not have an effective long-range policy for dealing with Iran's steady progress toward nuclear capability. 
 Prior to publication of the article, Obama administration officials had not publicly confirmed nor denied the memo's existence.
 In a statement issued on Sunday, Mr. Gates said he wished to correct what he described as mischaracterizations about the memo's content and purpose, and to dispel any perception among allies that the administration had failed to adequately think through how to deal with Iran.
 ''With the administration's pivot to a pressure track on Iran earlier this year, the memo identified next steps in our defense planning process where further interagency discussion and policy decisions would be needed in the months and weeks ahead,'' Mr. Gates said.
 ''The memo was not intended as a 'wake-up call' or received as such by the president's national security team,'' he added. ''Rather, it presented a number of questions and proposals intended to contribute to an orderly and timely decision-making process.''
 The New York Times article quoted one senior official as saying the document was a ''wake-up call.'' But Mr. Gates said, ''The New York Times sources who revealed my January memo to the national security advisor mischaracterized its purpose and content.''
 Senior administration officials, asked Sunday to give specific examples of what was mischaracterized in the article, declined to discuss the content of the memo, citing its classified status. In his statement, Mr. Gates offered no details on the issues he raised in his memo.
 Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, weighed in on the debate Sunday by saying that while extensive effort had been spent on developing Iran strategy, it remained a complicated and vexing national security challenge.
 ''It has been worked and it continues to be worked,'' Admiral Mullen said during a forum at Columbia University in New York. ''If there was an easy answer, we would've picked it off the shelf.''
 Admiral Mullen reiterated his longstanding view that while military strikes could delay Iran's nuclear program, diplomatic inducements and economic penalties remained the preferred course. He said that military action was the ''last option.'' 
 Senior Republicans said Sunday that gaps in Iran policy were self-evident. Senator John McCain of Arizona said he did not need a secret memo from Mr. Gates to be persuaded that the administration was mishandling Iran.
 ''We do not have a coherent policy,'' Mr. McCain said on ''Fox News Sunday,'' although he noted that an unsuccessful policy that focused on threatening ever-tougher sanctions had begun in the Bush administration.
 ''We have to be willing to pull the trigger on significant sanctions,'' Senator McCain said. ''And then we have to make plans for whatever contingencies follow if those sanctions are not effective.''
 In his statement, Mr. Gates sought to reassure overseas allies and partners -- presumably Israel and Arab states in the Persian Gulf -- as well as to put Iran on notice that the administration had the policy and capabilities.
 ''There should be no confusion by our allies and adversaries that the United States is properly and energetically focused on this question and prepared to act across a broad range of contingencies in support of our interests,'' Mr. Gates wrote.
 Through a long career in national security, Mr. Gates has warned of the risks of ''strategic surprise.'' He is known for pressing the government-wide national security apparatus to define policy, prepare capabilities and decide on required authorities in advance of potential crises.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMED FORCES (65%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



486 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Reduction Is Theme Of President's Next Act

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
As President Obama approaches the end of his administration's opening chapter, his advisers have begun a backstage debate over Chapter 2, which will be fundamentally different in tone, aspiration and political complexity.
 For his first 15 months, Mr. Obama has pounded away at four domestic initiatives. All four - economic stimulus, health care, Wall Street regulations and energy policy - reflected priorities of important Democratic constituencies. The next phase, which Mr. Obama set in motion by appointing a bipartisan panel on reducing the nation's debt, will not.
 Instead of extending government benefits (through federal stimulus aid and health insurance coverage), Chapter 2 will revolve around budget austerity. 
 Instead of shifting patterns of energy consumption, it will aim to reduce consumption across the economy.
 Instead of confronting the unpopular denizens of Wall Street, it will challenge average Americans to accept reduced services or increased taxes - or, probably, both.
 The contours of the president's approach remain undetermined. The deficit panel and external factors, from bond markets to midterm contests for the House and Senate, will play a role. But clues will begin to emerge this fall.
 ''There will be a significant battle within the administration,'' said Robert D. Reischauer, who led the Congressional Budget Office under President Bill Clinton. ''We're going to have a real set of revelations in November, December and January.''
 Watching the Calendar
 One question is timing. With a 2010 deficit topping $1 trillion, advisers like Timothy F. Geithner, below, the Treasury secretary, and Peter R. Orzsag, the budget director, favor bold steps in 2011 to demonstrate fiscal discipline.
 Political advisers are loath to propose large spending cuts or tax increases as Mr. Obama approaches a 2012 re-election campaign. Some economic advisers, including Lawrence H. Summers, director of the National Economic Council, also remain wary of undercutting a fragile recovery in which unemployment remains near 10 percent.
 ''If there's a discussion, it's about the pedal and the brake and how to use them,'' said David Axelrod, the president's political strategist.
 A second question is content. Long-term entitlement overhaul, including steps to shore up Social Security by curbing benefits and increasing payroll taxes, represents only part of the equation.
 One source of additional deficit reduction, which Mr. Geithner reiterated on NBC's ''Meet the Press'' on Sunday, will come from rolling back President George W. Bush's income tax cuts for those earning more than $250,000 a year. But even Democratic economists sympathetic to the administration insist that raising taxes on affluent Americans alone ''won't work and isn't a good idea,'' as Leonard E. Burman, a public affairs professor at Syracuse University, put it.
 That would mean increasing spending cuts, closing loopholes in the existing tax system, or adding a gas or carbon tax, which would serve Mr. Obama's energy goals.
 Or it could mean a value-added tax on goods and services, matching the president's call for reducing consumption. But any proposed new tax would compound the political difficulty.
 Most challenging will be identifying a coalition for action. The enthusiasm of Mr. Obama's fellow Democrats remains uncertain.
 If Republicans recapture the House in November, shared governing responsibility would create the conditions for bipartisan cooperation that led President Clinton and Representative Newt Gingrich to strike welfare-overhaul and budget-balancing deals in the 1990s. But if deficit reduction tracks the priorities of Republicans and their Tea Party allies, tax increases do not.
 Plotting a Course
 Extending Mr. Bush's tax cuts for those earning less than $250,000 would require new legislation by year's end. If Mr. Obama seeks a temporary extension, rather than a permanent one, that will signal his intention to take additional steps relatively soon.
 The deficit-reduction panel, led by Erskine B. Bowles, who was chief of staff in the Clinton White House, and Alan K. Simpson, the retired Republican senator from Wyoming, is scheduled to report on Dec. 1. The strength of its recommendations will influence the debate.
 If the White House ultimately chooses a tepid stance, Mr. Obama would use 2011 to prove his commitment to paring spending - deferring tax increases until after 2012.
 A more aggressive approach would seek quick action on Social Security. Alice M. Rivlin, a former Clinton administration budget director and a member of the deficit-reduction panel, said that would represent a ''confidence builder.''
 But since any Social Security plan would probably preserve benefits for those nearing retirement, it would not help the administration achieve its goal of reducing the deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product, from 10 percent, within a decade.
 One way to reach that 3 percent goal, by the calculations of Mr. Obama's economic team: a 5 percent value-added tax, which would generate enough revenue to simultaneously permit the reduction in corporate tax rates Republicans favor.
 Some deficit-reduction experts would applaud, but remain skeptical. ''How you get from here to there'' politically, Mr. Reischauer noted, ''is unfathomable.''
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); BONDS (76%); ENERGY REGULATION (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); CORPORATE TAX (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); INCOME TAX (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



487 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: AIRLINES PRESS EUROPE TO EASE BAN ON FLIGHTS

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD and NICOLA CLARK; Jad Mouawad reported from New York, and Nicola Clark from Paris.

 BODY:
As Europe grounded most airline flights for a fourth day on Sunday because of a volcanic ash cloud spreading from Iceland, increasingly desperate airlines ran test flights to show that flying was safe and pressed aviation authorities to loosen the flight ban. 
 Airlines complained that European governments were overreacting to the threat, relying on incomplete data from computer models rather than real-world safety tests in the air above Europe. In a blunt statement Sunday, representatives of Europe's airlines and airports called for ''an immediate reassessment of the present restrictions.'' 
 Europe's transportation ministers decided to meet in Brussels on Monday to discuss how and when to get planes back in the air. 
 ''It is clear that this is not sustainable,'' the European Union's transport commissioner, Siim Kallas, told reporters in Brussels. ''We cannot just wait until this ash cloud dissipates.'' 
 Europe remained a scene of travel chaos, with deserted airports and grounded planes; stranded travelers stormed ports and bus and train stations. London's St. Pancras train station, where Eurostar trains leave for Paris and Brussels, was packed with people anxious to find a way to Continental Europe. 
 Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, finally arrived back in Germany from San Francisco, after a three-day odyssey through North Dakota, Portugal and Italy via plane, armored car and bus. And one group of intrepid Samaritans tried to evacuate stranded travelers by dinghy from Calais, France, to Dover, England. 
 The closing of European airspace has dealt a severe blow to the beleaguered airline industry. The crisis has cost the airlines at least $1 billion so far in lost revenue and could wipe out weaker carriers if it continues much longer, analysts say. Airlines have already suffered losses of $50 billion over the last decade after the attacks of 9/11, the SARS epidemics of 2004, the rise in fuel costs in 2008 and the recession.
 Authorities are concerned that if an airplane moves through the ash cloud, which contains high levels of silica, a glasslike dust, the engines could seize or stall.
 But several airlines, including Lufthansa of Germany and KLM of the Netherlands, completed successful test flights on Sunday, and said they saw no damage to their planes. The chief executive of British Airways, Willie Walsh, hopped aboard a Boeing 747 flying from London's Heathrow Airport to Cardiff, Wales, to gather data on the ash.
 National aviation authorities continued to send conflicting messages to airlines and passengers on Sunday. While some isolated airports, like Frankfurt, Berlin and Warsaw, cleared the way for a handful of flights heading away from the ash cloud, most flights in northern and central Europe remained grounded.
 The British transportation secretary, Andrew Adonis, ruled out any immediate change, saying flights across northern Europe ''will not be safe'' on Monday. But Scandinavian Airlines said it planned to operate flights Sunday night from the United States to Oslo and Stockholm.
 Complicating any decisions is the continued eruption of the Icelandic volcano, Eyjafjallajokull. 
 As the ash cloud from the volcano has spread, it has shut down airports from the British Isles to Ukraine, disrupting the travel plans of nearly seven million travelers, according to one industry estimate. Delta Air Lines, Cathay Pacific of Hong Kong, Qantas of Australia and China Airlines of Taiwan were among those that canceled Europe-bound flights through Monday. 
 Since the ash cloud first appeared over European airspace Thursday, more than 63,000 flights have been canceled. Eurocontrol, the Brussels-based agency that coordinates air traffic management across the region, said that 20,000 flights, out of a regularly scheduled 24,000, were canceled on Sunday. 
 The interruption in service, particularly across the Atlantic, comes as the industry had just started to recover from the global recession, with business and international travel picking up.
 After the spike in oil prices in 2008, several airlines went bankrupt, including Eos, an all-business-class carrier that offered flights between Kennedy International Airport in New York and Stansted Airport outside London. Analysts said Europe's legacy flag carriers, including British Airways, Lufthansa and the Air France-KLM combination, would feel the most pain from the shutdown because they have high fixed costs.
 European airlines were already suffering from the slow pace of economic recovery there. Even before the latest crisis, the International Air Transport Association had projected that the industry would lose $2.8 billion this year, down from last year's loss of $9.4 billion.
 ''These disruptions could not have come at a more difficult time as airlines in Europe and elsewhere struggle,'' said Steve Lott, a spokesman for the industry group. ''The big wild card is, how long does this last and how long before we can get flights back in the air?'' 
 In a conference call Sunday with Eurocontrol, one airline representative sharply chastised national civil aviation authorities for being inconsistent in applying flight restrictions and stressed that the flight bans were creating ''a serious economic issue for us.'' 
 ''I understand the requirement for safety,'' said Dale Moss, the chief executive of OpenSkies, the Paris-based, all-business-class subsidiary of British Airways. ''But the level of frustration is painfully high'' for both airlines and passengers, he said. ''We need some scientific data quick, so that we can start projecting and putting contingency plans in place.''
 KLM received permission from authorities to fly three cargo planes to Asia on Sunday night. The airline's chief executive, Peter Hartman, suggested that passenger flights would be safe ''with the exception of an area in the north between Iceland and Russia,'' according to Dutch news services. 
 The events in Europe have also had an economic effect on American carriers. The four-day closing of European airports so far has meant lost revenue of $80 million for United States carriers that fly the lucrative trans-Atlantic route, said Michael Boyd, an aviation consultant. It also meant a loss of connecting passengers, who often fly from Europe to the United States, and then on to another domestic destination.
 ''We've never seen such a wall across the Atlantic,'' said Mr. Boyd. ''If you are heavily dependent on traffic to Europe, you are in a world of hurt right now.''
 Even if flights resumed this week, it could take days for the situation to return to normal, said Darin Lee, an airline specialist at LECG, an economic consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass.
 ''Reaccommodating several days worth of passengers can take quite a while, since there just aren't as many empty seats on flights as there used to be,'' Mr. Lee said. ''Some passengers could face very long waits before being able to take their journey, and for many passengers, it simply won't be practical to reschedule.'' 
 While much of Europe's airspace remained closed, the airport in Reykjavik, Iceland's capital, was still open for business since southern winds were pushing ash away from the small rocky island in the North Atlantic. 
 The shutdown of Heathrow airport, near London, also allowed authorities for the first time to inspect runways on foot in broad daylight instead of in the middle of the night.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NOT LETTING UP: In Iceland, the Eyjafjallajokull volcano continued to erupt Sunday, feeding a cloud of ash hanging above much of Europe. The disruption to air travel has left people stranded at airports the world over. Two travelers, below, spent another day waiting Sunday in Hong Kong. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAGNAR TH. SIGURDSSON/ARCTIC-IMAGES.COM -- FOCUSONNATURE
DALE de la REY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
Charles de Gaulle Airport in Paris on Sunday. It could take days for the travel situation to return to normal, an analyst said.
A check-in area at De Gaulle airport. A British official said flights across northern Europe ''will not be safe'' on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) GRAPHICS/MAP: Dark Cloud: Ash from the eruption of an Icelandic volcano has moved across Europe, spreading gloom through the continent's aviation industry. (Source: Aarhus University
 Eurocontrol) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); 2010 ICELANDIC VOLCANO ERUPTION (90%); VOLCANIC ASH CLOUDS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (75%); TRAINS (75%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (58%); BOEING CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (58%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%)

PERSON: WILLIE WALSH (55%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (97%); ICELAND (94%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NORTHERN EUROPE (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (79%); WALES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); ENGLAND (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); ARCTIC (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



488 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS There will be reports this week on leading economic indicators for March (Monday); the Producer Price Index for March and existing home sales for March (Thursday); and durable goods orders for March and new home sales for March (Friday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting earnings will include Citigroup, Eli Lilly, Halliburton, Hasbro and I.B.M. (Monday); AK Steel, Apple, Bank of New York Mellon, Biogen Idec, Coca-Cola, Delta Air Lines, Goldman Sachs, Harley-Davidson, Johnson & Johnson, State Street, TD Ameritrade, UnitedHealth, U.S. Bancorp and Yahoo (Tuesday); AT&T, Abbott Laboratories, Altria, Amgen, AMR, Boeing, eBay, EMC, E*Trade, Lockheed Martin, McDonald's, Media General, Morgan Stanley, Netflix, Qualcomm, SLM, Starbucks, United Technologies and Wells Fargo (Wednesday); Amazon.com, American Express, Blackstone, Continental Airlines, Hershey, Kimberly-Clark, Marriott International, McClatchy, Microsoft, New York Times, PepsiCo, Philip Morris International, Raytheon, Southwest Airlines and Verizon Communications (Thursday); and Honeywell, Schlumberger and Xerox (Friday).
 IN WASHINGTON The Senate Finance Committee will hold the first in a series of hearings on a proposal to tax the largest banks; the House Financial Services Committee will conduct a hearing on the public policy issues raised by the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy report; the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform will conduct a hearing about loan guarantees for the nuclear power industry (Tuesday); the finance ministers from the Group of 20 will meet in Washington, and the Senate Banking Committee will conduct a hearing about China's exchange rate policy and trade imbalances (Thursday); and the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations will conduct a hearing about the role of credit-rating agencies in the financial crisis (Friday). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); NEW HOME SALES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); CREDIT BUREAUS (65%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); ABBOTT LABORATORIES (84%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (83%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); BIOGEN IDEC INC (72%); U S BANCORP (71%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (71%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (69%); ELI LILLY & CO (58%); KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%); AK STEEL HOLDING CORP (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); BOEING CO (57%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (57%); AMGEN INC (57%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (57%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (57%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); PEPSICO INC (56%); NETFLIX INC (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (56%); RAYTHEON CO (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); QUALCOMM INC (56%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (56%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); ABT (SWX) (84%); ABT (NYSE) (84%); ABT (LSE) (84%); ABL (FRA) (84%); BK (NYSE) (83%); WFC (NYSE) (83%); BIIB (NASDAQ) (72%); USB (NYSE) (71%); JNJ (NYSE) (71%); MAR (NYSE) (69%); LLY (SWX) (58%); LLY (NYSE) (58%); LEL (LSE) (58%); KMB (NYSE) (58%); LUV (NYSE) (57%); AKS (NYSE) (57%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); UAL (NYSE) (57%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (57%); MO (NYSE) (57%); KO (NYSE) (57%); AMTD (NYSE) (57%); DAL (NYSE) (57%); PEP (NYSE) (56%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%); UTX (NYSE) (56%); RTN (NYSE) (56%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (56%); LMT (NYSE) (56%); PMI (SWX) (56%); PM (PAR) (56%); PM (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (72%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (71%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (69%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (56%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (56%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



489 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Small Vendors Left Out of Schools' Book Purchasing

BYLINE: By JO CRAVEN McGINTY; Alain Delaqueriere, Toby Lyles and Karen Zraick contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Even as recently as last year, the process by which books ended up in New York classrooms bore more resemblance to Avon than Amazon.
 Scores of salespeople traversed the city, going from school to school, peddling so-called trade books: the novels, works of nonfiction, test guides and other publications that teachers use to supplement textbooks.
 But the city has transformed the way it buys these books, abandoning the decades-old process in which numerous vendors competed in door-to-door or bazaar-like settings, to one in which nearly all such books -- literally millions of volumes -- are purchased via computer from two large discount wholesalers that have promised savings of at least 30 percent. 
 In its first year, city school officials say, the streamlined process is on target to save $18 million. But, much as large book retailers have pushed out independent sellers, some of the small local companies that used to deal directly with the schools say they may be forced out of business, at a cost, they contend, to students. 
 ''You've got to sit and read through hundreds of books to make good selections,'' said Connie Attanasio, a trade-book vendor who specializes in collections for English-language learners. ''You can't give a discount of over 30 percent and do the kind of work we did.''
 The city uses a different process to buy textbooks, which the city's Education Department typically buys directly from publishers in large quantities.
 Trade books, on the other hand, are intended to fill out lesson plans and are selected by teachers and principals in a way that retains some individualized, school-based choices to the way subjects are taught. About a third of the city's school book budget is spent on them. 
 In 2007 the Education Department hired the consulting firm Accenture for $2 million to help it find a way to corral the trade-book vendors and cut spending.
 ''We had 100 companies selling trade books,'' said Jason Henry, who directs purchasing for the Department of Education. ''A hundred was too many. We were struggling big time with how to manage it.'' 
 Mr. Henry conferred with half a dozen large companies -- including Borders, Barnes & Noble, Ingram, The Booksource and Baker & Taylor -- about how they do business. 
 When the language of the new trade-books contract was crafted, it disqualified small companies by stipulating that only vendors that had at least $5 million in annual sales were eligible.
 The department set the cutoff, Mr. Henry said, because it did not believe that smaller vendors could meet the school system's needs in terms of inventory or breadth of catalog. 
 The library services division of Ingram, the country's largest trade-book wholesaler, and The Booksource, one of its main competitors, outbid their rivals with guaranteed discounts of as much as 38 percent on single titles. 
 Schools order their books through an internal Department of Education computer system, and many educators say that the new system has improved accountability. Administrators, for example, monitor how many copies of a title a school orders and alert teachers if there is reason to believe too few, or too many, books have been ordered. 
 But some describe the process as tedious, and Mr. Henry said that it accounted for more than 20 percent of the complaints logged by the department's help desk.
 ''It's one thing to have great value,'' Mr. Henry said. ''It's another thing for users to take advantage of it.'' 
 The city's top two trade books purchased this school year have been the Barron's Regents test preparation books in integrated algebra and United States history. The department bought more than 2,500 of each at $4.33 per copy. The Merriam-Webster Dictionary was third, with 2,039 copies at $3.87 to $4.01 per book. (Amazon, by contrast, charges a few dollars more for each book.)
 Several of the salespeople who work for small businesses that were shut out by the new process noted that neither Ingram, whose corporate headquarters are in La Vergne, Tenn., nor The Booksource, which is based in St. Louis, were local companies. 
 ''The people affected directly are the people who live and work here,'' said John De Angelis, a book vendor and second vice president of the New York City Educational Sales Association. ''The mayor comes on and says he's all about job creation. This is taking away jobs.''
 Genaro Bastos of Bastos Books, which has operated in the city for more than 30 years, said that without the city's business, he was struggling to stay open. ''The only thing that keeps me afloat is, I sell to New Jersey schools, and also Long Island and Rockland County,'' he said. ''I'm a first-generation immigrant, and I want to make it.'' Membership in the sales association is down by at least 20 percent, Mr. De Angelis said, citing a variety of reasons, ranging from the poor economy to the new trade-book contract. 
 But at least two longtime New York vendors are staying in business by working in partnership with the approved vendors, serving as their local sales force. Together, these companies, Sussman Sales Company, which represents Ingram, and Lois Sharzer Associates, which represents The Booksource, employ more than a dozen people. 
 Steve and Ron Sussman, the owners and co-presidents of Sussman Sales, said their company speaks each year at about 60 conferences and school networking meetings , and regularly recommends materials to the department. 
 ''We'll see the directors of special education, intervention and the subject areas,'' Steve Sussman said. ''Between the trade shows and the luncheons and individual school calls, that's a lot of opportunity to teach and learn.'' 
 Both companies have hired former teachers or administrators on their sales staff. Other companies have also courted former Department of Education employees. 
 Last year, for example, Nelson Roman, who helped Mr. Henry devise the trade-book contract, left his job at the department to work for Baker & Taylor, a vendor that later won a contract to sell library books, which are not part of the trade-book contract, to the schools. The library book bidding rules were modeled after the new trade-book rules, but Mr. Roman did not participate in writing the library book rules and left the department before Baker & Taylor won the bid, both Mr. Roman and Mr. Henry said.
 City rules prevent former educators from doing business with the school system for one year after leaving the department. But Mr. Henry said Mr. Roman, his former deputy, did not break the revolving-door rule because he did not interact with the Department of Education.
 Teachers must choose from a list of about 150,000 titles that have been reviewed by the Department of Education for content, quality and accuracy. This school year, the department reviewed thousands of books and rejected 21 titles, generally for being inaccurate or out of date. 
 Most of those rejected do not sound remotely controversial: Among the titles were ''The History of Space Exploration'' and ''My First English-Chinese Illustrated Dictionary.''
 One book that raised objections because of content was ''A Piece of Cake,'' the memoir by Cupcake Brown. It describes her childhood tumble into substance abuse, gangs and prostitution after her mother's death. It was rejected, according to the department, for problems including grammatical errors, use of profanity and stereotypes and the glamorization of the subject matter while not paying sufficient attention to safe-sex practices.
 Meanwhile, ''Push'' a novel by Sapphire that relates abuse and incest in dialect, made it on the approved list. The movie ''Precious'' is based on the book.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Connie Attanasio, president of Attanasio & Associates, a trade-book vendor in Queens. At left, the warehouse of Ingram, the country's largest trade-book wholesaler. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAMIN TALAIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 KALIM A. BHATTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); SALES FORCE (89%); BOOK & PERIODICAL WHOLESALERS (89%); TEXTBOOKS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLISHING TRADE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); LIBRARIES (73%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (72%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (72%); MULTILINGUALISM (70%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (65%)

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (84%); ACCENTURE PLC (64%)

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (84%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (84%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



490 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Puts Wall St. on Notice

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT; Andrew Martin contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In the last few years, the Securities and Exchange Commission seemed like the cop in the doughnut shop, sitting idly by while the likes of Lehman Brothers and Bernard L. Madoff ran amok.
 But with its latest lawsuit against Goldman Sachs, the most powerful, most feared and most envied firm on Wall Street, the S.E.C. is sending a signal that it is back on the beat and that it is going after very big targets.
 In interviews this weekend, Mary L. Schapiro, the commission's chairwoman, and Robert Khuzami, its new director of enforcement, said the agency was stepping up both its rule-making and its investigations in the wake of the financial crisis.
 Neither would elaborate on the case being pursued against Goldman, but Ms. Schapiro said the commission had recently proposed new rules for credit rating agencies and for the reporting of the specific investments behind asset-backed securities, two issues that were integral to the recent financial crisis. 
 The Goldman case is not the only example of the agency raising its sights. Last week, General Electric said the S.E.C. had asked for information about reassurances that its chief executive, Jeffrey R. Immelt, made in 2008 about the company's ability to refinance its debt. 
 In his recent memoir, Henry M. Paulson Jr., the former Treasury secretary, said Mr. Immelt told him at the time that G.E. was having problems selling short-term debt. G.E. said on Friday that it was cooperating with the agency and that its disclosures were accurate.
 The S.E.C. also has joined an international investigation into whether Hewlett-Packard paid bribes to win business in Russia. The company said it was cooperating with investigators while conducting its own inquiry.
 ''We're seeing a resolve in the enforcement division that was lacking a year and a half or two years ago, and even 10 years ago,'' said James D. Cox, a Duke University law professor. ''Americans should take heart'' in the Goldman case, he said. 
 Ms. Schapiro, who took over as S.E.C. chairwoman last year, has vowed to reinvigorate the agency. 
 ''I think everybody a few years ago got caught up in the idea that the markets are self-correcting and self-disciplined, and that the people in Wall Street will do a better job protecting the financial system than the regulators would,'' she said. ''I do think the S.E.C. got diverted by that philosophy.''
 The S.E.C. has adopted an unusually aggressive posture with Goldman Sachs. Though it informed the company in the middle of last year that it might face charges, Goldman did not know until the news was already out on Friday that the S.E.C. had filed a civil fraud lawsuit, according to people on both sides of the issue who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the case. Goldman was not given the chance to discuss a settlement or prepare for the announcement, a departure from common practice.
 In the long run, the agency's reputation will rest more on whether it can win its case against Goldman than on its aggressive tone.
 The S.E.C. charged last week that Goldman had created and sold a mortgage investment that was secretly intended to fail. Goldman said the charges were ''completely unfounded in law and fact,'' and that it would ''vigorously contest them and defend the firm and its reputation.'' Goldman said that it lost money on the transactions at issue.
 Goldman has already provided answers to some of the S.E.C.'s questions. In the fall Goldman responded to a Wells notice from the S.E.C., producing two hefty filings -- a 40-page response on Sept. 10 and a 16-page response on Sept. 25. In those filings, Goldman said it was common practice for banks to devise synthetic C.D.O.'s -- collateralized debt obligations, which are a bundle of mortgage bonds -- to suit an investor. Goldman cited other mortgage bundles that other banks created in partnership with hedge funds, where the hedge fund's role was not disclosed. 
 Regarding the S.E.C.'S allegation of fraud in a specific Abacus deal by Goldman that was created at the request of the hedge fund Paulson & Company, in which Paulson helped select the toxic securities that went into that deal, Goldman said, ''the non-disclosure of Paulson's role (and its separate hedge in transaction with Goldman Sachs) simply reflected industry practice not to disclose client names.'' Indeed, it added later that firms had an ethical ''obligation not to divulge client information.''
 Not all of the S.E.C.'s recent actions have been winners. Last August, a federal judge in New York slapped down a proposed $33 million settlement with Bank of America over accusations that it had failed to adequately disclose to shareholders details of the financial condition of Merrill Lynch as the two were merging. More than six months later, the judge reluctantly approved a $150 million settlement, but he complained that it was an insufficient penalty.
 And the commission has been the subject of three scathing investigative reports over its failure to catch irregularities in some of the biggest investment debacles in history, including those involving Lehman Brothers and Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities. It had even received tips years ago that Mr. Madoff was running a Ponzi scheme but failed to develop a case against him.
 On Friday, the S.E.C. inspector general faulted the commission for failing to uncover a possible $7 billion Ponzi scheme at the Stanford Financial Group. Although its examiners had discovered evidence of wrongdoing in 2002, the district enforcement division did not take action, the inspector general said. 
 Ms. Schapiro said in an interview over the weekend that the S.E.C. shortcomings noted in the recent reports had been addressed in part by the makeover of the enforcement division.
 Mr. Khuzami, the new enforcement director, said one of the most important changes was eliminating a rule that required investigators to get majority approval of the five-person commission in order to issue subpoenas, which has allowed the division to move more quickly. 
 Marcel Kahan, a law professor at New York University, said the risk to Goldman's reputation was greater than its legal exposure. For instance, he said that Goldman's stock dropped nearly 13 percent on Friday, causing a greater loss in market capitalization than the worst imaginable S.E.C. fine.
 ''I think the negative P.R. for Goldman is a multiple of the legal one,'' he said. ''It's very bad for business. You don't want to get the impression with your client that you are doing shady things.''
 As a consequence, Professor Kahan said, Goldman had no incentive to settle the case and would hire the nation's best lawyers to try to clear its name. Similarly, he said the S.E.C. had as much or more to lose, given its record in the last decade.
 But just taking on Goldman Sachs is a sign the agency is more certain of its role as a tough watchdog for the markets, said Donald C. Langevoort, a law professor at Georgetown University who formerly worked in the office of the agency's general counsel. 
 ''The S.E.C. has long lacked the kind of resources that would give them the confidence that they could take on a Goldman Sachs,'' he said, ''because if Goldman Sachs decides to litigate, you know it's going to be a war.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Goldman Sachs's New York offices. The bank said the S.E.C.'s charges were ''completely unfounded in law and fact.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mary L. Schapiro (B1)
 Robert Khuzami, the S.E.C. director of enforcement, said this weekend that the agency was stepping up its investigations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); LITIGATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); CREDIT BUREAUS (53%); BRIBERY (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (89%); BERNARD MADOFF (73%); HENRY PAULSON (57%); JEFFREY IMMELT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



491 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Cassandra, the Ignored Prophet of Doom, Is a Woman for Our Times

BYLINE: By ADAM COHEN

 BODY:
In ''Treme,'' HBO's new series about New Orleans, a college professor played by John Goodman railed against the needless tragedy of Hurricane Katrina. The storm was a natural disaster, he says, but the flooding that followed was a man-made catastrophe, decades in the making. Many people knew about the threat, but no one did anything about it.
 Mr. Goodman's blustery tirade about warnings not heeded channeled a national anger that extends well beyond Katrina. We are living in an age of Cassandra, in which experts and ordinary people are regularly grabbing the appropriate authorities by the lapels and warning them of impending disasters -- almost invariably to no avail. 
 Harry Markopolos, a Boston financial analyst, has been out promoting his new book, ''No One Would Listen.'' It is an account of the eight years he spent trying to persuade the Securities and Exchange Commission that Bernard Madoff was running a multibillion-dollar Ponzi scheme. Mr. Markopolos recounts his tireless efforts to wave red flags in front of government watchdogs. In the spring of 2000, Mr. Markopolos says he tried to explain to a senior S.E.C. official why Mr. Madoff's numbers did not add up, but ''it very quickly became clear he didn't understand a single word I said after hello.'' In the end, perhaps $65 billion disappeared, much of it belonging to charities and retirees. 
 There have been decades of urgent reports about sexual abuse in the Catholic Church, including a 1963 letter that recently surfaced in which the head of a New Mexico Catholic order recommended to the pope that pedophile priests be removed. Cases of abuse in the United States have been drawing attention at least as far back as 1985, when a Louisiana priest admitted to abusing 37 children. A 1992 meeting of bishops in South Bend, Ind., admitted that some bishops had hidden abuse cases. Still, just last year, the Diocese of Memphis and the Dominicans agreed to pay $2 million to a man who reported being abused as a teenager in 2000.
 There were plenty of warning before the financial crisis of 2008. In 2000, Edward Gramlich, a Federal Reserve governor, cautioned that new subprime lending practices were making risky mortgages available to people who could not afford them. He urged the Fed to send examiners to investigate, but as a Times headline later reported, the ''Fed Shrugged as Subprime Crisis Spread.''
 Critical warnings about the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, were also ignored. Harry Samit, a Minnesota F.B.I. agent, warned in an August 2001 memo to higher-ups that Zacarias Moussaoui, the so-called 20th hijacker, was a terrorist intent on hijacking an airplane. Mr. Samit said that he sent 70 separate warnings.
 The complaint by Mr. Goodman's character is based in fact. The Times-Picayune of New Orleans did a prescient series on the city's vulnerability to a major hurricane, and the dangers were known nationally. In 2002, an article that I wrote on this page warned that if a bad hurricane hit, New Orleans ''could fill up like a cereal bowl'' and might even disappear.
 In Greek drama, Cassandra, daughter of King Priam of Troy, was given the gift of prophesy by Apollo, but when she spurned his advances, he ordained that her prophecies would not be believed. There is no such simple answer today for why so many warnings are ignored.
 Incompetence often plays a role. So does ideology: one reason Mr. Gramlich, a Democratic nominee, was ignored was that his warnings clashed with the antiregulatory convictions of the Bush administration. In other cases, to borrow Al Gore's phrase, an ''inconvenient truth'' imposes burdens that people don't want or threatens powerful interests. And a key reason Louisiana and the nation did not rally to better protect New Orleans was simply inertia.
 Predictions of disaster have always been ignored -- that is why there is a Cassandra myth -- but it is hard to think of a time when so many major warned-against calamities have occurred in such quick succession. The next time someone is inclined to hold hearings on a disaster, they should go beyond asking why particular warnings were ignored and ask why well-founded warnings are so often ignored.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); SEX OFFENSES (86%); RELIGION (86%); HIJACKING (83%); HURRICANES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); CHILD ABUSE (69%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (69%); PONZI SCHEMES (67%); CHARITIES (67%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (64%); SEX SCANDALS (64%); SUBPRIME LENDING (64%); TERRORISM (63%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (53%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



492 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: Alternate Path For Teachers Gains Ground

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
Not long ago education schools had a virtual monopoly on the teaching profession. They dictated how and when people became teachers by offering coursework, arranging apprenticeships and granting master's degrees.
 But now those schools are feeling under siege. Officials in Washington, D.C., and New York State, where some of the best-known education schools are located, have stepped up criticisms that the schools are still too focused on theory and not enough on the craft of effective teaching. 
 In an ever-tightening job market, their graduates are competing with the products of alternative programs like Teach for America, which puts recent college graduates into teaching jobs without previous teaching experience or education coursework.
 And this week, the New York State Board of Regents could deliver the biggest blow. It will vote on whether to greatly expand the role of the alternative organizations by allowing them to create their own master's degree programs. At the extreme, the proposal could make education schools extraneous. 
 ''In a lot of respects, what the Regents have done is the ghost of Christmas future,'' said Arthur Levine, a former president of Teachers College at Columbia University and now president of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation. ''Education schools are on the verge of losing their franchise.''
 While alternative programs now operate in most states, only a few, including Rhode Island and Louisiana, allow these programs to effectively certify their own teachers.
 Arne Duncan, the United States secretary of education, is also trying to expand these programs. The 2011 federal education budget doubles the financing for teacher training through a $235 million fund that will go to both alternative and traditional preparation programs focused on high-needs schools and subjects. And in the Race to the Top competition, points are given to states that provide ''high-quality pathways for aspiring teachers and principals'' including ''allowing alternative routes to certification.'' 
 At an appearance at Teachers College last fall, Mr. Duncan highlighted some ''shining examples'' of education schools, including Teachers College. But he also fired a shot across the bow: ''Many, if not most, of the nation's 1,450 schools, colleges and departments of education are doing a mediocre job of preparing teachers for the realities of the 21st-century classroom.''
 David M. Steiner, who became commissioner of the New York State Department of Education last year, insists that as much as he wants to introduce ''new actors'' into the realm of teacher preparation, he also wants to encourage education schools to reform themselves. Dr. Steiner, who in 2003 published a paper critical of the required reading at 16 elite education schools, says that colleges still devote too much class time to abstract notions about ''the role of school in democracy'' and ''the view by some that schools exist to perpetuate a social hierarchy.''
 As dean of the Graduate School of Education at Hunter College, he sought to elevate the practical aspects of teaching: when to make eye contact, when to call on a student by name, when to wait for a fuller answer. He now urges the use of video, a tool he pioneered at Hunter, to help student teachers see what works and what doesn't in the classroom (''Like taking apart a serve in tennis,'' he says).
 In New York, teachers can begin working without a master's degree as long as they have had some education courses as undergraduates, but they must earn a professional certification within five years by receiving a master's degree from a teaching school. New York is one of a dozen states that requires teachers to get a master's degree. Alternative certification programs like Teach for America offer a quicker path for graduates who did not study education in college, allowing them to begin teaching from the outset while pursuing a master's degree after hours. 
 Under the Regents' proposal, which the board is expected to approve on Tuesday and does not need the approval of the State Legislature, Teach for America and similar groups could create their own master's programs, and the Regents would award the master's degree, two powers that are now the sole domain of academia. 
 The Regents are looking for academic programs that would be grounded in practical teaching skills and would require teachers to commit to working in a high-needs school for four years.
 ''Ten years ago, this would have been an incredibly tough sell,'' Dr. Steiner said. 
 Education school deans say they are grateful that groups like Teach for America, which recruits heavily among recent college graduates, and N.Y.C. Teaching Fellows, which attracts young professionals seeking to change careers, have managed to rebrand teaching as both sexy and noble. Some in New York have formed partnerships with these programs.
 But the deans also say that the charge that they are mired in theory is outdated. Geoffrey L. Brackett, provost of Pace University in Manhattan, pointed to Pace High School in Chinatown, which the university created in 2003 and functions as something of a laboratory for the university's education school. ''You have our students at the graduate level being placed in that high school, but you also have current teachers working with our faculty on best practices and innovation,'' he said.
 Susan H. Fuhrman, president of Teachers College, said she had another concern -- the potential separation of teacher training from what she called an ''explosion of new research'' into how children learn. Teachers College has chosen not to team up with alternative programs, in part because of philosophical differences over the concept of anointing a neophyte to be the ''teacher of record'' -- the one responsible for a classroom -- from the first day of school.
 ''We're at a huge frontier when it comes to understanding learning,'' she said. ''Divorcing teacher preparation from this research would suggest to me that you would prepare doctors with hands-on tools without their benefiting from medical research.''
 La Toya C. K. Caton, 26, of Baldwin, N.Y., decided to become a teacher after she was laid off as a systems analyst. Last spring, she applied to Teach for America but withdrew at the last minute, enrolling at Teachers College instead. ''During that time I was a substitute teacher in middle school and high school, and I felt that more training was necessary,'' said Ms. Caton, who will complete her master's in May.
 ''Teachers College really provides you with an amazing opportunity to learn from supportive teachers,'' said Ms. Caton, now a student-teacher at Public School 180, the Hugo Newman School, in Harlem. ''They really act as mentors. They've given me the space to become the teacher I want to be.''
 Dr. Steiner said that the alternative groups would have to shape their own certification programs subject to Regents approval. While those programs would involve some theoretical classroom learning, he said, they would be ''given some relief from the traditional constraints of course credits and hours.'' 
 ''We believe there are a few institutions that have earned their right to the table,'' he said, although he declined to identify them. ''They would be held to exactly the same performance assessment that the traditional schools of education would be held to.''
 A spokeswoman for Teach for America, which has 800 new teachers enlisted in its two-year program in 300 schools in New York City, said the group would consider submitting a plan for a certification program.
 Some education schools have already seen a drop in their application numbers as a result of the allure of alternative programs, though the effect has been blunted by the recession, which has helped fill up graduate schools in general. In a weak economy, alternative programs are especially attractive because participants can earn a regular starting salary from the outset while also receiving a discount on tuition for a master's degree.
 In contrast, annual tuition for a master's degree program at a public university like City College of New York costs $7,360, while tuition at a prestigious private institution like Teachers College runs $26,040 for a full course load. (For a student living in a dormitory, Teachers College puts the total cost for nine months of study, including tuition, books, fees, room, board and other expenses, at $63,196.)
 In Brooklyn, Dan Cosgrove, 24, is now in his second year with Teach for America, teaching fourth grade at Leadership Prep Bedford-Stuyvesant Charter School. He joined Teach for America after graduating from Trinity College, unsure which career path to follow but eager to right the social inequalities he had studied as a sociology major.
 Despite a grueling schedule (teaching all week and pursuing a master's degree on weekends and in the summer), Mr. Cosgrove is sold on teaching. At Leadership Prep, classrooms have co-teachers, which has helped him develop classroom-management skills. 
 ''It's incredibly challenging and difficult, but it's also extremely rewarding,'' he said. ''I think the best way to learn is by watching people here and being in all kinds of situations.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dan Cosgrove, in his second year with Teach for America, with his students at Leadership Prep in Bedford-Stuyvesant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (93%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); TEACHER EDUCATION (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CHRISTMAS (66%); BUDGETS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: WOODROW WILSON NATIONAL FELLOWSHIP FOUNDATION (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



493 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEBDENDA; Pg. 

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: People and Accounts of Note in Advertising

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
AMJ Campbell Van Lines, Toronto, Canada's largest moving company, named Ariad Custom Communications, Toronto, as its agency of record. The company had previously handled advertising internally. Billings were not disclosed.
 Pernilla Ammann, who had led business and legal affairs at the New York office of Mother, was promoted to a new post, chief operating officer.
 Neil Arthur, director for strategic planning at the New York office of Wieden & Kennedy, was promoted to managing director of the office. He succeeds Buz Sawyer, who recently resigned. 
 Barbara Biancalana joined Young & Laramore, Indianapolis, in a new post, group account director. She had been a marketing consultant, based in San Francisco, and before that worked for agencies in Chicago at JWT and Foote, Cone & Belding.
 Alan Chumley joined Carma International, Washington, as a senior measurement consultant, focused on social media. He has worked in Canada on measuring the effects of public relations at companies like Bell Canada and agencies like Hill & Knowlton.
 Ernie Cicogna, executive vice president and general manager at the Glam Publisher Network, San Francisco, part of Glam Media, was named to new posts, general manager for international and executive vice president for Glam Global Partners. He will move to London and open an international headquarters there for Glam Media.
 Ben Citron and Roger Wong joined PJA Advertising and Marketing, San Francisco, as creative directors. Mr. Citron had been a creative director at Real Branding, San Francisco, and Mr. Wong had been a creative director at the San Francisco office of Razorfish, part of the Publicis Groupe.
 Jordan Cohen joined Pontiflex, Brooklyn, in a new post, vice president for business development. He had been marketing and public relations senior director at the Pivotal Veracity unit of the Unica Corporation.
 Ryan Denning, managing director for production at the San Francisco office of R/GA, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, was promoted to a new post, managing director of the office.
 Whit Friese joined the Troika Design Group, Hollywood, Calif., as a creative director. He spent 17 years at Leo Burnett, Chicago, part of the Publicis Groupe, and had most recently been a producer and consultant on ''Trust Me,''the TNT series about a fictional Chicago advertising agency.
 Elisa Galloway, president at Galloway Research Service, was elected as the 2010-11 president of the Marketing Research Association, Glastonbury, Conn.
 Jim Hord joined JWT New York, part of the JWT unit of WPP, in a new post, executive creative director for the Microsoft account. He had been creative director on the Nike account at R/GA, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Mike Huckman joined the MS&L Group, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, as senior vice president and director for media strategy in the health care practice. He had been the pharmaceuticals correspondent for the CNBC cable channel, part of the NBC Universal unit of General Electric.
 Kerry Kessler joined HC&B Healthcare, Austin, Tex., as an account supervisor. She had been an account supervisor at the Atlanta office of JWT, part of WPP.
 Dan LaCivita, senior vice president and executive director at Firstborn, New York, was promoted to president. He succeeds Michael Ferdman, who remains chief executive.
 Melissa Lea joined Blitz, Boston, as senior vice president. She has worked at area agencies like Arnold Worldwide, part of Havas, and Mullen, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Lopez Negrete Communications, Houston, is opening a music and content development department to be operated from its office in Burbank, Calif.
 Amelie Loyot joined ISM, Boston, as a creative director. She had most recently been a freelancer and a consultant and before that worked at agencies like Arnold Worldwide, Boston, part of Havas.
 Miami Dolphins and Sun Life Stadium chose Republica, Miami, as agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had been handled by Arnold Worldwide, Boston, part of Havas.
 Amanda Mitchell joined Rapp Canada, Toronto, part of the Rapp unit of the Omnicom Group, as managing director. She succeeds Nancy Mitchell, no relation, who left, the agency said. Amanda Mitchell had most recently been vice president and group account director at Grey Canada, part of the Grey Group unit of WPP.
 Panoramix Global, Minneapolis, a market research company, was opened by Vickie Abrahamson and Mary Meehan. They left the research company Iconoculture, Minneapolis, which they founded in 1992, to start Panoramix.
 Debbie Richman joined the ABC Television Network, New York, part of the ABC unit of the Walt Disney Company, as senior vice president for prime-time sales. She succeeds Geri Wang, who was promoted to president for sales and marketing. Ms. Richman had been executive vice president for ad sales at Lifetime Networks, New York, owned by Disney, the Hearst Corporation and the NBC Universal unit of General Electric.
 Hal Rosenberg joined Veria, New York, in a new post, general manager. He had most recently been senior vice president for affiliate sales at Scripps Networks. Veria is part of Natural Wellness USA, owned by the Essel Group of India.
 Synaptic Digital, New York, is the new name for the company formed after The News Market acquired Medialink.
 T.A.G., San Francisco, part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, was reorganized as Agency Two Fifteen. It will operate as an autonomous unit of Interpublic, working with the McCann Worldgroup on those assignments that require international elements. Scott Duchon, Mike Harris and John Patroulis will lead Agency Two Fifteen as partners.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (90%); PACKING & MOVING SERVICES (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (76%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (60%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (95%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (85%); JWT (83%); UNICA CORP (65%); YOUNG & LARAMORE CORP (57%); CARMA INTERNATIONAL (56%); TAPSA AGENCIA DE PUBLICIDAD SL (56%); DRAFTFCB INC (56%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (95%); IPG (NYSE) (85%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (65%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (94%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



494 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: According to D'Ag, Low Prices Are in the Bag

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
A supermarket chain once known for its quirky, light-hearted advertising is promoting itself again, this time with a humorous, make-believe ''battle'' between the boss and his senior management.
 The campaign is for D'Agostino Supermarkets, a family-owned company that operates 18 stores in Manhattan and Westchester. The campaign publicizes a weeklong sale, called ''Managers Gone Wild!,'' which is somewhat evocative of the ''His prices are insane!'' pitch used by the Crazy Eddie electronics chain in New York in the 1980s.
 The campaign features actual managers at D'Agostino, who are shown ''taking over'' from Nick D'Agostino III, the president and chief executive, and offering shoppers who have the chain's D'Ag Rewards loyalty cards special deals that are billed as ''up to 75 percent off'' regular prices.
 The specials, on groceries, meat, poultry, produce and baked goods, are peddled with one-liners not often found in the stodgy world of supermarket marketing. 
 ''Somebody slap me, please,'' Bob Fonti, the meat manager, says about a sale on Shady Brook ground turkey.
 The produce manager, John Vasapoli, declares: ''I've gone mad! Mad, I tell you!'' in pricing broccoli. 
 ''I haven't gone this crazy since college,'' he says about the deals on Fresh Express packaged salads.
 The deli manager, Pat Golia, wants to know ''Who came up with this price?'' for Jarlsberg cheese. ''Oh ... I forgot, I did,'' he says.
 And Luigi Mucciacciaro, the grocery manager, gets bleeped when he proclaims that ''the accountants are gonna kick'' a certain part of his anatomy, described with a slang term, for his sale price on Edy's ice cream.
 The campaign, by a boutique agency in New York named Grok, is composed of commercials, for cable television, the screens in the backs of taxi cabs and YouTube; newspaper advertisements; promotional events; materials in stores, like signs and bags; and a presence on the D'Agostino Web site.
 For those New Yorkers with long memories, ads for D'Agostino were as much a part of the city's marketing landscape as the commercials for local beers like Rheingold and Schaefer and the campaigns for area retailers like Crazy Eddie.
 There was a jingle, introduced around 1970, that began, ''Love that D'Agostino, love that D'Ag, D'Ag, D'Ag''; slogans like ''Please don't kiss the butcher'' and ''If there's no D'Agostino near you ... move''; and plastic grocery bags known as D'Ag Bags. They were the handiwork of Jo Foxworth, who worked on the D'Agostino account at McCann Erickson and later at her own agency.
 The jingle made a brief comeback in 1998, but in recent years D'Agostino had confined its marketing efforts to circulars, its Web site, e-mail messages, ads aimed at shoppers already in the stores and community outreach like supporting high school teams.
 In the meantime, the New York shopping landscape had changed drastically. Outside players like Whole Foods Market, Trader Joe's and Costco arrived. Local forces like Fairway and Gourmet Garage grew. 
 Drugstores like Duane Reade, CVS, Rite Aid and Walgreens expanded their offerings in groceries, fresh food and take-out items, placing them in direct competition with supermarkets. Fresh Direct, the delivery service, began to attract a large following.
 And, of course, the recession, financial crisis and economic hard times made New Yorkers -- who already pay some of the highest prices in the country for food and pantry staples -- more sensitive about the tallies at the cash register.
 That was reflected in the campaigns of larger chains against which D'Agostino competes like A&P, Pathmark, ShopRite, Stop & Shop and Waldbaum's, which have been focused on price cuts, price rollbacks, sales and other promotional activities.
 ''What we found in this economy was that a lot of our customers started to trade down in their purchases,'' says Anderson Chung, marketing director at D'Agostino Supermarkets in Larchmont, N.Y., substituting chop meat for shell steak and farm-raised salmon for the wild variety.
 ''They're buying the necessities,'' he adds, ''but a lot of basket sizes are flat, or declining slightly.''
 So last year, D'Agostino started considering a big sale event that could be held twice annually, Mr. Chung says, along the lines of the well-known Warehouse Sale at the Barneys clothing stores.
 The goal was ''a brand-able sale,'' he adds, that would draw in potential and current customers with ''an expectation you'd get some really great bargains, and have some fun in the store.''
 Another appeal to such a sale would be that shoppers ''felt we gave them nice value in the neighborhoods they live in,'' Mr. Chung says, which is important in the Manhattan stores because most customers walk in rather than drive to them.
 From all that came the idea of the ''Managers Gone Wild!'' sale -- inspired, with a wink and a nudge, by the ''Girls Gone Wild'' video series created by Joe Francis. 
 In this instance, the campaign is more ''Guys Gone Wild'' (which Mr. Francis also produces, by the way) as the D'Agostino departmental managers serve as the stars of the ads.
 The genesis was a discussion between Grok executives and Amy Krakow, president at Propaganda Marketing Communications, the longtime D'Agostino public relations agency.
 ''Amy was telling us about Monday morning meetings'' among the managers, says Tod Seisser, one of the three partners at Grok along with Julie Bauer and Steve Landsberg, ''and she likened them to editorial meetings at a newspaper.''
 ''But instead of discussing what's going to be above or below the fold,'' Mr. Seisser says, using the journalism term for placement of stories on a front page, ''the managers discuss whether the sales should be on grapes or pork chops.''
 ''They love teasing each other, playing off each other'' at the meetings, says Mr. Seisser, who works on creative at Grok with Mr. Landsberg. ''They're salt of the earth, real characters.''
 Ms. Bauer, who is the partner at Grok devoted to strategic and client services, says of the managers: ''These guys come from central casting. We could not have gone out and found anyone with personalities like these guys.''
 And their decades of experience in New York supermarkets helps ''position D'Agostino as a New York company, a New York grocery store,'' Ms. Bauer says, which is useful because ''New Yorkers like to frequent places that are fully New York.''
 Mr. Chung, discussing how he grew up on Mott Street in Chinatown, recalls the names of bygone New York supermarket chains like Bohack and Food Fair. (Oscar and Felix shop at a Bohack in the 1968 movie version of ''The Odd Couple,'' and Food Fair was mentioned a time or two in ''Mad Men.'')
 ''What's alarming is there are fewer and fewer New York brands,'' Mr. Chung says. ''They're disappearing.''
 This ''Managers Gone Wild!'' sale is the second for D'Agostino. It began on Wednesday and continues through Tuesday.
 The first sale was held from Oct. 7 to Oct. 13 and also featured the same four managers.
 This time around, a decision was made to replace the radio commercials that ran last fall with TV commercials and to add Mr. D'Agostino to the campaign.
 The spots are produced to make it seem as if the managers ''are taking over, ruling the roost, for a week,'' Ms. Bauer says.
 Each commercial begins with Mr. D'Agostino starting to speak when his image fades out, replaced by a shot of the four managers standing together.
 ''Sorry, Nick,'' they say together, ''but we're taking over.'' An announcer chimes in: ''The D'Agostino 'Managers Gone Wild!' sale returns with prices up to 75 percent off.'' Each manager describes a sale item, then offers a mea culpa. 
 In one spot, Mr. Fonti, the meat manager, talks about boneless sirloin steak at $2.99 a pound, then says, ''I'm going to need therapy after this.'' He is followed by Mr. Golia, the deli manager, talking about the Jarlsberg cheese and adding, ''They don't teach you this in business school.''
 After the announcer returns to recite the name of the sale and its duration, Mr. D'Agostino reappears onscreen, as if unaware that he had been interrupted by his employees. ''Thank you for shopping at D'Agostino,'' he concludes.
 A second commercial, with the same set-up, features Mr. Mucciacciaro, the grocery manager, getting bleeped, and Mr. Vasapoli, the produce manager, plugging his sale on strawberries and commenting, ''Profits are so overrated.''
 There are slight alterations for the two commercials that appear in taxi cabs. Mr. D'Agostino starts off by saying, ''Hello back there,'' addressing the passengers, and concludes with, ''And tell your driver to take you to D'Agostino.''
 Running the spots in taxi cabs is new for the second sale, Mr. Chung says, as is a shift in the timing of when the campaign begins. 
 Last fall, the ads started appearing the day the sale began, he says, while this time, they began a day before, reflecting that ''food shopping tends to be more of a planned event.''
 The campaign represents the first significant spending by D'Agostino outside its stores in a decade. According to Kantar Media, a unit of WPP that tracks ad spending, D'Agostino spent just $9,000 to advertise in major media in 2007 and $16,000 in 2008. 
 Last year, reflecting the first round of ''Managers Gone Wild!,'' spending soared to $168,000, Kantar Media reported.
 If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (78%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); POULTRY (75%); LOYALTY MARKETING (74%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (73%); EVENT MARKETING (73%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (73%); MEATS (72%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (61%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (60%)

COMPANY: D'AGOSTINO SUPERMARKETS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



495 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: Top Leaders at Goldman Had a Role in Mortgages

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Tensions were rising inside Goldman Sachs. 
 It was late 2006, and an argument had broken out inside the Wall Street bank's prized mortgage unit -- a dispute that would reach all the way up to the executive suite. 
 One camp of traders was insisting that the American housing market was safe. Another thought it was poised for collapse. 
 Among those who saw disaster looming were an effusive young Frenchman, Fabrice P. Tourre, and his quiet colleague, Jonathan M. Egol, the mastermind behind a series of mortgage deals known as the Abacus investments. 
 Their elite mortgage unit is now at the center of allegations that Goldman and Mr. Tourre, 31, defrauded investors with one of those complex deals. 
 The Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil fraud suit on Friday that essentially says that Goldman built the financial equivalent of a time bomb and then sold it to unwitting investors. Mr. Egol, 40, was not named in the S.E.C.'s suit.
 Goldman has vowed to fight the S.E.C. But the allegations have left many on Wall Street wondering how far the investigation might spread inside Goldman and perhaps beyond.
 Pressure on Goldman mounted on Sunday as two members of Congress and Gordon Brown, Britain's prime minister, called for investigations into the bank's role in the mortgage market. Germany also said it was considering legal action against the bank. 
 Mr. Tourre was the only person named in the S.E.C. suit. But according to interviews with eight former Goldman employees, senior bank executives played a pivotal role in overseeing the mortgage unit just as the housing market began to go south. These people spoke on the condition that they not be named so as not to jeopardize business relationships or to anger executives at Goldman, viewed as the most powerful bank on Wall Street. 
 According to these people, executives up to and including Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chairman and chief executive, took an active role in overseeing the mortgage unit as the tremors in the housing market began to reverberate through the nation's economy. It was Goldman's top leadership, these people say, that finally ended the dispute on the mortgage desk by siding with those who, like Mr. Tourre and Mr. Egol, believed home prices would decline. 
 Lucas van Praag, a Goldman spokesman, said that senior executives were not involved in approving the Abacus deals. He said that the executives had sought to balance Goldman's positive bets on the mortgage market, rather than take an overall negative view.
 Mr. Tourre, who now works for Goldman in London, declined to comment, as did Mr. Egol, Mr. van Praag said. 
 Mortgage specialists like those at Goldman were, in a sense, the mad scientists of the subprime era. They devised investments by bundling together bonds backed by home loans, a process that enabled mortgage lenders to make even more loans. 
 While this sort of financing helped make loans available, the most exotic creations also spread the growing risks inside the American housing market throughout the financial world. When the boom went bust, the results were disastrous. 
 By early 2007, Goldman's mortgage unit had become a hive of intense activity. By then, the business had captured the attention of senior management. In addition to Mr. Blankfein, Gary D. Cohn, Goldman's president, and David A. Viniar, the chief financial officer, visited the mortgage unit frequently, often for hours at a time. 
 Such high-level involvement was unusual elsewhere on Wall Street, where many executives spent little time learning the workings of their mortgage businesses or how those businesses might endanger their companies. 
 The decision to get rid of positive bets on mortgages turned out to be prescient. Unlike most other Wall Street banks, Goldman profited from its mortgage business as the housing bubble was inflating and then again when the bubble burst. 
 At the heart of all of this is the mortgage trading unit that, at its peak, employed several hundred people. As recently as 2007, Goldman's mortgage division was split into 11 subgroups, each with a specialty, according to an internal Goldman document that was provided to The New York Times by a former employee.
 Together, these groups stood astride the nation's real estate market. One group, for instance, handled actual home loans. Another provided mortgage advice. A third syndicated loans among banks. And still another handled commercial real estate. 
 During the boom, Goldman's mortgage unit was a leader on Wall Street. In 2006 alone, the bank underwrote $26 billion of collateralized debt obligations, according to Dealogic, a financial data provider. Many C.D.O.'s have since turned out to be bad investments. 
 But in 2006, some inside Goldman began to worry about the fragile state of housing. Daniel L. Sparks, the Texan who ran the mortgage unit, sided with those who believed the market was safe. Two of his traders, Joshua S. Birnbaum and Michael J. Swenson, had placed a big bet that mortgage bonds would rise in value.
 But this camp clashed with Goldman sales staff who were working with hedge funds that wanted to bet against subprime mortgages. Mr. Birnbaum told the team to stop promoting bets against some mortgage investments since such trades were hurting the market and Goldman's own position, according to two former Goldman employees.
 But a few desks away, Mr. Tourre and Mr. Egol were quietly working on the Abacus deals.
 They were, former colleagues say, something of an odd couple. A slight man with a flair for salesmanship, Mr. Tourre joined Goldman in 2001, after coming to the United States to study business operations at Stanford. At Goldman, he courted investors like European banks and big hedge funds. 
 The taller Mr. Egol, a specialist in analytical finance with a quiet but sometimes intimidating demeanor, devised the Abacus investments. He came to Goldman after studying aerospace engineering at Princeton and finance at the Booth School of the University of Chicago. 
 What united them was an unusually negative view on the mortgage market. As far back as 2005, they clashed with Goldman traders who worked with big mortgage lenders like Countrywide to buy and package loans. Their Abacus deals included insurancelike protection that would pay out if certain mortgage bonds soured. Such credit-default swaps were not worth much in 2005, when housing was flying high, but became highly valuable once the market sputtered. 
 ''Egol and Fabrice were way ahead of their time,'' said a former Goldman worker. ''They saw the writing on the wall in this market as early as 2005.'' 
 Unlike many of their colleagues at Goldman and other banks, they argued that the nation's mortgage market was far more interconnected than believed, former Goldman employees said. Their view was that if one group of mortgages or mortgage bonds ran into trouble, the entire market might falter. 
 Mr. Tourre and Mr. Egol created a way for a prominent hedge fund manager, John A. Paulson, to bet against risky mortgages. 
 With Mr. Paulson's help, Goldman created an Abacus investment that, the S.E.C. now says, was devised to fall apart. By betting against that Abacus investment, Mr. Paulson reaped $1 billion in profit, according to the S.E.C. Mr. Paulson was not named in the S.E.C. complaint. 
 Goldman's top ranks changed its stance on housing in December 2006. In a meeting in a windowless conference room on the executive floor, Mr. Viniar, the chief financial officer, and Mr. Cohn, the president, gathered about 10 executives for a briefing. Mr. Sparks, the head of the mortgage unit, walked them through the numbers. The group was unanimous: Goldman had to reduce its exposure to the increasingly troubled mortgage market. 
 A few months later, in February 2007, senior executives began turning up on the trading floor. The message, one former employee said, was clear: management was watching. 
 ''They basically said, 'What does this department do? Tell us everything about mortgages,' '' this person said. 
 The executives told Mr. Sparks to tell his traders to sell Goldman's positive bets on housing. The traders' short positions -- that is, negative bets, mostly used to hedge other investments -- were placed in a central trading account. 
 Not everyone was happy about it. One trader leaving the firm wrote the mortgage unit a one-word e-mail message: ''goodbye.'' 
 Goldman turned over all these negative positions to Mr. Swenson and Mr. Birnbaum, the traders who had previously been positive on the market. Along with Mr. Sparks, they have been credited for managing the short position that yielded a $4 billion profit for Goldman in 2007. Mr. Sparks retired in 2008. Mr. Birnbaum also left in 2008, to start his own hedge fund. 
 But former Goldman employees said those traders benefited from the short positions that were given to them. And their trading was tightly overseen by senior executives. 
 At one point in the summer of 2007, for instance, Mr. Birnbaum made a case to Mr. Cohn that some mortgage assets were cheap and that Goldman should let him add $10 billion in positive bets. Mr. Cohn said no.
 Meantime, Goldman managers instructed Mr. Egol in early 2007 to add insurance against mortgage bonds. 
 By the third quarter of 2007, the mortgage unit was minting money, while Goldman's rivals were losing big. 
 Mr. Viniar, the chief financial officer, told analysts that the mortgage unit was posting record profits because of its short bets that mortgage investments would lose value. 
 ''Our risk bias in that market was to be short, and that net short position was profitable,'' Mr. Viniar said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gary Cohn, left, and Lloyd Blankfein appeared in a Goldman Sachs 2006 annual report. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); LITIGATION (75%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); APPROVALS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (66%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (79%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (58%); GORDON BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



496 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2046 words

HEADLINE: White House Quietly Courts Muslims in U.S.

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT

 BODY:
When President Obama took the stage in Cairo last June, promising a new relationship with the Islamic world, Muslims in America wondered only half-jokingly whether the overture included them. After all, Mr. Obama had kept his distance during the campaign, never visiting an American mosque and describing the false claim that he was Muslim as a ''smear'' on his Web site. 
 Nearly a year later, Mr. Obama has yet to set foot in an American mosque. And he still has not met with Muslim and Arab-American leaders. But less publicly, his administration has reached out to this politically isolated constituency in a sustained and widening effort that has left even skeptics surprised. 
 Muslim and Arab-American advocates have participated in policy discussions and received briefings from top White House aides and other officials on health care legislation, foreign policy, the economy, immigration and national security. They have met privately with a senior White House adviser, Valerie Jarrett, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. to discuss civil liberties concerns and counterterrorism strategy. 
 The impact of this continuing dialogue is difficult to measure, but White House officials cited several recent government actions that were influenced, in part, by the discussions. The meeting with Ms. Napolitano was among many factors that contributed to the government's decision this month to end a policy subjecting passengers from 14 countries, most of them Muslim, to additional scrutiny at airports, the officials said. 
 That emergency directive, enacted after a failed Dec. 25 bombing plot, has been replaced with a new set of intelligence-based protocols that law enforcement officials consider more effective.
 Also this month, Tariq Ramadan, a prominent Muslim academic, visited the United States for the first time in six years after Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton reversed a decision by the Bush administration, which had barred Mr. Ramadan from entering the country, initially citing the U.S.A. Patriot Act. Mrs. Clinton also cleared the way for another well-known Muslim professor, Adam Habib, who had been denied entry under similar circumstances.
 Arab-American and Muslim leaders said they had yet to see substantive changes on a variety of issues, including what they describe as excessive airport screening, policies that have chilled Muslim charitable giving and invasive F.B.I. surveillance guidelines. But they are encouraged by the extent of their consultation by the White House and governmental agencies.
 ''For the first time in eight years, we have the opportunity to meet, engage, discuss, disagree, but have an impact on policy,'' said James Zogby, president of the Arab American Institute in Washington. ''We're being made to feel a part of that process and that there is somebody listening.''
 In the post-9/11 era, Muslims and Arab-Americans have posed something of a conundrum for the government: they are seen as a political liability but also, increasingly, as an important partner in countering the threat of homegrown terrorism. Under President George W. Bush, leaders of these groups met with government representatives from time to time, but said they had limited interaction with senior officials. While Mr. Obama has yet to hold the kind of high-profile meeting that Muslims and Arab-Americans seek, there is a consensus among his policymakers that engagement is no longer optional.
 The administration's approach has been understated. Many meetings have been private; others were publicized only after the fact. A visit to New York University in February by John O. Brennan, Mr. Obama's chief counterterrorism adviser, drew little news coverage, but caused a stir among Muslims around the country. Speaking to Muslim students, activists and others, Mr. Brennan acknowledged many of their grievances, including ''surveillance that has been excessive,'' ''overinclusive no-fly lists'' and ''an unhelpful atmosphere around many Muslim charities.''
 ''These are challenges we face together as Americans,'' said Mr. Brennan, who momentarily showed off his Arabic to hearty applause. He and other officials have made a point of disassociating Islam from terrorism in public comments, using the phrase ''violent extremism'' in place of words like ''jihad'' and ''Islamic terrorism.'' 
 While the administration's solicitation of Muslims and Arab-Americans has drawn little fanfare, it has not escaped criticism. A small but vocal group of research analysts, bloggers and others complain that the government is reaching out to Muslim leaders and organizations with an Islamist agenda or ties to extremist groups abroad. 
 They point out that Ms. Jarrett gave the keynote address at the annual convention for the Islamic Society of North America. The group was listed as an unindicted co-conspirator in a federal case against the Holy Land Foundation for Relief and Development, a Texas-based charity whose leaders were convicted in 2008 of funneling money to Hamas. The society denies any links to terrorism. 
 ''I think dialogue is good, but it has to be with genuine moderates,'' said Steven Emerson, a terrorism analyst who advises government officials. ''These are the wrong groups to legitimize.'' Mr. Emerson and others have also objected to the political appointments of several American Muslims, including Rashad Hussain.
 In February, the president chose Mr. Hussain, a 31-year-old White House lawyer, to become the United States' special envoy to the Organization of the Islamic Conference. The position, a kind of ambassador at large to Muslim countries, was created by Mr. Bush. In a video address, Mr. Obama highlighted Mr. Hussain's status as a ''close and trusted member of my White House staff'' and ''a hafiz,'' a person who has memorized the Koran. 
 Within days of the announcement, news reports surfaced about comments Mr. Hussain had made on a panel in 2004, while he was a student at Yale Law School, in which he referred to several domestic terrorism prosecutions as ''politically motivated.'' Among the cases he criticized was that of Sami Al-Arian, a former computer-science professor in Florida who pleaded guilty to aiding members of a Palestinian terrorist group. 
 At first, the White House said Mr. Hussain did not recall making the comments, which had been removed from the Web version of a 2004 article published by a small Washington magazine. When Politico obtained a recording of the panel, Mr. Hussain acknowledged criticizing the prosecutions but said he believed the magazine quoted him inaccurately, prompting him to ask its editor to remove the comments. On Feb. 22, The Washington Examiner ran an editorial with the headline ''Obama Selects a Voice of Radical Islam.'' 
 Muslim leaders watched carefully as the story migrated to Fox News. They had grown accustomed to close scrutiny, many said in interviews, but were nonetheless surprised. In 2008, Mr. Hussain had co-authored a paper for the Brookings Institution arguing that the government should use the peaceful teachings of Islam to fight terrorism.
 ''Rashad Hussain is about as squeaky clean as you get,'' said Representative Keith Ellison, a Minnesota Democrat who is Muslim. Mr. Ellison and others wondered whether the administration would buckle under the pressure and were relieved when the White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, defended Mr. Hussain.
 ''The fact that the president and the administration have appointed Muslims to positions and have stood by them when they've been attacked is the best we can hope for,'' said Ingrid Mattson, president of the Islamic Society of North America.
 It was notably different during Mr. Obama's run for office. In June 2008, volunteers of his campaign barred two Muslim women in headscarves from appearing behind Mr. Obama at a rally in Detroit, eliciting widespread criticism. The campaign promptly recruited Mazen Asbahi, a 36-year-old corporate lawyer and popular Muslim activist from Chicago, to become its liaison to Muslims and Arab-Americans.
 Bloggers began researching Mr. Asbahi's background. For a brief time in 2000, he had sat on the board of an Islamic investment fund, along with Sheikh Jamal Said, a Chicago imam who was later named as an unindicted co-conspirator in the Holy Land case. Mr. Asbahi said in an interview that he had left the board after three weeks because he wanted no association with the imam.
 Shortly after his appointment to the Obama campaign, Mr. Asbahi said, a Wall Street Journal reporter began asking questions about his connection to the imam. Campaign officials became concerned that news coverage would give critics ammunition to link the imam to Mr. Obama, Mr. Asbahi recalled. On their recommendation, Mr. Asbahi agreed to resign from the campaign, he said. 
 He is still unsettled by the power of his detractors. ''To be in the midst of this campaign of change and hope and to have it stripped away over nothing,'' he said. ''It hurts.''
 From the moment Mr. Obama took office, he seemed eager to change the tenor of America's relationship with Muslims worldwide. He gave his first interview to Al Arabiya, the Arabic-language television station based in Dubai. Muslims cautiously welcomed his ban on torture and his pledge to close Guantanamo within a year. 
 In his Cairo address, he laid out his vision for ''a new beginning'' with Muslims: while America would continue to fight terrorism, he said, terrorism would no longer define America's approach to Muslims. 
 Back at home, Muslim and Arab-American leaders remained skeptical. But they took note when, a few weeks later, Mohamed Magid, a prominent imam from Sterling, Va., and Rami Nashashibi, a Muslim activist from Chicago, joined the president at a White-House meeting about fatherhood. Also that month, Dr. Faisal Qazi, a board member of American Muslim Health Professionals, began meeting with administration officials to discuss health care reform. 
 The invitations were aimed at expanding the government's relationship with Muslims and Arab-Americans to areas beyond security, said Mr. Hussain, the White House's special envoy. Mr. Hussain began advising the president on issues related to Islam after joining the White House counsel's office in January 2009. He helped draft Mr. Obama's Cairo speech and accompanied him on the trip. ''The president realizes that you cannot engage one-fourth of the world's population based on the erroneous beliefs of a fringe few,'' Mr. Hussain said.
 Other government offices followed the lead of the White House. In October, Commerce Secretary Gary Locke met with Arab-Americans and Muslims in Dearborn, Mich., to discuss challenges facing small-business owners. Also last fall, Farah Pandith was sworn in as the State Department's first special representative to Muslim communities. While Ms. Pandith works mostly with Muslims abroad, she said she had also consulted with American Muslims because Mrs. Clinton believes ''they can add value overseas.'' 
 Despite this, American actions abroad -- including civilian deaths from drone strikes in Pakistan and the failure to close Guantanamo -- have drawn the anger of Muslims and Arab-Americans. 
 Even though their involvement with the administration has broadened, they remain most concerned about security-related policies. In January, when the Department of Homeland Security hosted a two-day meeting with Muslim, Arab-American, South Asian and Sikh leaders, the group expressed concern about the emergency directive subjecting passengers from a group of Muslim countries to additional screening.
 Farhana Khera, executive director of Muslim Advocates, pointed out that the policy would never have caught the attempted shoe bomber Richard Reid, who is British. ''It almost sends the signal that the government is going to treat nationals of powerless countries differently from countries that are powerful,'' Ms. Khera recalled saying as community leaders around the table nodded their heads.
 Ms. Napolitano, who sat with the group for more than an hour, committed to meeting with them more frequently. Ms. Khera said she left feeling somewhat hopeful.
 ''I think our message is finally starting to get through,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rashad Hussain, a special envoy, has argued that the government should use the peaceful teachings of Islam to fight terrorism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Tariq Ramadan, who was barred from the United States under President George W. Bush, spoke to a New York audience in April. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATHY WILLENS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Mazen Asbahi, a lawyer and popular Muslim activist in Chicago, resigned from the campaign of Barack Obama in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE KAGAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIM AMERICANS (93%); RELIGION (93%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); ARAB AMERICANS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); NATIONAL SECURITY (88%); US PATRIOT ACT (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); AIRPORTS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); TERRORISM (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); HEALTH CARE LAW (68%); IMMIGRATION (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); CHARITIES (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%); ERIC HOLDER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%) UNITED STATES (99%); EGYPT (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



497 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: The Tory Challenge

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
American conservatives don't think terribly highly of the British Tories -- if, that is, they think of them at all. With the exception of the sainted Margaret Thatcher, Britain's Conservatives have acquired a reputation among their more populist American cousins for being aristocratic squishes: part Bertie Wooster and part Arlen Specter.
 David Cameron, the Tory leader campaigning to become Britain's next prime minister, fits this stereotype all too neatly. He's an Eton man, an alumnus of Oxford's posh and rowdy Bullingdon Club, and a direct descendant of King William IV. His early career as Tory leader was devoted to ''modernizing'' the Conservative Party after a decade of defeat. This meant riding a bicycle, appearing regularly without a tie, and talking as much as possible about the environment and other liberal-sounding issues. 
 Yet the American right -- and Americans in general -- should be paying close attention to how Cameron's Tories fare in Britain's election on May 6, and how well they govern if they win. That's because for all his leftward feints and politically correct gestures, Cameron is campaigning on a vision of government that owes a great deal to the American conservative tradition. 
 The Tories' election manifesto, released early last week, promises ''a sweeping redistribution of power'' -- from London to local institutions, and ''from the state to citizens.'' In one of the most centralized countries in the Western world, Cameron is championing a dramatic transfer of responsibility -- for schools, hospitals, police forces -- to local governments and communities. In a nation with a vast and creaking welfare state, he's urging people to put more faith in voluntarism, charity and the beleaguered two-parent family. (This last plank has attracted the ire of none other than J. K. Rowling, who recently attacked the Tories for stigmatizing single motherhood.) His emphasis, again and again, has been on a smaller, leaner, less intrusive government -- and in its place, a ''big society'' that can bear the burden currently shouldered by social workers and bureaucracies.
 Nobody would mistake the Cameron Tories for Tea Partiers. By the statist standards of British politics, though, their manifesto's emphasis on localism and limited government is quite daring. The Tories may sit to the left of American conservatives on a host of issues, but Cameron is offering a more detailed and specific vision of what conservative reform might mean than almost any English-speaking politician since the Reagan-Thatcher era.
 Essentially, the Tories are gambling that the fiscal crisis facing every Western government will create an opportunity for decentralization on an unprecedented scale. If that gamble succeeds, Cameron's government will offer an example to right-of-center parties everywhere -- and Britain will offer a model, in an era of tight budgets and diminished expectations, for how nations can succeed (to borrow a Cameron catchphrase) at ''doing more with less.''
 But first Cameron's party has to actually win the election, which is hardly a sure thing. The Tories are asking for a mandate to transform the British state at a time when the British public is mainly concerned about how to kick-start economic growth. This may explain why the Tories have been clinging to a narrow lead over the incumbent, Gordon Brown, despite the Labor Party's epic mismanagement of the economy. Many disillusioned Britons seem tempted to cast a vote for the Liberal Democrats, the perpetual bridesmaids of British politics. The Lib Dem leader, Nick Clegg, was the clear winner in last week's television debate, and his party's poll numbers are soaring while Conservative support is flatlining. 
 Even if they manage to pull out a win, the Tories will have to actually execute the transformation that they've promised. Here the American experience is not encouraging. From Richard Nixon to Ronald Reagan to George W. Bush, almost every modern Republican president has pledged to decentralize government and empower local communities. But their successes have tended to be partial, and their failures glaring. Cameron's decentralizing vision is much better thought out than Nixon's ''new federalism'' or Bush's promise of an ''ownership society.'' But it's easy to imagine it meeting the same unhappy fate.
 Finally, even if Cameronism could work, there may simply not be time to implement the kind of ambitious, long-term transformation he has in mind. Britain's debt burden is worse even than that of the United States, and the fiscal crunch is looming. The window for big ideas may be closing, on both sides of the Atlantic and for right and left alike. In this election season, Cameron has tried to advance an idealistic politics of conservative reform. But he may find himself governing amid the grim politics of a permanent fiscal crisis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); BRITISH MONARCHS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); POLICE FORCES (63%); FAMILY (63%); SINGLE PARENTS (62%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (92%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); J K ROWLING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (98%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010



498 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; OBSERVATORY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Calculating Water Use, Direct and Indirect

BYLINE: By HENRY FOUNTAIN

 BODY:
How much water do you use every day? 
 Your household water meter only tells part of the story -- what was directly used for washing, cooking and other tasks. But what about the water that was used to grow the food you ate for dinner? Or to manufacture the book you bought or the gasoline your car burned? 
 Researchers at Carnegie Mellon University have estimated this kind of direct and indirect water use -- not for households, but for American industries. Their goal was to create a tool for better assessing the impact on water use of decisions made up and down the industrial supply chain, just as one might assess cost or carbon footprint.
 Chris Hendrickson, a professor of civil and environmental engineering; Michael Blackhurst, a graduate student; and Jordi Sels i Vidal, a visiting researcher, used water data from the United States Geological Survey (from 2000) and applied an economic model to estimate direct and indirect use in paint manufacturing, fiber and yarn making, grain farming and about 420 other industrial sectors, big and small. Their findings are reported in Environmental Science and Technology.
 Most of the direct water use, they report, is accounted for by the broad categories of power generation and agriculture. As for individual sectors, almost all use more water indirectly than directly. For example, in cane sugar refining, relatively little water is used at the mills. More than 95 percent is used indirectly, to grow the cane, generate electricity for the mills and in other parts of the supply chain.
 ''If you're doing a lifecycle assessment, you want to make sure you include upstream activities that are water intensive,'' Dr. Hendrickson said. ''This tool should allow people to understand the implications of water use.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); FLOW SENSORS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ENGINEERING (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (76%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); PAINTS & COATINGS MFG (72%); YARN & THREAD MILLS (72%); SUGAR MFG (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (69%); GRAIN FARMING (67%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); PAINTS & COATINGS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010



499 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: In the Mood to Clean? They Know

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THE Madison Avenue marketing calendar is chockablock with holidays both official (Presidents' Day, the Fourth of July, Christmas) and less so (St. Patrick's Day, Cinco de Mayo, Halloween). Then there are commercialized occasions like back to school, during which consumers are encouraged to shop for more than a day's worth of merchandise.
 Spring-cleaning season is such a time, too, as evidenced by a spate of campaigns now under way for products that are meant to help consumers tidy up after a long winter. Makers of household cleaners like Clorox, the Dial division of Henkel, S. C. Johnson, Procter & Gamble and Reckitt Benckiser are filling magazines, television programs and Web sites with pitches for sprays, bleaches, detergents, soaps and disinfectants. 
 Spring is also when appliance makers and cleaning services try to take advantage of the impulse for home improvement. For instance, Hoover vacuums and floor care products are being promoted in a multimedia campaign that begins this week, the first for the brand from a new lineup of agencies.
 And Stanley Steemer International has introduced a campaign for its services to clean carpets, furniture, floors, air ducts and other woebegone household items.
 Although spring arrives each year whether times are flush or tough, both campaigns reflect the realities of the current economy. For example, a year ago Hoover was advertising its higher-end Platinum Collection. The new campaign, by contrast, is for various models including the Platinum products, which are not identified as such in the ads.
 ''Sales on some older models'' that are less expensive ''are showing double-digit growth,'' said Brian Kirkendall, vice president for marketing and design at TTI Floor Care North America in Glenwillow, Ohio, the unit of Techtronic Industries that sells Hoover products in stores like Sears, Target and Wal-Mart and on Web sites like Amazon.com.
 The goal is ''getting back to being good at the basics,'' Mr. Kirkendall said. ''A brand like Hoover has to get in touch with who it is.''
 That is reflected in the approach the new campaign takes, which he described as ''old school'' with a contemporary twist. The commercials are basic, hard-working spots that include selling points like ''Designed for the way you live''; product demonstrations; humorous depictions of messy behavior; an updated version of ''Nobody Does It Like You,'' a Hoover jingle from 1993; beauty shots of products; and a large logo at the end.
 The campaign last year, by the Martin Agency in Richmond, Va., ''was beautiful, beautiful work, but a little ethereal,'' said Rudy Banny, co-founder and creative director at the new Hoover creative agency, Tattoo Projects in Charlotte, N.C. 
 ''It was not the nuts and bolts of what Hoover is,'' he added. ''In three or four spots, I don't think there was hardware.''
 Although ''we're not asking people to reach too deep into their wallets'' for Hoover products, Mr. Banny said, which can cost from $129 to $179, the careful attitude among shoppers means the campaign must work hard at promoting benefits and demonstrating the cleaning power of Hoover ''where the rubber meets the road.''
 The other new Hoover agencies are Empower MediaMarketing in Cincinnati, for media buying, and Current PR in Chicago, for public relations. They and Tattoo Projects are working on, in addition to the commercials, campaign elements like digital ads to appear on Web sites including CafeMom.com and HGTV.com, a presence on social media like Facebook and Twitter and a cause-marketing initiative to raise money for the Cleaning for a Reason Foundation, which helps women with cancer by dispatching cleaning crews to their homes.
 Hoover spent $18.2 million last year to advertise in major media, according to the Nielsen Company; the Kantar Media unit of WPP reported the total as $20.7 million. For 2010, Hoover will spend about 50 percent more than in 2009, Mr. Kirkendall said.
 Stanley Steemer spends about $50 million to $60 million each year on advertising. Its new campaign, which takes a humorous tack, introduces a pair of recurring characters, employees who drive to service calls in the company's familiar yellow van. One of the employees -- technicians, in Stanley Steemer parlance -- is chatty and a bit of a know-it-all; his partner is silent, taking it all in.
 Like the Hoover commercials, the Stanley Steemer spots, on TV and YouTube, rework a vintage jingle. The new version of the ''1-800-STEEMER'' song also promotes the company's Web site (1-800-Steemer.com). 
 The Stanley Steemer campaign was created by Young & Laramore in Indianapolis, which also served as the company's creative agency from 2003 to 2005. 
 ''We had a very good experience with Young & Laramore'' the first time around, said Justin Bates, president at Stanley Steemer International in Dublin, Ohio, ''and with everything that had gone on with the economy we realized it was very important to have the right creative going into 2010.'' 
 Typically, an economic downturn can benefit the carpet-cleaning business, Mr. Bates said, as people who are loath to buy new carpeting decide to clean their existing carpets. 
 But early last year, ''a lot of people stopped spending money altogether,'' he added, which hurt results. 
 ''It wasn't our best year,'' Mr. Bates said of 2009, but there was hope for an upturn because carpets were ''still getting dirty.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A new commercial for Stanley Steemer features two employees, including one who sees a discarded carpet and cries out, ''I could have saved this one!'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); POLISH & SANITATION GOODS MFG (90%); CLEANERS (90%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (78%); HALLOWEEN (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (75%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (70%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (54%)

COMPANY: S C JOHNSON BENELUX SA (71%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); RECKITT BENCKISER GROUP PLC (56%); STANLEY STEEMER INTERNATIONAL INC (55%); AMAZON.COM INC (53%); TECHTRONIC INDUSTRIES CO LTD (53%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); RB (LSE) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%); 0669 (HKSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS561740 CARPET & UPHOLSTERY CLEANING SERVICES (55%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7217 CARPET & UPHOLSTERY CLEANING (55%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (55%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3635 HOUSEHOLD VACUUM CLEANERS (53%); SIC3546 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOLS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (68%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010



500 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: The Uproar Over Goldman Sachs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''S.E.C. Accuses Goldman of Fraud in Housing Deal'' (front page, April 17):
 The securities fraud lawsuit against Goldman Sachs exposes a serious flaw in modern Western capitalism.
 Adam Smith taught us that the point of a robust capital market is to direct capital to its best and highest use, where, combined with labor, it will produce the goods and services most valued by society. Asset bubbles are a problem, but at least mortgage-backed securities enabled people to live in their overvalued houses. 
 The Goldman ''Abacus'' transaction involved ''synthetic'' collateralized debt obligations, derivatives whose value rose and fell with the value of real C.D.O.'s elsewhere. It produced no goods or services, financed no consumption -- nothing at all. Money that could, and should, have been used to add value to society was not invested; it was squandered as surely as if the parties had wagered on a horse race.
 Legitimate hedging is one thing. Gambling with people's savings, university endowments and municipal funds, on the other hand, should be a crime.
 Caroline Poplin Bethesda, Md., April 18, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Goldman Sachs's ethical failures and hypocrisy are more important than whether it is legally guilty of fraud. Goldman presents itself as having higher standards than other Wall Street firms. It even posts ''Our Business Principles'' on its Web site, something most firms do not do. Among these are ''Our clients' interests always come first'' and ''Integrity and honesty are at the heart of our business.''
 In the Abacus 2007-AC1 transaction, according to the Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit, Goldman knowingly sold a product that was designed to fail, favoring its own interests and the interests of one client (John A. Paulson, a hedge fund manager) over the interests of other clients. Further, it failed to fully disclose how the Abacus portfolio was assembled. Goldman clearly did not adhere to its stated business principles in this deal.
 Jeffrey Cohen Arroyo Seco, N.M., April 18, 2010
 The writer was an employee of Goldman Sachs from 1986 to 1992. 
 To the Editor:
 It is clear to me that the Securities and Exchange Commission charges should be held in abeyance and that the F.B.I. and the Justice Department should immediately open an investigation into the apparent fraud that occurred in this situation.
 Goldman Sachs officials who approved of this insider manipulation, including Fabrice Tourre, the apparent creator of the Abacus 2007-AC1 fund, should be the immediate targets of this investigation, as should John A. Paulson, the apparent beneficiary of the fund.
 If the S.E.C. proceeds with a civil case, much of the evidence may be inadmissible in a criminal proceeding because of Fifth Amendment issues. In my experience as an agent and former associate deputy director of the F.B.I. who was in charge of criminal investigations, this case should go to the top of the F.B.I.'s priority list. There should be an intensive investigation of all potentially criminal acts in this apparent scam.
 Oliver Revell Zurich, April 17, 2010
 To the Editor:
 As a real estate agent on the North Fork of Long Island in the roaring housing market here from 1998 to 2005, I was puzzled by the willingness of banks to give ''no doc'' (no documentation) and ''liars'' (self-explanatory) loans. Some of these buyers were borrowing more than the cost of their new homes.
 Today we can see why the banks were so generous. The Securities and Exchange Commission charges that at least one bank, Goldman Sachs, knowingly sold packages of subprime loans that were meant to fail so that a savvy investor could most profitably short a pool of them.
 Some subprime mortgage borrowers who are underwater, owing more on their homes than they are worth, are walking away, leaving their homes and the payments they have already made to the banks.
 These days the North Fork real estate sales market isn't roaring anymore, but many of those former homeowners are keeping the rental market purring.
 Janice Keller Mattituck, N.Y., April 17, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''In a Rush to Judge Goldman?'' (column, April 17):
 In questioning a rush to judgment against Goldman Sachs, William D. Cohan seemingly tries to turn the table by asking: if ''Goldman had lost billions instead of making billions, would the S.E.C. have filed a lawsuit against Abacus's investors?''
 This ignores the fundamental issue in this case: fraud is fraud, whether the perpetrator profits from his misdeeds or not. The Securities and Exchange Commission is alleging that Goldman omitted material information from a prospectus that it was required by law to disclose so that the investors could make an informed decision about whether to buy the securities being offered.
 Moreover, if Goldman did lose money -- whether from the actual trades or the recent drop in share price -- and the S.E.C. proved that Goldman had committed fraud, then Goldman's shareholders have been hurt by this activity and would have a right to sue to recoup their losses from those responsible.
 James O. Chamberlain Forest Hills, Queens, April 17, 2010
 The writer is a former Wall Street lawyer and investment banker.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''So Many Ways to Almost Say 'I'm Sorry' '' (Week in Review, April 18):
 It's the ''say you're sorry'' season for highly compensated bankers, but the apologies ring hollow. An apology without a commitment to make amends by way of financial reparations is similar to the ''thank you'' note that arrives six months after the gift has been received.
 It's better than nothing, but not by much.
 Joan Evangelisti Racine, Wis., April 19, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER O. ZIERLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); SYNTHETIC SECURITIES (74%); ETHICS (74%); WRITERS (73%); WEB SITES (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (69%); ENDOWMENTS (66%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010



501 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Benefit for Uninsured May Still Pose Hurdle

BYLINE: By RONI CARYN RABIN

 BODY:
William Mann of Pittsburgh earns just enough to get by. He is 46, doesn't own a car, hasn't taken a vacation in three years and hasn't had health insurance for most of his adult life. 
 He is just the kind of person who should benefit from the health care overhaul, and he is, in fact, eligible for heavily subsidized insurance that will cost him an estimated $1,845 a year, while the government contributes about $2,756. 
 But Mr. Mann says he still can't afford it. He lives too close to the edge, and won't be buying insurance, even though he will face a fine under a provision called the individual mandate, which penalizes most Americans who don't buy coverage starting in 2014. The requirement is one of the most controversial aspects of the overhaul.
 ''I just can't put that kind of money out for a 'maybe' -- maybe I'll get sick and use it,'' said Mr. Mann, who makes just over $25,000 a year as an administrative assistant at a small wine distribution company. ''That's a lot of money.''
 ''The people who make all these decisions don't live like the way I do,'' Mr. Mann added, echoing other uninsured people in his income group. ''They don't live like the rest of us.'' 
 Legal questions about the individual mandate aside, the choices made by people like Mr. Mann are crucial. One reason the individual mandate was created was to attract as many healthy people as possible to the individual market to offset the demands of the many sick people who will be buying in, and who have medical needs that drive up costs.
 Yet no one really knows which way the Mr. Manns of the nation, people struggling in a tough economy, will go. 
 ''Given the choice, a lot of people are going to purchase coverage rather than pay the penalty -- they simply want the security of having health insurance,'' said Jennifer Tolbert, principal policy analyst at the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured, an initiative of the Kaiser Family Foundation (not associated with Kaiser Permanente, the health insurance company). She said that had been the experience in Massachusetts under a similar initiative. But she added, ''The key is to make coverage affordable.''
 According to the Congressional Budget Office, some 32 million more Americans will have insurance by 2019 under the new law, about half of whom will be buying health insurance on the individual market for the first time (the other half will be covered for the first time under Medicaid, which is being expanded to include more of the poor).
 But Edmund F. Haislmaier, senior research fellow of health policy studies at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group, said he was skeptical that so many uninsured people would actually start buying insurance. ''We're premising all this on the idea that we'll cross-subsidize older, sicker people with a lot of young healthy people, whom we assume will buy the coverage,'' he said. ''But what if they don't?''
 Many of the uninsured in America are in the same economic boat as Mr. Mann. Some 60 percent of the uninsured earn less than 200 percent of the federal poverty level ($21,660 for a single person and $44,100 for a family of four), according to Sara R. Collins, of the Commonwealth Fund, a health care research group. As earnings increase, people are more likely to be insured, experts say. 
 A recent study by the fund said that about one-third of people who tried to buy health insurance on their own were turned down or charged more because of a medical condition. But three-quarters walked away for other reasons, and most cited price; 60 percent said it was either ''difficult'' or ''impossible'' to find an affordable plan, said Ms. Collins, vice president for the fund's Affordable Health Insurance Program.
 Jacqui Brownstein, 63, a freelance copy editor and proofreader, said she moved to Lancaster, Pa., from New Jersey in 2004 primarily because health insurance was more affordable there. But she can't afford it anymore; the last time she bought insurance, she paid $4,300 a year, but the rate quoted last year was $5,700. ''There was no way I could afford it, so I dropped it,'' said Ms. Brownstein, a smoker who has Type 2 diabetes and a family history of ovarian cancer. 
 Premium subsidies, which will be available to people who buy insurance through the exchanges being established, are supposed to address that problem, experts say. A 40-year-old in a medium-cost geographic area who earns $21,660 (200 percent of the federal poverty level) and whose annual premium is $3,500, for example, would receive a subsidy of $2,135 that goes directly to the insurer, while he or she pays $1,365. A family of four with an income of $44,100 would pay $2,778 while the government subsidizes the plan to the tune of $6,656.
 The proportion of income people at this level have to pay for insurance is capped at no more than 6.3 percent of their earnings.
 As income increases, the subsidy drops; families earning 300 to 400 percent of the federal poverty level are expected to pay up to 9.5 percent of their income, an amount that ranges from $6,284 to $8,379 per year; the federal subsidy is from $3,150 to $1,056. At the same time, however, a provision states that anyone who cannot find a premium that costs less than 8 percent of their income is exempted from the penalty.
 It's hard to predict whether the carrots and sticks of subsidies and penalties will suffice to bring people into the system, when there are so many are unemployed or underemployed people, many earning less in today's economy than before and worried about job security and prospects. 
 From a pure dollars-and-cents point of view, it is cheaper for people just to pay the penalty. Even when fully implemented in 2016, the penalty is limited to no more than 2.5 percent of taxable income, and it starts out even lower, with a penalty of $95 or 1 percent of income in 2014.
 ''It's hard to analyze because people are making health decisions based on their wallets,'' said Sara Horowitz, who founded the Freelancers Union, a nonprofit organization that offers health insurance to freelancers. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID PLUNKERT) (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MEDICAID (89%); INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); BUDGETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (66%); FOUNDATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: KAISER PERMANENTE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010



502 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Recession Adds to Appeal of Short-Term Jobs

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
NORCROSS, Ga. -- Michael Sinclair knows that in a few months, his stint in the marketing department of a health care manufacturing company here north of Atlanta is set to end. 
 He has been with the company for only six months, but he is not dismayed. In fact, he actually prefers his life as an independent contractor -- constantly being laid off and rehired, sometimes juggling multiple jobs -- to his old corporate position. 
 ''I think it's far less risky than being in a full-time job somewhere and cut at will and left with nothing,'' Mr. Sinclair said. ''I see this as the way more people will work in the future.''
 Economists believe that Mr. Sinclair's situation has become increasingly common. What is known as ''contingent work,'' or ''flexible'' and ''alternative'' staffing arrangements, has proliferated, although exact figures are hard to come by because of difficulties in tracking such workers. Many people are apparently looking at multiple temporary jobs as the equivalent of a diversified investment portfolio. 
 The notion that the nature of work is changing -- becoming more temporary and project-based, with workers increasingly functioning as free agents and no longer being governed by traditional long-term employer-employee relationships -- first gained momentum in the 1990s. But it has acquired new currency in this recession, especially among white-collar job seekers, as they cast about for work of any kind and companies remain cautious about permanent hiring. 
 In just one snapshot of what is going on, the number of people who describe themselves as self-employed but working less than 35 hours a week because they cannot find full-time work has more than doubled since the recession began, reaching 1.2 million in December 2009, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Economists who study flexible work arrangements believe that the increase has been driven in large part by independent contractors like Mr. Sinclair and other contingent workers, struggling to cobble together whatever work they can find.
 As the economy continues its halting recovery and employers' confidence remains shaky, economists believe that it is likely that the ranks of these kinds of workers will continue to grow.
 ''To the degree there's more uncertainty coming out of this recession than in past recessions, we would expect companies to be more cautious about taking on more permanent employees,'' said Susan Houseman, senior economist with the W.E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research, who studies contingent workers. ''So they'd be looking for more of these nonstandard employees to hire.''
 Some, like Mr. Sinclair, have embraced this lifestyle, influenced by a growing sense of just how precarious traditional employment can be and reveling in the other benefits, like flexibility and diversity.
 Others, however, would vastly prefer permanent jobs. They have struggled to deal with the instability, the second-tier status often accorded contractors and other temporary workers and the usual lack of benefits. In most states, they are ineligible for unemployment insurance and worker's compensation. Indeed, it is not at all clear that the shift to these kinds of arrangements is good for workers.
 Christine Reams, 45, spent a dozen years as the director of human resources at a large hospital in Columbus, Ohio, but was laid off in July 2008. After struggling for more than a year to find a permanent job, she landed a contract assignment back at her former employer in September, this time in the information services department. Initially, the position, which pays half of what she used to make, was supposed to last only six weeks, but the hospital has extended her contract several times.
 Now past her sixth month, she is grateful for the work, but the uncertainty has weighed on her, so much so that she checked herself into the emergency room recently when her blood pressure soared. Without health benefits, she had fretted over whether she would be extended again.
 ''It's not permanent,'' she said of the assignment. ''So I am not feeling secure.''
 Bob Longo, 47, of Green Brook, N.J., was laid off as a divisional sales training manager at Unilever in 2006. Since then, he has worked as an independent contractor, stringing together a relatively steady stream of assignments, often several at once.
 But he has also had to deal with serious peaks and valleys, and he is now trying to find a permanent job.
 Mr. Longo estimates that he has earned slightly more on an annual basis than he did at Unilever. On the other hand, he no longer has health benefits, a company car, a pension or a 401(k). Though he can use his wife's health insurance, he says he does not have the stomach anymore for the endless cycle of scrabbling for work every time he comes off a project. 
 ''I have steak days, and I have peanut butter days,'' he said. ''When times are good, times can be really good. But when times are bad, they can be really lean.''
 Federal and state officials have recently stepped up efforts to crack down on companies that have sought to save money by avoiding paying taxes and benefits on behalf of workers they classify as independent contractors who should actually be treated as full-time employees. 
 The universe of contingent work and alternative employment arrangements is broad. The largest segment appears to be independent contractors, which includes consultants like Mr. Sinclair, as well as freelance writers, nurse practitioners, information technology specialists and myriad other professionals. In 2005, the last time the Bureau of Labor Statistics tried to track these kinds of workers, independent contractors accounted for 7.4 percent of total employment. 
 There is also a much smaller group whose ranks have been expanding in recent months -- workers who draw their paychecks from temporary help agencies. Still others are employed directly by contracting firms, and there are also temporary workers, like seasonal retail hires, brought on directly by companies.
 Despite the drawbacks, there are many who have entered this world voluntarily. In Mr. Sinclair's case, he had been working at a marketing and strategy consulting firm in the Atlanta area but was laid off last year. 
 After realizing that companies were mostly not hiring but still had short-term work to be done, Mr. Sinclair plunged into selling himself as a consultant. After taking a few months to get started, he found himself juggling a steady stream of part-time projects. 
 His current position at Molnlycke Health Care, which makes surgical gloves and other medical products, started out as a short-term assignment but has morphed into a full-time job as the company's interim head of marketing. The company plans to hire someone permanent but has been busy with other priorities, which is fine with Mr. Sinclair.
 If he is offered the position, he said that while he would be tempted, he was not certain he would take it. His experience with his last company -- the first time he had been laid off -- taught him a lesson. 
 ''I just saw you really can't rely on a company,'' he said. ''I think too many people, even in this day, still think you can rely on a company for security.'' 
 He would rather rely on himself.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Sinclair, at his home office in Georgia, says he prefers life as an independent contractor. ''I think it's far less risky,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (76%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); STATISTICS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%) GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010



503 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Still Flying Hourly

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
The airline shuttles that operate between New York, Boston and Washington have been downsized, as fewer executives traveled those routes in the recession. 
 But while the planes got smaller, the carriers have kept the hourly departure schedule that has long defined the shuttle as a convenient transportation option.
 Whether that departure model still makes economic and environmental sense is debatable. But analysts and airline executives say the hourly shuttle is a critical service to offer for one main reason: business travelers demand it. 
 ''As a competitor, it makes us more attractive when we're going for corporate accounts,'' said Gail Grimmett, senior vice president for the New York region at Delta Air Lines, which competes with US Airways on shuttle routes in the Northeast and recently announced a new shuttle service from LaGuardia Airport in New York to O'Hare International Airport in Chicago.
 ''There's a checklist that they look at,'' Ms. Grimmett said. ''For the shuttle market, it's all about schedule and having a significant presence in the market.''
 Delta offers 15 round-trip flights on weekdays from LaGuardia to Boston's Logan International Airport and Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, while US Airways has about 16 flights a day on those routes as well as between Washington National and Boston.
 But both carriers had trouble filling their shuttles last year. Delta flights were just 37 percent full, on average, between LaGuardia and Boston, while US Airways averaged 45 percent on that route. The LaGuardia to Washington numbers were slightly better: 40 percent for Delta and 50 percent for US Airways. Contrast that with the systemwide figures for all carriers -- planes were 80 percent full in 2009.
 With the shuttle, the pattern has long been that early morning and evening flights are packed, while flights in the middle of the day have plenty of empty seats. So even in good years, the shuttle was less full than the industry average. 
 But as airlines have grown more aggressive about adjusting capacity to meet demand, carriers have been downsizing to smaller shuttle planes. Delta now flies 76-seat Embraer 175 jets operated by Shuttle America on most of its shuttle routes, while US Airways has shifted to 99-seat Embraer 190 planes between Boston and LaGuardia. Although both aircraft offer a first-class cabin and have bigger overhead bins than the smaller regional jets that business travelers find cramped, not all shuttle fliers are happy about the shift from larger planes. 
 ''For every six people, there's only room for two roller bags now,'' said Gregory Witczak, a consultant who lives in Boston and commutes to New York every week. ''If you don't get there early, you have to check your bag.'' 
 Mr. Witczak has been flying the shuttle for three years, on both Delta and US Airways, and he said his main priority was getting to his destination quickly and with a minimum amount of aggravation. He is among those frequent fliers who meticulously calculate details like the time it takes to wait for a gate-checked bag or how close the shuttle gate is to the taxi line. 
 Delta has an advantage in that last category, he says, because its flights operate out of LaGuardia's Marine Air Terminal. ''It's six or seven minutes closer to the city,'' Mr. Witczak said. ''Initially, you think that's funny but it makes a world of difference.''
 Delta and US Airways are negotiating a deal that involves swapping some of their gates at LaGuardia, which means Delta would shift its shuttle flights to the main terminal and US Airways would move its shuttle flights to the Marine Air Terminal. Both carriers have dedicated shuttle gates that offer amenities like Internet access, newspapers and coffee.
 The swap is part of Delta's strategy to strengthen its New York presence, including a new shuttle service offering 11 round-trip flights a day between LaGuardia and Chicago O'Hare. While not exactly hourly, the service will replace Delta's less frequent flights to Chicago Midway beginning June 10 -- and more directly compete with American and United, which both have roughly 17 daily flights on that route.
 Darryl Jenkins, an airline consultant, described Delta's move as ''almost a declaration of war'' on American, since it dominates the lucrative O'Hare-to-LaGuardia route. But in general, analysts say shuttle flights are not necessarily moneymakers for airlines, because the planes often fly half empty and the cost of maintaining an hourly schedule at expensive airports is high.
 ''On a shuttle, you have a higher probability of capturing the business traveler who pays the higher fare,'' Mr. Jenkins said. ''But your costs operating out of these airports are higher as well.''
 Michael Boyd, president of the aviation consulting firm Boyd Group International, points out that the industry has had a tough time turning a profit on most flights lately, but he agrees that making money on an hourly shuttle is a challenge. 
 ''They're not real profitable operations,'' he said. ''The real play of the East Coast shuttle is that it builds brand loyalty.''
 Ms. Grimmett, of Delta, and Morgan Durrant, a spokesman for US Airways, declined to discuss the financial performance of specific routes. Both said, however, that cultivating the loyalty of business travelers was a crucial part of the shuttle's value, and required a more or less hourly schedule.
 Indeed, hourly flights have been the distinguishing characteristic of airline shuttles since the 1960s, when Eastern Air's shuttle sold tickets on board and promised to add a plane if a flight was full. While change fees, boarding passes and security screenings have ended that era, and competition from Amtrak's Acela service has lured passengers from shuttle flights, the frequency and predictability of the shuttle schedule has become almost a sacred cow. 
 ''You know that there's a plane leaving every hour on the hour,'' said Michael MacNair, president and chief executive of MacNair Travel Management in Alexandria, Va. ''So if you miss one, there's one the next hour. I think most busy executives are willing to pay for that flexibility.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Delta's shuttle operation at the Marine Air Terminal at LaGuardia flies routes to Boston and Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); AIRLINES (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); EMBRAER SA (82%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (92%); ERJ (NYSE) (82%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (82%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010



504 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Developing the Next Messi

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Let's clear up a couple of urban legends at once.
 There are no alligators lurking in the New York City sewers. Never were.
 Also, the next Lionel Messi is not playing a pickup soccer match at the local high school field on Sunday afternoon, just waiting to be discovered by the United States national team. Never was. 
 ''We don't have street soccer players,'' said Claudio Reyna, one of the great American players, who would love to bring along the next Messi, while cautioning that the key word is develop, not discover. 
 A former captain of the American team, Reyna was recently appointed youth technical director for the United States Soccer Federation. 
 Nothing he does will affect the American team in the coming World Cup in South Africa, where the United States will meet England in the first match on June 12. 
 Reyna does not want to disrupt anybody's urban legend, but this huge country is not willfully ignoring potential superstars with ball skills and a will to score goals. No soccer power hands out national team jerseys to raw talent.
 ''People think they pop off the favelas onto the Brazilian national team,'' Reyna said recently, using the word for the slums of Brazil. ''It's not true.'' 
 Reyna said Brazil develops its stars by drawing children into clubs, and so do dozens of European powers and so does Argentina, homeland of the diminutive Lionel Messi. After his early childhood in Argentina, Messi moved to the powerful Barcelona club in Spain, which trained him to be a world-level player. 
 With great jealousy, Americans will be watching the first leg of the Champions League semifinals this week, with Barcelona at Inter of Milan on Tuesday and Lyon at Bayern Munich on Wednesday, and return matches next week. 
 There will be no Americans on any of the four semifinalist squads, although several field players made breakthroughs in England this past season -- Landon Donovan in his captivating winter loan to Everton, Clint Dempsey with an epic goal for Fulham. Every season, the United States moves a bit closer to the national powers, with the nurturing help of Major League Soccer. Now Reyna is trying to speed the pace by coordinating the way soccer is taught in the United States.
 Bringing Reyna into the system is like asking Magic Johnson to consolidate American basketball methods or Derek Jeter to keep an eye on American baseball programs -- neither necessary, by the way. However, more high-level experience is needed in American soccer, and Reyna, who will turn 37 on July 20, was the ideal candidate for this new post. 
 Reyna fits every criteria -- born to a Portuguese-American mother and an Argentine-American father, he did not lose a game in three years at St. Benedict's in Newark, and helped win three national titles at the University of Virginia. Then he was a very useful player for Bayer Leverkusen, Wolfsburg, Sunderland, Rangers and Manchester City before coming home to the Red Bulls and retiring in 2008. 
 ''I wasn't prepared to be a professional player,'' Reyna said the other day when his new paid, full-time job was announced.
 During the 2002 World Cup in South Korea, Reyna described for me the shock he had in Germany, on a sleety midweek practice field, to be upended by some desperado on his own team fighting for a starting position. 
 ''It's a job,'' Reyna said with pride, comparing European soccer to a master's degree. He played for some of the great coaches of Europe. And in 2002, he was the best player on the field in the best American result in half a century, a 2-0 dismantling of Mexico in the Round of 16 in the World Cup. It took a lifetime of training to produce the intensity and skill he displayed that glorious afternoon.
 Now Reyna has been recruited by Sunil Gulati, the president of the federation, who joked that Reyna has a few months to produce the next Messi. Reyna plans to improve the methods of teaching boys and girls, at the youth level, the elite level and the national level. He emphasizes that the country is too big, too complicated, to adhere to one style of play.
 ''I don't think there's a coach who would say he can't get better,'' said Reyna, who hopes to prepare training sessions for various age groups and skills -- and make them available on the Internet. He envisions thousands of generous volunteer coaches popping a CD of instructions into the car audio system as they drive from job to practice. (Gulati, an economics professor, is not worried about publicizing American methods: ''It's not the formula for Coca-Cola,'' he said.)
 Reyna has spent his own money to study national and club tactics in Europe and South America. He watched United States youth teams get demolished in Europe because the competition was so intense and refereeing more tolerant of rough play. He and Gulati praise M.L.S. while acknowledging that the goal remains for American stars to gain money and experience in fast European leagues. But first they must be trained at 6 and 8 and 10. Reyna came up that way. So did Lionel Messi.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Claudio Reyna in Central Park in 2007. He is the new youth technical director for the United States Soccer Federation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); BASKETBALL (76%); ATHLETES (72%); BASEBALL (72%); APPOINTMENTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (83%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); ENGLAND (92%); GERMANY (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); SPAIN (75%); SOUTH AFRICA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010



505 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: State Aid Cut, New Jersey Schools Turn to Local Taxpayers

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
EDISON, N.J. -- School budget talks have become so contentious in this township that 700 people recently packed a school board meeting -- and 100 of them stayed more than nine hours, until 4 a.m. 
 At stake is Edison's $204.8 million school budget for next year, which calls for increasing the local property tax levy by 8.6 percent. Even with such an increase -- which required a waiver to the state's 4 percent cap -- Edison plans to lay off 92 teachers, cancel summer school, cut kindergarten to a half day and eliminate middle school athletic teams.
 But first voters have to approve the budget, which is on the ballot Tuesday, as are budgets in most of New Jersey's 600 school districts. Many school officials are expecting the toughest elections in years, as districts seek not only to raise property taxes but also to slash popular programs to offset the unusually large reductions in school aid proposed by Gov. Christopher J. Christie, who is trying to close an $11 billion state deficit. 
 ''I'm getting a hundred e-mails a day,'' said John DiMuzio, acting superintendent of the Edison district, which has 14, 400 students. Mr. DiMuzio acknowledged that he was nervous about the outcome of the budget vote. ''People are well-informed that these cuts are going to hurt,'' he said.
 With Mr. Christie reducing state school aid to $10.3 billion from $11.1 billion, Edison is one of about 200 districts that want to increase their property tax levy over the 4 percent cap for next year, compared with 98 districts that did so last year. In many of these districts, the budgets will be cut or remain flat even with the tax increases. 
 The increases have angered taxpayers like Denise Bernacki, a retired project manager for a laboratory who has watched her property taxes rise to more than $10,000 a year during her 22 years in Edison. ''We're ready to move out of the state,'' said Ms. Bernacki, a Republican who voted for Governor Christie. ''I've had enough, and I think a lot of people feel that way.''
 Ms. Bernacki said she supported the state's cuts in school aid, and that districts and their teachers should learn to live on less, just like everyone else. ''That is the reality in this economy,'' she said. ''Everyone has to do their part.''
 But school officials here and elsewhere say they have done their part in holding down costs and have no choice but to pass along some of the burden to taxpayers.
 Teaneck, with 4,000 students and a $94.9 million budget, is proposing an increase of 10.2 percent to the tax levy, which works out, on average, to an extra $475 a year per homeowner. The district also plans to reduce its staff by 21 positions, buy fewer textbooks and supplies and postpone replacement of the roof at Teaneck High School. 
 The Randolph district, with 5,300 students, is calling for a 6.5 percent tax levy increase in an $81 million school budget. Owen M. Snyder, the superintendent, said that as state aid has decreased, homeowners have been forced to shoulder a larger share of the school budget because, in a township with few businesses, there is simply no one else to do it. 
 Even districts asking for smaller tax increases are bracing for a close call. Woodbridge, which is keeping its increase at exactly 4 percent, put together what district officials call a budget of compromise to absorb an expected $8.8 million reduction in state aid next year. The $182.5 million proposal calls for laying off 120 teachers, reducing bus service, cutting freshman athletic teams and elementary school clubs and eliminating security officers at the middle schools and high schools. 
 ''It's going to be hard work to pass it,'' said John Crowe, superintendent of the district, which has 13,500 students. ''People have been hurt by these cuts and I think they are angry.''
 Statewide, the majority of school budgets are approved by voters every year, with nearly three-quarters of the budgets passing last year despite concerns about the economic downturn. If a budget is defeated, the municipal government -- usually a town council -- has the authority to recommend cuts, but the district can appeal to state education officials. 
 Here in Edison, a township of 100,000 where Thomas Edison perfected the light bulb in his Menlo Park laboratory, residents take pride in their well-regarded schools. Neighborhood lawns are dotted with small signs reminding passers-by to vote in the election on Tuesday. One read ''Great schools'' with a checked yes box underneath.
 But school budgets here have failed as often as they have passed -- most recently last year, when the district sought a much smaller tax increase of 3.4 percent. The current proposed increase would mean an additional $268 a year for the typical homeowner.
 Shelly Bordon, 39, a P.T.A. member with two children, said she was willing to pay higher taxes ''if that's what we have to do to get better things for the schools.''
 Others complain they are being asked to pay more for less.
 ''I'm going to vote yes, but I'm probably going to regret it,'' said Robert Gray, 27, a retail manager who is expecting his first child in July. ''They're going to raise my taxes yet they're still getting rid of teachers -- where is that money really going?''
 Ernie Custor, who has a son in the 11th grade, said that he intends to vote no because he feels too much money is spent on teachers' salaries. ''You keep giving them raises, and you still have to pay for pencils, so it's just a mess,'' he said.
 Stephen Szalay, a retired Edison police lieutenant, said that he had always voted against the school budget, but that this year, he finally will say yes. Mr. Szalay, a Democrat who voted for Mr. Christie, said that he changed his mind mainly because the governor's education cuts were too deep. His younger son works as a custodian at a high school, and many of his friends' wives are teachers.
 ''What are you going to do, the kids need school,'' said Mr. Szalay, 72, who plans to cut back on dinners out to help cover the tax increase. ''And the schools are crowded and they need a lot of things and they don't get them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shelly Bordon, a paralegal, with her daughter, Rachel. Her son, James, attends Washington Elementary School in Edison. She plans to vote yes.
ROBERT GRAY: A retail manager who lives in Edison and is expecting his first child in July.
DENISE BERNACKI: A retired project manager for an environmental laboratory. (A15)
 Front lawns and school grounds in Edison, N.J., are dotted with signs reminding passers-by to vote in the election on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX INCREASES (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); LAYOFFS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010



506 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: As Banking Shares Rise, Most Indexes Close Up

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Worries about the effect of government efforts to strengthen oversight of banks faded somewhat on Monday, helping Wall Street indexes to end the day mostly higher.
 The banking sector remained in focus as traders tried to recoup some losses from Friday, when the broader market had its largest percentage drop in two months after Goldman Sachs was accused of fraud.
 Goldman, which will report first-quarter earnings on Tuesday, clawed its way to a small gain after falling nearly 13 percent on Friday. It ended the day 1.6 percent higher at $163.32. 
 Citigroup surged 7 percent, to $4.88, after it reported a $4.4 billion profit in the first quarter. Morgan Stanley climbed 1.4 percent and Wells Fargo rose 1.4 percent.
 Linda A. Duessel, a strategist at Federated Investors, said investors remained cautious about banking stocks because it was unclear how the legislative battle over financial regulation would end. President Obama is expected to call for swift passage of a bill to overhaul the financial system in a speech in New York on Thursday.
 ''The government has their eyes on the sector,'' Ms. Duessel said. ''The market hates that kind of uncertainty.''
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 73.39 points, or 0.67 percent, to 11,092.05, after falling 125 points on Friday.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 5.39 points, or 0.45 percent, to 1,197.52. 
 The Nasdaq composite index fell 1.15 points, or 0.05 percent, to 2,480.11, held back by a 12 percent decline in shares of Palm. An analyst doubted the ability of Palm, which makes smartphones, to restructure its enterprise.
 Stocks over all were helped by optimism about telecommunications and health care companies. Investors were betting on bright earnings reports this week from AT&T and UnitedHealth, the insurer, with shares of each company rising more than 1.6 percent.
 A sharp drop in commodity prices -- oil fell 1.8 percent, to $81.45 a barrel -- weighed on the market. Gold, copper, and aluminum also fell. In response, shares of Alcoa dropped nearly 1.4 percent, and the United States Steel Corporation dropped 3.2 percent. 
 Global investors were trying to assess the effect of the cloud of volcanic ash that has hobbled the airline industry. Some analysts estimate losses for airlines will total more than $1 billion.
 On Wall Street, shares of airlines tumbled. United Airlines fell 5.1 percent, Continental declined 4.4 percent, and US Airways dropped 3.6 percent.
 Oil fell in part because of concerns that the reduced air traffic, even for a few days, would hurt demand and profit at energy companies. Economists worry that the ash could hurt what has been a tepid recovery for Europe and take a toll on transportation and tourism industries.
 Investors also were nervous about the rescue effort for Greece, which faces a mountain of debt and is struggling to repay its bills.
 While a broad bailout package has been announced, Greek officials and international lenders must still meet to complete terms of a loan package of 45 billion euros ($60 billion). 
 Greek officials have said their government will not be forced to impose more cost-cutting measures in return for the money, a sticking point with Germany, which has resisted giving aid without firm pledges to control costs.
 Amid the uncertainty surrounding Wall Street's top banks, traders have again raised the prospect that the market may be due for a decline of 10 percent or more. Some analysts worry that stocks have come too far too fast after a remarkable 13-month rally. But first-quarter earnings reports continue to be strong, feeding optimism that the recovery will endure.
 ''Profits are accelerating, the economy is doing well, and valuations are reasonable,'' said Hank B. Smith, chief investment officer for Haverford Investments. ''But this market is due for a pullback. It won't be unhealthy to have that.''
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 9/32, to 98 18/32. The yield rose to 3.80 percent, from 3.76 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AIRLINES (86%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); METALS MARKETS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); HEALTH CARE (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); SMARTPHONES (63%); VOLCANIC ASH CLOUDS (60%); LEGISLATION (53%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); TOURISM (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (63%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (56%); ALCOA INC (52%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (51%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); X (NYSE) (63%); MS (NYSE) (56%); FII (NYSE) (56%); AAI (ASX) (52%); AA (NYSE) (52%); LCC (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (63%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (56%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (52%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (52%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010



507 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: Compulsory Education For a Museum Board

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY; Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
The California Attorney General's office ordered the board members of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles, which came close to a financial collapse in 2008, to undergo special fiduciary training last year after determining that the museum flouted state law in the way it managed its budget, The Los Angeles Times reported. The museum lost more than $30 million from its investment portfolio over several years, ending up with only $5 million on hand in 2008; it also broke state law when it paid general expenses from restricted endowment funds, according to the newspaper, which obtained a two-page letter sent to the museum by the attorney general's office in November. In December 2008 the museum negotiated a $30 million bailout from Eli Broad, Los Angeles's leading cultural patron, which allowed it to maintain its facilities and avoid selling off artwork. As a result of that agreement and new giving by other donors, the museum's investments have improved, with the value rising to more than $14 million. A museum spokeswoman said the museum and the board had complied with all the requirements for training and financial reform in the attorney general's letter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (84%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

PERSON: ELI BROAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010



508 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: If Doormen Strike, Residents Must Pick Up the Slack

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN and KAREN ZRAICK

 BODY:
A possible strike this week by the doormen's union could impose -- by necessity -- a spirit of cooperation in New York City's co-ops and other apartment buildings.
 If negotiations with the city's apartment building owners fail and the doormen walk off their jobs, residents of about 3,200 co-ops, condominiums and rental buildings will be called on to share the burdens of taking out the trash, sorting mail, operating elevators -- even cleaning out lint filters in dryers. Contract talks between representatives of the owners and the workers continued Monday as a strike deadline of midnight Tuesday loomed.
 Officials on both sides said several issues remained to be resolved, including how much the workers' pay would increase and whether they would have to contribute toward their health insurance. The owners contend that the recession has crimped their ability to afford a significant increase in labor costs, but the doormen's union counters that the cost of living in the city has kept rising and its members need raises to cope. 
 The strike would involve 30,000 doormen, porters, superintendents, elevator operators, handymen and janitors.
 As the negotiations wore on, residents of buildings whose lobbies might be unmanned during a strike tried to rally their neighbors to pitch in. In the 15-story, brick-and-limestone building at 322 West 72nd Street in Manhattan, only a few tenants had signed up to operate the wood-paneled elevator if its operator goes on strike. One who did, Eve Evans, 47, said she had received a lesson from a professional but doubted she was suited for the job.
 ''I won't do it very well,'' Ms. Evans predicted. ''It's really going to be a problem. I'm just crossing my fingers, hoping it doesn't happen.''
 Getting to run the elevator as an 11-year-old was the only fond memory Mira Gross had of the last strike by doormen nearly 19 years ago. Otherwise, said Ms. Gross, who was visiting her parents at her childhood home, the attempt by the residents to handle the chores themselves was not pretty to witness.
 ''It was cute because it was a team effort, but it was dysfunctional,'' said Ms. Gross, who now lives in South Florida. When nobody was available to run the elevator, tenants had to take the stairs, and the garbage piled up outside.
 ''It's like the whole building just shuts down,'' she said. ''It's complete chaos. I guarantee everybody in the building will be up tomorrow night to see if it happens.''
 If there is a strike, it would disrupt other critical services, like equipment repairs and food deliveries, because many providers would decline to cross picket lines. Many buildings have already notified residents that deliveries would be banned during a strike.
 The unionized drivers for FreshDirect, who deliver groceries straight to the doorstep of apartments in many neighborhoods of the city, would refuse to enter buildings whose doormen are striking, said Eduardo Cordero, an official of their union, Local 348S of the United Food and Commercial Workers. FreshDirect customers would have to meet the company's trucks on the street, he said. 
 ''We will not be putting our members in any kind of danger or any situation that would provoke trouble,'' Mr. Cordero said. ''We want to show some solidarity. At the same time, the company still has to provide a service.''
 FreshDirect has been encouraging customers to stock up before Wednesday. Jimmie Ramos, who was wheeling a dolly loaded with four FreshDirect boxes along West End Avenue, said Sunday had been extremely busy for FreshDirect, and orders had been rolling in on Monday from people who usually got deliveries later in the week.
 Mr. Ramos, 47, who lives in the Bronx, was a doorman for 20 years in an Upper West Side building, so he sympathized with the workers. But he added that he thought the union should accept a one-year pay freeze rather than walking out. In 1991, he said, the pay they lost during the strike canceled out much of the raises they eventually received. 
 Not that he was not also thinking of himself. ''I'll have to call the person to come downstairs, and if they're not home, I'll have to bring it back to the truck,'' Mr. Ramos said. ''Let's just hope it doesn't happen. It's going to be an inconvenience for everybody.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); STRIKES (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); COST OF LIVING (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010



509 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Australia Blocks a Deal for Unit of AXA

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
National Australia Bank's ambitions to substantially increase its position in Australia's wealth management and life insurance market were dealt a major setback on Monday, when the country's competition authority blocked its $12.2 billion bid for the Asia Pacific operations of the French insurance giant AXA. 
 The decision opens the way for a new offer by the Australian asset management company AMP. The firm had bid for AXA Asia Pacific in November but its offer was trumped by the National Australia Bank a month later.
 The National Australia Bank offer was worth 13.3 billion Australian dollars, making it one of the largest attempted takeovers in the financial services sector lately. AMP had increased its initial bid to 12.9 billion Australian dollars.
 The battle for AXA Asia Pacific underlines the attraction that the region holds for financial institutions, who see it as a promising growth market for wealth and savings management and insurance services.
 The fact that both AMP and National Australia Bank have been able to bid for AXA Asia Pacific highlights also how Australia's financial sector has survived the financial crisis of the last two years relatively unscathed, with none of the spectacular bailouts and multibillion-dollar losses seen in the United States and Europe.
 The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission said in a statement that it had determined ''that a merger between N.A.B. and AXA would result in a substantial lessening of competition in the market for retail investment platforms for investors with complex investment needs. However, the ACCC found that an independent AXA or a merger between AMP and AXA would not have this effect.''
 The commission's chairman, Graeme Samuel, added: ''At the heart of the ACCC's decisions are concerns about innovation, and as a consequence future rigorous and effective competition between retail investment platforms.''
 AMP welcomed the competition authority's decision as ''a great outcome for Australian consumers,'' and signaled it would make a fresh offer for the unit.
 ''AMP continues to believe it can put forward a proposal that is financially disciplined and will create value for its shareholders, and which the independent directors of AXA AP will be able to recommend to their minority shareholders,'' it said.
 AXA Asia Pacific said that the National Australia Bank could enter into further discussions with the competition authority about its offer. But National Australia Bank itself issued only a brief statement saying that it would review the decision in detail before commenting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); MERGERS (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); BAILOUTS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); CONSUMER LAW (70%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK LTD (92%); AXA ASIA PACIFIC HOLDINGS LTD (92%)

TICKER: NAB (ASX) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (97%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010



510 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Albany, Meet Wall Street

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Harry Wilson, a former hedge fund manager, has a novel idea for New Yorkers. Why not put a Wall Street veteran in the state comptroller's office to oversee the $129.4 billion pension fund? 
 Certainly, the recent history of the comptroller's office under career politicians has been undistinguished and dotted with corruption, scandal and resignations in disgrace. 
 Mr. Wilson can claim both financial expertise (he essentially retired in his 30s) and apparent success in his recent entry to public service. As one of the top officials on President Obama's automotive task force, he helped take General Motors into bankruptcy and bring it out rapidly as part of a sweeping industry overhaul. 
 Like G.M., New York has been in a fiscal tailspin. The aftereffects of the economic collapse have particularly weighed on a state that depends on revenue from Wall Street. Deficits are expected to escalate sharply in coming years as stimulus money expires, along with a temporary increase in state taxes on the wealthy. 
 Mr. Wilson, a Republican who grew up in Johnstown, a small town about an hour northwest of Albany, sees some of the same root problems and would like a chance to attack them by ousting the current comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli.
 ''I think if you go back several decades, New York State and General Motors were dominant,'' Mr. Wilson said in a recent interview. ''If you go back to the '50s, the population of New York State was bigger than California and Florida combined. Similarly, General Motors at that time manufactured one out of two cars sold in the United States.
 ''In both cases, they got fat, dumb and happy, they took their success for granted, and they were picked off by nimbler, more aggressive competitors -- Florida and California, or Toyota and Honda.''
 The comptroller has two principal functions: overseeing the state's pension fund and auditing spending practices of government institutions across the state. On the investment side, Mr. Wilson would like to create a committee of retired career investors who would help guide the comptroller's decisions -- though finding sage investors free of conflicts with one of the nation's largest investment pools would be a challenge. 
 On the audit side, he says that the office needs to conduct detailed cost-benefit analyses of the largest areas of spending in the budget, rather than focusing on school districts and smaller fare. 
 He speaks derisively of the efforts of Mr. DiNapoli, a former assemblyman who was installed three years ago by his fellow lawmakers after Alan G. Hevesi pleaded guilty to defrauding the government, a felony, and resigned amid allegations he used state workers to chauffeur his wife. Since then, Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo and the Securities and Exchange Commission have investigated widespread allegations of ''pay to play'' corruption in the pension business in New York under Mr. Hevesi and in the public pensions of other states.
 Last week, Mr. Cuomo's office said the investigation had widened to encompass at least one transaction directly involving Mr. DiNapoli. 
 Certainly, Mr. DiNapoli had a rocky start -- Eliot Spitzer, who was then the governor, called him ''totally unqualified'' when he took office, and for good measure he flunked a financial pop quiz administered by The New York Post, which asked him about such economic arcana as the definition of an inverted yield curve. 
 ''The most relevant experience is that I've been doing the job for three years,'' Mr. DiNapoli said in an interview. Of Mr. Wilson, he said, ''Considering his lack of public experience, it seems odd that he's criticizing me.''
 Mr. DiNapoli cited a recent report from the Pew Center on the States that found that New York's pension fund was among the best funded in the nation. That said, pension contribution rates required of local governments are still expected to skyrocket over the next few years. 
 Mr. Wilson, 38, is the only declared Republican candidate. Running for a job hazily understood by voters presents a challenge. A recent Siena College poll found that 66 percent of the electorate still did not know enough about Mr. DiNapoli to have an opinion of him. 
 ''We have a gubernatorial race and two United States Senate races, and they're going to eat up the vast majority of the newspaper ink and TV airtime,'' said Steven A. Greenberg, a spokesman for Siena Research Institute who was communications director for H. Carl McCall when he was comptroller. ''No candidate for comptroller is going to be known statewide until he spends at least $10 million to $20 million.''
 Mr. DiNapoli has about $1.3 million, according to his latest filing. Mr. Wilson has deep pockets, though he would not say how much of his own money he would spend. He has hired Adam Stoll, who managed George E. Pataki's campaign for re-election as governor in 2002, and other veteran Republican operatives. 
 The campaign sniping has already begun. Last month, Mr. Wilson challenged Mr. DiNapoli's efforts to portray himself as a reformer, saying the longtime assemblyman ''is directly responsible for the fiscal calamity New York is now facing.''
 Mr. DiNapoli's campaign manager, Mark Benoit, retorted that the comptroller ''doesn't need a lecture on fiscal policy from someone whose only experience is making millions as a hedge fund manager and crafting a multibillion-dollar taxpayer bailout.''
 Mr. Wilson actually tried to restrain the bailout -- he was among the task force members who argued that Chrysler's financial position was too precarious to warrant an infusion of public money. 
 He said he saw the experience as a first step toward reinventing himself as a public servant.
 The son of Greek immigrants, he has a blue-chip resume: after graduating from Harvard and Harvard Business School, he had stops at, among other firms, Goldman Sachs and Blackstone, before becoming a partner at Silver Point Capital, where he specialized in investing in distressed companies. 
 Shortly after President Obama took office, Mr. Wilson introduced himself via e-mail to Steven Rattner, the leader of the president's nascent auto task force. 
 ''I have a very deep interest in public service, particularly given the good fortune I have enjoyed in my own life,'' he said, adding, ''I can't think of a better way for me to serve my country.''
 (Mr. Rattner, a well-connected Democratic fund-raiser, has been embroiled in Mr. Cuomo's pension investigation and declined to comment for this article, but praised Mr. Wilson's ''boundless energy'' in an article he wrote for Fortune.)
 Mr. Wilson did much of the due diligence, plunging into the business plans and models of the automakers. Matthew A. Feldman, a partner at Willkie Farr & Gallagher who was the task force's chief legal adviser, recalled that in the short time between Chrysler's bankruptcy and negotiations with G.M., Mr. Wilson put together an expansive to-do list, with tasks as various as assessing contracts with the American and Canadian labor unions and figuring out the profit margins on Buick sedans. 
 ''I remember getting together with him and thinking to myself this is never going to happen. He said, 'Let's just break it into pieces,' '' Mr. Feldman said. ''Without someone like that driving the deal, it just doesn't happen.''
 Mr. Wilson took a leading role in the G.M. plan and was among those who decided the company needed a new direction, which meant firing Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chief executive. 
 ''Rick was a good guy who was well intentioned, but at the end of the day, the nine-year turnaround plan he had laid out was too little, too late,'' Mr. Wilson said. G.M.'s executives ''hadn't internalized just how much G.M. had contracted and fallen in the minds of consumers,'' he said.
 ''New York State is a lot like that,'' he said. ''Folks have been a part of the system for decades and have made increasingly more expensive commitments over time that the state can no longer afford, and they are reluctant to give those up.'' He added, ''The reality is we can't afford to do that anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Harry Wilson, right, Republican candidate for state comptroller, says New York has taken its financial success for granted. (B1)
 Mr. Wilson wants the comptroller's office to focus on auditing of big-ticket budget items. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); CORRUPTION (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); SCANDALS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); FELONIES (62%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (61%); GUILTY PLEAS (60%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (59%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010



511 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Global Strategy Stabilized I.B.M. During Downturn

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
I.B.M. wanted to sell its wares around the world since its early days, adopting the aspirational name International Business Machines Corporation, in 1924. And for decades, I.B.M. was the emblematic multinational with deep roots in foreign markets, mainly in the developed nations of Europe and Japan.
 Today, analysts say, I.B.M. is the leading example of a new breed of business enterprise: the postmultinational global corporation. 
 The American postmultinational's center of gravity has shifted outside the United States, not only in terms of sales, but also its strategy and major operations. 
 I.B.M., for example, now makes two-thirds of its revenue abroad. Its revenue in new growth markets like China and India, but also smaller ones like Vietnam, the Czech Republic and the Philippines, jumped 20 percent in the first quarter, the company reported on Monday.
 I.B.M.'s nimble global strategy shielded the company's profits throughout the economic downturn. The company's heavy dependence on services and software -- and shift away from hardware -- makes its results less cyclical than for many technology companies.
 Yet that also means I.B.M.'s results will not surge as much as some others, like Intel, in the recovery. I.B.M. reported Monday that first-quarter net income rose 13 percent, to $2.6 billion, or $1.97 a share, on $22.86 billion in revenue. The tilt toward international markets is evident at all of America's major technology companies in the last several years, including Hewlett-Packard, Intel, Cisco, Oracle, Apple and Microsoft. Even Google, a young company and a hybrid, which runs on technology yet makes its money on advertising, reported last week that its surging overseas business now accounted for 53 percent of revenue.
 Technology companies held up better in the recession because they produce the tools that make it easier to operate globally -- high-speed networking, clever software and powerful, inexpensive computers -- and are in businesses tailored to exploit globalization.
 Internet communications mean skilled workers anywhere in the world are potential employees, which often drives down costs. Software, by its nature, is a product that is easy to distribute worldwide. 
 Computer hardware is lightweight compared to its value, so chips and computers can be sent by air quickly to any location to meet demand. (Intel's chips are frequent fliers; 65 percent of the company's manufacturing is still in America, yet 82 percent of its sales are overseas.) 
 Where I.B.M. is at the forefront of the postmultinational model, analysts say, is in globalizing its operations. The multinational approach combined firm controls from headquarters over a collection of separate companies overseas, each in a different market. Each country business typically had its own staff for finance, accounting, human relations, procurement and other functions.
 In the last few years, I.B.M.'s chief executive, Samuel J. Palmisano, has instead set up global centers of expertise with responsibility across the company. For example, the global purchasing and procurement unit is in China; human relations tasks like expense report processing are done in the Philippines; and back-office financial processing is done in Brazil. 
 Global manufacturing is well-established. But most of what I.B.M. has done has been in the trickier arenas of software and services, which together represent 80 percent of revenue and involve organizing the work of hundreds of thousands of skilled workers. Today, I.B.M. says, 9 of every 10 employees in its country organizations are focused on working with customers.
 I.B.M.'s expansion in India is a good example of the trend. The buildup has been partly to cater to the local market there, but also to tap India's large pool of lower-cost engineers, who handle software development and maintenance work on projects around the globe. 
 Still, India is only one source of software expertise. Today, I.B.M. has 86 software development centers worldwide, up from 25 in 2001. In the last year, the company has opened special hubs of expertise for business intelligence and analytics software in fields like finance, energy, transportation, water management and health care in locations including New York, Berlin, Beijing, Dublin, Melbourne and Taipei.
 Technology, analysts say, allows scattering of pieces of work around the world, seeking skills and lower costs. ''And I.B.M. has been particularly aggressive in moving to this globally distributed model,'' observed David B. Yoffie, a professor at Harvard Business School.
 But the new-style globalization embraced by I.B.M., analysts say, is a daunting management task and a wrenching shift in corporate culture that means turmoil for thousands of workers. ''In breaking down old models, I.B.M. faces a whole set of new challenges,'' said Frank Gens, chief analyst for IDC.
 To keep pace with changes in demand for skills and to cut costs, I.B.M. is continually hiring for some jobs and trimming others. In recent years, it has set aside about $400 million annually for severance costs and other payments to cut about 8,000 workers a year, analysts estimate.
 Much of the cutting has come in developed, high-income economies, like the United States. I.B.M. still employs 105,000 workers in America, of a global payroll of more than 399,000 at the end of 2009, up 21 percent from five years ago. But its American work force is down 10,000 people from the end of 2008.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: I.B.M.'s chief executive, Samuel J. Palmisano, has shifted the company's center of gravity outside the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY I.B.M.) CHART: International Tilt: International sales at major technology firms have grown in importance over the last decade. (Source: company reports) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); RECESSION (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (92%); INTEL CORP (84%); APPLE INC (83%); GOOGLE INC (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%)

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (92%); IBM (NYSE) (92%); IBM (LSE) (92%); INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (83%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (76%); PHILIPPINES (71%); CZECH REPUBLIC (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010



512 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: You're Welcome, Wall Street

BYLINE: By WILLIAM D. COHAN. 
William D. Cohan is a columnist for nytimes.com. He is the author of ''House of Cards: A Tale of Hubris and Wretched Excess on Wall Street'' and a forthcoming book on Goldman Sachs.; Bob Herbert is off today.

 BODY:
In a 1964 concurring opinion deciding Jacobellis v. Ohio, Associate Supreme Court Justice Potter Stewart wrote about ''hard-core pornography'' and his struggle to define it: ''Perhaps I could never succeed in intelligibly doing so. But I know it when I see it.'' 
 Using Potter's indisputable logic, it's hard not to see something obscene in how Wall Street reaped massive profits and bonuses in 2009 -- and continues to do so, as is clear from Monday's announcement by Citigroup that it had earned $4.4 billion in the first quarter of 2010, which was even more than earned by Bank of America ($3.2 billion) and JPMorgan Chase ($3.3 billion) in the same period -- merely 18 months after trillions of dollars of American taxpayers' treasure was used to save a financial system brought to the precipice by Wall Street's greed and irresponsible risk-taking. Goldman Sachs, which is facing a civil fraud suit filed by Washington regulators, is expected to report robust earnings Tuesday morning as well. 
 How did this happen at the same time Main Street continues to suffer from an unemployment rate of almost 10 percent and from the worst recession in generations? Partly, this resulted from the original strategy of the Treasury and the Federal Reserve to first fix the banking system and then worry about repairing the wider economy. Hence, the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program arrived in September 2008, followed by, in February 2009, the $787 billion stimulus program, or American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
 The benefits for Wall Street started with the extensive de-leveraging that continues the world over in the wake of the financial crisis (it caused) by helping companies raise new equity and refinance existing debt. The Wall Street firms that survived the crisis reap billions of dollars in fees for this sort of work. Mostly, though, Wall Street is making money by taking advantage of its rock-bottom cost of capital, provided courtesy of the Federal Reserve -- now that the big Wall Street firms are all bank holding companies -- and then turning around and lending it at much higher rates. 
 The easiest and most profitable risk-adjusted trade available for the banks is to borrow billions from the Fed -- at a cost of around half a percentage point -- and then to lend the money back to the U.S. Treasury at yields of around 3 percent, or higher, a moment later. The imbedded profit -- of some 2.5 percentage points -- is an outright and ongoing gift from American taxpayers to Wall Street. 
 You're welcome.
 And now for the truly obscene part. By keeping interest rates so stubbornly low -- and by remaining committed to doing so -- the Fed is crushing the rest of us, especially senior citizens on fixed incomes and those who have rediscovered saving in order to have some peace of mind. 
 For instance, despite my bank calling it a ''premier platinum savings'' account, I am getting a measly 0.15 percent interest rate. On my ''premier platinum checking'' account, the interest rate is 0.01 percent. In an essay in The Wall Street Journal recently, Charles Schwab pointed out that there is more than $7.5 trillion in American household wealth stored in short-term, interest-bearing checking, savings and CD accounts. (The average interest rate for a one-year CD is 1.3 percent.) 
 Our savings is another source of virtually free capital for banks to use to lend out at much higher rates. These anemic yields are a ''potential disaster striking at core American principles of self-reliance, individual responsibility and fairness,'' Mr. Schwab observed correctly.
 Sure seems to be working for Wall Street, though. At $140 billion in compensation and benefits, the 2009 paychecks on Wall Street were the best ever. While several top executives named in public filings may have tried to minimize their 2009 compensation after so much populist rage, they could only take this charade so far. 
 Hedge fund managers did even better. The top 25 earned a total of $25.3 billion in 2009 -- an average of $1 billion each -- with the lowest paid hedge-fund manager receiving $350 million. Topping the list was David Tepper, of Appaloosa Management. He made $4 billion last year. ''We bet on the country's revival,'' Mr. Tepper said in an interview with The Times. 
 Let's be clear about one thing: The American people made a bigger bet on the country's revival than did Mr. Tepper. But we are still waiting for our payoff. Surely Justice Stewart could see that the tax on American savers and the corresponding subsidy to hedge-fund managers, bankers and traders is nothing less than hard-core pornography. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); PORNOGRAPHY (78%); LITIGATION (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); RECESSION (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); INTEREST RATES (66%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); GS (NYSE) (57%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010



513 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Appliance Discounts, For the Swift

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER Jr. and CATHARINE SKIPP; Malcolm Gay and Dan Frosch contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Whether it is newfound green consciousness ahead of Earth Day -- or just the allure of a big discount on a new washing machine or air-conditioner -- consumers across the country are snapping up government rebates for energy-efficient appliances.
 In Florida, which began offering the rebates Friday, the $17.6 million allocated for the program lasted a day and half, as more than 72,000 claims were filed. In Illinois, the second half of its $12.4 million, made available on Friday, disappeared in 11 hours. 
 In Missouri, which started doling out $5.67 million in rebates on Monday and was also waiving related sales taxes, applications were not so brisk.
 As of late afternoon, 4,748 rebates worth $407,350 had been reserved, or roughly 7 percent of the state's rebate money, said Judd Slivka, a spokesman for the Missouri Department of Natural Resources. ''We're fairly comfortable saying there will be a Day 2,'' he said.
 Nationwide, $300 million in rebate money has been allocated by the federal government to 56 states and territories to encourage residents to buy furnaces, clothes washers, refrigerators and other appliances with the government's Energy Star label. Typically, rebates run about $75 for a clothes washer and several hundred dollars for home heating and cooling systems. Colorado, which began its rebate program Monday, is offering $15,000 back for installing a commercial solar thermal system.
 But in an experience reminiscent of last year's popular ''cash for clunkers'' program, which paid consumers to trade in gas-guzzling automobiles, interest in the appliance programs has been so been intense that the state programs are often running dry in a matter of days.
 In some cases, retailers and states have promoted the rebates in advance, allowing shoppers to plot their strategies as carefully as the day after Thanksgiving. 
 For example, Melissa Woodall, a single mother of three in Miami, said she began scanning appliance ads a few weeks ago for a new stove. She noticed an article about the rebates and decided to replace her old, leaky dishwasher and refrigerator.
 The day before qualified purchases were allowed, she visited Sears to pick out the appliances. On Friday, she arrived to the store at 6:30 a.m. and found 49 customers in line. Fortunately, the store had given her a printout the night before. All she had to do was pay and arrange delivery, which still took an hour and a half in the crowded store.
 And the ordeal was not over, Ms. Woodall said -- she still had to get the rebate itself. At 11 a.m., when online signups began, she and her sister went to the state's rebate site. ''The Web site was flooded. It kept crashing,'' she said. It took her an hour and 15 minutes to get registered for the rebate. 
 It was worth it, Ms. Woodall said. She paid about $1,500 for the dishwasher and fridge and will be getting about $500 back.
 Each state has structured its own program, sometimes excluding certain appliances like air-conditioners or requiring proof that old appliances were recycled before paying out the cash. The amount of money available varies widely, from more than $35 million in California, where the program is scheduled to start on Thursday in connection with Earth Day, to $100,000 in American Samoa.
 For advocates of energy efficiency and those seeking a lift for a still-ailing economy, the strong response has been a welcome sign -- though not everyone has been pleased. 
 In Texas, where reservations for a mail-in rebate program were accepted by phone or online this month, the dedicated Web site failed almost immediately, according to state regulators, and the phone lines were overloaded. 
 By 2 p.m. on April 7, just seven hours after the Texas program opened for business, all rebate reservations were taken. Places on a subsequent waiting list were filled by 6 p.m. 
 The state blamed a contractor for its problems. Susan Combs, the Texas comptroller of public accounts, complained: ''It is not acceptable that thousands of Texans spent hours trying to reserve appliance rebates on Wednesday, April 7, only to be met with dropped calls and an unavailable online reservation system.'' 
 After studying the experience of Texas and other states, Missouri decided to try a phased rebate system. Through Tuesday, consumers can apply for rebates only through a retailer or appliance installer. Starting Wednesday, they can seek the money directly through the state.
 ''This is a way of controlling points of access into the system, so we don't oversubscribe and people end up really frustrated,'' said Mr. Slivka, the spokesman for the agency running the program.
 Illinois took another approach, pushing all of the paperwork hassles onto retailers, which were required to give instant rebates to the customer and recover the funds from the state. ''It was easier on the customer,'' said Michael Abt, president of Abt Electronics in the Chicago area.
 Mr. Abt said the state paid his company promptly after the first phase of rebates in January, which applied to home and hot water heaters, and he expected to get paid within a month for Friday's phase, which covered other appliances. 
 The federal government created the appliance rebate program as part of the 2009 stimulus legislation, and retailers say it has increased sales. 
 Anticipating that the Colorado rebates would go quickly once they became available Monday, Appliance Factory Outlet, which has stores across the state, began advertising the program a month ago and allowed customers to reserve appliances in advance. The dealer estimates that it will make over $300,000 in sales from the program, according to the marketing director, Cleat Crocker.
 As of late afternoon, the Colorado governor's office said that 8,600 rebates had been reserved, with a total of about 75,000 expected to be provided through the program.
 The high interest is understandable. The rebate programs come on top of existing discounts on Energy Star appliances, recycling and take-back rebates for old units, and specials provided by individual retailers. In some cases, consumers may qualify for federal or state tax credits, too. 
 Kateri Callahan, the president of the Alliance to Save Energy, a nonprofit coalition that promotes efficiency measures, praised the rebates as stimulating the economy while providing ''an immediate, point-of-purchase incentive for consumers by 'buying down' the price of new, energy-efficient appliances.''
 BrandsMart USA, an electronics and appliance superstore with nine locations in Florida and Georgia, said customer interest was so strong Friday and Saturday, when Florida's rebates were available, that the chain decided to offer its own discounts after the state money ran out. 
 ''We are still getting a lot of business from it,'' said Bobby Johnson, a senior vice president at the company. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rebates have increased sales of appliances like dishwashers and refrigerators. Above, a Sears store in Oak Brook, Ill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK POLICH/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES REBATES (91%); EARTH DAY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); RETAILERS (77%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (77%); HVAC SYSTEMS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); SALES TAX (69%); THANKSGIVING (50%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010



514 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM JERUSALEM; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Mood Is Dark As Israel Marks Its 62nd Year As a Nation

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
JERUSALEM -- Every year, Israelis approach the joy of their Independence Day right after immersing themselves in a 24-hour period of grief for fallen soldiers. Before the fireworks burst across the skies Monday night to celebrate the country's 62nd birthday, the airwaves filled with anguished stories of servicemen and -women killed, the Kaddish prayer of mourning and speeches placing the deeply personal losses of a small country into the sweep of Jewish history.
 So there is nothing new or unusual about Israelis' marking their collective accomplishments with sorrow and concern. It happens all the time, especially among those on the political left who are angry that Israel's occupation of the Palestinians shows no sign of ending.
 But there is something about the mood this year that feels darker than usual. It has a bipartisan quality to it. Both left and right are troubled, and both largely about the same things, especially the Iranian nuclear program combined with growing tensions with the Obama administration. 
 ''There is a confluence of two very worrying events,'' said Michael Freund, a rightist columnist for The Jerusalem Post in a telephone interview. ''One is the Iranian threat, an existential threat. Add to that the fact that for the first time in recent memory there is a president in the White House who is not overly sensitive to the Jewish state and its interests. You put the two together and it will affect anyone's mood, even an optimist like me.''
 Haaretz, the newspaper that serves as the voice of the shrinking political left in this country, is in a truly depressed mood. Its editorial on Monday contended that Israel ''is isolated globally and embroiled in a conflict with the superpower whose friendship and support are vital to its very existence.''
 ''It is devoid of any diplomatic plan aside from holding on to the territories and afraid of any movement,'' the editorial said. ''It wallows in a sense of existential threat that has only grown with time. It seizes on every instance of anti-Semitism, whether real or imagined, as a pretext for continued apathy and passivity.''
 Independence Day here is a moment to take stock of the country's achievements. And the data are very positive. Per capita annual gross domestic product is nearly $30,000, double that of Russia and close to that of Germany. Israeli citizens live on average more than 80 years, on a par with life expectancy in Norway. The number of murders per capita is a third of that of the United States. Israel's population has passed 7.5 million, more than nine times what it was at its birth in 1948, and is growing at 1.8 percent a year, a rate no other developed country approaches.
 But the worries are deep, and the sense of celebration this year is muted. Yoel Esteron, a political centrist who is publisher and editor of a daily business paper, Calcalist, wrote an essay for Independence Day that praises the islands of high-tech excellence in Israel, but frets that they are surrounded by seas of underdevelopment. Israelis in the country's business elite in and around Tel Aviv, he wrote, are increasingly focused on personal wealth accumulation and have lost sight of a collective pursuit of anything bigger.
 ''I have talked to many people in recent days, not only in preparation for that column but generally, and they say, 'You know, I am worried,' '' he said by telephone. ''There is a kind of malaise, a sense among businessmen that the national future is not promising, and that feeling seems to exist for those on the right as well as the left.''
 A new BBC poll of how people around the world regard other countries puts Israel among those least favorably viewed, including Iran, North Korea and Pakistan.
 Israelis are profoundly worried -- and profoundly divided -- about their isolation. The left blames the government for a failure to withdraw from the West Bank, remove Jewish settlements and agree to share Jerusalem with the Palestinians. The right blames Palestinian and Arab intransigence and Western gutlessness, and says Jews have always been resented, so concessions will change nothing.
 One thing both left and right have come to believe is that the government's difficulties with the Obama administration are likely to prove central to the country's fate in the coming year, especially if Iran gets closer to making a nuclear weapon.
 The Jerusalem Post, the voice of the right-leaning English-speaking immigrants here, titled its Monday editorial ''62, Under a U.S. Cloud'' and fretted that the Obama administration ''has diverged from the tone of previous administrations on the status of Jerusalem, and it has damagingly publicly questioned fundamental aspects of our alliance.'' It added that Washington needed to understand that ''Israel is still resented and rejected by most of the Arab world, not because of this or that policy, or this or that territorial presence, but because of the very fact of our existence here.''
 Ari Shavit, a centrist intellectual who writes for Haaretz, agrees that much of the problem lies with Israel's enemies. But in a plaintive column addressed to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday, he said the issue was not whom to blame, but how to save the country.
 Unlike most writers at Haaretz, Mr. Shavit has written positively about Mr. Netanyahu and other rightist leaders. He noted in his column that after the election here a year ago, he entered Mr. Netanyahu's office and received a hug.
 Now, he wrote, Mr. Netanyahu faces a truly existential set of choices that he cannot avoid. The world, he said, has an unforgiving view of Israel no longer affected by the Holocaust, and Mr. Netanyahu has to take radical action. ''What shapes the world's perception of Israel today is not the crematoria, but the checkpoints,'' he wrote. ''Not the trains, but the settlements.'' He said that Israel must again become an inalienable part of the West, adding that ''the West is not prepared to accept Israel as an occupying state.''
 He said he believed that this was what many Israelis would like to tell their prime minister on Independence Day. Whether or not he is right, and whether or not his prescription is widely shared here, his sense of alarm echoed in nearly every conversation here in recent days.
Correction: May 7, 2010, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on April 20 with the Memo From Jerusalem article, about Israel's somber mood on its 62nd birthday, described incorrectly a memorial wall at the Mount Herzl Military Cemetery where an Israeli man was shown grieving. The wall is in memory of fallen soldiers and civilians whose burial place is unknown; the wall is not the Victims of Terror memorial, which is located nearby. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Israeli grieved at a Victims of Terror memorial at Mount Herzl Military Cemetery in Jerusalem on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABIR SULTAN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); WRITERS (76%); CRIME RATES (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (91%) ISRAEL (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORWAY (79%); GERMANY (51%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010



515 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Iran, Sanctions and the Memo

 BODY:
Sometime this spring, but still months later than President Obama predicted, Iran may finally face new United Nations sanctions for its illicit nuclear program. 
 Mr. Obama has done a lot to prepare the ground. He has bolstered American credibility with his -- since rebuffed -- offer to engage with Iran. He signed a new arms reduction treaty with Russia, improved relations with China and is personally lobbying other United Nations Security Council members to support stronger sanctions.
 We are skeptical that even that will be enough to get Moscow and Beijing to sign on to anything with real bite. In the last four years, the Security Council has passed three far-too-modest sanctions resolutions. Tehran has shrugged them all off and kept churning out nuclear fuel. 
 The good news is that Mr. Obama is also hedging his bets, with an effort -- first begun under President George W. Bush -- to persuade an ever-widening circle of international corporate interests to eschew business in economically strapped Iran. 
 Total, the French energy company, and Eni of Italy claim they are planning to end new investments in Iran. Major international banks like Deutsche Bank and HSBC have said that they are withdrawing from Iran. Several oil companies have said they would no longer supply gasoline to Iran, including Royal Dutch Shell, Vitol, Russia's Lukoil and India's Reliance. Last week, Malaysia's state oil firm, Petronas, said it was cutting off shipments. Its prime minister then denied it.
 Promises are clearly cheap. The administration will have to keep pressing these companies to live up to their commitments. And it is time for Mr. Obama's European partners to think about more formal ways to tighten their own sanctions on Iran. 
 None of this should let the Security Council off the hook. A new resolution would provide important cover for these parallel tracks. Iran is especially vulnerable now, both economically and politically. Its leaders will be watching carefully, especially to see what its longtime trading partners and enablers in Russia and China do. 
 There, the news is not good. While Russian and Chinese leaders told Mr. Obama that they will work seriously on new sanctions, diplomats say their representatives are already seeking ways to dilute any resolution. Brazil and Turkey, which currently sit on the Security Council and have a lot of international sway, also are resisting. Mr. Obama needs to keep pressing Moscow and Beijing hard. He and his European partners need to make clear that Brazil (which seeks permanent Security Council membership) and Turkey (a NATO member) must step up. 
 We don't know if there is any mixture of pressure -- or inducements -- that will force Iran to abandon its nuclear ambitions. That's what makes a memo written earlier this year by Defense Secretary Robert Gates and reported by The Times on Sunday so important. 
 Looking beyond the current maneuvering, he raises some very disturbing and difficult questions that need to be addressed. How will the world contain Iran if it actually produces a weapon? What will Washington and its allies do if Iran acquires all of the parts but decides to stop just short of that? 
 The United States and its allies need to quietly discuss and prepare for those possibilities -- without giving Russia, China and others any more excuses not to act.
 As for the military options under review, we are sure that an attack would be a disaster. We urge anyone who has doubts to listen closely to Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. He told reporters on Sunday that while military ''options would cause delay'' to Iran's nuclear program, ''that doesn't mean the problem is going to go away.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (76%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (82%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (55%); OAO LUKOIL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (82%); RDSA (AMS) (82%); RDS.B (NYSE) (82%); RDS.A (NYSE) (82%); DEUT (JSE) (55%); DBK (FRA) (55%); DBK (BIT) (55%); DBETN (JSE) (55%); DBA (ASX) (55%); DB (NYSE) (55%); LKOH (RTS) (54%); LKOD (LSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (82%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); IRAN (79%); INDIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010



516 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: A Finance Overhaul Fight Draws a Lobbying Swarm

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT and ERIC LICHTBLAU

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Assessing the battle to overhaul the nation's financial regulations recently, Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, left no doubt about the consequences if Congress cracked down on his bank's immense business in derivatives. 
 ''It will be negative,'' he said. ''Depending on the real detail, it could be $700 million or a couple billion dollars.'' 
 With so much money at stake, it is not surprising that more than 1,500 lobbyists, executives, bankers and others have made their way to the Senate committee that on Wednesday will take up legislation to rein in derivatives, the complex securities at the heart of the financial crisis, the billion-dollar bank bailouts and the fraud case filed last week against Goldman Sachs.
 The forum for all this attention is not the usual banking and financial services committees, but rather the Senate Agriculture Committee, a group more accustomed to dealing with farm subsidies and national forest boundaries than with the more obscure corners of Wall Street. 
 A main weapon being wielded to fight the battle, of course, is money. Agriculture Committee members have received $22.8 million in this election cycle from people and organizations affiliated with financial, insurance and real estate companies -- two and a half times what they received from agricultural donors, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. 
 Much of that lobbying has centered on Senator Blanche Lincoln, the Arkansas Democrat who is the committee's chairwoman and who last week introduced the bill that would prevent banks from trading derivatives directly. 
 The daughter of a sixth-generation rice farmer, she has found herself navigating a dangerous channel between Wall Street firms, which raised $60,000 at two fund-raisers for her re-election campaign so far this year, and her constituents, many of whom want a crackdown on the speculation that led to the financial crisis.
 Other committee members, on both sides of the aisle, also have reaped donations from people and companies in the derivatives business, including Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, who is the committee's ranking Republican member; Kent Conrad, the North Dakota Democrat; and Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican.
 The committee will be the main arena for the derivatives fight for reasons dating to an era when farming was more important to the nation's economy than finance. In their simplest form, derivatives can provide financial protection on the value of an investment or commodity. For example, by putting up a relatively small amount of money, a farmer could buy a derivative known as a forward or futures contract that would guarantee a set price for crops and thereby guard against ruinous price swings between planting and harvest. 
 But the most esoteric derivatives -- which also are the most profitable for banks to create and trade -- have little economic purpose other than to let investors place financial bets, critics say. 
 A more complex type of derivative helped to inflate the housing bubble in recent years, as Wall Street repackaged high-risk mortgages into securities that speculators could use to bet on the direction of the housing market. Financial institutions earned millions of dollars in fees for creating the securities. But many of the derivatives became worthless when foreclosures skyrocketed, leading to billions of dollars of losses -- and taxpayer bailouts -- at the banks and insurance companies that owned them.
 Now, these obscure and largely unregulated securities -- more than $600 trillion of which are tucked into investors' portfolios, according to the Treasury Department -- are at the center of the fight over financial reform led by the Obama administration.
 ''The best that we can do for the American people is to put in place rules that will prevent firms from taking this risk again, make sure we protect the taxpayer, bring derivatives out of the dark -- that's what we can do, '' said Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary. 
 The lobbying is not just coming from Wall Street. Manufacturers, airlines and other industries, which use derivatives to control their business and foreign currency costs, worry that an important means of protecting their assets could be curtailed by Mrs. Lincoln's bill. 
 ''I think a lot of members of Congress are just getting up to speed on how these markets work,'' said Paul Cicio, who is president of the Industrial Energy Consumers of America, which represents an array of industries like fertilizers and chemicals. He said he worried that the lobbying prowess and financial resources of Wall Street firms, even when operating in the unusual environs of the agriculture committee, had the potential to outmuscle their opponents, which want greater regulation. 
 ''Of course I'm going to be concerned, because they are big-money companies,'' and derivatives make up substantial portions of their profit margins, he said. ''But this is incredibly important, and it's important to get it right.'' 
 On Friday, Mrs. Lincoln introduced a derivatives bill that seemed intended to show that she could be hard-nosed with Wall Street yet accommodating to Arkansas constituents, ranging from Wal-Mart to small community banks, which have a big interest in the derivative fight.
 Small-town bankers in Arkansas and elsewhere want to regulate derivative speculation because they believe widespread betting on home mortgages led to bank failures and pushed up the cost of federal deposit insurance for all banks.
 The derivatives bill, which is expected to be folded into the sweeping overhaul of the nation's banking system, would also require most derivatives trades to be routed through a third party, known as a clearing agent. That would provide each of the parties a guarantee that they would be paid if the other party defaulted or went out of business. The bill would also require most derivatives to be traded on an open exchange. 
 Currently, the only way to trade many derivatives is to call up various dealers and ask for the price at which they are willing to buy or sell. The securities dealer profits from the difference between the prices at which it buys from one party and sells to another. Investors rarely, if ever, see details on the other side of the trade. Wall Street has signaled that it can live with a clearinghouse approach, but it is strongly opposed to exchange trading of derivatives, which would introduce price competition and lower the profits.
 Wall Street bankers were stunned by the most aggressive portion of Ms. Lincoln's bill, one that is opposed even by the Obama administration. That proposal would essentially ban banks from being dealers in swaps or other derivatives by taking away their access to federal deposit insurance and their ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve if they kept those businesses. 
 Mrs. Lincoln, who is facing a tough primary challenge in May to get to the general election in November, said in an interview that she was not sure why the administration did not fully agree with her derivatives approach. 
 ''The people of Arkansas never again want to have to foot the bill for what happens on Wall Street,'' she said. ''If banks want to be in that kind of risky business, they should have to separate it off in a way that lowers the systemic risk.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, center, with Senators Blanche Lincoln and Saxby Chambliss of the Agriculture Committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WATSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(B4) GRAPHIC: Reducing the Dangers of Derivatives: Derivatives, like the credit-default swap example shown here, are largely unregulated and played a significant role in the recent financial crisis. On Friday, Senator Blanche Lincoln released the details of her plan to regulate the industry by creating a clearinghouse and a transparent exchange for derivatives trading. (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AGRICULTURE (88%); BAILOUTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); FUTURES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FAMILY FARMS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICS (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); FUNDRAISING (71%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (68%); RICE FARMING (68%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: BLANCHE LINCOLN (77%); JAMES DIMON (73%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (57%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (57%); KENT CONRAD (57%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010



517 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Atlanta Rally Leads Protests of Transportation Cuts

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

 BODY:
ATLANTA -- When Danielle White boarded her bus to go to work on Tuesday morning, it was emblazoned from top to bottom with a giant, painted red X. Ms. White knew what that meant. 
 ''This is one of the buses that's getting cut,'' said Ms. White, a security guard at the Georgia Aquarium. ''I'm going to have to figure out how to get there.'' 
 On Monday night, workers and officials at the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority volunteered to paint the X's on a third of the system's buses and trains to symbolize the 30 percent cut in service the agency is facing because of a decline in sales tax revenue and a Republican-dominated Statehouse that has been slow to help. 
 On Tuesday morning, with a parade of X'd-out buses stopping on the street behind them, more than 200 public transit workers and riders gathered at the system's main hub, Five Points. They were kicking off a week of rallies, telephone campaigns and other events in 11 cities across the country coordinated by the Transportation Equity Network, an advocacy group based in St. Louis, to protest transportation cuts and fare increases. 
 ''We are just crawling out of a recession,'' said Sam Massell, a former mayor of Atlanta, ''but we will be knocked back into another one if the salespersons are not behind the store counters, if the restaurant workers are not in the kitchens, if the office staff are not behind their desks.''
 About 46 percent of the more than 100,000 people who use Marta to get to work each day say they do not have access to other forms of transportation.
 More than 80 percent of the nation's transit systems are considering or have recently enacted fare increases or service cuts, including those in Kansas City, Mo., Los Angeles, New York and Washington, D.C., according to a survey released this month by the American Public Transportation Association. 
 But Marta, the ninth-largest system in the country, faces a particular difficulty because it is the only major system that does not receive any dedicated money from the state. Instead, it depends on fares and a one-cent sales tax in only two of metro Atlanta's 28 counties, Fulton and DeKalb. While Atlanta chokes on traffic, Georgia ranks 49th in per capita government spending on transportation, according to a report commissioned by Gov. Sonny Perdue.
 The agency has requested one significant change in its spending rules that would not require any new state money: a release from a requirement that half of Marta's sales tax revenues be set aside for capital projects. Though the agency ranks very high in efficiency measures, lawmakers seem to think its distress was caused by more than the recession. 
 ''I've been trying to understand how Marta got in the problem they're in,'' the speaker of the State House, David Ralston, said in an interview with WABE radio this month. ''I think that we have to have a better understanding of what brought us to this point before we know how to get out of the problem.'' 
 This is the second year that Marta, which faces a $120 million shortfall in its $400 million operating budget, has been in severe financial straits. Last year, the agency raised fares to $2 from $1.75, decreased services, cut health care benefits to employees and required furloughs. This year, in addition to the 30 percent cut in service, it may have to increase fares again and lay off as many as 1,500 of its 5,000 employees, said Beverly A. Scott, the agency's chief executive. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Proposed cuts to the Atlanta transit system brought out protesters on Tuesday. Similar events are scheduled in other cities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENDRICK BRINSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); SALES FORCE (74%); SALES TAX (74%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (71%); TRAINS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%)

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN ATLANTA RAPID TRANSIT AUTHORITY (71%); AMERICAN PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION (52%)

PERSON: SONNY PERDUE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (95%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (95%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



518 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Deal Reached That Averts a Walkout by Doormen

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN; Colin Moynihan and Karen Zraick contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The owners of more than 3,200 apartment buildings in New York City reached an agreement on a new labor contract with the union that represents about 30,000 doormen, porters, janitors and building superintendents, averting a strike that was due to begin at 7 a.m. Wednesday. 
 The talks went right up to the midnight strike deadline, as they often have in the past, with the union resisting the owners' demands for cuts in health care and other benefits. In the end, the owners agreed to a new four-year contract that includes a total pay increase of nearly 10 percent and no significant cuts in benefits for the workers, an official with the union, Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, said.
 In exchange, the union agreed to try to help the owners find ways to reduce the cost of providing the workers' health benefits by $70 million annually starting in 2012. 
 The agreement headed off what would have been the first strike by the doormen since a walkout in 1991 that lasted 12 days and left garbage piling up in front of some buildings where doormen were picketing. If the doormen and other service workers had gone on strike, residents of the affected buildings would have had to perform their own chores, like sorting mail, screening visitors, hauling garbage out to the curb and operating elevators. 
 After the agreement was reached, both sides said they had reasons to be satisfied, and loud cheers were heard through the doors of the meeting rooms in the Sheraton New York Hotel & Towers, where the negotiations were held.
 Mike Fishman, the president of Local 32BJ, said the final details of the contract were worked out in the last half hour of the talks. ''We fought hard and won wage increases in a very tough economy, and maintained fully employer-paid family health care for thousands of hard-working people in one of the most expensive cities in the world,'' Mr. Fishman said.
 Despite some sharp rhetoric, the talks never appeared to have grown too heated. Mr. Fishman and Howard Rothschild, the lead negotiator for the owners, stood side by side when they discussed the contract terms with reporters.
 ''It's a victory for building owners, employees and residents,'' said Mr. Rothschild, the president of the Realty Advisory Board for Labor Relations. He emphasized the commitment to contain health care costs in the face of what appeared to be a better deal for the union than the last contract, which raised pay by 8.5 percent over four years.
 The new deal calls for salary increases of $15 a week in each of the first two years, $22 a week in the third and $23 a week in the fourth. By its end, the average pay of the workers will be about $44,000 a year.
 A strike would have disrupted the daily routines of hundreds of thousands of middle-class residents from upper Broadway to Brownsville, as well as affluent owners of Park Avenue penthouses. Along with picket lines in front of many of their homes, they would have been confronted with the loss of the people who sign for their packages, carry their luggage and let the pizza deliverers and dog walkers into the building. Residents of many buildings had been asked to pitch in to sort the mail, announce visitors by intercom, operate elevators and haul garbage to the curb if necessary.
 A picketing plan that had been drawn up on Tuesday afternoon called for the workers to walk out at the end of the 11 p.m.-to-7 a.m. shift and begin picketing immediately outside selected buildings.
 In 1991, they picketed for 12 days before reaching a compromise that gave them annual raises that averaged about 4 percent.
 During that strike, city sanitation workers refused to cross the picket lines to collect garbage, leaving it to pile up on sidewalks until the health department declared it a public health nuisance and ordered that it be picked up. Along with the festering trash, residents of thousands of buildings had to contend with restrictions on deliveries and service calls by repairmen during the strike. They also had to perform chores that the doormen and porters usually handled, like sorting mail, operating elevators and carrying luggage.
 New Yorkers who had to cope with that strike said they hoped not to have to endure another. Some said they and their neighbors were willing to try to handle duties themselves, but they had little confidence in their abilities to keep things running smoothly. 
 In the hours before the strike deadline, others were dreading a disruption in the don't-do-it-yourself lifestyle of calling the super and ordering in Chinese that is particular to urban apartment dwellers.
 ''It would definitely be a big inconvenience,'' said Nicole Auerbach, 36, who lives on West End Avenue. ''Our doormen told me probably 50 percent of the people in our building have takeout delivered on any given night.''
 In an effort to head off another walkout, the negotiations began in earnest on Thursday, with less than a week left on a four-year contract. That agreement had not been cobbled together until the wee hours after the previous one ran out at midnight on April 20, 2006.
 The two sides met on and off through the weekend and all day Monday, breaking off at midnight. They resumed talking at 9 a.m. Tuesday.
 The 30,000 union members were represented by about 60 people, led by Mr. Fishman. The owners had a committee of about a dozen, led by Mr. Rothschild.
 On average, the union's members earn about $40,000, or about $20 an hour, a union spokesman said. They also receive medical and dental care for themselves and their families, as well as 10 paid sick days, vacation and pensions. The owners estimated the total annual cost of employing a member of the union at more than $68,000. 
 This time, the owners argued that the recession that began more than two years ago had crimped their ability to be as generous. They cited ''skyrocketing'' property taxes and utility costs as reasons for demanding concessions on benefits.
 Mary Ann Rothman, executive director of the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums, said that for a growing number of tenants, raising the rent was not an option to cover increased labor. 
 ''In co-ops and condos, we are the owners,'' Ms. Rothman said. ''There's no place to go but our own pockets to find money for increases. Many of our owners have not been able to get the pay increases or bonuses this year. Some have lost their jobs.''
 But the union countered that the city's real estate industry had come through the recession relatively strongly, with rents projected to rise over the next several years. Their members also have to contend with the rising cost of living and cannot be expected to accept a deal that amounts to no real raise or perhaps a cut, union officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRIKES (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



519 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Fiat's Changes to Include Installing 34-Year-Old Scion at the Helm

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH

 BODY:
The Fiat Group on Tuesday announced a shake-up of its board that would elevate the young scion of the founding Agnelli dynasty to the head of the Italian automotive giant. 
 Fiat is also expected to announce Wednesday a reorganization that will probably include a spinoff of its profitable automotive unit, which includes the flagship Fiat brand but not the luxury automakers Ferrari and Maserati.
 The chairman of the Fiat Group, Luca Cordero di Montezemolo, will be replaced by John Elkann, 34, vice chairman and main representative of the Agnelli family, at a board meeting Wednesday.
 Mr. Elkann is chairman of the Agnelli family's holding company, Exor, which owns 30.5 percent of Fiat. He is the grandson of the former chairman and patriarch Giovanni Agnelli, who died in 2003. And for some time, Mr. Elkann has been expected to succeed his grandfather at the helm of the family businesses.
 Mr. di Montezemolo will remain on the group's board and as chairman of Ferrari, Fiat said. During a news conference Tuesday, Mr. di Montezemolo said his decision to step down was in no way related to the possibility of Fiat spinning off its automobile division, the Italian news agency ANSA reported.
 Mr. Elkann said he was sorry that his grandfather could not be there to see him take over the family business, ANSA reported.
 His relative youth aside, Mr. Elkann has charisma and strong family support, said Peter Cooke, professor of automotive management at the University of Buckingham in England.
 Mr. Elkann also has a close working relationship with Sergio Marchionne, the chief executive of Fiat, having given him full support in implementing a turnaround plan.
 On Wednesday, Mr. Marchionne is expected to announce a five-year business plan that is likely to include a spinoff of Fiat Auto, which posted an operating profit last year and generated just over half of the group's revenue.
 The announcement Wednesday will also include first-quarter earnings for Fiat Group, as well as details on perceived benefits from the tie-up with the automaker Chrysler, in which Fiat acquired a 20 percent stake and operational control in June 2009.
 The Fiat group employs 190,000 people globally.
 The Italian automaker intends to increase the Chrysler stake to 35 percent over the next 24 months. That could rise to 51 percent if Fiat exercises call options once Chrysler has paid down loans from the American government. The savings are expected to come via shared platforms, engines, distribution and sales as the United States economy recovers.
 Aside from its main auto arm, Fiat has units manufacturing trucks, power trains, components and agricultural machinery. Its Maserati and Ferrari units are run separately from the rest of the auto unit, which includes the Fiat brand, Lancia and Alfa Romeo.
 A spinoff of the automobile unit could transform the group into an industrial holding company if, as some analysts expect, it eventually pursues stock market listings of more of its core units.
 A sale of the auto unit would also give Fiat cash for international expansion and might lead to further alliances with others, analysts said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Elkann has been expected to succeed his grandfather Giovanni Agnelli at Fiat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIORGIO PEROTTINO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); GRANDPARENTS (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); COMPANY REVENUES (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); ACQUISITIONS (65%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: FIAT SPA (98%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (82%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (98%); F (BIT) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (98%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



520 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Suit Comes at a Critical Moment for an Embattled British Regulator

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- Hector Sants, the chief of Britain's financial regulator, pledged last year to reverse his agency's reputation as a toothless tiger. He wanted to spread fear across the financial services industry by stepping up the aggressiveness of its inquiries and by pursuing more prominent fraud cases. 
 His opportunity has arrived, and its name is Goldman Sachs. 
 On Tuesday, his agency, the Financial Services Authority, started a formal investigation of Goldman Sachs. It said it was working closely with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which filed suit against Goldman last week claiming that the firm defrauded investors in a mortgage-related deal.
 The bank, which is based in New York but has large operations in London, reiterated its response to the S.E.C. suit by denying any wrongdoing. It issued a statement saying, ''We believe the S.E.C.'s charges are completely unfounded in law and fact and look forward to cooperating with the F.S.A.''
 The Goldman investigation comes at a pivotal time for the British regulator. The F.S.A.'s reputation, like its American counterpart's, was damaged badly by the financial crisis. The Conservative opposition party, which holds a slight lead in national polls, said it would dissolve the agency if it won the general elections in two weeks because of its mistakes ahead of and during the financial crisis. 
 The pressure to deliver results is heightened further because ABN Amro was one of the banks that lost money in the Goldman deal under scrutiny. The bank was acquired in 2007 by the Royal Bank of Scotland, which is now controlled by the British government after a series of bailouts.
 London has also attracted attention from around the world as the birthplace of many of the exotic mortgage-related investments, created by American and foreign banks alike, that set off the financial crisis.
 Even before the Goldman investigation, the F.S.A. had embarked on an unusually aggressive campaign involving dawn raids, arrests and large fines to crack down on insider trading and repair its reputation. 
 ''The F.S.A. was looked upon as a huge bureaucracy, handing out huge discussion papers and starting huge procedures resulting in relatively small fines,'' said Rowan Bosworth-Davies, a fraud prevention consultant and a former fraud squad detective at New Scotland Yard. 
 ''Now it's turning the other way,'' he said. ''There is a lot of public anger and political support to go after white-collar crime, and there is also the concern at the F.S.A. that it could be dissolved. They want to prove that they are tough crime fighters.'' 
 When the F.S.A. was created as an independent agency in 1997, its focus was on regulating financial services firms rather than investigating white-collar crime. Fines were relatively small, and the regulator's officers were known for their friendly relationship with executives at banks they were supposed to watch. 
 But that started to change about three years ago when Mr. Sants, a former Credit Suisse banker, and Margaret Cole, who joined the agency from the law firm White & Case in 2005, decided to crack down on insider trading and market abuse. 
 Since then Ms. Cole, the agency's head of enforcement, has more than doubled her staff and recruited more experienced lawyers. She has also worked more closely with law enforcement and with the Serious Organized Crime Agency, which is known for going after drug lords and those involved in human trafficking. 
 The F.S.A. has increased fines to $:34.9 million ($53.2 million) from $:5.3 million ($8.1 million), and Ms. Cole increased her budget to $:66 million ($101 million) from $:38 million ($58 million). And she borrowed tactics from her American counterparts, like offering plea deals. 
 In 2008, she started her ''credible deterrence strategy'' to go after ''criminals in suits masquerading as City professionals.'' The F.S.A. would no longer shy away from filing criminal cases and would increasingly go after individuals rather than companies. 
 ''We decided the biggest deterrent, especially for insider dealing offenses, would be the risk of going to jail,'' Tracey McDermott, the agency's head of wholesale enforcement, said in an interview Tuesday. 
 The changes are becoming more visible. At 5:30 a.m. on March 23, on a quiet, tree-lined street in Oxford, a handful of agents with the F.S.A. and the organized-crime agency arrived at the home of Julian Rifat, a trader at Moore Capital in London. Mr. Rifat, who turned 41 that day, was questioned and arrested on suspicion of insider trading.
 Before the day was over, Ms. Cole had sent 143 agents to 16 addresses across London and the south of England. In all, six people were questioned, including a Deutsche Bank employee. The arrested people were released on bail and the regulator has yet to file formal charges. Mr. Rifat's lawyer declined to comment. 
 Some analysts said the regulator's new approach was not without risks. Prosecuting criminal cases is much harder than pursuing civil suits because for criminal matters the F.S.A. needs to prove that a defendant knowingly passed on insider information. 
 ''If the F.S.A. takes these cases forward and then loses them, they would get a real rough ride in the public,'' said Philip Parish, a partner at the law firm Lovells in London. 
 The F.S.A. is running out of time to repair its image. If the Conservative Party and its leader, David Cameron, win the election, they may abolish the agency on the ground that it failed to adequately regulate banks ahead of the financial crisis, and merge its main supervisory division with the Bank of England. 
 By contrast, Prime Minister Gordon Brown, the Labor Party leader who is running for re-election and who created the F.S.A. when he was chancellor of the exchequer, has said he would widen the agency's powers to allow it to ''quash'' bankers' contracts if they encourage reckless risk-taking. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hector Sants has vowed to restore the reputation of the Financial Services Authority. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANTZESCO KANGARIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); CRIME PREVENTION (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); POLITICS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); INSIDER TRADING (70%); CONSERVATISM (66%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (82%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (83%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); RBS (NYSE) (82%); RBS (LSE) (82%); RBS (AMS) (82%); ABO (ASX) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



521 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: In Miami, Condo Sales Rise as Prices Bottom Out

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
MIAMI -- Though it overlooks the Atlantic Ocean and offers high-end amenities like a wine vault and a cigar humidor, the Caribbean condominium complex in Miami Beach seemed by last summer to be just another casualty of the glutted South Florida housing market. 
 There were buyers for all 103 units in the complex, which includes a small renovated Art Deco building and a new glass tower, but only 14 had been willing to close. The rest had simply walked away from their deposits. 
 The Caribbean, at 37th Street and Collins Avenue, resulted in heavy losses for its developers, a partnership of Christa Development of Victor, N.Y., and Bluerock Real Estate of New York City, and its lender, the now-defunct Corus Bankshares of Chicago. 
 But it has reaped a nice profit for another real estate investor, Melohn Properties, also of New York City, which assumed control of the property after buying the $127.7 million mortgage from Corus last August. Melohn paid less than half the face value of the loan, according to the building's broker, Diane Lieberman, the owner of SBI Realty in Miami Beach. 
 There are now just 15 units left at the Caribbean, Ms. Lieberman said. Originally priced around $1,100 a square foot, the condos are selling for an average of $600 a square foot, with those on a high floor with wraparound terraces selling at $750 a square foot. Most of the buyers paid cash, and all plan to use the condos themselves, she said. 
 Peter Zalewski, the owner of Condo Vultures, a brokerage firm that specializes in selling units in bulk, said a dozen other investors had taken a look at the Caribbean loan and passed. ''Now they're all having remorse,'' he said.
 Though the Miami market remains deeply troubled, it is no longer moribund, real estate specialists say. Activity is picking up, though buyers who intend to live in their units are primarily interested in top properties in the best locations, said Robert Kaplan, a principal of Olympian Capital Group, a real estate investment bank in Miami. Even though the Caribbean is opposite a stalled project and is north of South Beach, its ocean views and solid construction are attractive, he said. 
 Brokers say that South Beach, because of its glamorous night life and smaller inventory as well as its proximity to the ocean, continues to do much better than downtown, with its canyons of new high-rise condos.
 From May through December last year, 1,000 new units sold in downtown Miami -- an area from Brickell Avenue north to the Julia Tuttle Causeway -- according to a study prepared for the Miami Downtown Development Authority, a quasi-independent city agency. But the majority of the buyers were investors, many of them from South America, real estate specialists said. And though occupancy in new downtown buildings increased to 74 percent from 68 percent, more than half of the new residents were renters, and 7,000 of the 22,000 new condo units built since 2003 remained unsold. Most are in the Brickell area, where much of the new construction is concentrated.
 Since the study was completed, another 700 units have sold downtown, Mr. Zalewski said.
 A big chunk of these sales were made at the Icon Brickell, a new 1,646-unit condominium complex that became a symbol of downtown excess because of features like as a $15 million entryway with 100 sculptured columns. By the end of last year, only 125 condos had sold, with an average price of $543 a square foot, Mr. Zalewski's data shows. 
 Since January, however, 199 sales have closed at the complex, which is situated where the Miami River meets Biscayne Bay. But the average price in the first quarter was $404 a square foot and about 30 units have sold for less than $300 a square foot.
 ''In South America, a Brickell address is like a U.S. savings bond,'' said Jay Massirman, a senior managing director of Related Group of Florida, which developed the complex. ''They know that prices are not going any lower. He said buyers also know they are buying for less than it cost to build the units. 
 Over all, condo prices in Miami-Dade County have declined by 51 percent since 2007, when the median price was $275,000, said Ronald A. Shuffield, the president of Esslinger-Wooten-Maxwell Realtors of Coral Gables. Last month, 2,381 condos in the county went to contract -- nearly twice as many as in March 2009 -- but the median price had slipped to $135,000, he said. 
 Still, the increase in sales may not translate into higher prices. With so many investment sales, many units will come back to the market when prices begin to rise, in turn keeping prices down, said Lewis M. Goodkin, a real estate analyst and a co-author of the downtown association's report. ''So we're far from out of the woods,'' Mr. Goodkin said. ''I think we have a minimum of five years left before we have equilibrium in the market.''
 Jack McCabe, a real estate consultant in Deerfield Beach, Fla., said rents had fallen so far that a new condo with 1,200 square feet could be leased for as little as $1,200 a month, less than what it cost most owners to cover their expenses. ''The mini-boom is not creating a healthy real estate market,'' he said.
 But the influx of renters has meant that downtown no longer looks like a ghost town. More lights are on at night, and new shops and restaurants have opened. ''It's bringing a vibrancy to the downtown that we haven't ever felt here,'' said Alyce Robertson, the executive director of the downtown association. Two Publix supermarkets have been added to downtown since the mini-boom began. While some stores and restaurants closed during the recession, and a planned Whole Foods never materialized, the area had a net gain of 42 retailers in 2009, Ms. Robertson said.
 Brokers said more owner-occupiers were in the market now that both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had loosened restrictions that made it harder for prospective buyers to get loans. Some condos in foreclosure had even received multiple bids, said Lucas Lechuga, a sales agent with Keller Williams Realty in Miami. Mr. Lechuga said one of his clients lost out on a one-bedroom condo at the Vue at Brickell in downtown Miami that was listed at $142,500 but sold for $225,000. Buyers do not seem deterred even in cases when the previous owner made off with the appliances, Mr. Lechuga said. ''It's crazy what I've been seeing in the last three months,'' he said. 
 But anyone looking for a bargain at the Paramount Bay, at North East 21st Street and North Bayshore Drive, or at the new Mint, on the Miami River at South West Third Street, will have to wait. The two developments were part of Corus's $5 billion national loan portfolio. Starwood Capital and several partners bought a 40 percent stake in the portfolio in January in a deal valued at $2.77 billion. ''It will be some time before we are offering units for sale to the public at either property,'' said Tom Johnson, a spokesman for Starwood, which is managing the portfolio.
 To make the portfolio attractive, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation took a majority stake and provided $1 billion in interest-free financing.
 ''Our purchase price for Corus coupled with the unusual financing we have in place allows us to be very patient,'' Barry Sternlicht, chief executive of Starwood, said in an e-mail message. 
 Craig A. Werley, the president of Focus Real Estate Advisors, a Miami consulting firm, and a co-author of the downtown study, said Starwood would be well-positioned in the future when other new buildings had sold out. ''They are sitting in the catbird seat.'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Paramount Bay, above, which was part of the loan portfolio of the failed Corus Bankshares. Left, the Caribbean. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX QUESADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (92%); CONDOMINIUMS (91%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (88%); CITY LIFE (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); CITIES (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



522 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Coke Profit Fails to Meet Expectations

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Coca-Cola said Tuesday that its first-quarter profit climbed 20 percent as the company continued to expand rapidly overseas. 
 That offset persistent weakness in the United States as consumers cut back on buying soda, water, juices and teas. The results, however, were weaker than analysts' expectations. 
 The company earned $1.61 billion, or 69 cents a share, in the quarter ended April 2, compared with $1.35 billion, or 58 cents a share, in the period last year.
 Revenue rose 5 percent, to $7.53 billion.
 Analysts expected earnings of 75 cents a share on revenue of $7.72 billion, according to Thomson Reuters. 
 The company has courted consumers in international markets as their economies improve. Eurasia and Africa led international growth, with volume up 11 percent. India's volume grew 29 percent and Turkey's 18 percent.
 Elsewhere, Brazil's volume gained 12 percent. The flagship Coca-Cola brand posted double-digit growth in Russia, Egypt, Brazil, India, Vietnam and the Philippines.
 About three-fourths of Coca-Cola's revenue came from outside North America in the quarter. North America is the world's biggest soft drink market, but sales have been weak as people shift to juices and teas.
 In North America, total case volume -- including soft drinks and juices -- fell 2 percent in the quarter. Soft drink volume declined 1 percent. The company credited its marketing campaigns for the Super Bowl and the Winter Olympics.
 Also Tuesday, Coca-Cola named its North American president, Steve Cahillane, to lead a new business unit called Coca-Cola Refreshments. It will incorporate the newly acquired Coca-Cola Enterprises North American bottling operations, North American food service, the Minute-Maid and Odwalla juice businesses and North American supply-chain operations.
 Shares of Coke fell 1.54 percent, or 85 cents, to $54.47 on Tuesday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS (91%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); WINTER OLYMPICS (50%); OLYMPICS (50%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (90%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC (59%); COCA-COLA REFRESHMENTS USA INC (59%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES NEDERLAND BV (53%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (90%); CCE (PAR) (59%); CCE (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC2087 FLAVORING EXTRACTS & FLAVORING SYRUPS, NEC (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (95%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (90%); AFRICA (78%); EGYPT (75%); PHILIPPINES (75%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



523 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Actor's Son Gets 5 Years on Drug Charges

BYLINE: By KAREN ZRAICK

 BODY:
Cameron Douglas, the 31-year-old son of the actor Michael Douglas, was sentenced to five years in prison on drug-related charges in Federal District Court in Manhattan on Tuesday. 
 In January, Mr. Douglas, a D.J. and an aspiring actor, pleaded guilty to charges that he distributed large quantities of methamphetamines and cocaine over a three-year period. He also pleaded guilty to possession of heroin, a charge that was brought while he was on house arrest and awaiting trial. 
 Judge Richard M. Berman also sentenced Mr. Douglas to five years of supervised release; the judge said that he was not obligated to follow federal sentencing guidelines, which normally would call for a 10-year sentence for such charges. Federal prosecutors did not challenge the sentence. 
 In court, Mr. Douglas wore a black suit with his hair combed back. He struck a humble tone in his remarks before the bench. 
 ''If I would be so fortunate as to have another chance, I would never squander that opportunity,'' Mr. Douglas said. 
 In letters to the judge, relatives painted a portrait of a lonely, troubled child whose parents were often absent or feuding and who turned to drugs at age 13. By the time of his arrest, Mr. Douglas was ''an unemployed addict with a five-time-a-day heroin habit,'' his lawyer Nicholas M. De Feis said in court. 
 ''His dealing was simply the desperate act of an addict,'' Mr. De Feis said. ''This arrest has actually helped put him on the right track.''
 Michael Douglas, who watched the sentencing from the second row in the gallery, had sent a five-page, handwritten note asking for empathy. 
 ''I have some idea of the pressure of finding your own identity with a famous father,'' he wrote. 
 The elder Mr. Douglas, 65, won an Oscar for his performance in the 1987 film ''Wall Street'' and appeared on the cover of the April issue of Vanity Fair to promote his new movie, ''Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps,'' which is scheduled for release this fall. He is the son of Kirk Douglas, who starred in the film ''Spartacus.'' 
 Mr. Douglas added that he cherished his weekly visits with his son at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Lower Manhattan. 
 ''Judge Berman, I love my son, but I'm not blind to his actions,'' Mr. Douglas wrote. ''I do believe out of this adversity he will be a positive citizen. I don't want to see him break.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The actor Michael Douglas and Diandra Douglas, his ex-wife, left court after attending the sentencing of their son Cameron. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESS AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (92%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); PRISONS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); HOUSE ARREST (78%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (78%); HEROIN (78%); FILM (78%); SUPERVISED RELEASE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); COCAINE (73%); MOVIE REVIEWS (71%); METHAMPHETAMINE (71%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US SENTENCING COMMISSION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



524 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; RESTAURANT REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: If Chefs Were Museum Curators

BYLINE: By SAM SIFTON

 BODY:
SOME restaurants are time machines. SHO Shaun Hergatt, the strange and occasionally terrific restaurant on the second floor of a condominium building in the financial district, even looks like one, down to the elevator that whisks you up from the lobby. 
 Diners enter this simple metal box in 2010, talking about the beating Goldman Sachs took in the markets on Friday. They emerge in the late 1990s, Goldman still privately held, the economy booming in a city where restaurants reflected the excess. This calls for Champagne!
 SHO Shaun Hergatt, which opened in June and received a Michelin star in October, is named for its chef, an Australian who cut his teeth on the Ritz-Carlton circuit and first came to New York as Gabriel Kreuther's lieutenant at Atelier. His show is set against a backdrop of muted browns and reds, sparkling glass, Asian motifs, dark tropical woods.
 To get to the dining room, customers pass through a kind of grape vault, a long corridor of wine behind glass with a low reflecting pool running down its center, from which candles emerge from metal flutes. The atmosphere is hushed, almost luxurious in its anonymity, a good business hotel in Sydney or Zurich, Miami or Bonn. 
 The tables are wide and covered in good linen. They are spaced well apart from one another. In the main dining room, each offers a good view of the kitchen, which bustles professionally behind a thick glass wall, a silent tableau that recalls an operating theater as much as a place where food is prepared. That Champagne begins to seem a little strange, awkward. Who eats like this, now?
 Menus are proffered. They also seem to have emerged from the time machine. (Indeed, at $69 for three courses, dinner costs only a dollar more than the prix fixe at Atelier back in 2002.) Mr. Hergatt does not celebrate the fad for local purveyors, some dirt wizard driving down from Coxsackie with a hatful of ramps. He celebrates the ability to ship anything anywhere, anytime. 
 His is a cuisine of geographical assertion. There is ocean trout from Tasmania. There are frogs' legs from Florida. There is Japanese escolar, Colorado lamb, Vermont veal. Hiramasa -- yellowtail amberjack -- comes from Australia. Lobster from Maine. 
 None of these come with certificates of authenticity, of course. Mr. Hergatt said in an e-mail message that the ''Long Island striped bass'' listed on the dinner menu was indeed from Long Island. But the commercial striped-bass fishery in New York waters closed on Dec. 15 and will not reopen until July 1. 
 And there is bluefin tuna, sitting beneath the hiramasa. The menu lists no source information for it. (In the message, Mr. Hergatt said it came from Hawaii.) Many believe that the fish is on the leading edge of extinction.
 The preparations are Asian-inflected, deeply French in theory, architectural in style, gastronomically witty. They are not so much composed as constructed, like dioramas or model airplanes. They're awkward in the way that big hats at church or at the racetrack are awkward.
 An appetizer of fresh hearts of palm has white asparagusice cream piped into the heart of the hearts, and comes alongside a loop of shaved green asparagus that looks like a roller coaster set beneath skyscrapers. 
 Still, the flavors are cool and springlike, soft and exotic, all at once. The asparagus ice cream emerges from the hearts of palm as marrow does from a bone -- not at all sweet. It's a relatively successful dish that sounds as if it might taste awful.
 A loin of rabbit with carrots and cardamom, with a picholine olive sauce, is really a roulade cooked in the sous-vide machine then cut into four cylinders. A slender carrot runs down the center of the plate. It isn't a carrot, though. It's a piped carrot puree, its thick sweetness reverberating off the cardamom and the olives, a foil to the soft, flavorful meat.
 That striped bass, wherever it's from, is also prepared sous-vide, which concentrates its natural flavor. Served once with roasted langoustine and black truffle, it looked like something you'd see in the showroom at Asprey, and tasted of beautiful excess. More recently, it arrived with crayfish tails, morels, asparagus and a vivid beurre blanc made with vin jaune. The morels acted as shadow flavors to both proteins.
 Other delights: those frogs' legs, tempura-fried and served with a puree of spring garlic and new-onion foam. Sweet peekytoe crab meat with a galangal gelee and tabs of sea urchin on top. A slow-poached egg with sea urchin and caviar. The escolar, with basil seeds, a Thai basil foam and hon shemiji, a nutty mushroom rich in umami that performs nicely against the oil-rich fish. 
 There are amuse-bouches before this cavalcade begins. There will be petits fours and macarons at the end, served in a mist of liquid nitrogen, like Sammy Hagar emerging from dry ice to sing. (In between there's excellent truffle butter to put on your bread.) 
 Mr. Hergatt no longer uses gold leaf on dishes as he did when the restaurant opened last year, but many are finished with single flower petals or tiny leaves arranged in herringbone patterns. One senses that the gold leaf might have been easier to plate. 
 Desserts, created by Mina Pizarro, an alumna of Per Se and Veritas, are of a piece with the main courses: they look ready for an exhibition at the Whitney. Best are her actors in supporting roles: the pomelo confit that comes with a chocolate and jasmine dish; the creme fraiche sorbet with her Champagne mango tart; the rhubarb with her vanilla cremeux.
 Service at the restaurant is excellent, with well-trained and attentive waiters who have deep working knowledge of the menu. It's not because of them that the place feels uncomfortable.
 And Emilie Garvey, the restaurant's elegant young wine director, is a marvelous interpreter of her long hallway of wines. Pairing drinks to Mr. Hergatt's food is not perhaps the easiest task in the world. (Hey, what goes with sous-vide lamb belly with fermented garlic and a riberry jus?) Ms. Garvey handles requests with intelligence and sly good humor. (Why, an unfiltered sake!)
 Mr. Hergatt is a technically accomplished chef, with a commendable staff. But his restaurant is fussy and exacting in a city that has countered economic malaise with restaurants that are increasingly neither. 
 In the end, sweet as its rabbit may be, SHO Shaun Hergatt is an anachronism. It is not particularly expensive, given the particulars. But couture from past seasons rarely is.
 SHO Shaun Hergatt
 This restaurant is rated 2 stars.
 40 Broad Street (Exchange Place), second level, financial district; (212) 809-3993, shoshaunhergatt.com. 
 ATMOSPHERE Greed is good.
 SOUND LEVEL Quiet and civilized, with the noises of the open kitchen kept under glass.
 RECOMMENDED DISHES Hearts of palm, peekytoe crab, frogs' legs, striped bass, lamb, rabbit loin, chocolate and jasmine ''inspiration.''
 WINE LIST While the list is geared toward the ostentatious end of the spectrum, Emilie Garvey, the sommelier, rustles up interesting results in the $40 to $50 range.
 PRICE RANGE Three-course prix fixe, $69; seven-course tasting menu, $120. 
 HOURS Monday to Friday, 7 a.m. to 9:30 a.m., noon to 2 p.m., 5 to 10 p.m.; Saturday, 5 to 10 p.m.
 RESERVATIONS For dinner, call at least a week ahead. For breakfast or lunch, a few days will do.
 CREDIT CARDS All major cards.
 WHEELCHAIR ACCESS The dining room is accessible via a spacious elevator, and the bathrooms are large. 
 WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change. 
 This restaurant is rated two stars. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 28, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A review last Wednesday about the restaurant SHO Shaun Hergatt misidentified an ingredient in the beurre blanc served with striped bass and crayfish tails. It is vin jaune, meaning ''yellow wine,'' from the Jura region -- not ''young'' wine.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: IN THE FRAME: Rabbit roulade with carrot puree and hearts of palm at SHO Shaun Hergatt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); MENU PRICES (73%); FISHERIES (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); TASMANIA, AUSTRALIA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010



525 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Energy and Banking Shares Lift Wall Street

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Javier C. Hernandez contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Renewed confidence about an economic recovery helped a rally on Wall Street on Tuesday, with energy and banking stocks leading the way.
 The major indexes ended with modest gains as the price of oil rose nearly 2.5 percent as concern over the effect of volcanic ash on the European airline industry eased. That brought large gains to energy companies and stoked enthusiasm for commodities. 
 The financial sector was buoyed by better-than-expected earnings from Goldman Sachs, the fourth large bank to exceed first-quarter forecasts. Goldman reported a 91 percent increase in profit in the first quarter, to $3.46 billion, or $5.59 a share. 
 But despite the glittering results, shares of the bank fell more than 2 percent, to $159.98. Goldman's stock has struggled since Friday, when the Securities and Exchange Commissionaccused the company of fraud, sending its shares down nearly 13 percent.
 Goldman's results exceeded forecasts and helped build confidence about the strength of the financial sector, which economists see as the backbone of a global recovery. But there was lingering concern among traders, analysts said, as the scope of the S.E.C.'s investigation remained unclear.
 ''Investors are basically tiptoeing back into the water as far as the equity market is concerned,'' said John Lanski, chief economist at Moody's Capital Markets. ''I think it is a little too early to say that there will not be any more land mines as it pertains to the S.E.C. investigation.''
 Goldman's robust results helped stir optimism about the profit-making potential of big banks, which have seen their fortunes swell in tandem with a fast-paced stock market rally over the last year. Banking stocks rose sharply on Tuesday, with Citigroup gaining 1.8 percent, Bank of America climbing 1.2 percent, and JPMorgan Chase increasing 1.1 percent.
 ''The underlying story is that as the financial sector improves and recovers, that enhances prospects for a recovery by bank lending to the overall economy, which ought to benefit equities in general,'' Mr. Lanski said.
 Interest rates were steady. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note was unchanged at 98 18/32 The yield stayed at 3.80 percent.
 In the commodities markets, oil rose $2, to $83.45 a barrel, in New York trading, which helped push up shares of oil producers. Occidental Petroleum shares rose 2.2 percent, Exxon Mobil 1.1 percent and Chevron 0.9 percent.
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 25.01 points, or 0.23 percent, to 11,117.06. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 9.65 points, or 0.81 percent, to 1,207.17, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 20.20 points, or 0.81 percent, to 2,500.31.
 The Dow was held back by a 1.9 percent decline in I.B.M., which reported that its first-quarter net income rose 13 percent, to $2.6 billion, or $1.97 a share, or $22.86 billion in revenue. Traders seemed unimpressed with those results, even though they exceeded expectations and the company offered a brighter forecast for the rest of the year.
 Weaker-than-expected earnings from Coca-Cola also hurt the Dow as the company's shares fell 1.5 percent. Coca-Cola executives also expressed doubts about the strength of consumer spending.
 European markets closed higher, and most major indexes in Asia rose. In London, the FTSE 100 index was 55.78 points, or 0.97 percent higher. The DAX in Frankfurt rose 101.79 points, or 1.65 percent, on a strong report about the German economy. And the CAC 40 in Paris rose 56.18 points, or 1.41 percent.
 Analysts said investors were looking for more than just strong earnings as they tried to extend Wall Street's rally into a 14th month. With little on the economic calendar and earnings reports mostly positive so far, trading may remain light, they said.
 ''There is no earnings data or economic data to give it direction,'' PNC Financial's chief economist, Stuart Hoffman, said. ''It is treading water awaiting new signals.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); AIRLINES (57%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); OXY (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (51%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (51%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



526 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: With Revenue Cut, Schools Are Warning Of Huge Layoffs

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN and SAM DILLON

 BODY:
School districts around the country, forced to resort to drastic money-saving measures, are warning hundreds of thousands of teachers that their jobs may be eliminated in June. 
 The districts have no choice, they say, because their usual sources of revenue -- state money and local property taxes -- have been hit hard by the recession. In addition, federal stimulus money earmarked for education has been mostly used up this year. 
 As a result, the 2010-11 school term is shaping up as one of the most austere in the last half century. In addition to teacher layoffs, districts are planning to close schools, cut programs, enlarge classes and shorten the school day, week or year to save money. 
 ''We are doing things and considering options I never thought I'd have to consider,'' said Peter C. Gorman, superintendent of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg schools in North Carolina, who expects to cut 600 of the district's 9,400 teachers this year, after laying off 120 last year. ''This may be our new economic reality.'' 
 Districts in California have given pink slips to 22,000 teachers. Illinois authorities are predicting 17,000 job cuts in the public schools. And New York has warned nearly 15,000 teachers that their jobs could disappear in June. 
 Secretary of Education Arne Duncan estimated that state budget cuts imperiled 100,000 to 300,000 public school jobs. In an interview on Monday, he said the nation was flirting with ''education catastrophe,'' and urged Congress to approve additional stimulus funds to save school jobs.
 ''We absolutely see this as an emergency,'' Mr. Duncan said.
 Everywhere, school officials tend to overestimate the potential for layoffs at this time of year, to ensure that every employee they might have to dismiss receives the required notifications. 
 Whether the current estimates rise or fall will depend in part on labor negotiations under way in hundreds of districts, and on how taxpayers vote on school levy proposals in many states and towns. But those adjustments will affect the likely layoff numbers only at the margins.
 Some of the deepest cuts are in Los Angeles, where Superintendent Ramon C. Cortines sent notices to 5,200 of the district's 80,000 employees last month, telling them that they were losing their jobs. 
 ''I've been superintendent in five major school districts, and had responsibility for cuts for years -- but not this magnitude, not this devastating,'' Mr. Cortines said.
 And there is no end in sight, he said. He cut his district's $12 billion budget this school year by $1 billion, has prepared $600 million in cuts for the term beginning in the fall and is looking ahead to a deficit for the following year of $263 million. 
 ''I don't see this being over in the year 2014-15,'' Mr. Cortines added.
 In the economic stimulus bill passed in February 2009, Congress appropriated about $100 billion in emergency education financing. States spent much of that in the current fiscal year, saving more than 342,000 school jobs, about 5.5 percent of all the positions in the nation's 15,000 school systems, according to a study by the Center on Reinventing Public Education at the University of Washington.
 States will spend about $36 billion of the stimulus money in the next fiscal year, leaving their budgets short by some $144 billion, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal-leaning research group. 
 About a quarter of all state spending goes to public schools, said Jon Shure, a state fiscal expert at the center, so without new aid, the continuing job losses will add to the nation's employment woes. 
 Warning of an educational emergency, Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, proposed a $23 billion school bailout bill last Wednesday that would essentially provide more education stimulus financing to stave off the looming wave of school layoffs.
 ''This is not something we can fix in August,'' said Mr. Harkin, chairman of the Senate education committee. ''We have to fix it now.''
 Michael J. Petrilli, who served in the Education Department under President George W. Bush, predicted that the bill could attract significant support. But even if it is approved, Mr. Petrilli said, it would leave an underlying problem unresolved.
 ''Is the federal government going to try to prop up states and districts forever?'' he said. ''If not, we're just kicking the can down the road. Eventually, districts need to learn to live with less.''
 Senior Democratic aides said that because Mr. Harkin's bill would add to the deficit, it was unlikely to pass.
 A survey by the American Association of School Administrators found that 9 of 10 superintendents expected to lay off school workers for the fall, up from two of three superintendents last year. The survey also found that the percentage considering a four-day school week had jumped to 13 percent, from 2 percent a year ago. 
 One of those districts is Atwater-Cosmos-Grove City in Minnesota, which has asked the state to let it shorten the school week. The district's business manager, Dan Tait, called the measure ''another tool in the toolbox'' for reducing costs. 
 ''We're a district that's spread across 340 square miles, so we spend an inordinate amount of money on transportation for our 812 students,'' Mr. Tait said.
 The current round of cuts is particularly wrenching, superintendents said, because their financing was already cut to the bone last year. For example, Barbara Thompson, superintendent of the Montgomery public schools in Alabama, said the state used to give her district $975 per student for supplies, technology and library costs. 
 ''They cut it to zero,'' Ms. Thompson said. ''So they can't cut it any more.''
 Not all school systems are in trouble. State mineral revenues, for instance, have largely spared Montana, North Dakota and Wyoming from serious belt-tightening. 
 But they are the exceptions. In early April, the Flagstaff, Ariz., school district's preliminary list of people who might not have jobs next year included almost a third of its 1,500 employees -- every art, music and physical education teacher, every counselor and librarian, every teacher with three or fewer years in the district, and all temporary hires. 
 By the time reduction-in-force notices went out April 15, though, the number was trimmed to 223 teachers and 47 administrators. And if Arizona voters approve a 1-cent sales tax next month, the cuts will be much less drastic. 
 In the U-46 district in Elgin, Ill., Jose M. Torres, the superintendent, said he also had to contend with a budgeting roller coaster this spring. At this point, the only uncertainty is whether the district's 53 schools in Chicago's western suburbs will feel ''high pain or low pain,'' Mr. Torres said.
 Seeking to cut at least $44 million from the district's $400 million budget, Mr. Torres has eliminated early childhood classes for 100 children, cut middle school football, increased high school class sizes from 24 to 30 students, drained swimming pools to save chlorine, and dismissed 1,000 employees, including 700 teachers.
 ''This stuff really hurts,'' Mr. Torres said. And what is worse, he said, ''I think next year will be tougher than this year.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jack O'Connell, the California superintendent of schools, at a news conference last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); LAYOFFS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (79%); PROPERTY TAX (79%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (79%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (79%); EDUCATION FUNDING (79%); DISMISSALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (74%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



527 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Yahoo Earnings Nearly Triple As Sales of Display Ads Surge

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
SUNNYVALE, Calif. (AP) -- First-quarter earnings for the Internet company Yahoo nearly tripled as its revenue edged up for the first time in more than a year. 
 The results, released Tuesday, represented the best quarterly performance for Yahoo since it hired Carol A. Bartz as chief executive to engineer a turnaround 15 months ago. The performance reflected an increase in online advertising, the main source of Yahoo's income. Advertisers have been spending more freely amid signs that the economy has emerged from its worst recession in more than 70 years.
 Display advertising, a category that includes online billboards and other visual marketing campaigns, surged 20 percent from last year, the company said.
 Yahoo earned $310.2 million, or 22 cents a share, in the January-March quarter. That compared with $117.6 million, or 8 cents a share, a year ago.
 The results were bolstered by the recent sale of an e-mail service and the initial payments from Microsoft to cover some of the costs of a search advertising partnership between the companies.
 Excluding those one-time gains, Yahoo said it would have earned 15 cents a share. That figure easily topped the average estimate of 9 cents a share among analysts polled by Thomson Reuters. 
 ''We had a good quarter, delivering income from operations higher than our outlook,'' Ms. Bartz said in a statement.
 Revenue was up 1 percent to $1.6 billion. The modest gain represented the first time Yahoo's quarterly revenue has increased since the third quarter of 2008.
 After subtracting commissions paid to its advertising partners, Yahoo's revenue totaled $1.13 billion -- about $40 million below analysts' estimates.
 Yahoo shares fell 0.05 percent on Tuesday to close at $18.38. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); EXECUTIVES (57%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: CAROL BARTZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



528 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Apple Moving From Strength to Strength

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- The mobile computing revolution unleashed by Apple three years ago with the release of the iPhone is picking up speed, and Apple is reaping the rewards. 
 The company said on Tuesday that iPhone sales surged 131 percent in the most recent quarter, to 8.75 million units, helping Apple deliver a 90 percent rise in profit and a 49 percent increase in sales. 
 ''We had some staggering growth rates,'' Tim Cook, Apple's chief operating officer, said in a conference call with investors. 
 Apple delivered strong results for the quarter that ended March 31 despite the sluggish economic recovery and the typically slow postholiday season, easily beating Wall Street's most upbeat estimates. 
 Shares of the company surged more than 5 percent, to a record high, in after-hours trading following the release of the earnings report.
 ''We're thrilled to report our best nonholiday quarter ever,'' Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, said in a statement. ''We've launched our revolutionary new iPad and users are loving it, and we have several more extraordinary products in the pipeline for this year.'' 
 Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., said it sold 2.94 million Macintosh computers, up 33 percent from a year ago, while iPod sales declined 1 percent, to 10.9 million units. 
 But the company said a shift in sales to iPod Touch devices from less expensive models helped lift iPod revenue 12 percent.
 But it was the surging sales of the iPhone, one of Apple's most profitable products, that surprised analysts and pleased investors the most. 
 ''The iPhone is on fire,'' said Gene Munster, an analyst with Piper Jaffray. ''The iPhone is being bought by people who don't have Apple products. I suspect that that will have a halo effect that benefits other Apple products.''
 The rapid rise in iPhone sales was driven in part by overseas customers. Unit sales leaped nearly sixfold in Asia, 183 percent in Japan and 133 percent in Europe. International sales accounted for 58 percent of the quarter's revenue, Apple said.
 ''The quarter was gargantuan relative to expectations,'' said A. M. Sacconaghi Jr., an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. He said the majority of the upside was driven by the unexpected surge in iPhone sales.
 ''People want a computer in their pocket,'' he said, ''and Apple is at the very forefront of that business.'' 
 The company said net income in the quarter that ended March 31 rose 90 percent, to $3.07 billion, or $3.33 a share, from $1.62 billion, or $1.79 a share, a year earlier, after adjustments for an accounting change. Revenue rose 49 percent, to $13.5 billion, from $9.08 billion, after adjustments. 
 On average, analysts had expected Apple to report net income of $2.45 a share on revenue of $12 billion. 
 The company said its gross profit margin rose to 41.7 percent, from 39.9 percent a year earlier. 
 Apple's stock stood at $244.59 at the close of regular trading. After the company announcement, its shares rose to around $257 in after-hours trading. 
 Apple executives did not update investors on sales of the iPad, saying only that they were ''shocked'' by the high levels of demand for the tablet computer. 
 ''We have been very aggressive with pricing,'' Mr. Cook, the chief operating officer, said. ''We think the market for the iPad will be large and want to capitalize on our first-mover advantage.'' He said Apple's overall profit margins would most likely erode in the current quarter as a result of the aggressive pricing. 
 Mr. Sacconaghi said that warning appeared to be the only thing keeping Apple shares from surging even further. ''The enthusiasm would be even more unbridled had they not lowered the gross margins outlook,'' he said. 
 The iPad went on sale April 3 after the end of the second quarter, and Apple said it had shipped 500,000 units in the first week. On Tuesday, Apple said that iPads equipped with 3G would begin shipping to customers on April 30.
 Apple is not the only company benefiting from the shift to mobile computing. Google recently reported that sales of devices running its Android software were brisk. But the increased competition from Google has not yet affected sales of the iPhone. 
 Indeed, Apple's iPhone business, which grew 90 percent in the last quarter of 2009, is gaining momentum. Mr. Jobs said earlier this month that the company had sold more than 50 million iPhones since it introduced the device three years ago. 
 Apple is expected to release a new version of the phone this summer. Images of the device leaked out this week, after an Apple engineer left a prototype on a barstool and a gadget blog bought the phone from the person who found it. 
 The phone is expected to ship with a new version of Apple's mobile operating software and a built-in advertising system, which will probably sharpen the already intense competition between Google and Apple. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At an Apple store in San Francisco, shoppers experimented with the iPad when it was released this month. Apple said it shipped 500,000 iPads in the first week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); TABLET COMPUTERS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (63%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (53%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); PJC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (63%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (73%); TIM COOK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (71%); ASIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



529 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Johnson & Johnson's Quarterly Profit Rises

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Johnson & Johnson, the maker of health care products, reported an increase in first-quarter profit as consumer spending continued to recover from recession levels.
 But the company said Tuesday that the combined impact of the health care overhaul, currency fluctuations and generic competition would suppress profits the rest of the year. It lowered its 2010 profit outlook by 5 cents a share, or about 1 percent. 
 The company reported that first-quarter profit rose 29 percent, to $4.53 billion, or $1.62 a share, mainly on a $900 million gain from settling a patent fight with Boston Scientific and other litigation. Excluding that, net income increased 3 percent, to $3.62 billion, or $1.29 a share, from $3.51 billion, or $1.26 a share.
 The conglomerate, whose products include drugs, baby shampoo and birth control pills, said sales rose 4 percent, to $15.63 billion. Its medical devices business posted an 8 percent sales increase.
 The results just beat the forecast of analysts, who on average expected $1.27 a share on sales of $15.6 billion.
 Dominic J. Caruso, the company's chief financial officer, said changes from the health care overhaul would lower earnings for the year by about 10 cents, or $300 million, because the government will now get back higher rebates for drugs bought through the Medicare and Medicaid. 
 He said the company could absorb that, given that it expected sales of about $63.5 billion this year. 
 International sales rose 14.4 percent, mostly because of the effect of exchange rates. Sales in the United States fell 5 percent, as a major recall of Tylenol and other popular nonprescription medicines hurt sales.
 In addition, generic competition reduced sales by about 90 percent from a year ago for Topamax for epilepsy and Risperdal for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
 Shares of the company fell 4 cents Tuesday, to close at $65.99. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); HEALTH CARE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); TOILETRIES MFG (90%); RECESSION (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (73%); MEDICAID (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); MEDICAL DEVICES (70%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (68%); MEDICARE (65%); EPILEPSY (63%); LITIGATION (55%); CONTRACEPTION (54%); EXECUTIVES (52%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (50%)

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (93%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (57%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (93%); BSX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (93%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (57%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



530 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Lends Its Support To Charging Bank Fees

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The International Monetary Fund has endorsed proposals to charge a levy on the largest banks for the cost of any future government-led rescues as well as a tax based on bank profits and compensation. 
 The recommendations came as a proposal for a $50 billion fund to liquidate huge failing banks has become a political flashpoint in Congress and as a Senate committee held a hearing on President Obama's call for a $90 billion tax on companies that benefited from the 2008 bailouts. 
 The two I.M.F. proposals are part of a 56-page interim report, ''A Fair and Substantial Contribution by the Financial Sector,'' prepared at the request of the G-20 countries after their meeting last September in Pittsburgh. The report's findings, which were provided to reporters on Tuesday, are expected to be discussed when G-20 finance ministers and central bankers meet here on Friday as part of the annual spring meetings of the I.M.F. and World Bank. 
 In November, Britain's prime minister, Gordon Brown, floated the idea of a tax on financial transactions. The Obama administration shot down the idea, but in January, Mr. Obama called for a $90 billion, 10-year levy on banks to recoup the cost of the bailouts, also known as the Troubled Asset Relief Program.
 Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and the chairman of the Finance Committee, said at a hearing on Tuesday that it was important to study how the fee would affect the markets. ''We need to learn whether banks will pass it on to consumers and how it might affect lending to small businesses,'' he added. ''And we need to take into account what European countries might do as they consider similar levies.''
 The top Republican on the committee, Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, called the fee a thinly disguised excise tax. ''The Congressional majority is so strapped for money to pay for out-of-control spending that they're looking to the banks and other financial institutions for money,'' he said.
 The new I.M.F. report is not binding, and faces resistance from G-20 members like Canada. International coordination could be crucial to imposing the proposals. Even so, the I.M.F. support could have political ramifications as Mr. Brown's Labour Party heads into general elections and as Congress debates legislation to overhaul financial regulations. 
 The I.M.F. plan would include two components. A ''financial stability contribution,'' to cover the costs of future interventions, would be assessed on all financial institutions at a flat rate initially, but to be adjusted over time based on how much risk the institutions posed to the financial system. The money would either go into the governments' general revenues or ''accumulate in a fund to facilitate the resolution of weak institutions.'' 
 The report also calls for a ''financial activities tax'' that would be based on bank pay and profits. In December, the House adopted a regulatory overhaul that included a $150 billion fund to cover any future government support for failing firms. A Democratic proposal that is being fiercely debated in the Senate would set up a $50 billion fund.
 Last week, the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, called the money a ''bailout fund'' that would perpetuate government rescues of Wall Street firms rather than end them. President Obama and other Democrats called Mr. McConnell's accusations false and misleading, saying the money could be used only to liquidate -- not resuscitate -- failing firms.
 The Treasury Department has been lukewarm about the fund. Bill Burton, a White House spokesman, told reporters on Tuesday that ''there's a wide range of issues besides just the $50 billion fund,'' but stopped short of saying it would be dropped. ''That's one of many issues that are being discussed with members in the Senate,'' he said of the fund.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); POLITICS (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); EXCISE TAX (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (67%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (63%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); GROUP OF TWENTY (G20) (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (87%); GORDON BROWN (57%); MAX BAUCUS (57%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



531 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: British Regulator Opens Goldman Inquiry

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- The Financial Services Authority, Britain's financial regulator, said Tuesday that it had opened an investigation into Goldman Sachs in relation to recent accusations in the United States that the firm defrauded investors. 
 ''Following preliminary investigations, the F.S.A. has decided to commence a formal enforcement investigation into Goldman Sachs International in relation to recent S.E.C. allegations,'' the regulator said in a two-sentence statement, referring to the Securities and Exchange Commission. ''The F.S.A. will be liaising closely with the S.E.C. in this review.''
 In an e-mailed statement, Goldman Sachs Group said it would cooperate with British investigators. The S.E.C.'s charges are ''completely unfounded in law and fact,'' the bank said in the statement. In earlier statements, Goldman has said that it would ''vigorously contest them and defend the firm and its reputation.''
 Pressure has been mounting on the British regulator to investigate Goldman Sachs's international business outside the United States since the Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil fraud suit against the bank on Friday. Prime Minister Gordon Brown had called for a formal investigation over the weekend, and in an interview with the BBC said he was ''shocked at this moral bankruptcy.'' 
 The opposition Conservative party and Liberal Democrats called on the government to suspend using Goldman Sachs as an adviser until the case was solved. The suit against Goldman Sachs is ''yet another reminder of how reckless and greedy the global banking industry had become'' and illustrates the need for ''a complete overhaul'' of the sector, the Liberal Democratic leader, Nick Clegg, said in a statement Tuesday.
 The British regulator has been stepping up its enforcement of market abuse cases over the last 12 months after criticism of being asleep at the wheel ahead of the financial crisis. The agency hired staff and grew its budget to increase the number of criminal cases it brought against individuals rather than companies as part of what it called its ''credible deterrence'' plan.
 The only person named in the S.E.C. suit is Fabrice P. Tourre, who was part of the mortgage unit at the center of the accusations. Mr. Tourre, 31, who worked for Goldman in London, is voluntarily taking some time off from work, a Goldman Sachs spokesman Michael Duvally said Tuesday.
 ''It is voluntary. He decided to take some time off,'' Mr. Duvally said in a statement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (94%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (93%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); BUDGETS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); LIBERALISM (70%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (66%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (65%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (96%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%); FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (96%); BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (96%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (96%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (96%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (59%); GORDON BROWN (58%); NICK CLEGG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



532 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: We Can't Tell You Why

 BODY:
The Census Bureau is hiring a million or more people to assist with the 2010 count. It is temporary work, but it pays well. With national unemployment at nearly 10 percent, it looks like an excellent opportunity. That is unless you are one of the nearly 50 million Americans with any arrest or conviction on record. 
 A new class-action lawsuit has been filed on behalf of applicants who say they were unfairly turned down for census jobs based on an opaque screening policy that relies on F.B.I. checks for any criminal histories. Those checks are notoriously unreliable. A 2006 federal report found that half of them were inaccurate or out of date. 
 The Census Bureau is vague about what makes someone ineligible. In Congressional testimony, it suggested that it is excluding people who have been convicted of crimes involving violence and dishonesty. The bureau's Web site seems to say that applicants whose background checks turn up any arrest -- no matter how trivial, distant in time, irrelevant to the job -- receive a letter advising them that they can remain eligible only if they produce ''official court documentation'' bearing on the case within 30 days. Incredibly, the letter does not identify the alleged criminal activity. Applicants must prove eligibility, even if they don't know why they were flagged. 
 Official court records are often unobtainable for the millions of people whose convictions have been sealed or expunged or for people who have been arrested and released because of lack of evidence or mistaken arrest. This problem falls heaviest on black and Hispanic communities where stop-and-frisk policies and indiscriminate arrests are common. 
 The hiring problem is not limited to the Census Bureau. After 9/11, Congress required port workers to undergo F.B.I. background checks to keep their jobs. Last year, a study by the National Employment Law Project, an advocacy group for workers, found that the government had mistakenly denied credentials to tens of thousands of those workers. 
 States and cities are wisely revising employment policies. The federal government needs to develop a fair and transparent screening system for job applicants and a more effective appeals process. Congress must also require the F.B.I. to verify the criminal records -- and find missing data before issuing background checks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (92%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); ARRESTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (76%); EVIDENCE (76%); CLASS ACTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); VIOLENT CRIME (72%); TESTIMONY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



533 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Unbundling the Bets

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
They were the black boxes of the subprime era, byzantine creations of the brightest minds on Wall Street that made -- and then lost -- vast fortunes. 
 But now, after so much financial pain, Wall Street is nervously tallying the potential legal costs from its misadventures in collateralized debt obligations, known as C.D.O.'s, among the most toxic financial instruments ever devised.
C.D.O.'s, which produced much of the financing for the mortgage explosion, are at the heart of the Securities and Exchange Commission's civil fraud case against Goldman Sachs -- as well as a broader S.E.C. investigation of sales and disclosure practices at many Wall Street firms. 
 Until the bottom fell out, these instruments also powered an age of riches on Wall Street. Initially, bundling mortgage bonds into C.D.O.'s helped open the spigot of easy money that allowed Americans to buy more house than they could afford. 
 But Wall Street, as it is wont to do, took the concept to another level, creating securities that allowed investors to make side bets on the housing market. Known as synthetic C.D.O.'s, they did not raise money for home loans or serve any other broad economic purpose. 
 Instead, like a casino offering blackjack along with slot machines and Texas hold 'em, they were just one more way to bet against the housing market. 
 Now, the question in Washington is whether other banks, in addition to Goldman, might face legal action stemming from their role in this market. Bank analysts on Wall Street, too, are trying to figure out who might have done deals similar to Goldman's, exposing them to potential liabilities.
 C.D.O. transactions are not publicly traded, so it is difficult to get a full picture of the market's size. But research suggests it is huge. Thomson Reuters estimates that sales of C.D.O.'s peaked at $534.2 billion in 2006, from $68.6 billion in 2000. Even in 2007, when the housing market was starting to crumble, Wall Street created an estimated $486.8 billion in new C.D.O.'s.
 Synthetic C.D.O.'s accounted for just over 10 percent of total C.D.O. issuance in 2007, according to an analysis by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. Traditional cash bond C.D.O.'s made up most of the rest. 
 Many banks on Wall Street and in Europe were even bigger players in the types of complex investment deals that Goldman is now defending. Merrill Lynch was at the top of the heap, assembling $16.8 billion worth between 2005 and 2008, according to a new report by Credit Suisse.
 UBS put together $15.8 billion worth of similar products, according to the Credit Suisse estimates, while JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup each created more than $9 billion worth. Goldman Sachs was a comparatively small issuer, at $2.2 billion. 
 While Wall Street tallies who issued what, and how much money might be on the line at each firm in the event of lawsuits, the S.E.C. has been conducting an industrywide investigation of how banks sliced and diced mortgages, raising fears that more federal suits may be coming. 
 The S.E.C. has a team of about 40 investigators focusing on C.D.O. market practices, and regulators are examining a broad array of subprime mortgage-related issues at Wall Street banks. Those include the timely disclosure of losses, accounting irregularities and possible conflicts of interest. A spokesman for the S.E.C. declined to comment on its investigations. 
 Crucial to the case against Goldman is the question of whether the firm should have disclosed that an investor who was betting against the securities in the portfolio also helped select them. In legal filings, Goldman argues that it was not standard industry practice to make such a disclosure.
 Magnetar, a Chicago hedge fund, also invested in C.D.O.'s that it then bet against, without disclosing its role, according to an investigation by ProPublica, a nonprofit journalism organization. Magnetar has denied that it picked individual securities, however, adding that its investment strategy was market-neutral.
 The threat of more litigation represents the abrupt end to what was a golden era on Wall Street. The C.D.O. business has been a vital engine in the money machine at many firms for much of the last decade. 
 Big investors became addicted to the extra yield. Rating agencies earned windfall profits from evaluating the securities. Investment banks enjoyed hefty fees from ready buyers of the assets. And C.D.O. dealmakers racked up huge bonuses, regardless of whether their products later imploded. 
 If the limitless appetite for these so-called structured products provided much of the easy money that fueled the housing boom, it also contributed to its bust. What began as a financial innovation lauding the benefits of diversified portfolios of corporate investments morphed into one giant bet on the American housing market. 
 To lure investors who wanted higher returns, bankers increasingly stuffed C.D.O.'s with riskier assets like subprime mortgage securities, rather than traditional corporate bonds. 
 They bought their own mortgage companies to feed their loan packaging machines and relaxed the standards on the types of assets they would accept. 
 Once the air started coming out of the housing market and there were no more mortgage bonds to sell, they created synthetic C.D.O.'s, whose supply was unlimited because they did not rely on hard assets.
 C.D.O.'s are, in some ways, like mutual funds that hold bonds rather than stocks. But instead of selling shares, the creators of a C.D.O. sell slices, or tranches as they are known, that are linked to different securities in the underlying portfolio. 
 A C.D.O. manager, working for either the bank or an outside investment management firm, typically picks those assets for a fee. Each C.D.O. slice is then rated by credit agencies for its potential risk, with more risky slices offering higher yields. 
 At the height of the housing boom, as interest rates dropped on competing investments like corporate bonds, big institutional investors like pension funds were tempted by these C.D.O.'s, which offered yields two or three times comparable investments but were marketed as ''ultrasafe.'' 
 But there was a catch. Top-rated tranches could hold mortgages and other shaky loans that were at risk of defaulting if the overall housing market weakened. 
 An ostensibly top-rated triple-A tranche might contain bottom-of-the-barrel subprime mortgage junk. That was supposed to make the tranche safer through diversification. In practice, however, it compounded the effect of a sharp, nationwide decline in home prices. 
 As homeowners began to default in ever greater numbers in 2007, the value of these C.D.O.'s collapsed. 
 Many investors and analysts now say that a lack of transparency made the fall of C.D.O.'s that much swifter and heavier. Unlike bonds or stocks, which are bought and sold on open markets, C.D.O.'s are traded privately, with dealers quoting prices to prospective buyers. 
 ''The dealer knows everything and you don't know anything,'' said Geoffrey Gwin, a principal at Group G Capital Partners, an investment fund that researched C.D.O.s but decided against buying any.
 ''You have to take the word of Goldman or Morgan Stanley,'' he said, ''and the trading desk always had the advantage. The more exotic the security, the more advantage they had.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The London offices of Goldman Sachs. The investment bank was among those that devised complex mortgage deals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOBY MELVILLE/REUTERS) (B10) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (75%); MARKET SIZE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); GAMING (71%); CARD GAMES (70%); POKER (70%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



534 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Last Railroad Bar Cars May Soon Disappear In Name of Progress

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The cocktails started early, before the train left Manhattan, and by 6 p.m. most of the passengers were already on the second round. Tiny vodka bottles and punched ticket stubs littered the floor. A game of dice by the bar was getting rowdy as a couple canoodled in the corner, beers in hand.
 The bar car is a mainstay of the commuting life, a lurching lounge on wheels inseparable from the suburbia of Cheever and ''Mad Men.''''The commute is so bad as it is,'' explained Paul Hornung, a financial worker, as he sipped a Stella Artois. ''This is the one thing you can look forward to.'' 
 But perhaps not for long.
 Having survived numerous attempts at prohibition and outlasted its brethren in the suburbs of Chicago and New Jersey, the bar car out of Grand Central Terminal is now facing its gravest threat: the great recession.
 A new fleet of cars will soon replace the 1970s-era models now used by commuters on the Metro-North Railroad line heading to Connecticut. But with money tight, railroad officials said they could not yet commit themselves to a fresh set of bar cars, citing higher costs for the cars' custom design.
 ''They're being contemplated,'' said Joseph F. Marie, Connecticut's commissioner of transportation. ''But we have not made any final decisions.''
 Defenders of the boozy commute say it helps raise revenue: After expenses, bar cars and platform vendors made $1.5 million last year, up from $1.3 million in 2008. (Officials would not say if a bar car makes more money than a car with the normal number of seats.) So far, 300 new train cars have been purchased, featuring airline-style headrests and graceful luggage racks. But officials say the bar cars remain a low priority, and may not be ordered.
 ''A decision was made early on that more seats on the trains was our top priority and that bar cars -- as popular as they are -- could wait,'' said Judd Everhart, a spokesman for Connecticut's department of transportation, which operates New Haven Line trains in conjunction with Metro-North. ''It was about that simple.''
 The existing bar cars, much beloved for their homey wood paneling-styled wallpaper, cannot be operated with the new fleet, which is expected to be phased in starting at the end of this year.
 That prospect did not go down well with the regulars on a recent weekday ride to Bridgeport.
 ''It raises my anxiety level,'' said Tom Skinner, a marketing executive from Westport and proprietor of BarCar.com, a Web site devoted to the steel-wheeled saloon. ''There's always people trying to scuttle the bar cars. It's just a fact of life.''
 Smoking was banned on the cars in the 1980s, much to riders' chagrin, but the diehards fought back against any attempt to end liquor service. The most recent threat, in 2007, would have banned alcohol from being sold on the trains and on platforms at Grand Central and Pennsylvania Station, but an outcry prompted officials to reject the proposal.
 Full-fledged bar cars -- complete with lounge-style leather seating, cupholders and stools -- have been phased out on the Long Island Rail Road (although bartending carts are occasionally wheeled onto trains during the evening rush), and Metro-North trains to much of Westchester County and other points upstate no longer offer the amenity. (Even Ossining, home to Don Draper, is out of luck.)
 Which makes Connecticut riders (and a few who get off before the border) all the more territorial about their rare perk.
 ''This is a civility of days gone past,'' said Michael Mahan, a commuter since 1984, as Stamford sped by and he took another sip of white wine. ''I would miss them very much.''
 Among the anxious is Cesar Vergara, a Ridgefield, Conn., resident and a veteran train designer who created the interior of Metro-North's new commuter cars, known as M-8s. As part of his contract, Mr. Vergara designed several concepts for a modern-day bar car, including more space for group seating and a smaller, more streamlined bar to replace the current cramped setup. But he acknowledged that his vision may never become a reality.
 ''The M-8 bar car, right now, is in a very political realm,'' Mr. Vergara said.
 Indeed, Connecticut rail officials would not provide images of the prototype designs, which have been reviewed by focus groups, although Mr. Marie, the commissioner, mused a bit on what might work. ''It would be nice to create a row-bench type of environment,'' he said. ''Kind of like in a pub.''
 Modeled after the private club cars of the early 20th century, the Grand Central bar car sought to bring a perk of high society to the everyday commuting class. Still, the car's current incarnation is more bar-around-the-corner than Tavern on the Green.
 The cars tend to break down, air-conditioning is creaky, and commuters have been known to sneak duct tape aboard for impromptu repairs.
 ''I wouldn't care if they went,'' Pat Charla, an environmental consultant on the Bridgeport-bound train, said of the bar cars. ''It's one of those holdovers from the past.''
 But some would not have it any other way. Jeffrey Maron, a rider from Stamford, said that the new designs floated by officials reminded him of a ''snack shop'' and that his only request for a new design would be ''more cupholders.''
 No satellite TVs?
 ''Nah,'' Mr. Maron said. ''Half the crowd are Yankees fans and half the crowd are Red Sox fans. You'd have a war in there figuring out what to watch.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 28, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Wednesday about the uncertain future of the bar cars on the Metro-North Railroad referred erroneously to their interiors. They are decorated with wallpaper designed to look like wood paneling; they do not have actual wood paneling.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Al Petersen tending bar on the 5:48 Stamford express out of Grand Central recently. He has an assortment of libations.
LAST CALL?: Passengers on Metro North's New Haven line still enjoy a cold one on the way home, but the bar cars may be replaced by regular coaches. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
BACK IN '74: The current bar cars on the New Haven line have been around since the 1970s. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY C. MORRIS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19)
 Lauren Clancy, Craig Connors and Josh Pavloff, at right, aboard a bar car on the Stamford express one night last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (76%); SUBURBS (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (87%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010



535 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Our $48 Billion Credit Card Bill

BYLINE: By ALBERT A. FOER. 
Albert A. Foer is the president of the American Antitrust Institute.

 BODY:
Washington
 THESE days, it's hard to find anyone who doesn't use credit and debit cards regularly -- they're convenient and compact and often come with small cash-back incentives. 
 But what almost no one realizes is that those benefits are far outweighed by an implicit transaction fee, set by credit card companies and their issuing banks, that costs consumers more than $48 billion a year. As Congress works toward passing consumer financial reform legislation, it should include new rules about how -- and how much -- credit card companies can charge. 
 The credit and debit card system is dominated by two companies, Visa and MasterCard, respectively accounting for 47 percent and 35 percent of the general purpose credit card market in 2008. While those firms handle the transactions, they depend on banks to issue the cards to consumers. The result is that Visa and MasterCard compete to deliver the highest returns to the banks rather than offer the lowest prices to consumers. 
 Card companies generate those returns by charging an ''interchange fee'' for every credit or debit transaction they run -- when a merchant accepts your card for a $100 item, it gets approximately $98 in payment. These costs are passed on to all consumers -- even those who pay by cash -- in the form of higher retail prices.
 None of this is new or controversial information; you can find it in a recent Government Accountability Office report to Congress. What is less well known, however, is that many countries have instituted consumer protections against such hidden taxes, while the United States, which has some of the developed world's highest interchange fees, has left them completely unregulated. 
 True, there's an antitrust class action suit by merchants pending, but its resolution is a long way off and it's unclear if or how it would benefit consumers. And while several legislative proposals are sitting patiently in Congress, they would at best only chip around the edges of the problem. 
 Instead, Washington should take two straightforward steps. 
 First, Congress should recognize the obvious: debit cards, whose use and fees are growing at a rapid rate, are actually no more than plastic checks. Congress and the Federal Reserve do not allow banks to charge their customers a percentage of each check, and it should put the same restriction on debit cards. 
 Second, Congress should authorize the Federal Reserve to limit credit card interchange fees to their actual cost, fairly determined, plus a reasonable profit. The annual savings to merchants would be in the tens of billions of dollars. Since retailing is highly competitive, most of these savings would be passed on to consumers in lower prices or in the form of improved services by retailers that could afford to hire more people. 
 How can we be sure this would work? Because other countries have already done it. In Australia, for example, regulation brought the credit card interchange rate down from .95 percent to .50 percent -- compared to our approximately 2.0 percent. Five years of experience has confirmed that the payments system works fine; in 2008, the Reserve Bank of Australia estimated the savings during the previous year to have been around 1.1 billion Australian dollars (approximately $1 billion).
 If the United States were to reduce the interchange rate from 2.0 percent to 0.5 percent, the savings would be $36 billion per year, less some relatively small offsets. 
 Not only would such savings make our retail payment system more fair, but it would represent a significant economic stimulus at a time when consumers are just starting to spend again. And best of all, it wouldn't cost Washington a thing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (93%); CREDIT CARDS (92%); DEBIT CARDS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CARD INTERCHANGE FEES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); CLASS ACTIONS (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%)

COMPANY: VISA INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



536 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Does Buying Beat Renting? In Some Spots

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT; Janie Lorber contributed reporting. E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In much of the country, for much of the last decade, renting a home has usually been a better financial move than buying one. It's been true in Southern California, San Francisco, Phoenix, Las Vegas and large parts of Florida, the Pacific Northwest and the Northeast. 
 Renting required you to suffer the scorn of many real estate agents and the skepticism of friends and relatives who believed that owning a home was almost always superior. But renting also would have typically saved you thousands of dollars a year.
 Now, however, the situation is getting more complicated because the housing bust has been playing out unevenly across the country. 
 In some once bubbly markets, prices have fallen so far that buying a home appears to be a bargain, based on a New York Times analysis of prices and rents in 54 metropolitan areas. In South Florida, Phoenix and Las Vegas, house prices -- relative to rents -- are as low as in places that never experienced a bubble, like Indianapolis and St. Louis. 
 But in a handful of other areas, including San Francisco, Seattle and Portland, Ore., house prices remain significantly higher than they were before the bubble began. People who buy a home in these areas will face higher monthly costs than if they rented, even after taking tax deductions into account. As a result, buyers are effectively betting that prices will rise enough in future years to cover the difference.
 The country's two biggest metropolitan areas, New York and Los Angeles, are a microcosm of today's more nuanced real estate market. Average house prices across both areas have fallen enough that buying may now be a good deal for many families. Yet there are still significant pockets where renting looks promising -- including parts of Manhattan, the New York suburbs and Orange County, Calif. 
 The buy-versus-rent question is particularly relevant right now. To qualify for an expiring federal tax credit of up to $8,000, home buyers must sign a contract by April 30 and close on the house by June 30. Many economists also expect mortgage rates to rise in coming months.
 Camela Witters, a 38-year-old trophy engraver in Las Vegas, plans to close on her first home purchase -- a four-bedroom, $164,000 house nearly identical to the one she is now renting -- in the next few days. She decided to buy, she said, when she found out she could save money by doing so. ''I didn't buy a house when everyone did,'' said Ms. Witters, who lives with her companion and their children. ''So I'm kind of taking advantage of all the foreclosures.''
 The Times analysis is based on comparing the costs of buying and renting a similar home, using data from Moody'sEconomy.com, a research firm, and from real estate agents. This kind of comparison can never tell someone for sure what the best financial move will be. But it does show whether a buyer will need a big jump in future prices to cover all the costs of owning -- including the down payment, closing costs, property taxes, mortgage interest, repairs and co-op fees.
 A simple way to do the comparison is to look at something called the rent ratio: the purchase price of a house divided by the annual cost of renting a similar one. The number 20 provides a useful rule of thumb. When you do the math, you discover that a ratio above 20 means you should at least consider renting, especially if you may move again in the next five years or so. When the ratio is well below 20, the case for buying becomes a lot stronger. 
 In many large metropolitan areas, including New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Houston, Dallas, Atlanta and South Florida, the average ratio is now 16 or lower. It was more than 25 in several of these places at the peak of the bubble, about five years ago. With a ratio as low as 16 and interest rates as low as they are, the costs of owning can be less than the costs of renting -- and buyers will end up worse off only if prices fall considerably more.
 A two-bedroom Spanish-style condominium in Beverly Hills, Calif., for example, recently went on the market for $1.075 million, notes Don Heller of Prudential California Realty. Including taxes, condo fees and the tax deduction for mortgage interest, a typical buyer making a 20 percent down payment would face an effective monthly payment of about $6,000. Compare that with the monthly rent on a similar two-bedroom condo nearby -- $7,600. 
 The math works out similarly in less costly areas, too, be it once booming cities like Phoenix and Orlando, Fla.; Midwestern cities like Minneapolis and Cleveland; or the outer-ring suburbs of most big cities. Much of New York's outer boroughs appear to fall into this category.
 The problem for potential buyers is that many real estate agents argue for buying even in places where the numbers don't add up. In the Bay Area, the rent ratio remains around 30. In Seattle, it's about 28. In parts of Manhattan, it appears to be about 25, according to current listings.
 ''In most markets, you're better off buying,'' Thomas Lys, an accounting professor at Northwestern University, says. ''But once the ratio gets to 25 or 30, I'd say, 'You know what? There may be a bubble.'''
 The rent ratio has long been higher in New York and San Francisco than most places, perhaps because of zoning rules or because the cities are home to large numbers of affluent households willing to pay extra to own. So it's possible that prices will not fall. But they are already high enough that the monthly costs of owning often exceed the cost of renting -- even without taking into account the down payment or other one-time costs.
 A big reason is that prices still haven't fallen much in some places. In Rye, N.Y., the average per-square-foot sale price was only 9 percent lower early this year than at its 2007 peak, according to MDA DataQuick. Some similarly affluent parts of the Los Angeles, Miami and San Diego areas have experienced declines of 25 to 50 percent.
 Obviously, owning a home brings benefits that are not strictly financial. It offers stability and, for many people, comfort. As I have written, I bought a house in 2008 (in part because the rent ratio in my area had fallen to about 16). Even in Manhattan, San Francisco or Seattle, a family confident that it will stay put for a decade or more may well be wise to buy today. 
 But it's worth remembering that the advantages of homeownership are frequently exaggerated. The mortgage-interest tax deduction doesn't eliminate the cost of borrowing money; it merely reduces it. The freedom to paint your house any color you wish comes with the responsibility of paying for a new roof when the time comes. The $15,000 or $30,000 or $50,000 that real estate agents' fees add to the price of a house can wipe out a lot of other savings. 
 The most striking part of the current situation may be that despite everything that has happened in the last few years, there are still places where renting does not get enough respect.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: How to Decide: One way to figure out whether to buy or rent is to look at the rent ratio: the purchase price of a typical house divided by the annual rent of a similar house. A number above 20 means you should consider renting. A number well below 20 makes a better case for buying. (Source: Moody's Economy.com) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); FAMILY (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); FORECLOSURE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (65%); TAX LAW (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (61%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (78%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (88%); OREGON, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (78%); INDIANA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



537 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Reform and Massachusetts

 BODY:
Four years after Massachusetts enacted its ambitious health care reform, the state has achieved its goal: covering most of the uninsured without seriously straining its budget. Most citizens seem to like it. 
 Massachusetts cannot stop there. It also needs to figure out how to rein in the escalating costs of medical care and health insurance. The new national reform law includes many provisions designed, over time, to reduce costs, but Massachusetts will have to move sooner.
 The Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation, a business-supported nonpartisan watchdog, calls the state's health reform ''remarkably successful'' in expanding coverage to 97 percent of residents at a modest incremental cost to taxpayers, consistent with projections. 
 It also has strong popular support. Even after Senator Scott Brown won election this year with a pledge to block national health care reform, half of his voters (and two-thirds of all voters) told pollsters that they supported their own state's similar reforms. 
 While an independent candidate for governor, Timothy Cahill, the state treasurer, is denouncing reform as a ''fiscal train wreck'' -- a view eagerly embraced by national critics of reform -- the newly chosen Republican candidate, Charles Baker, did not even mention the issue in his speech to his party's convention. 
 So what is really going on? Massachusetts is struggling to pay its Medicaid bills, as are most states in this deep recession. Health reform increased the number of poor people eligible for Medicaid. Half of the added costs were matched by federal funds, and the problem should dissipate in all states as the recession recedes. 
 Critics also point to sudden jumps in premium rates (up to 34 percent) proposed for individuals and small businesses. That is not because of reform. Remember California's Anthem Blue Cross, which announced increases of up to 39 percent for individuals this year? 
 But now that Massachusetts has required all individuals to buy insurance and all employers to provide it or pay penalties, it will have to quickly deal with the problem. State regulators recently rejected almost 90 percent of the proposed increases. Even if the rejections survive legal challenges, they are a short-term fix.
 Like the rest of the nation, the state needs to deal with the underlying issue: the relentlessly rising prices charged by health care providers. Those are driven in part by costly new technologies and treatments. In Massachusetts, it is exacerbated by the outsized bargaining power of prestigious teaching hospitals and regionally dominant community hospitals. 
 When Massachusetts's politicians designed their reform, they calculated that achieving near-universal coverage first would then give all participants in the health care system an incentive to help rein in costs. There are encouraging signs that that is starting to happen. 
 One hospital consortium, Partners HealthCare, that had been accused of extracting unjustifiably high reimbursements from insurers, has recently offered $40 million to help reduce big premium increases for small businesses and says it wants to be ''part of the solution'' in finding ways to reduce costs.
 State leaders have commissioned studies and held hearings to come up with more fundamental solutions. Legislative leaders seem determined to end within five years the prevailing fee-for-service system, in which doctors and hospitals are paid for the volume of care they provide whether or not it is high quality or needed. 
 One possible substitute might be a system in which groups of doctors and hospitals are paid a fixed sum to provide whatever care a patient needs over the course of a year. There are also proposals in the Legislature to let the government regulate provider payments as a temporary solution, and some experts think regulation may be the most effective way to tame costs in the long run. 
 Massachusetts's experience offers some useful lessons for the national reform effort. That begins with the fact that once citizens have near-universal coverage, they like it -- no matter what current polls and politicians may say. And while the federal reform law is confronting the cost problem from the start with a slew of pilot projects to determine what works best, the administration and Congress will need to press hard to expand every promising approach. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE REFORM (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); INSURANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); POLITICS (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (64%)

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (65%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (65%)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



538 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: A State With Plenty of Jobs but No Place to Live

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
WILLISTON, N.D. -- When Joey Scott arrived here recently from Montana, he had no trouble finding work -- he signed almost immediately with a company working to drill in the oil fields. But finding housing was another matter. 
 Every motel in town was booked, some for months in advance. Every apartment complex, even every mobile home park, had a waiting list. Mr. Scott found himself sleeping in his pickup truck in the Wal-Mart parking lot, shaving and washing his hair in a puddle of melted snow. 
 ''I've got a pocketful of money, but I just can't find a room,'' said Mr. Scott, 25. 
 North Dakota has a novel problem: plenty of jobs, but nowhere to put the people who hold them. 
 The same forces that have resulted in more homelessness elsewhere -- unemployment, foreclosure, economic misery -- have pushed laid off workers from California, Florida, Minnesota, Michigan and Wyoming to abundant jobs here, especially in the booming oil fields. 
 But in this city rising from the long empty stretches of North Dakota, hundreds are sleeping in their cars or living in motel rooms, pup tents and tiny campers meant for weekend getaways in warmer climes. They are staying on cots in offices and in sleeping bags in the concrete basements of people they barely know.
 North Dakota has the lowest unemployment rate in the country, 4 percent, but advocates for the homeless say the number of people they see with nowhere to live -- a relatively rare occurrence here until now -- grew to 987 in 2009 from 832 in 2008, an increase of about 19 percent. 
 And the problem is certain to worsen this summer as oil companies call for more rigs and thousands more workers. 
 ''It's hard to know where this might end,'' said E. Ward Koeser, the mayor of Williston, who met this month with the governor of North Dakota to plead for state help with the housing crisis. ''It's the one thing that sometimes wakes me up in the morning and doesn't let me go to sleep,'' he said, acknowledging that most mayors can only dream of having such a riddle.
 Still, where will all these happily employed newcomers live? 
 ''I don't know,'' said Mr. Koeser, whose city had about 12,000 people at last count, but may now be closer to 15,000. ''We literally have no place.''
 Cranes dot the city, proof that a building boom is under way, but not fast enough.
 While the rest of the country was sinking into recession, North Dakota never did. Other states nursed budget deficits, but North Dakota, even now, has a surplus. The state has a wealth of other jobs. A rise in oil production here, especially, served as an antidote to any whiff of what the rest of the nation was witnessing.
 Beneath an enormous expanse of land here, workers have pumped an ever-growing amount of crude oil from a formation called the Bakken, thanks in part to new horizontal drilling technology. Government estimates put the potential recoverable oil from the Bakken, which stretches into Montana, at 4.3 billion barrels. 
 Now, 109 oil rigs -- with scores of workers for each -- are drilling in North Dakota, and some officials say that figure could reach 150 this year.
 In one of the least populated states in the nation, this sudden overcrowding has upended some axioms of ordinary life.
 In motels here, some people have stayed so long that they know their neighbors down the hall. Dinner comes from a microwave. ''It's a horrible way to live,'' said Chris Rosmus, a Minnesotan who moved into the Vegas Motel for a month and stayed a year and a half. 
 In the Buffalo Trails campgrounds, an odd assortment of wooden boards, tarps and pink foam insulation are pressed up around campers, desperate attempts to add shells against the bitter cold. Fred Wise, in a camper he called his ''8-by-18-foot jail cell,'' was watching ''Dancing With the Stars'' alone at a cramped table. He grimaced at memories of temperatures dipping well below zero during the six months he has been here, temperatures at which ice can form inside these campers or freeze a camper door shut. ''You've got to man up for this,'' said Mr. Wise, 58. 
 Families have been pressed and strained. Mercedes Allen, her boyfriend and their 4-month-old baby, Hunter, moved here from California. Their stay with relatives stretched on awkwardly. Her boyfriend was hired to the first oil job he sought, but the living arrangements -- with four adults, two children and two babies all under one roof -- grew tense. By early April, Ms. Allen said, her relatives had given her a week to move out. 
 ''It hurts to have to say, 'I found nothing again,' '' Ms. Allen said, as her week was running out. 
 If the problems are bad for oil workers, who are well paid, they are worse for locals in less lucrative jobs, who have seen their rents soar. 
 There are still some houses for sale here, but many of the newcomers arrive from grim chapters -- foreclosures, bankruptcies, layoffs. They have little hope of qualifying for mortgages. 
 In the end, a relative from California drove a 31-foot camper to North Dakota for Ms. Allen, and she moved by the appointed day. The camper sits in a mobile home park without working utility connections, like electricity, for now, but Ms. Allen said she was relieved. ''At least we have our own place,'' she said.
 In desperation a few months ago, the city began allowing trailers, campers and skid shacks (nearly windowless portable homes) to park in one of the empty, overgrown trailer parks that had been abandoned after the last oil boom ended in the 1980s.
 The more than 180 companies involved in the oil operations, including Hess, ConocoPhillips and Marathon Oil, are also concerned about housing. Some have rented out entire motels, and others are bringing in large, portable housing units -- known as man camps -- for workers to live on site, as Mr. Scott, the man sleeping in his truck, ultimately did.
 Halliburton, with more than 300 employees in the area, has a 90-unit camp in place, and has asked to cart in a 158-bedroom camp used for the Winter Olympics. Some companies are helping workers make down payments on mobile homes.
 For all of these struggles, few here say they wish to go back to where they came from.
 Jana and Robert Stout stayed in motel after motel for four months, not finding one that could keep them for long. When Mr. Stout left for his oil job in the mornings, Ms. Stout climbed into her Buick and began the hunt for the next place. Often she sat much of the day in motel parking lots, waiting for vacancies to open up. 
 A few weeks ago, the Stouts got off a waiting list at a motel that had been booked for two years. They can stay there indefinitely for $450 a month. The room is tiny, big enough for a bed, a television and a hot plate. Ms. Stout's grown daughter and granddaughter may need to stay on the floor, if they cannot find a place. 
 Still, the Stouts said they would never consider returning to Wyoming, where they used to live. ''For what?'' Ms. Stout said. ''If I was home right now, I would be way worse. There is potential here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mercedes Allen, with her son, Hunter, scanned ads for scarce housing in Williston, N.D. (A1)
Mobile homes and so-called skid shacks line up in a mobile home park in Williston, N.D. The park's new owner has said he plans to update and expand the park.
Campers provide housing for many workers in the Williston oil boom. Others, like Justina and DeLyle Chappell, live in motels
 Jana Stout, standing, visits often. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); MAYORS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); FORECLOSURE (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); TRAILER PARKS (56%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



539 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Change Is in the Air at B.C.S. Meetings

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL

 BODY:
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -- The fountains at the Royal Palms Resort trickled softly under the desert sun on Tuesday, providing a peaceful backdrop for what could be one of college sports' most chaotic periods.
 The 11 conference commissioners from the Football Bowl Subdivision are meeting here for the annual Bowl Championship Series meetings, and the main topics being discussed are almost anything but the B.C.S.
 With the prospect of conference realignment looming, a 96-team N.C.A.A. men's basketball tournament appearing more likely and the N.C.A.A. on the cusp of hiring a new president, college sports are getting an overhaul. 
 ''This is a fairly dynamic period in my experience in college athletics,'' Britton Banowsky, the Conference USA commissioner, said. ''You have so many things that are out there on the horizon. All of those things are fairly dramatic in terms of how the future of college athletics will be shaped.''
 The hottest topic here is conference expansion, and any notion about the Big Ten's plans being announced this week should be dismissed. The conference appears to be sticking to its original 12- to 18-month timetable, not an accelerated one that had been reported over the weekend.
 ''My understanding is that they are still on the same timetable that he outlined,'' the Big 12's commissioner, Dan Beebe, said. He said jokingly that he put Big Ten Commissioner Jim Delany in a headlock to make him talk, and added, ''He's a straight shooter and I think he'll follow the plan that he set down.''
 That issue should be further clarified on Wednesday when Delany addresses the news media here. The expectation was that Delany would not address his league's possible expansion in significant fashion.
 The league formally said it was exploring expansion in December, and since then speculation has fluctuated with the 11-member league looking to expand to anywhere from 12 to 16 members.
 That has members of leagues like the Big East and the Big 12 nervous, because a large Big 10 expansion could mean a significant change in the college sports landscape.
 ''It would be negligent for me not to be concerned,'' the Big 12's Beebe said.
 Much of what will happen depends on what Notre Dame decides with its football independence. Notre Dame's athletic director, Jack Swarbrick, has said that it is exploring the option of giving that up. He has also said that independence is Notre Dame's top priority.
 And while none of this is formally being discussed here, it's as much a part of the backdrop of these meetings as the bubbling fountains at the $329-a-night resort.
 ''It's not even on an agenda,'' the Western Athletic Conference commissioner, Karl Benson, said of expansion. ''But it's permeating around us. I don't think we're going to leave here knowing anything.''
 And while there may not be answers this week, the general feeling here is that college sports as we know them may be drastically different in a short period of time.
 ''There are probably more influential factors at play here than we've seen in quite a few years,'' Oklahoma's athletic director, Joe Castiglione, said. ''The economy and the enterprise itself is changing, and in some cases may need to change. The hot-button items on campus from academic reform to the concern of how we continue to identify funds to support the financial model that's already in place. That may be the precipitating factor in why people need to look at items that before haven't been openly discussed.''
 Whether hints of change come this week remain to be seen. But there's little doubt that change is in the air. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (94%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); RESORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); BASKETBALL (72%); TOURNAMENTS (72%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (57%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



540 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Everybody Loves A Winner

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN. 
Maureen Dowd is off today.

 BODY:
I've been thinking about President Obama's foreign policy lately, but first, a golf tip: I went to Dave Pelz's famous short-game school this winter to improve my putting and chipping, and a funny thing happened -- my long game got better. It brings to mind something that happened to Obama. The president got health care reform passed, and it may turn out to be his single most important foreign policy achievement.
 In politics and diplomacy, success breeds authority and authority breeds more success. No one ever said it better than Osama bin Laden: ''When people see a strong horse and a weak horse, by nature they will like the strong horse.'' 
 Have no illusions, the rest of the world was watching our health care debate very closely, waiting to see who would be the strong horse -- Obama or his Democratic and Republican health care opponents? At every turn in the debate, America's enemies and rivals were gauging what the outcome might mean for their own ability to push around an untested U.S. president.
 It remains to be seen whether, in the long run, America will be made physically healthier by the bill's passage. But, in the short run, Obama definitely was made geopolitically healthier.
 ''When others see the president as a winner or as somebody who has real authority in his own house, it absolutely makes a difference,'' Defense Secretary Robert Gates said to me in an interview. ''All you have to do is look at how many minority or weak coalition governments there are around the world who can't deliver something big in their own country, but basically just teeter on the edge, because they can't put together the votes to do anything consequential, because of the divided electorate.'' President Obama has had ''a divided electorate and was still able to muscle the thing through.''
 When President Dmitri Medvedev of Russia spoke by phone with Obama the morning after the health care vote -- to finalize the New Start nuclear arms reduction treaty -- he began by saying that before discussing nukes, ''I want to congratulate you, Mr. President, on the health care vote,'' an administration official said. That was not just rank flattery. According to an American negotiator, all throughout the arms talks, which paralleled the health care debate, the Russians kept asking: ''Can you actually get this ratified by the Senate'' if an arms deal is cut? Winning passage of the health care bill demonstrated to the Russians that Obama could get something hard passed.
 Our enemies surely noticed, too. You don't have to be Machiavelli to believe that the leaders of Iran and Venezuela shared the barely disguised Republican hope that health care would fail and, therefore, Obama's whole political agenda would be stalled and, therefore, his presidency enfeebled. He would then be a lame duck for the next three years and America would be a lame power. 
 Given the time and energy and political capital that was spent on health care, ''failure would have been unilateral disarmament,'' added Gates. ''Failure would have badly weakened the president in terms of dealing with others -- his ability to do various kinds of national security things. ... You know, people made fun of Madeleine [Albright] for saying it, but I think she was dead on: most of the rest of the world does see us as the 'indispensable nation.' '' 
 Indeed, our allies often complain about a world of too much American power, but they are not stupid. They know that a world of too little American power is one they would enjoy even less. They know that a weak America is like a world with no health insurance -- and a lot of pre-existing conditions. 
 Gen. James Jones, the president's national security adviser, told me that he recently met with a key NATO counterpart, who concluded a breakfast by congratulating him on the health care vote and pronouncing: ''America is back.'' 
 But is it? While Obama's health care victory prevented a power outage for him, it does not guarantee a power surge. Ultimately, what makes a strong president is a strong country -- a country whose underlying economic prowess, balance sheet and innovative capacity enable it to generate and project both military power and what the political scientist Joe Nye calls ''soft power'' -- being an example that others want to emulate. 
 What matters most now is how Obama uses the political capital that health care's passage has earned him. I continue to believe that the most important foreign policy issue America faces today is its ability to successfully engage in nation building -- nation building at home.
 Obama's success in passing health care and the bounce it has put in his step will be nothing but a sugar high if we can't get our deficit under control, inspire a new generation of start-ups, upgrade our railroads and Internet and continue to attract the world's smartest and most energetic immigrants.
 An effective, self-confident president with a weak country is nothing more than a bluffer. An effective, self-confident president, though, at least increases the odds of us building a stronger country. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); DMITRY MEDVEDEV (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



541 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Financial Debate Renews Scrutiny On Size of Banks

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- One question has vexed the Obama administration and Congress since the start of the financial crisis: how to prevent big bank bailouts.
 In the last year and a half, the largest financial institutions have only grown bigger, mainly as a result of government-brokered mergers. They now enjoy borrowing at significantly lower rates than their smaller competitors, a result of the bond markets' implicit assumption that the giant banks are ''too big to fail.'' 
 In the sweeping legislation before the Senate, there is no attempt to break up big banks as a means of creating a less risky financial system. Treasury Department and Federal Reserve officials have rejected calls for doing so, saying bank size alone is not the most important threat. 
 Instead, the bill directs regulators to compel the largest banks to hold more capital as a cushion against losses. It sets up a procedure intended to allow big banks to fail, with the cost borne not by taxpayers but by the biggest financial institutions. 
 As the debate over the regulatory overhaul heated up this week, a populist minority in both Congress and the Fed requested a revisit to the size issue. They would like to go beyond a provision in the bill, suggested by Paul A. Volcker, the former Fed chairman, and supported by President Obama, that would seek to keep banks from growing any larger but not force any to shrink.
 ''By splitting up these megabanks, we by definition will make them smaller, safer and more manageable,'' Senator Edward E. Kaufman Jr., Democrat of Delaware, said in a speech Tuesday. 
 The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, Richard W. Fisher, broke ranks with most of his colleagues within the central bank last week, declaring, ''The disagreeable but sound thing to do regarding institutions that are too big to fail is to dismantle them over time into institutions that can be prudently managed and regulated across borders.''
 There also has been concern about the size of banks from Republicans who believe in free-market principles. Several senators from the South and West -- Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, Johnny Isakson of Georgia, John Cornyn of Texas and John McCain of Arizona -- have expressed a desire to revisit the 1999 repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act, the Depression-era law that separated commercial and investment banking.
 Alan Greenspan, the former Fed chairman, has entertained the idea of splitting up the banks but has stopped short of advocating it.
 ''If they're too big to fail, they're too big,'' he said in an October speech. 
 He added: ''In 1911, we broke up Standard Oil. So what happened? The individual parts became more valuable than the whole. Maybe that's what we need.''
 In January, the White House embraced a proposal by Mr. Volcker that would ban banks that take customer deposits from running their own proprietary trading operations, or making market bets with their own money. It would also limit the share of all financial liabilities that any one institution can hold -- besides deposits -- but it would be up to regulators to set the limit. 
 A federal law enacted in 1994 already addresses size by restricting any bank from holding more than 10 percent of the nation's deposits, although several of the largest banks have been granted waivers from that requirement or used loopholes to evade its intent. 
 The Volcker proposal resembled an amendment by Representative Paul E. Kanjorski, Democrat of Pennsylvania, that would let regulators dismantle financial companies so large, interconnected or risky that their failure would jeopardize the entire system. The amendment was part of a regulatory overhaul that the House adopted in December, largely along party lines, and is also in the Senate version in a modified form.
 At a hearing on Tuesday about the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, which caused credit markets to seize up in September 2008, the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, reiterated that his preference was to limit the risky behavior of banks rather than break them up.
 ''Through capital, through restrictions in activities, through liquidity requirements, through executive compensation, through a whole variety of mechanisms, it's important that we limit excessive risk-taking, particularly when the losses are effectively borne by the taxpayer,'' Mr. Bernanke said.
 But when Mr. Kanjorski pressed him on whether regulators should be allowed to break up big banks, he replied, ''It's something that would be, on the whole, constructive.'' 
 Representative Brad Sherman, Democrat of California, added: ''We should go further and not just allow, but require, regulators to break up firms that have reached a certain size.'' 
 What is not in doubt is that the crisis increased the size and importance of the six largest banks: Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley. 
 During the crisis, Bank of America swallowed Merrill Lynch, JPMorgan Chase bought Bear Stearns and Wells Fargo acquired Wachovia. Goldman and Morgan converted to bank holding companies to gain access to lending from the Fed's discount window. 
 In 1995, the assets of the six largest banks totaled 17 percent of the nation's gross domestic product. Now they have assets amounting to 63 percent of G.D.P. Measured another way, the share of all banking industry assets held by the top 10 banks rose to 58 percent last year, from 44 percent in 2000 and 24 percent in 1990. 
 Gary H. Stern, the co-author of ''Too Big to Fail: The Hazards of Bank Bailouts,'' said policy makers largely ignored the warnings contained in the title when the Brookings Institution published the book in 2004.
 Mr. Stern, who retired last year as president of the Minneapolis Fed, is lukewarm about the bill. ''It tries to address the problem but it's half a loaf at best,'' he said. ''It doesn't address the incentives that gave rise to the problems in the first place.''
 In Mr. Stern's view, ending ''Too Big to Fail'' should subject uninsured creditors -- bondholders -- to losses if the bank fails. Without that fear, he said, unsecured creditors will not exert discipline on the banks by monitoring their risk-taking and pricing their loans appropriately. Mr. Stern said the bill in the Senate is vague about how such creditors would be treated if the government were to seize and dismantle a failing bank. 
 Simon Johnson, an M.I.T. professor, has been leading the intellectual charge to break up banks. In his book ''13 Bankers,'' he urged that no financial institution be permitted to control more than 4 percent of G.D.P. and no investment bank more than 2 percent. All six of the big financial institutions exceed those limits. 
 Forbidding taxpayer bailouts, as the Senate bill proposes, is worth little more than the paper it is on, Mr. Johnson argues. ''When push comes to shove, will the government save these guys?'' he asked. ''I don't know anybody who doesn't think they'd save Goldman if Goldman were to suddenly run into trouble.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Edward E. Kaufman Jr., left, and Carl Levin during a financial hearing last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BONDS (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%)

PERSON: RICHARD SHELBY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHNNY ISAKSON (78%); JOHN CORNYN (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); TED KAUFMAN (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (53%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



542 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: How to Regulate The Internet Tap

BYLINE: By JOHN W. MAYO, MARIUS SCHWARTZ, BRUCE OWEN, ROBERT SHAPIRO, LAWRENCE J. WHITE and GLENN WOROCH. 
John W. Mayo and Marius Schwartz are professors of economics at Georgetown. Bruce Owen is a professor of public policy at Stanford. Robert Shapiro is a senior policy fellow at the Georgetown Center for Business and Public Policy. Lawrence J. White is a professor of economics at New York University's Stern School of Business. Glenn Woroch is the executive director of the Center for Research on Telecommunications Policy at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
''TRANSPARENCY is non-negotiable,'' declared Europe's new commissioner for digital issues, Neelie Kroes, in a speech last week laying out her thoughts on net neutrality. ''In a complex system like the Internet, it must be crystal-clear what the practices of operators controlling the network mean for all users.'' 
 Ms. Kroes's comments reflect the decision made by the European Union in November to avoid any of the more extreme regulations that could stifle the innovation that has been the hallmark of the Internet. Instead, the union chose a more measured approach that emphasizes transparency. 
 This at odds with the Federal Communications Commission, which is currently considering versions of net neutrality regulation that would severely restrict firms' business models and pricing flexibility. Before the commission embraces regulation, it should take another look at the European model and focus on a policy built on transparency.
 Under the new European rules, providers are required to inform customers of any limitations that they impose on access, or on the use of services and applications, including bandwidth caps. 
 Similarly, providers have to notify customers of any standards that they use to measure or shape traffic patterns in response to network congestion, and supply information on how those standards may affect service quality. 
 The directive also requires carriers to notify users of security breaches, like hacker attacks and identity theft, that could jeopardize their privacy. All these regulations typically inflict only relatively low costs on providers and allow consumers to make more informed decisions. 
 The European directive does grant individual nations the authority to establish minimum quality-of-service requirements, but -- and this is important -- does not require it. Indeed, the union has explicitly acknowledged the efficiency-enhancing properties of price and quality discrimination, while at the same time condemning limits that hinder competition. 
 As such, each European country will be left to deal with the merits and costs of regulation on a case-by-case basis. However, if any country goes too far in imposing more intrusive regulations, the European Commission retains the authority to intervene to maintain a common regulatory framework and a consistent internal market within the union. 
 Perhaps the most noteworthy thing about the European regulations is what they do not do. They do not prescribe business or pricing models for European telecommunications companies. This represents a vote of deserved confidence regarding the effectiveness of Europe's current competition policy as well as the evolution of pricing, competition and investment in the industry. Europe already has all the tools needed to address lapses in competition if they occur. 
 As American policymakers decide what should be done about net neutrality, they would do well to consider the precedents set by Europe's new framework. The goal should be to develop -- through a deliberative process involving regulators, the public and affected companies -- industry-wide disclosure requirements that provide consumers with easy-to-interpret information on company-based limitations on access, use of services or applications. 
 When it comes to the Internet and net neutrality, ensuring transparency promises to enhance the evolution of this dynamic market. Imposing heavy-handed rules about how providers can operate will only hinder it. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GALIA OFFRI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (90%); BANDWIDTH (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (85%); COMPUTER CRIME (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (76%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (76%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); IDENTITY THEFT (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%)

PERSON: NEELIE KROES (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



543 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: C. K. Prahalad, Proponent of Poor as Consumers, Dies at 68

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
C. K. Prahalad, a management professor and author who popularized the idea that companies could make money while helping to alleviate poverty, died Friday in the La Jolla neighborhood of San Diego. He was 68 and lived in San Diego.
 The cause was an undiagnosed lung illness, his family said. 
 Mr. Prahalad wrote ''The Fortune at the Bottom of the Pyramid: Eradicating Poverty Through Profits,'' about how companies could tap the poor as customers and, as a result, improve the lives of millions of impoverished people in developing countries.
 His work on poverty, and earlier on how companies should build ''core competence,'' earned him a loyal following in corporate boardrooms around the world, especially in India. Though he had lived in the United States for more than 40 years, he traveled frequently to India to advise corporate executives and political leaders.
 Anand Mahindra, chairman of a Mumbai-based business conglomerate, Mahindra & Mahindra, said Indian executives flocked to listen to Mr. Prahalad, who pushed them to be more adventurous in expanding their companies overseas and at home.
 ''He would say, 'I just don't believe you guys have enough ambition,' '' Mr. Mahindra said in a telephone interview. ''It had to do with his patriotism, his very, very deep desire to see Indian brands and companies succeed.''
 Coimbatore Krishnarao Prahalad was born in the south Indian city of Coimbatore on Aug. 8, 1941. His mother was a homemaker and his father was a judge and prominent labor rights lawyer who wrote several books about Hindu philosophy. 
 In the early 1970s, Mr. Prahalad came to the United States to pursue a doctoral degree in management at Harvard Business School. After earning his degree, Mr. Prahalad moved back to India in 1975 but he arrived just as Indira Gandhi, then prime minister, was declaring emergency rule and suspending many civil rights. 
 ''As a patriotic person, my father believed that is not what India represented,'' his son, Murali, said. Two years later, ''they made a very tough choice to return to the United States.''
 He became a professor at the University of Michigan's Ross School of Business, where he taught until his death, traveling regularly from California.
 Mr. Prahalad had established a reputation as a formidable business strategist when he started his work on poverty in 1995, according to the preface of ''Bottom of the Pyramid.'' His daughter, Deepa, said her father was concerned about the lopsidedness of growth in India, which had begun loosening government control over its economy in the early 1990s -- something that he had long advocated.
 ''India was starting to see some examples that money could be made and consumers could be tapped,'' she said. ''What concerned him was that the focus in developing countries was often on the middle class and upper class.''
 In the book, he focused on initiatives that he believed had succeeded in reducing poverty. One example was e-Choupal, a project started by the Indian tobacco, food and hotel conglomerate, ITC. The company provided computers to farmers so they could check the prices of soya beans and other commodities in various markets, and compare them with the prices ITC was offering. Doing so raised farmers' incomes and reduced ITC's costs because it did not have to use middlemen.
 Executives and scholars say his research helped encourage companies to serve poor customers with products like small-size pouches of shampoo and low-cost cellphone service. 
 In recent months, he was researching new management styles emerging in nations like India and China and how to assure that the economic rise of people in developing countries could be managed in an environmentally sustainable way, his daughter said.
 In addition to his wife, daughter and son, Mr. Prahalad is survived by three grandchildren, a brother and a sister.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WRITERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%)

COMPANY: MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD (56%)

TICKER: MHID (LSE) (56%); M&M (NSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); MUMBAI, INDIA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); SOUTH INDIA (79%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



544 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: All Creatures Great and Repulsive

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

 BODY:
Nature has taken up residence in your television set, and it wants to kill you. Happy Earth Day.
 If you channel-surf with any regularity, you have almost certainly noticed that shows offering absurdly close-up views of nature, and especially of animals, have been popping up everywhere lately. Last month the National Geographic Channel, recession or no, even rolled out a whole new franchise, Nat Geo Wild, for all the beast-related programming it can't fit onto its main channel. Who can afford to go on a safari or two-week rafting adventure these days? Television gives us all an eco-tourism passport.
 Credit this nature-program explosion in part to a reality-show excessiveness that makes anyone who has ever owned or been bitten by an animal eligible to be featured on TV. Also credit the development of ultraportable video cameras, along with the development of a fresh army of camera operators patient enough to sit in trees or underbrush for days waiting for two whatevers to mate. 
 If you're an animal, it's probably unnerving to be tripping over photographers every time you want to mark your territory or eat a wildebeest. But if you're a television viewer, the unnerving thing is trying to make sense of all this animal TV. On any given night, sometimes on the same channel or even the same program, a gorgeous butterfly, a poisonous toad, a heroic doggie and a ravenous hippo may all come bursting out of your set. 
 Animal Planet, whose ratings have grown for 26 consecutive months, has its annual ''Puppy Bowl,'' a football-style orgy of cuteness, but also ''River Monsters,'' in which an angler named Jeremy Wade catches aquatic creatures so big and ugly you might consider relocating to a desert. Discovery recently concluded the classy ''Life'' documentary series but also serves up the somewhat lower-brow Shark Week (always one of its highest-rated weeks of the year). 
 Yes, it's a jungle in there, and a darned confusing one. But watch enough of these shows and you begin to realize that they generally fit one of several themes:
 ANIMALS ARE ADORABLE. Any show with ''dog'' or ''cat'' in the title of course falls into this category. Also, ''penguin.'' But this grouping also includes shows like ''My Life Is a Zoo,'' which arrives next week on Nat Geo Wild and focuses on the antics at a private zoo in northern Michigan run by Bud DeYoung and Carrie Cramer, who should be commended for their exotic-animal rescues and abundant enthusiasm but perhaps not for their hygiene. Ms. Cramer is seen kissing a hyena on the lips. Or snout. Or whatever it is that hyenas have. 
 ANIMALS ARE WEIRD. Again, anything with ''penguin'' in the title. But there is weirdness all over animal TV, including in the most high-toned programs, because those camera operators crouching in the bushes apparently believe they haven't done their job if they haven't made you go either ''oooh'' or ''eeew.'' The acclaimed, gorgeously filmed ''Life'' series thus gave us a chameleon with a tongue that looked to be about five times longer than it is and a Chilean beetle whose idea of post-coital communication is to toss his date off an 80-foot-high tree branch. And PBS's long-running ''Nature'' series recently showed, in glorious slow motion, hummingbirds that can fly backward and upside-down.
 Other shows take a tabloid-headline approach to the odd. Animal Planet's ''Weird, True & Freaky,'' for instance, has featured a lobster so big that it was called Lobzilla; a python in Indonesia that measured 50 feet, thought to be the longest snake in recorded history (''handlers feed it three or four dogs a month''); and a 1,091-pound squid caught in Antarctica (''an eye the size of a soccer ball'').
 ANIMALS ARE JUST LIKE US. On these shows the narration, full of talk about rivalries and courtships and familial ties, could just as easily be laid over a documentary about the Kennedys or an episode of ''Jersey Shore.'' Animals are, for all practical purposes, people, only somewhat furrier.
 ''Meerkat Manor,'' Animal Planet's docu-soap opera about a family of meerkats in the Kalahari Desert, set the standard for investing wild animals with human qualities. (The network's newly unveiled tagline is actually ''Surprisingly Human.'') On the show's fan site, animal.discovery.com/fansites/meerkat, you can even take a personality quiz called ''Which Meerkat Are You?'' (First question: ''Would you rather eat your sister's babies or eat a scorpion?'')
 Nat Geo Wild is taking a stab at this genre with ''Rebel Monkeys,'' about an irritating gang of urban monkeys in Jaipur, India, and there is surely more such stuff ahead. Trouble is, these kinds of shows, and the hyena-kissing Ms. Cramer, lead to programs like ''Fatal Attractions.'' This series, introduced last month on Animal Planet, looks at real-life incidents in which exotic-pet owners were injured or worse by the tigers and reptiles and such that they thought were their pals. Which brings up one last category of animal shows, and the only one that safety-conscious people should be concerned about:
 ANIMALS WANT TO KILL AND OFTEN EAT US. This breed of program is a full-employment act for voice actors who specialize in deep and ominous-sounding narrations. Flip around the animal-obsessed cable channels or search for their Web videos, and you'll find a poisonous Australian jellyfish (''the most venomous marine creature in the world''), a bite-happy Venezuelan anaconda, a hippo that has chomped down on a former Miss South Africa's ankle and about a thousand other examples of nature treating us nastily. 
 The Animal Planet shows ''I'm Alive'' and ''I Shouldn't Be Alive'' are full of true stories of people who were mauled by bears or shipwrecked in shark-filled seas. Nat Geo Wild's coming ''Swamp Men'' follows an animal-control team that deals with alligators, crocodiles, snakes and the like that threaten humans in the Everglades. 
 Closer to home -- as in, behind the walls or in the attic -- shows like ''Verminators'' on Discovery and ''Billy the Exterminator'' on A&E have tracked the efforts of the people devoted to keeping nature outside, where it belongs. Just this week Billy, a funny, gonzo fellow in Louisiana whose last name is Bretherton, dealt with someone's water moccasin infestation. 
 But there's not much even Billy can do about ''Monsters Inside Me,'' perhaps the creepiest animal program of all. The show, which turned up last year on Animal Planet and, like a lot of these programs, replays frequently, documents cases of people attacked by parasites: a year-old boy whose brain was being eaten from inside by a roundworm; a Vietnam veteran whose lymphatic system is being jeopardized by something he picked up during the war; and on and on. (''For more disgusting parasites and their stomach-churning habits, please visit our Web site,'' says the show's teaser. If you must: animal.discovery.com/tv/monsters-inside-me.)
 Sure, you could argue that we humans have abused nature far more than nature has abused us. You could also argue that these portentous nature shows are merely playing on the secret desire we all have to feel that there is still some danger, some life-or-death excitement, left in this sterilized, seat-belted, stay-on-marked-trails world.
 But while you're making these arguments, a bear may be breaking into your garage, your neighbor's pet boa is probably making its way into your closet, and a flatworm could be laying eggs in your blood vessels. So sure,on Earth Day, all hail nature for its beauty and wonder. But remember that, as that volcano in Iceland reminds us, it's also violent, and hungry. Very hungry.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jeremy Wade, an angler, catches scary, ugly things (that's a Bullseye Snakehead above) for ''River Monsters'' on Animal Planet. (C1)
The tabloid approach: An albino deer on Animal Planet's ''Weird, True & Freaky.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANIMAL PLANET)
One of the stars of Shark Week on Discovery Channel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CATERINA GENNARO/DISCOVERY CHANNEL)
A puppy (cute, right?) looking sharp in the ''Puppy Bowl.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID S. HOLLOWAY/ANIMAL PLANET)
 A Phayre's leaf monkey with its baby, in Thailand, on Discovery's classy ''Life'' series. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARRIE BRITTON/DISCOVERY CHANNEL -- BBC) (C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (89%); EARTH DAY (79%); ECOTOURISM (79%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); SPORT FISHING (74%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); ANIMAL WELFARE (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); BITES & STINGS (72%); MAMMALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%); THAILAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



545 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Invaders, Yes. But Perhaps Quite Tasty.

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
It's Extreme Makeover: Aquatic Edition. 
 Asian carp are reviled as vanquishers of native species, feared as hefty jumpers able to break a boatman's jaw, and scorned as, well, carp. But even as Northern states battle to keep them from ravaging the Great Lakes, officials in the South, where the alien species have multiplied like guppies, are working to transform the carp into marketable assets. 
 First, the rebranding. In January, Louisiana wildlife officials rolled out the Silverfin Promotion, enlisting chefs to create recipes for what they called the tasty white meat of the bighead carp and silver carp, the two dominant invaders. 
 ''A cross between scallops and crabmeat,'' declared Philippe Parola, a noted seafood chef whose new recipes include silverfin almondine. 
 Meanwhile, would-be carp exploiters in Kentucky, after trying the fish smoked, canned and in fried balls, concluded that it tasted remarkably like tuna and proposed labeling it Kentucky tuna. 
 No one has yet declared the Asian carp to taste just like chicken, but a new image does seem essential.
 ''People are renaming these poor fish because of the American people's perception of the name 'carp,' '' said Siddhartha Dasgupta, an economist at Kentucky State University who is exploring their commercial value. ''We're all struggling to find a name that sounds more appetizing. Right now the field is wide open.'' 
 This approach has worked before: few people in the United States ate Patagonian toothfish until marketers renamed it Chilean sea bass. It became so popular that overfishing is now a problem.
 In China and Vietnam, the carp have been farmed and considered delicacies for millennia. But Americans confuse the foreign invaders with the bottom-feeding, stronger-tasting common carp, Dr. Dasgupta said. The Asian carp grow to weights of 50 pounds or more mainly by eating plankton, not garbage on the floor of rivers and lakes. 
 Their flesh is not high in mercury, contrary to what disdainful fishermen assume, and is rich in healthy omega-3 fats. 
 ''If people simply won't accept this product for human consumption, we won't go there,'' Dr. Dasgupta said. ''We'll see if it's profitable to convert it into pet food.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Asian carp, unwelcome in the Great Lakes, are being tested as menu fare in the South.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (90%); WILDLIFE (78%); LAKES (77%); SEAFOOD (74%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (73%); PET FOODS (73%); PRODUCT LABELING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT LAKES (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



546 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: A Flat Day as a Few Good Profit Reports Buoy Investors

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Stocks were steady on Wednesday as a few positive earnings reports encouraged investors who were otherwise concerned about rising costs resulting from the health care overhaul and possible new regulations on the financial industry. 
 While earnings reports have been mostly positive, analysts are starting to look for signs that consumer and business spending will continue to improve, and corporate profits will remain robust. 
 ''Right now the markets' focus is entirely on earnings,'' said Dan Greenhaus, the chief economic strategist for Miller Tabak & Company, an investment firm. ''Guidance is certainly where attention is focusing.'' 
 Many investors, analysts said, were on the sidelines awaiting projections on productivity or hiring.
 ''There is not a lot of leadership at this point in time,'' said Howard Silverblatt, a senior analyst for Standard & Poor's. ''There is a lot of money still sitting on the side waiting for reassurance that things are getting better.'' 
 Economic indicators on producer prices and home sales, as well as weekly jobless filings, are scheduled for release Thursday. The Dow Jones industrial average closed 7.86 points, or 0.07 percent, higher at 11,124.92. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 1.23 points, or 0.1 percent, to close at 1,205.94; and the Nasdaq composite index rose 4.30 points, or 0.17 percent, to close at 2,504.61. 
 Oil prices fell 17 cents to settle at $83.68 a barrel in New York trading. 
 Fallout from the government's health care overhaul unsettled drug and biotechnology companies. Gilead Sciences, the biotechnology company, was down 9.56 percent to close at $40.76 a share after the company revised sales guidance for the year because of the impact of the changes. Gilead lowered its forecast to between $7.4 billion and $7.5 billion for the year, from $7.6 billion and $7.7 billion.
 Merck, which declined 3.7 percent, and Abbott, which fell 2.4 percent, led drug companies lower.
 Among banks, Morgan Stanley reported net income of $1.8 billion, with much of its profit coming from its trading division. The results helped send shares of Morgan Stanley up 4 percent to $31.68. 
 And Wells Fargo & Company said Wednesday that its first-quarter net income declined 16 percent to $2.54 billion as the bank dealt with continuing losses on consumer loans. Its shares dropped 2 percent to close at $33.01. 
 Investors were also watching talks between the European Union and International Monetary Fund as they put together a plan to pave the way for emergency loans for Greece, which is struggling to pay its swelling debt burden. 
 The dollar strengthened slightly, in part because of the concerns about Greece. 
 That news ''put a little wind under the sails of the U.S. dollar, and it makes our markets attractive and easier for our Treasury to finance debt,'' said Stephen Wood, chief market strategist for Russell Investments.
 Global investors seemed hesitant about the rescue plan for Greece, with European markets drifting lower. The FTSE was down 60.26 points or 1 percent to 5,723.43, and the CAC 40 index declined 48.98 points or 1.22 percent, to 3,977.67. The DAX in Frankfurt dropped 33.85 points, or 0.54 percent, to 6,230.38.
 ''Certainly the concerns emanating out of southern Europe are playing a part,'' Mr. Greenhaus said. ''The bond markets are just atrocious.''
 The yield on Greek 10-year bonds rose to 8.12 percent, which Mr. Greenhaus said reflected ''lingering uncertainty as to the shape, scope and form of any E.U.-I.M.F. support.''
 The technology sector helped support modest market gains in the United States. Apple's stock surged 6.04 percent, to $259.35 a share, after the company reported sales of $13.5 billion, beating expectations.
 Forward-looking information is becoming increasingly important as investors look for indications that the economy is poised to recover and try to assess whether a 13-month rally can endure.
 On Wednesday, investors got results from a range of companies, including American automaker Chrysler, which reported that it earned a small operating profit in the first quarter of 2010, with $143 million on revenue of $9.7 billion. The company made a profit even as its sales continued to slide, but Chrysler's chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, said the company was on track to meet performance goals.
 Still, some uncertainty has lingered in the financial sector, with investors still nervous about the government's increasingly aggressive efforts to regulate risky trading practices. The Securities and Exchange Commission accused Goldman Sachs of fraud on Friday. While the scope of the investigation is not yet clear, Goldman's stronger-than-expected quarterly results helped lift the financial sector on Tuesday. The bank's shares were flat on Wednesday after a fall of nearly 13 percent on Friday. 
 ''The Goldman Sachs thing tied people's hands as well,'' said Stephen J. Carl, head equity trader for Williams Capital Group. ''They have to see what is going to come out of that.'' Bond prices were mixed. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, fell to 3.74 percent from 3.80 percent late Tuesday. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); CURRENCIES (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (60%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) GREECE (86%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



547 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Fiscal Panel Subpoenas Documents Of Moody's

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A federal panel said Wednesday that it had issued a subpoena to the credit-rating agency Moody's Investors Service after the firm failed to promptly respond to its request for documents and e-mail messages. 
 The subpoena suggested an intensified activity by the bipartisan panel, known as the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, which was created to examine the causes of the financial crisis. 
 It was the first such subpoena issued by the panel, which was created by Congress last year and is required to complete its findings by Dec. 15. The panel has been criticized for getting off to a slow start and being unfocused in its inquiry, given the wide scope of its mandate.
 In addition, the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations plans to focus on credit-rating agencies at a hearing on Friday, its third one on the financial crisis. Raymond W. McDaniel Jr., chairman and chief executive of Moody's, and Kathleen A. Corbet, a former president of Standard & Poor's, are among the executives expected to testify. 
 Phil Angelides, chairman of the commission, said in a telephone call with reporters that the panel had requested documents from Moody's on March 10. The firm began to produce documents only after the subpoena was issued, he said. 
 ''In seeking documents and testimony from public agencies and from companies, the commission has made it very clear that it is committed to using subpoena power if there is a lack of, or delay in, compliance,'' Mr. Angelides said. 
 ''What we can't have happen here is let people run out the clock on us,'' he said. ''We're not going to let that happen here.''
 In a statement, Michael N. Adler, a Moody's spokesman, suggested that the company was doing its best to comply with the requests for information. ''Moody's has and continues to devote substantial resources to producing documents and making our people available'' to the commission, regulators and other officials, he said in a statement. ''We continue to work to provide useful and appropriate responses to these inquiries.''
 The rating agencies have also come under new scrutiny as a result of the fallout over the civil fraud suit against Goldman Sachs filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission last Friday. The suit contends that the investment bank wrongly permitted the hedge fund manager John A. Paulson to heavily influence which mortgage securities were included in an investment portfolio that was marketed and sold to investors even though it was designed to lose value. 
 Mr. Paulson's hedge fund has noted that securities created under the portfolio were subsequently given a AAA rating by S.& P. and Moody's.
 ''Why is it Moody's isn't just as much in the focus here?'' Representative Darrell Issa of California, the top Republican on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, asked on CNBC on Wednesday.
 ''How could John Paulson know that these were actually bad mortgages and Moody's couldn't know?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPOENAS (97%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LITIGATION (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (73%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (92%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: RAYMOND MCDANIEL (58%); KATHLEEN CORBET (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



548 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Gunmen Raid Mexican Hotels, Abducting at Least 6 People

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY; Antonio Betancourt contributed reporting.

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY -- Armed men raided two hotels in the center of Monterrey, Mexico's industrial capital, early Wednesday morning, hauling away four guests and as many as three staff members and sending a wave of panic across a city that has experienced a spate of violent episodes in recent weeks, the authorities said.
 Dozens of gunmen were involved in the attacks, which occurred at 3 a.m. and were bold even by Mexican standards. They stormed through numerous rooms on the fifth floor of the Holiday Inn Centro, removing four guests but letting others go. The gunmen also abducted the hotel's receptionist and clashed with a security guard outside the hotel, possibly taking him as well, the authorities said. A receptionist at the Mision Hotel across the street was also abducted, bringing the likely total number of missing people to seven, officials said. 
 ''It could be an organized crime group who was looking for an opposing group,'' said Alejandro Garza, the top prosecutor in the state of Nuevo Leon.
 Investigators said the gunmen entered the Holiday Inn with a man who was handcuffed and who told them to go to the fifth floor of the 17-story hotel. Once there, they barged into many rooms. They took one guest's laptop computer. Other guests reported that the gunmen looked inside and left. 
 In Room 501, the gunmen took Luis Miguel Gonzalez, a businessman from Mexico City. In Room 502, they abducted Angel Ernesto Montes de Oca Sanchez, also from Mexico City. Down the hall, they removed Manuel Juarez, also from Mexico City, from Room 511. Nearby, in Room 512, Araceli Hernandez, from Reynosa, who registered as a businesswoman, was also taken.
 David Salas, the hotel's receptionist, was also taken, along with computer equipment that contained the hotel's guest registry and security tapes, the authorities said. Later, armed men also took the receptionist from a hotel across the street. Initial reports that an American was among the abductees were inaccurate, American officials said.
 The affiliation of the gunmen was unknown, although some officials and experts on Mexico's drug gangs suggested that initial evidence pointed to the Zetas, a paramilitary group that engages in drug trafficking and other illegal activities and has been linked to violence in Monterrey. Before storming the hotels, the attackers stole trucks and other vehicles and used them to block access to the area, the authorities said.
 ''It's absolutely unprecedented,'' said George W. Grayson, a professor at the College of William & Mary in Williamsburg, Va., and the author of ''Mexico: Narco-Violence and a Failed State?''
 ''You now have gunmen blocking off streets so that even if you had competent police, and you don't in Monterrey, they can't get to the place of operation,'' he said.
 Every day, Mexico's drug traffickers seem to expand their reach and creep closer to people's lives, whether it is a shootout in the hotel district of Acapulco or a note warning of violence in Cuernavaca that was taken so seriously that virtually no one ventured out last Friday.
 Carlos Pascual, the American ambassador, delivered a speech to business leaders in Monterrey on Tuesday in which he lamented how violence had increased the cost of doing business in Mexico.
 ''Unchecked, violence and instability could cause corporations to rethink their business strategy of locating in Mexico,'' he said at a dinner of the Monterrey Chapter of the American Chamber of Commerce in Mexico. 
 Recent violence in Monterrey, including a shootout between soldiers and traffickers that left two students dead at a private university, has clearly unnerved residents. The authorities attribute the violence to the Zetas and rival traffickers who are battling for control of smuggling routes to the United States.
 ''Monterrey used to be so dynamic that there was a joke that the official bird was the building crane,'' Mr. Grayson said. ''Now, there's the beginnings of an exodus and it's 'last one out, turn out the lights.' ''
 But Gerardo Ruiz Mateos, the secretary of the economy, told reporters on Wednesday that there was no evidence that violence was hurting investment. ''All countries have problems,'' he said. ''What investors are looking for is strength and firmness in addressing the problem.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); MISSING PERSONS (75%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); ORGANIZED CRIME (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); VEHICLE THEFT (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (67%); WRITERS (66%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (65%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (65%); GANGS (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



549 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Telenor And Alfa In Telecom Venture

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- Two large investors in the mobile phone industry in the former Soviet Union and former communist countries in Southeast Asia have consolidated their assets into a single sprawling company that is poised to become one of the largest emerging-market telecommunications operators. 
 While well positioned in these markets, the company, VimpelCom, is also deeply entangled in their legal and political risks, having emerged as a settlement of a long-running suit in Russia. 
 The Norwegian company Telenor and the telecommunications arm of the Russian financial and industrial conglomerate Alfa both held significant stakes in Russian and Ukrainian cellphone firms and had been sparring over matters of corporate governance. 
 To settle their dispute, the companies agreed to combine their assets into the new company. Its shares are scheduled to begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday. 
 Telenor announced the completion of the merger on Wednesday, fulfilling an agreement reached last October. 
 At the time, Telenor had faced the loss of its entire investment in Russia after a Siberian court seized its assets in Russia, and court bailiffs threatened to liquidate it at an auction. Instead of continuing the appeals, Telenor agreed with Alfa to consolidate assets into the joint venture. 
 As a condition of the settlement, the lawsuit was withdrawn. Still, Jon Fredrik Baksaas, the chief executive of Telenor, said in a phone interview Tuesday that the resolution was ''balanced'' and should not be characterized as ''the result of pressure.''
 The new company combines the second-largest mobile phone operator in Russia, Beeline, and the largest operator in Ukraine, Kyivstar, and operators in half a dozen other former Soviet countries as well as Vietnam and Cambodia. 
 VimpelCom will serve about 90 million subscribers. In New York, its shares will replace the similarly named VimpelCom, which had previously operated only Russia's Beeline brand.
 Telenor will now hold 36 percent of the voting rights and 39.6 percent of the economic interest in the new company, while Altimo will hold 44.7 percent of the voting rights and 39.2 percent of the economic interest, Telenor said in a statement. 
 Though prospects for subscriber growth is limited -- as nearly everybody in the region who wants a cellphone now has one -- the company will focus on mobile Internet services. 
 The business venture had for years been overshadowed by the drawn-out legal battle. Though billions of dollars were at stake, the case had been shunted to tiny and remote Siberian courtrooms where one judge handed down a ruling after midnight. 
 The settlement forming the new VimpelCom extricated Telenor from the potential loss of its business in Russia, but left unresolved the broader concerns about corruption and weak property rights in Russia. The new firm will be incorporated in Bermuda, based in the Netherlands and governed by American law. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MERGERS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); JOINT VENTURES (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (73%); LITIGATION (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: VIMPELCOM LTD (85%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

TICKER: VIP (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); UKRAINE (92%); CAMBODIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (77%); UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



550 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft and W.N.B.A. Click With a Uniform

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Microsoft is the latest company to buy space on the front of a W.N.B.A. jersey.
 It said Wednesday that it had signed a multiyear sponsorship agreement with the Seattle Storm, the latest in a string of major marketing deals for women's sports. 
 Microsoft, which is not an especially big player in the sports marketing business, will use the deal to help promote its new search engine, Bing. The logo will be placed on the front of the team's jerseys above the number. Microsoft is also eager to reinforce its standing in the Seattle area, where it has its headquarters.
 ''The opportunity to be front and center with an up-and-coming league is very attractive to us because we are up-and-coming in the search area,'' said Satya Nadella, a senior vice president for research and development at Microsoft. ''We thought it is a good fit with the demographics of the W.N.B.A.''
 The Storm is the third W.N.B.A. team to sign a jersey deal. Last year the Phoenix Mercury and the Los Angeles Sparks signed agreements, with LifeLock and the Farmers Insurance Group. Microsoft also has a sponsorship arrangement with the Seattle Sounders of Major League Soccer to promote the company's Xbox video game console.
 Microsoft and the Storm declined to provide specifics on the deal's worth, although the Storm said the company was the team's largest sponsor. Their agreement comes weeks after the WTA Tour extended its relationship with Sony Ericsson and the L.P.G.A. found a new sponsor in Kia Motors.
 Women's leagues and tournaments were hurt during the recession by the slowdown in spending on corporate marketing. The jersey deal with Microsoft, which had a smaller role promoting basketball workshops for schoolchildren in the Seattle area, is the latest sign of a turnaround.
 ''Last year was hopefully the low and we're starting to rebuild,'' Karen Bryant, the president and chief executive of the Storm, said. ''This is a very visible sign that the league is moving onward and very upward.''
 Corporate branding on jerseys, which has been shunned by most major leagues in the United States and Canada, provides significant revenue for teams and a chance for companies to be closely linked to the team, almost literally.
 ''Advertising on uniforms is done all over the world and in most sports it creates increasing value in a crowded marketplace,'' said Donna Orender, the president of the W.N.B.A., which began play in 1997.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Microsoft will promote its Web browser, Bing, on jerseys worn by Seattle's W.N.B.A. team. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT SORBO/MICROSOFT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); SPORTS BUSINESS (77%); WOMEN (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); SPORTS MARKETING (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); BRANDING (72%); SEARCH ENGINES (71%); SOCCER (70%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (68%); CHILDREN (68%); TOURNAMENTS (65%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (65%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); LIFELOCK INC (55%); FARMERS GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES SPARKS (92%); PHOENIX MERCURY (92%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); LOCK (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS812990 ALL OTHER PERSONAL SERVICES (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



551 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Schools in New Jersey Plan Heavy Cuts After Voters Reject Most Budgets

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
School officials across New Jersey said on Wednesday that they would most likely have to lay off hundreds of teachers, increase class sizes, eliminate sports teams and Advanced Placement classes, cut kindergarten hours and take other radical steps to reduce spending after 58 percent of districts' budgets were rejected by voters on Tuesday, the most in at least 35 years.
 Residents went to the polls in record numbers for the normally low-profile school-budget elections, and rejected 316 of the 541 budgets on the ballot. They were angered by higher property taxes that were sought to make up for unusually large state aid reductions proposed by Gov. Christopher J. Christie, along with resentment toward teachers' unions for not agreeing to wage freezes or concessions. 
 The message of ''enough is enough'' resounded across the state, from urban to rural districts, and even in well-to-do suburban communities like Ridgewood, where residents are particularly proud of their schools. It was a drastic change from a year ago, when voters approved nearly three-quarters of the school budgets during the height of the economic downturn.
 The election results sent school officials hurrying to prepare contingency plans to present to their town councils, or local municipal boards, which now must review the budgets and decide by May 19 whether to demand more cuts. (School officials can appeal those decisions to the state.) Many students and parents were anxious and unsure about what else they could lose. 
 At Teaneck High School, hundreds of students walked out of their classrooms Wednesday morning for an hourlong march around the school's football field to protest the budget's defeat in a vote of 4,790 to 3,618. The $94.9 million budget had called for a record 10.2 percent increase in school taxes.
 Teaneck officials said they would now have to consider cuts that they had hoped to avoid, like increasing some classes to more than 30 students; reducing AP courses; cutting athletic teams; and eliminating several dozen positions more than the 21 that had been planned. ''At this point, all bets are off,'' said Dave Bicofsky, a spokesman for the district.
 Tuesday's elections capped weeks of political drama between Governor Christie and the state's largest teachers' union, the New Jersey Education Association, over his efforts to pressure teachers to renegotiate their contracts. Mr. Christie, who is trying to close an $11 billion deficit, has proposed to cut direct state aid to districts by up to 5 percent of their operating budgets.
 Mr. Christie exhorted New Jerseyans to use the budget votes to take a stand against school spending, particularly in districts where unions refused to freeze wages. The results suggest that people listened: Statewide, voter turnout rose to 26.7 percent from 15 percent last year. 
 ''You have schools saying they were efficient but they could not accept a 5 percent cut,'' said Jerry Cantrell, president of the New Jersey Taxpayers Association and a former school board president in Randolph. ''That just did not ring true to a lot of people. I think the bottom line was economics.''
 Stephen K. Wollmer, communications director for the New Jersey Education Association, said that Mr. Christie had made a difficult situation worse. ''He whipped the public into a frenzy, and convinced some of them that if they would vote down their budgets and extract a pay freeze from teachers, they could solve all their problems,'' Mr. Wollmer said. ''It's just not true.''
 Budgets also failed in 6 of the 19 districts where there had been wage freezes or concessions by teachers.
 In Ridgewood, where a 4 percent tax increase was narrowly rejected on Tuesday, residents have expressed frustration at recent school board meetings over what they saw as teachers unwilling to make sacrifices like everyone else in a tough economy. The district had proposed an $84.9 million budget. (Voters last rejected the budget in 2003.)
 Many school officials said students were the losers in Tuesday's elections.
 ''We've made our budget as lean as possible, and even beyond that, so any further cuts will have an impact on our students,'' said John Crowe, the Woodbridge superintendent.
 In West Orange, the district's budget -- $118 million, including a 7.3 percent tax revenue increase -- was rejected for the first time in a decade.
 Anthony Cavanna, the superintendent, said he had already planned to lay off 84 employees, including 39 teachers, reduce bus service, cut back on music and art instruction, offer fewer vocational education courses, and trim extracurricular activities. Now he is considering heavier steps, like cutting kindergarten to a half day, ending Spanish classes and guidance counselors in the elementary schools, reducing library and nursing staffs, and dropping middle school and freshman sports teams.
 ''These would be devastating cuts,'' Mr. Cavanna said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: School Budgets: It was a tough year for New Jersey school district budgets, but especially for districts that tried to raise taxes a lot. (Three districts whose tax revenues could not immediately be determined are excluded.)(Source: N.J. Dept. of Education)(A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TAX INCREASES (75%); TAX LAW (75%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (74%); APPROVALS (73%); SUBURBS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



552 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: A Shaken Japan Faces Reality: Many of Its People Are Poor

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

 BODY:
MEMURO, Japan -- Satomi Sato, a 51-year-old widow, knew she had it tough, raising a teenage daughter on the less than $17,000 a year she earned from two jobs. Still, she was surprised last autumn when the government announced for the first time an official poverty line -- and she was below it. 
 ''I don't want to use the word poverty, but I'm definitely poor,'' said Ms. Sato, who works mornings making boxed lunches and afternoons delivering newspapers. ''Poverty is still a very unfamiliar word in Japan.''
 After years of economic stagnation and widening income disparities, this once proudly egalitarian nation is belatedly waking up to the fact that it has a large and growing number of poor people. The Labor Ministry's disclosure in October that almost one in six Japanese, or 20 million people, lived in poverty in 2007 stunned the nation and ignited a debate over possible remedies that has raged ever since. 
 Many Japanese, who cling to the popular myth that their nation is uniformly middle class, were further shocked to see that Japan's poverty rate, at 15.7 percent, was close to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's figure of 17.1 percent in the United States, whose glaring social inequalities have long been viewed with scorn and pity here. 
 But perhaps just as surprising was the government's admission that it had been keeping poverty statistics secretly since 1998 while denying there was a problem, despite occasional anecdotal evidence to the contrary. That ended when a left-leaning government led by Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama replaced the long-governing Liberal Democratic Party last summer with a pledge to force Japan's legendarily secretive bureaucrats to be more open, particularly about social problems, government officials and poverty experts said.
 ''The government knew about the poverty problem, but was hiding it,'' said Makoto Yuasa, head of the nonprofit Antipoverty Network. ''It was afraid to face reality.''
 Following an internationally recognized formula, the ministry set the poverty line at about $22,000 a year for a family of four, half of Japan's median household income. Researchers estimate that Japan's poverty rate has doubled since the nation's real estate and stock markets collapsed in the early 1990s, ushering in two decades of income stagnation and even decline. 
 The ministry's announcement helped expose a problem that social workers say is easily overlooked in relatively homogenous Japan, which does not have the high crime rates, urban decay and stark racial divisions of the United States. Experts and social workers say Japan's poor can be deceptively hard to spot because they try hard to keep up the appearance of middle class comfort.
 Few impoverished Japanese seem willing to admit their plight for fear of being stigmatized. While just over half of Japan's single mothers, like Ms. Sato, are poor -- roughly in line with the ratio in the United States -- she and her daughter, Mayu, 17, take pains to hide their neediness. They outwardly smile, she said, but ''cry on the inside'' when friends or relatives talk about vacations, a luxury they cannot afford.
 ''Saying we're poor would draw attention, so I'd rather hide it,'' said Ms. Sato, who lives in a blocklike public housing project in this small city surrounded by flat, treeless farmland reminiscent of the American Midwest.
 She said she had little money even before her husband, a construction machine operator, died of lung cancer three years ago. She said her family's difficulties began in the late 1990s, when the economic slide worsened here on the northern island of Hokkaido, as it did in much of rural Japan. 
 Even with two jobs, she says she cannot afford to see a doctor or buy medicine to treat a growing host of health complaints, including sore joints and dizziness. When her daughter needed $700 to buy school uniforms on entering high school last year, a common requirement here, she saved for it by cutting back to two meals a day.
 Poverty experts call Ms. Sato's case typical. They say more than 80 percent of those living in poverty in Japan are part of the so-called working poor, holding low-wage, temporary jobs with no security and few benefits. They usually have enough money to eat, but not to take part in normal activities, like eating out with friends or seeing a movie. 
 ''Poverty in a prosperous society usually does not mean living in rags on a dirt floor,'' said Masami Iwata, a social welfare professor at Japan Women's University in Tokyo. ''These are people with cellphones and cars, but they are cut off from the rest of society.''
 Years of deregulation of the labor market and competition with low-wage China have brought a proliferation of such low-paying jobs in Japan, economists say. Compounding matters is the fact that these jobs are largely uncovered by an outdated social safety net, created decades ago as a last resort in an era when most men could expect lifetime jobs.
 This has opened up a huge crack through which millions of Japanese have fallen. One was Masami Yokoyama, 60, who lost his lifetime job a decade ago as he struggled with depression after a divorce. He held a series of increasingly low-paying jobs until three years ago, when he ended up homeless on Tokyo's streets. 
 Still, city welfare officials rejected his application three times because he was still an able-bodied male. ''Once you slip in Japan, there is no one to catch your fall,'' said Mr. Yokoyama, who finally got limited government aid and found part-time work as a night watchman.
 Gaining wide attention here are statistics showing that one in seven children lives in poverty, one reason the new government has pledged to offer monthly payments of $270 per child and to cut the cost of high school education. 
 Still, social workers say they fear that the poor will not be able to pay for cram schools and other expenses to enable their children to compete in Japan's high-pressure education system, consigning them to a permanent cycle of low-wage work. 
 ''We are at risk of creating a chronic underclass,'' said Toshihiko Kudo, a board member of Ashinaga, a nonprofit group based in Tokyo that helps poor children and orphans.
 Ms. Sato expressed similar fears for her daughter, Mayu. Mayu wants to go to a vocational school to become a voice actress for animation, but Ms. Sato said she could not afford the $10,000 annual tuition. 
 Still, she remains outwardly upbeat, if resigned. She said her biggest challenge was having no one to talk to. While she said she was sure that many other families faced a similar plight in this small city, their refusal to admit their poverty made it impossible to find them.
 ''In bed at night, I think: 'How did I fall so far? How did I get so isolated?' '' Ms. Sato said. ''But usually, I try not to think about it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Satomi Sato makes boxed lunches at a shop in Memuro, Japan. Between two jobs, she makes less than $17,000 a year to support herself and her teenage daughter.
Ms. Sato at her other job, delivering newspapers
 She said she was surprised to learn she was living below the poverty line. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KO SASAKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); POVERTY RATES (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CRIME RATES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); RACE & RACISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%)

PERSON: YUKIO HATOYAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



553 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Repays U.S. Loan, While Chrysler Posts Improved Quarterly Results

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- General Motors repaid a government loan and Chrysler posted improved quarterly results on Wednesday -- proof, the companies said, that they were turning their operations around. 
 Reacting to the automakers' progress, the Obama administration issued a report projecting that taxpayers would lose significantly less than previously forecast from the billions of dollars in government loans that bailed out the companies last year. 
 Officials would not give a specific forecast on Wednesday, but the Treasury estimated in December that it could lose about $30 billion of the $82 billion in aid given to the auto industry since December 2009, including $62 billion to G.M. and Chrysler. 
 The report also said 45,000 jobs had been created by the auto industry since G.M. emerged from bankruptcy protection last summer. It was the strongest nine-month period of growth in the industry since 2000, the report said, but it noted that it followed the loss of 400,000 jobs in 2008.
 ''The prospect of a faster-than-anticipated exit from government involvement and a return of most of the taxpayers' investment in these companies has materially improved,'' Lawrence H. Summers, the director of the National Economic Council, wrote on the White House blog. ''This turnaround wasn't an accident of history. It was the result of considered and politically difficult decisions made by President Obama to provide G.M. and Chrysler -- and indeed the auto industry -- a lifeline.'' 
 Chrysler said on Wednesday that it lost $3.8 billion in 2009 after emerging from bankruptcy in June, and posted a loss of $197 million for its first quarter this year. But excluding one-time items, mostly interest payments, it earned $143 million. Executives said the company had increased its cash reserves by $1.5 billion since January and that its operations were on track to break even or earn a profit this year.
 Meanwhile, General Motors said it finished repaying the $8.2 billion loan plus interest that it owed the American and Canadian governments. It began showing a new television commercial telling consumers the money had been paid back and urging shoppers to ''take a look at the new G.M.''
 About $43 billion that G.M. borrowed from the Treasury has not been repaid because it was converted to a 61 percent equity stake in the company. That money can be recovered only through a public stock sale, which is expected no sooner than the fourth quarter.
 ''The government and the taxpayers made a terrific investment and it's going to pay off big time,'' G.M.'s chief executive, Edward E. Whitacre Jr., said in a visit to an assembly plant in Kansas City, Kan.
 Later Wednesday, Mr. Whitacre traveled to Washington to meet with members of Congress and the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner. (A company spokesman, Tom Wilkinson, said Mr. Whitacre chartered a plane at his own expense because of a tight travel schedule.)
 ''We are encouraged that G.M. has repaid its debt well ahead of schedule and confident that the company is on a strong path to viability,'' Mr. Geithner said in a statement. ''This continued progress is a positive sign for our auto investment -- not only more funds recovered for the taxpayer but also countless jobs saved and the successful stabilization of a vital industry for our country.''
 Chrysler's results provided the first official look at the automaker's finances since it came out of bankruptcy June 10 under the control of the Italian automaker, Fiat. 
 The company, which is 8 percent owned by the Treasury, reported first-quarter revenue of $9.7 billion, 58 percent more than projected by Brian Johnson, an analyst at Barclays Capital. The $197 million loss compared with a loss of $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter of last year. 
 Chrysler also said it had $7.4 billion in cash on hand as of March 31, up from $5.9 billion at the end of 2009. The figures were released during a presentation in Italy of the Fiat Group's five-year business plan, which includes a spinoff of its automotive unit. 
 Fiat reported a first-quarter net loss of 25 million euros ($34 million), significantly narrower than the 410 million euros it lost a year earlier. But many analysts had expected a small profit. Sales rose to 12.9 billion euros, from 11.3 billion euros. 
 Executives said that Fiat and Chrysler expected their partnership to reduce engineering costs by 600 million euros ($803 million).
 Chrysler managed an operating profit even as its sales in the United States continued to decline and as many of its competitors were reporting large year-over-year gains. Chrysler's market share was 9.2 percent in the first quarter, down two percentage points from a year ago but up one point from the fourth quarter. 
 Sergio Marchionne, Fiat's chief executive, criticized as ''ignorant'' and ''fundamentally offensive'' reports by analysts who have expressed doubt in Chrysler's ability to survive.
 ''The current management understands the problem, and we are now on a corrective path to fix all of the issues of the past,'' Mr. Marchionne said during the Fiat presentation in Turin. ''The fact that we were able to make $143 million with the volumes that we're currently running through Chrysler is an indication of how low we've dropped the break-even point.''
 Officials at G.M. acknowledged that merely paying back the government was not enough to regain consumers' trust.
 ''We have a long road back in terms of what people think of us and buying our cars again,'' Mark Reuss, the president of G.M.'s North American operations, told reporters on a conference call. ''We're going to keep our head down, be humble forever, take it one day at a time and build it back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: G.M.'s chief executive, Edward Whitacre Jr., at a Kansas City, Kan., assembly plant Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED ZURGA/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); JOB CREATION (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



554 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Obama Looks to Close the Sale of Financial Reform

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; John Harwood contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Just over three years ago, early in his uphill campaign for president, Senator Barack Obama wrote to the Federal Reserve chairman and the Treasury secretary calling for a summit conference to address signs of trouble in the housing and financial markets. 
 While Mr. Obama could not have known how bad things would get, then as now he saw a muscular role for government in enforcing regulations in the public's interest, while weighing them against the industry's interests so both would benefit. 
 It is an approach that he is likely to outline again on Thursday, as the president speaks near Wall Street in a bid to make the closing argument for the regulatory overhaul now before the Senate.
 ''Throughout our history there have been times where the financial sector swung way out of balance,'' Mr. Obama said on Wednesday in an interview with CNBC and The New York Times, citing the period that led to the Depression as the primary example.
 ''We have gotten into one of those places where we need to update those rules of the road,'' he said. ''And if we do so, not only is that good for the economy, not only does it protect consumers and investors, it's also good for the financial sector, because it will rebuild trust.'' 
 Well before the financial system nearly collapsed in September 2008, Mr. Obama, more than any other presidential candidate, was warning about holes in the regulatory fabric and crises on the horizon. Even for him, however, banking regulation was hardly the high-priority issue it would become once he reached the White House.
 Besides the March 2007 letter to the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and Henry M. Paulson Jr., Treasury secretary in the Bush administration, Mr. Obama as a candidate gave speeches calling for tougher regulations, one at the Nasdaq stock exchange in September 2007 and another in March 2008 at the Cooper Union in New York City -- where he will return for his speech Thursday. 
 Advisers say Mr. Obama's early attention to the financial system's problems stemmed from discussions with wealthy investors on the fund-raising circuit and with community activists on the campaign trail who fretted about perceived abuses with subprime mortgages and looming foreclosures. In both the Illinois Legislature and in the United States Senate, Mr. Obama had sponsored bills against predatory lending and mortgage fraud.
 But as a presidential candidate, many early donors and academics had his ear on financial issues. Among them were the investors Mark T. Gallogly, Joshua Steiner, Warren E. Buffett and Lee Sachs; Mr. Steiner and Mr. Sachs were veterans of the Clinton administration's Treasury and Mr. Sachs later would join Mr. Obama's Treasury.
 Other advisers included Daniel K. Tarullo, whom Mr. Obama has since named a governor at the Federal Reserve; at that independent agency, Mr. Tarullo no longer can advise Mr. Obama. And coordinating Mr. Obama's economic team was Austan Goolsbee, the University of Chicago professor who is now a member of the president's Council of Economic Advisers. Mr. Goolsbee brought one of his mentors, Paul A. Volcker, the former Fed chairman, into the Obama campaign councils. Also on the team was Mr. Obama's friend Penny Pritzker, the Chicago business executive who was his national finance chairwoman for the 2008 campaign.
 Except for Mr. Tarullo, such figures still influence Mr. Obama as president. But he mostly is guided by his in-house administration team, led by Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner.
 Mr. Obama chose Mr. Geithner, who had been president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, despite Mr. Geithner's cautions to Mr. Obama that he should choose someone unconnected with the regulatory lapses that led to the chaos.
 Another top adviser, Lawrence H. Summers, the director of the White House National Economic Council, similarly has been a magnet for blame from the political left and right. He was Treasury secretary at the end of the Clinton administration, and worked with Congress to deregulate the banking industry.
 By 2009, however, Mr. Summers and Mr. Geithner were pushing for stronger regulation -- especially of the unregulated nonbank institutions and complex derivative investments that had sprung up -- in line with the principles Mr. Obama had outlined in the campaign. 
 Mr. Geithner took the lead, turning to Patrick M. Parkinson, a longtime Fed economist he knew, to write the administration's bill. (Last October, Mr. Bernanke named Mr. Parkinson the Fed's top banking regulator.)
 Mr. Geithner successfully argued for sending Congress a more detailed draft than the White House had sent on overhauling health care, to put its stamp more fully on the product. But he and Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, were unsuccessful in pushing regulatory legislation ahead of the health care bill; they were concerned that with time and an improved economy, opponents in the industry and among antiregulation Republicans would become emboldened. That is what ultimately happened, officials say. But, they argue, delay was probably inevitable. 
 Several Democratic leaders in Congress considered the health issue a higher priority, and Mr. Geithner, in the administration's early months, was consumed with stabilizing the financial industry before trying to fix it. 
 The bill now before the Senate, like one the House passed late last year, hews closely to the principles that Mr. Obama outlined more than two years ago at the Cooper Union -- a fact he will underscore in his return appearance there on Thursday.
 Those principles called for regulating any institution with access to government funds, as well as products like derivatives, regardless of what entity offered them; requiring banks to hold more capital as a cushion against crises; streamlining the number of regulatory agencies to make them more accountable; and creating a new council to monitor systemic risks.
 For all the emphasis on government regulation, Mr. Obama on Thursday will affirm his belief in free markets -- the point he made in 2007 and 2008.
 But, as he said in his first appearance at the Cooper Union, ''Under Republican and Democratic administrations, we failed to guard against practices that all too often rewarded financial manipulation instead of productivity and sound business practices.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama is likely to stress the benefits of the regulatory overhaul in his speech Thursday. (POOL PHOTO BY SHAWN THEW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (74%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (72%); BANKING LAW (71%); FORECLOSURE (69%); PREDATORY LENDING (64%); FAIR LENDING (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (60%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



555 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Trading Unit Propels Morgan Stanley to Profit

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
In his first quarter as Morgan Stanley's chief executive, James P. Gorman is off to a good start.
 The bank reported a $1.8 billion profit on Wednesday, bolstered by trading gains as the company continued to rebuild from its near-death experience during the financial crisis.
 All of Morgan Stanley's businesses improved in the three months ended March 31. Those include its core investment banking operations as well as its expanding wealth management division, a unit it is counting on to help provide growth. 
 In a welcome development for the company, much of the first-quarter profit arose out of its trading division, which suffered big losses during the credit crisis. The unit, which posted $4.1 billion in revenue for the quarter, has been slower to recover than those at rival firms.
 ''We've made progress, and we've strengthened a number of our businesses,'' Ruth Porat, Morgan Stanley's chief financial officer, said in an interview. ''Our work continues.'' 
 Morgan Stanley's results follow largely rosy reports from competitors like Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America. The firms have benefited from higher profits at their trading units, which have rebounded as markets have gained.
 Even Citigroup, whose financial recovery has trailed those of its rivals, reported better-than-expected results this week. Citigroup reported a profit of $4.4 billion; Bank of America $4.2 billion; Goldman Sachs, $3.46 billion; and JPMorgan, $3.3 billion.
 Morgan Stanley's profit amounted to 99 cents a diluted share. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters had expected it to earn about 57 cents.
 The company reported first-quarter revenue of $9.1 billion, which was up 33 percent from the fourth quarter.
 Shares in Morgan Stanley rose more than 4 percent on Wednesday, to $31.68. 
 The stock has risen 7 percent this year, even though it and other banks' shares fell late last week after the Securities and Exchange Commissionsued Goldman on accusations of securities fraud. Ms. Porat said on a conference call with analysts that Morgan Stanley has not received a Wells notice from the S.E.C., a document that indicates the beginning of a formal investigation.
 Since taking over as chief executive this year, Mr. Gorman, who previously oversaw Morgan Stanley's wealth management unit, has pushed to reduce the company's overall risk levels. 
 For most of 2009, Morgan Stanley has sought to recover from the series of missteps that nearly sank the company during the financial crisis, including large losses at its trading unit. Its tamping down on risky bets also cost the company some of the profits its competitors reaped in the early part of the year, and it did not turn a profit until the third quarter last year.
 Morgan Stanley is seeking to shore up its core institutional securities unit, including by hiring new traders to help keep pace with Goldman, JPMorgan and others. Executives have hired up to 400 employees for its sales and trading staff worldwide, a program that was meant to have reached full speed by the first quarter.
 That appears to have paid off this quarter: the institutional securities unit swung to a $2.1 billion gain in pretax income from continuing operations, from a $464 million loss last year. Fixed-income trading revenue more than doubled to $2.7 billion.
 Despite a continued uptick in mergers activity, Morgan Stanley's business reported a 20 percent decline in advisory revenue from the same period a year ago, to $327 million. 
 The company cited a decrease in large deal transactions for the quarter.
 Morgan Stanley's global wealth management business more than doubled its pretax income from continuing operations at $278 million.
 The company benefited from the merger of its wealth management unit with Citigroup's Smith Barney last spring. Morgan Stanley is expected to eventually take over the joint venture, as part of its effort to rely on more stable operations.
 The company also had a dramatic improvement in its asset management business, earning $173 million for the quarter. 
 Still, Morgan Stanley suffered some hits, including a $932 million loss on an investment in the Revel Entertainment Group, a casino development subsidiary that the company plans to sell. The company acknowledged that one of its funds is in restructuring negotiations with lenders, though it added that it is not obligated to support the fund.
 It also recorded a $775 million gain related to a settlement with Discover Financial Services, the credit card issuer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Outside Morgan Stanley in Manhattan. The bank outperformed expectations in the first quarter (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (61%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (98%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); CITIGROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (98%); GS (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (98%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%)

PERSON: JAMES GORMAN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



556 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Crist May Test Odds as an Outsider

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Gary Fineout contributed reporting from Tallahassee.

 BODY:
COCOA BEACH, Fla. -- Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida darted out of the Tallahassee rain on Tuesday, dragging a band of reporters to his office before answering The Question: Will you leave the Republican Party to run for the United States Senate as an independent -- and why are you considering it? 
 ''Things change,'' he said. 
 And how. In a matter of months, he has gone from a party favorite to a pariah for his moderate approach, while his opponent Marco Rubio is now a front-running magnet for both Tea Party activists and the Republican establishment. 
 If he chooses to run as an independent, Mr. Crist would be betting that the prevailing political logic of the moment is wrong -- that despite the Tea Party's rise, the broader electorate still wants the pragmatic approach that propelled Barack Obama to victory here. 
 Leading a campaign that would most likely lack major fund-raising and a party's street-level support, Mr. Crist would be running in the hope of turning out ''the silent majority'' that Richard M. Nixon identified in 1969. Experts say the governor's odds are long, but not impossible. 
 ''There is a huge gap between the leadership, at both the elite and grass-roots level, and your mainstream Republican voter in this state,'' said Daniel A. Smith, director of the political campaigning program at the University of Florida. 
 Washington Republicans, Mr. Smith added, may be reading Florida entirely wrong: ''In many ways, what Americans want is pragmatism.'' 
 Mr. Crist has only hinted at his intentions. He has until April 30 to decide, and some of his closest confidants -- including his former campaign manager, George LeMieux, whom Mr. Crist appointed to the Senate when Mel Martinez retired -- say he has not tipped his hand. 
 Many Republican officials at the county level describe the governor as hunkered down. But a trickle of clues have made a Crist run with no party affiliation look more likely. 
 Most visibly, Mr. Crist angered Republican lawmakers by vetoing legislation that would have eliminated tenure for Florida public school teachers and tied their salaries and job security to student performance. 
 ''I believe the die is cast,'' said Ron Book, a lobbyist and fundraiser for Mr. Crist's Senate campaign. ''I believe he has already made his decision to run as a nonparty affiliate.'' 
 A Quinnipiac poll from last week suggested for the first time that Mr. Crist was running roughly even with Mr. Rubio as an independent, with the Democratic candidate, Representative Kendrick B. Meek, several points behind. 
 And Mr. Rubio may have more trouble ahead. An investigation into accusations that he used state party credit cards to pay for personal expenses while serving in the Florida Legislature continues to widen; on Wednesday, Politico reported that the Internal Revenue Service was looking into Mr. Rubio's tax records.
 Winning as an independent will be tough for Mr. Crist, even tougher than it was for Joseph I. Lieberman in Connecticut. Mr. Crist faces stronger, better financed opponents than Mr. Lieberman, in a state where voter registration tilts against him.
 Senator Lieberman's run as an independent in 2006 was bolstered by the 44 percent of Connecticut voters who were neither Democrats nor Republicans, and by a registration advantage for his former party, the Democrats. But only 22 percent of the Florida electorate, as of February, are not Republicans or Democrats, and Democrats have a registration advantage of more than 650,000 voters. 
 That means Mr. Crist will have to win voters across the political spectrum, at a time when partisan anger has intensified. 
 ''I didn't think that the discourse could be more toxic this year than it was in our race, but it seems to be heading in that direction,'' said Sherry Brown, the campaign manager for Mr. Lieberman in the 2006 general election. ''Anyone running alone will need an enormous amount of money to be heard above the screaming.''
 Mr. Meek stands to benefit from the Republican infighting, and both he and Mr. Crist now find themselves defending the same issue: government efforts to jump-start the economy. 
 Mr. Crist's hug with President Obama at a rally for federal stimulus may be the image Mr. Rubio would like Floridians to remember. But Mr. Crist has spent much of the past year highlighting efforts to ease economic burdens, with a proposed back-to-school sales tax holiday, for example. 
 Here on the Space Coast, a mostly Republican area with higher-than-average unemployment, his efforts seem to have gained some traction. Mr. Crist held a meeting here two months ago, proposing that the state spend $32.6 million to support private space exploration and recruit new businesses as NASA's shuttle program winds down. 
 He also criticized Mr. Obama, demanding that he ''provide more than just a photo-op to ensure that America remains a leader in space innovation.'' 
 Even Republicans supporting Mr. Rubio -- like Barbara Davis, chairwoman of the Brevard County Republican Party -- say the governor has tried to help. ''I know he is doing his best,'' Ms. Davis said. 
 Independents and Democrats at the Cocoa Beach Pier on Wednesday were more welcoming. They said an outsider candidacy by Mr. Crist might give Floridians a way to protest partisan politics. ''People are upset with the whole system, and we need more than two parties,'' said David Steranko, 39, a registered independent and Internet marketer of vacation packages. ''I would really like to see our government stop bickering so much and work on our problems more.'' 
 An adviser close to the Crist campaign, who was not authorized to speak on the record, said an independent bid would have to start out with a bang -- possibly with a surge of advertising. The adviser said it would let the governor broaden his message to traditionally Democratic issues like the environment and to more populist elements of his record, including his efforts to stop utilities' rate increases. 
 But money remains an issue. Fund-raisers like Mr. Book will not say whether they plan to stick with the governor if he bolts from the party, and Florida campaigns are especially costly. 
 Steve Schale, the Florida director for the Obama campaign in 2008, said it could cost $1.5 million a week for statewide advertising, which would give Mr. Crist less than two months of strong airtime with his bank balance of $9 million in December. 
 What he has in his favor is name recognition -- and, with an independent run, the power to attract news media coverage. 
 ''I'm sure he's got to be considering in the back of his mind, if he goes this way and he wins, he's arguably become this transformative figure in American politics,'' Mr. Schale said. ''I think he's the only guy who has the potential of pulling it off.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida and his wife, Carole Rome Crist, arriving at a high school dedication in North Miami last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES)
Marco Rubio, a Republican Senate candidate in Florida, spoke at the Conservative Political Action Conference in February. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLIFF OWEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: How Florida Voted (Sources: Florida Secretary of State's Office
 statewide exit polls conducted by Voter News Service and Edison/Mitofsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); FUNDRAISING (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); VETO (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); ACADEMIC TENURE (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (62%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (60%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (54%)

PERSON: CHARLIE CRIST (93%); MARCO RUBIO (89%); MEL MARTINEZ (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); RICHARD NIXON (57%); KENDRICK B MEEK (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



557 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; The Business of Green; BUSINESS OF GREEN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Solar Power to the People, With a Lot of Public Help

BYLINE: By JIM WITKIN

 BODY:
IT'S Earth Day, and among the many activities planned for students at the Lagunitas school campus, about 30 miles north of San Francisco, is a field trip to visit a solar power installation, where they will learn how photovoltaic technology converts the sun's energy to electricity.
But they won't need permission slips from their parents to leave the school grounds, as the system sits on a sunny spot next to the school's soccer field. 
In operation since 2008, the system provides about 70 percent of the school's annual electric needs and will save more than $100,000 on its energy bills over the next 15 years.
Installing it cost the school nothing. In a business arrangement becoming common for solar projects like this, the project developer, Solar Power Partners, installed, owns and operates the system. It then sells power back to the school through a long-term power purchase agreement.
Retaining ownership lets the developer and its investors take advantage of federal tax incentives and California state subsidies, which in turn allow them to compete on price with the local utility.
Government incentives to private industries are nothing new. In 1917, the federal government offered a tax credit to a young oil industry to encourage exploration and drilling, opening up an industry that transformed our economy, while creating thousands of new companies and many more jobs. Today's solar power proponents hope generous federal and state incentives, along with creative business models like power purchase agreements, will provide the same result.
Photovoltaic technology has been around since the 1950s. It was originally used to power sites far off the utility grid. The market for building solar electric systems on homes and commercial properties, however, really took off when the federal Energy Policy Act of 2005 raised the investment tax credit for solar projects to 30 percent. Almost all of these systems remain connected to the utility grid, so the customer, like the Lagunitas school, can still buy power from the utility when its solar energy system does not meet its demands. And when they generate a surplus, they can put power back on the grid and receive a credit on their utility bill.
The market almost stalled in late 2008, when the federal tax credit was set to expire. With much pressure from industry groups, Congress extended the credit to 2016. And when the recession tightened credit markets and flattened investors' profits, making tax credits less attractive, the federal government offered the option of a 30 percent upfront grant instead of the tax credit, as part of the 2009 recovery act.
Even with a recession and tough credit markets in 2009, another 429 megawatts of grid-connected photovoltaic solar power came online last year, a 38 percent increase over 2008, said Larry Sherwood, an analyst with the nonprofit Interstate Renewable Energy Council. A megawatt of solar electric capacity can power up to 270 average homes, according to Energy Acuity, a clean-tech research firm.
While more established energy companies like Chevron are in this market, the incentives have started an entrepreneurial rush of regional start-up companies and created thousands of local jobs in installation, construction, maintenance and finance. Energy Acuity is tracking just over 1,000 American companies active in the solar industry. A majority of these are small businesses with 50 or fewer employees.
This year has started strong, and many of these companies are finding they have more work than workers. Paul Detering, chief executive of Tioga Energy, a California solar project developer, said his company has added 40 percent to its payroll since the beginning of 2010, based on growing customer demand. Navigant Consulting estimates that the eight-year extension of the Investment Tax Credit in 2008 could create up to 230,000 jobs by 2016 in the solar photovoltaic market.
Not surprisingly, the number of installations has grown the most rapidly in the states with the most solar-friendly policies and regulations, especially those that require the utilities to obtain a certain percentage of their power from renewable sources. California still leads the market nationwide, but states like New Jersey, Arizona, Florida and Massachusetts each doubled their capacity in 2009, Mr. Sherwood said. He also estimated that total grid-connected photovoltaic capacity could reach 2,300 megawatts by the end of 2010, roughly the equivalent of four average-size coal or gas-fired power plants.
Many of the state programs reduce the level of incentives as more capacity is brought online based on the idea that as the industry matures, the price of materials, construction and financing should come down. This has certainly held true for solar panels, which can account for up to 50 percent of the cost of a project. An industry rule of thumb observes that every 18 months, solar panel production doubles, bringing prices down 20 percent.
Local governments are also finding innovative ways to reduce financing costs. Earlier this year, the Morris County, N.J., improvement authority sold $21.6 million in municipal bonds to finance 3.2 megawatts of solar projects across several facilities in the county.
''Not only are there economies of scale in aggregating several projects,'' said Steve Pearlman, a lawyer representing the county, ''but the lower cost of public capital allows the project developer to pass those savings on to the county.'' Tioga Energy, the project developer, will repay the bond from the revenue it receives from power purchase agreements.
Providing electricity at a price competitive with local utilities without the benefit of incentives and subsidies is the aim of the solar industry. Most industry watchers view 2016, when the federal investment tax credit expires, as the target.
A maturing solar industry with declining costs set against rising energy prices for fossil fuels should help. But Bob Powell, chief executive of Solar Power Partners, said parity will come only when the full cost of dirty energy is charged versus clean energy. ''There must be some way to account for the cleanup required with burning coal, which you don't have with solar, to achieve long-term parity,'' he said.
Solar power advocates hope a government-organized cap-and-trade or carbon tax system will provide such an accounting and keep the industry growing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: INCENTIVES: The Lagunitas School District in San Geronimo, Calif., spent nothing for its solar power installation, but the developer tapped state subsidies and federal tax incentives. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (95%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); TAX LAW (87%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EARTH DAY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); ENERGY REGULATION (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); SOCCER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2010



558 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; The Business of Green; BUSINESS OF GREEN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Trucks Full, Coming And Going

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
IT'S an age-old problem that has vexed truckers and shippers for as long as there have been truckers and shippers: how to find cargo for their return trip home after they've made their initial delivery. Now truckers are trying to address it in a systematic way.
Deadhead trips, as they are known, are a waste of fuel, money and time, and a producer of greenhouse gases. Yet more than a quarter of the trucks on the road in the United States drive empty, according to industry estimates. 
Some of the country's largest retailers, manufacturers and trucking companies are working on a solution, sharing information about their trucking routes in hopes of matching empty trucks with goods that need to be shipped.
Known as Empty Miles, the program is the brainchild of the Voluntary Interindustry Commerce Solutions Association, or VICS, a nonprofit group that tries to make the supply chain in consumer goods industries more efficient.
For decades, companies have tried to eliminate empty truck miles in an ad hoc fashion. One company would hear about another company that shipped along the same route. One manager would call his counterpart and work out a deal. Then, about two years ago, VICS members representing a swath of corporate America bore down on the problem. Diesel fuel was near record highs; the economy was slowing. Running empty trucks was more and more the difference between profits and losses; running fewer trucks was a way to reduce emissions and help meet corporate sustainability goals.
''The economy is demanding that these trucks run with things in them,'' said Joe Andraski, the president and chief executive of VICS, which is based in Lawrenceville, N.J.
VICS worked with GS1 US, the standards group that developed the bar code, to create a portal where shippers including Macy's, J. C. Penney and Levi Strauss, and two dozen trucking companies can list their empty truck routes.
Two big hurdles remain. Companies often resist taking part in new programs if it involves adopting new technology. Luckily, the cost of gaining access to the Empty Miles Web site that VICS and GS1 US created is just $1,600 a year.
The bigger challenge is that many companies are reluctant to share their shipping routes for fear of divulging trade secrets to rivals.
To address this fear, VICS recruited large, prominent companies like Macy's to jump in so others would feel comfortable participating. Company names are also hidden on the Web site so that shipping managers are not bombarded with cold calls from trucking companies looking for business. The company names are only divulged after matches are made.
So far, 42 companies have joined the program, about half shippers and the rest trucking companies. Companies list what equipment they have, what days each week they ship their goods and so on. For now, the service is largely containers filled with dry goods, though tankers and flat bed trucks may be added later.
The subscriber-only Web site is relatively easy to use. Shipping managers list their empty routes or the cargo they would like to ship. When other managers find a potential match, they begin talking off-line on how to structure a deal.
One shipper, for instance, might ship on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Another may ship on Thursdays, not Fridays. One company may change its shipping schedule to make the deal work.
Typically, shippers like Macy's pay trucking companies for a round trip even if cargo goes in only one direction. Round trips are more expensive than one-way trips, so if a second shipper pays to have his cargo sent back on the return trip, both shippers save.
For example, shippers might be charged $2.40 a mile for a round trip. If another company is found for the return trip, each company would pay $1.20 a mile. That would be cheaper than paying for a hypothetical one-way rate of, say, $1.60 a mile.
The trucking company would fill a truck that would have been driven empty.
Macy's has seen immediate savings. The company posts more than 328 routes -- lanes, in industry argot -- on the Empty Miles site. So far, Macy's has found other shippers for 70 of its empty truck routes. Each empty route used by another shipper is expected to save Macy's about $25,000 a year, said Bill Connell, the company's senior vice president for transportation, reverse logistics and collaboration.
Steve Matheys, the chief administration officer at Schneider National, a major trucking company, said that because of the Empty Miles program, it had saved 5,554 gallons of diesel fuel and kept 61.65 tons of carbon dioxide from being emitted.
The breakthrough, Mr. Connell said, was being able to communicate with many shippers and trucking companies at once, rather than just one company at a time.
''It's not hard to get very excited about the potential,'' he said.
The challenge will be getting more companies to participate, Mr. Connell and others say. While there are many shippers along the Eastern Seaboard and to the Midwest, it is harder to find matches on longer routes in the Western United States.
Still, the program is young. ''The more postings we get, the more opportunities,'' said Steve Matheys, the chief administration officer at Schneider National. ''It's a function of the numbers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COORDINATED: A Macy's operations center in Secaucus, N.J., which serves the Northeast. Macy's says that through the Empty Miles program it has found other shippers for 30 of its empty truck routes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUCK DRIVERS (90%); TRUCKING (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (74%); DIESEL FUEL (71%); EMISSIONS (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (70%); RETAILERS (70%); WEB SITES (67%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (67%)

COMPANY: LEVI STRAUSS & CO (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2010



559 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; The Business of Green; BUSINESS OF GREEN; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1816 words

HEADLINE: Generating Megawatts Like Clockwork

BYLINE: By HENRY FOUNTAIN

 BODY:
EASTPORT, Me.
WHEN Christopher R. Sauer stands before the swirling waters of the Western Passage and describes his company's alternative energy vision, he doesn't see an army of wind turbines or banks of solar cells.
In fact, Mr. Sauer sees nothing at all that could block his view of Canada, just across the channel. For if his plans come to fruition, an array of turbines will be operating out of sight, deep under the water, cranking out power to a substation on shore.
His company, Ocean Renewable Power, is one of a number of start-ups trying to develop tidal energy -- water-powered turbines that spin in the current as the tides come and go, turning generators to make electricity that is clean and, they hope, reasonably priced.
''We're not going to beat out the old coal plants in the Ohio Valley,'' said Mr. Sauer, who has decades of experience developing co-generation plants and other power projects. ''But we will be competitive with any new power source, including fossil fuels.'' 
That's an ambitious goal, but Mr. Sauer, the company's president and chief executive, has at least gravity and the earth's rotational energy on his side.
Tides come and go twice a day everywhere around the globe. In places like Eastport -- a former sardine capital at the mouth of the Bay of Fundy that is surrounded by deep channels like the Western Passage -- tidal power makes the most sense, at least for the moment.
Here the tides are very high and the current strong, reaching about 6 knots, or 7 miles per hour, at peak flows four times a day. ''We've got the best tidal current on the East Coast,'' Mr. Sauer said.
Tidal power is not a new idea. A few tidal generating stations are already operating around the world, including one in France that is more than four decades old. But they represent an older approach, one that employs barrages, or dams, to hold back the high tide. The water is then released through turbines, like a conventional hydroelectric plant, when the tide goes out.
Eastport itself was the site of an elaborate and enormous barrage project, proposed in the 1930s during the administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt, who knew of the great tides here, having spent many summers on Campobello Island nearby. The project, the East Coast's answer to Hoover Dam, was abandoned after a year.
Dam-building is extremely costly and can create widespread environmental problems -- the Eastport project, for example, would have bottled up two bays, forever altering the region's ecosystem. Mr. Sauer and others say that placing turbines directly in the current is potentially much cheaper and more environmentally sound.
But no one knows for sure, because the underwater approach is in its infancy. While there are a few tidal current projects overseas, including one in Northern Ireland, there are only small development projects in the United States, including one undertaken by Verdant Power in New York's East River, which also has a strong tidal current. Technologies are still being tested, and environmental questions are as yet unanswered. A tidal plant in Manhattan, Maine or elsewhere in the United States that would feed significant power to the grid is at least a few years away.
In many ways, tidal power is at a stage similar to wind power's two or three decades ago. ''That's exactly the way wind started out, with fairly small projects,'' said Robert Thresher, a research fellow with the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Colorado, who, after years of wind-power research, now studies what is called marine hydrokinetics, a catch-all term for tidal, wave and ocean thermal energy. ''They learned how to operate and maintain their machines. It was somewhat trial and error.''
Now large, efficient wind turbines are arrayed in vast farms. With tidal power, Mr. Thresher said, ''I think you'll see exactly the same kind of evolution'' of the technology.
But it might not take as long, said Tim Ramsey, a project officer with the Energy Department, which began putting resources into tidal projects only two years ago.
''I don't think we're 20 or 30 years from being where wind is today,'' Mr. Ramsey said. ''It may only take us or 10 years to catch up.'' Computers and other research tools are far better than they used to be, he said, and more accurate software models simulate turbine performance and efficiency.
''Our expectation is there is enough potential there to make it not only feasible but economical,'' he said.
Tidal researchers have learned a lot from work on wind power. Flowing water behaves much like flowing air, but because water is denser, it contains far more energy for a given volume. That gives it an advantage over wind, said Paul Jacobson, a project manager with the Electric Power Research Institute, because the turbines can be much smaller.
Over all, however, far more power is potentially available from the wind (and the sun) than from tides. The Electric Power Research Institute estimates that at the sites it has studied -- in areas with powerful tides like northern Maine, the Pacific Northwest and, above all, Alaska -- a total of about 13 gigawatts is potentially available. By contrast, current estimates of potential wind power in the United States are at least several hundred times higher, and there are already about 35 gigawatts of installed capacity.
But as with offshore wind power, tidal energy would be produced near the coasts, and the coasts are where the people are.
''Cities are all built at the mouth of some estuary because in the good old pioneering days that's where you could get transportation,'' Dr. Thresher said. And estuaries make promising locations for tidal power, particularly if the technology improves and more power could be generated in slower currents.
''The appeal is not how large it is, but that it's carbon-free and it's there,'' Dr. Thresher said. ''You don't have to build transmission lines.''
Like wind power -- and solar power as well -- tides are an intermittent resource. Even in areas with strong tides there are times, near low and high tide, when currents are too slow to turn a turbine.
Mr. Sauer estimated that in Eastport, his company's machines would generate power about 75 percent of the time. ''It's variable,'' he said. ''It's not a sole-source solution.''
Neither, he said, is wind or solar. But tides are highly predictable. ''We can tell you for the next 100 years what we're going to produce,'' Mr. Sauer said. ''With wind you can't. With solar you can't.''
That kind of dependability appeals to grid operators, said Mr. Jacobson of the Electric Power Research Institute. ''They can ramp up other sources of generation and plan for that.''
In principle, some tidal turbines are very similar to wind turbines. Verdant Power's East River project, for example, uses axial-flow turbines, in which the axis of rotation is aligned with the direction of water flow. Like wind turbines, they resemble large propellers, although they are stubbier and smaller than their wind counterparts.
Verdant Power in New York operated test turbines in the river, between Roosevelt Island and Queens, for several years. Recently it removed the turbines and is working on a next-generation model. It has applied for a license from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for a project to put an array of up to 30 turbines in the river that would generate up to 1 megawatt at peak times.
Trey Taylor, Verdant's co-founder and president, said environmental studies should be finished by summer, ''and we expect to get that license by the end of this year.'' But the project cannot proceed until more financing is obtained.
For its projects -- the company is also working in Alaska -- Ocean Renewable Power decided to use a different kind of turbine, a cross-flow design in which the axis of rotation is perpendicular to the flow of water. It looks something like the working end of a reel-type lawnmower, only supersize.
A complete unit would have four 20-foot turbine sections, two on each side of a generator capable of producing, at peak, about 250 kilowatts. The units could be mounted on the bottom or moored under water and in some cases could be stacked as many as four high.
The company's plan is to put one unit in the Western Passage next year, to be followed by more units there and in Cobscook Bay, on the other side of Eastport.
Now, though, the company is testing its turbine and generator system on a barge moored in Cobscook Bay. The turbine -- two sections with the generator in the middle -- can be raised and lowered into the water using hydraulic booms. With the turbine out of the water, the gray barge, topped by a shack full of power-regulating equipment, looks like a home-built high-tech paddlewheeler.
The company has had some problems -- a coupling linking one side of the turbine to the generator broke, for instance -- but over all, Mr. Sauer said, the tests are going well. At the same time, researchers from the University of Maine are studying the impact of the turbine on fish.
One concern about tidal turbines is that they could kill or injure fish that swim through them. While the study results are not yet in, Mr. Sauer said his company's turbine was designed to rotate relatively slowly -- about once a second -- to minimize the danger.
Mr. Jacobson said that environmental reviews could be a ''significant hurdle'' for deployment of tidal energy systems. ''These devices are going in new places, places where there hasn't been industrial development,'' he said. ''So there are lots of questions.''
Cost is another big concern. ''At the end of the day, we're selling electricity, and electricity is a commodity,'' Mr. Sauer said. Even with renewable energy credits and other incentives, he said, ''clearly our first units in the water are not going to be competitive with coal. Our challenge is to get enough of them in the water and refine the manufacturing processes and other things we have to do to get them cost competitive.''
That will be difficult without financing, and for Mr. Sauer's company, as for other alternative energy start-ups, raising capital is difficult. The company will soon be looking for $10 million to $12 million to continue development of the system and begin installing it in the Western Passage.
But Mr. Sauer is optimistic that once power starts being produced the company will attract a different kind of investor. ''They aren't going to be technology investors, they'll be project investors,'' he said.
Mr. Sauer's vision extends far beyond Eastport and the Western Passage, all the way to Florida's Atlantic Coast. There, the Gulf Stream, known locally as the Florida Current, flows at a constant 3 knots.
There are huge technological and practical hurdles to putting turbines in that current, one being that the water is 1,200 feet deep; another is that it is 20 miles off shore. But Mr. Sauer has his sights on that prize. ''That's the mother lode,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: Spinning With the Flow: Several start-up companies in the United States are developing technology to produce electricity from strong tidal currents. Ocean Renewable Power's system uses a cross-flow turbine that spins as the water flows through it, turning a generator. (Sources: Ocean Renewable Power Company
 Verdant Power) (GRAPHIC BY MIKA GRONDAHL/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (75%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (75%); POWER COGENERATION (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); COAL INDUSTRY (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (61%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2010



560 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: What Would You Do?

 BODY:
Many American workers know how a bad economy can chain them to a bad job or a bad boss. But what if you're an immigrant guest worker and that boss holds your visa and can get rid of you with one phone call to the feds? What if he just threatened to call? Which would you choose -- to be exploited or deported? To suffer silently here or in destitution back home? 
 There are laws to prevent such exploitation, but they often fail in the real world, which is rife with examples of abuses, and not just among the undocumented. 
 Hundreds of Indian shipyard workers brought legally to Mississippi under the H-2B guest-worker program organized hunger strikes and recently filed lawsuits protesting deplorable working conditions in what they called a system of human trafficking and involuntary servitude. The Departments of Justice and Homeland Security have been investigating. Farm workers and domestic workers regularly rally and plead for legislative help to escape abusive conditions. 
 A new bill from Senator Robert Menendez, a Democrat of New Jersey, and co-sponsored by Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, a Democrat of New York, seeks to give these workers a chance to speak out. It offers temporary protection against deportation and retaliation for noncitizen workers -- both visa holders and the undocumented -- who file civil-rights or labor-rights complaints or are witnesses in lawsuits or criminal investigations against employers. 
 This gives time for labor agencies and law enforcement to investigate claims of workplace violations, investigations that now are often short-circuited after complainants disappear or are deported. It also expands a visa program for immigrants who are crime victims.
 For too long the deck has been stacked against noncitizen workers. While the country has drastically ramped up the arrest, prosecution and deportation of tens of thousands of undocumented workers, it has done little to deal with unscrupulous employers who like their work force cheap, easily intimidated and disposable. 
 When one group of workers is powerless, all workers suffer. Mr. Menendez's bill is essential civil-rights legislation that is long overdue and just in time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEPORTATION (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (88%); LITIGATION (88%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); FARM LABOR (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (70%)

PERSON: BOB MENENDEZ (52%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



561 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2511 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Offers a Hand to Those Teetering on Eviction's Edge

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
SAN MATEO, Calif. -- Two years into a merciless downward spiral, Antonio Moore was threatened with living on the street. 
 He had lost his $75,000-a-year job as a mortgage consultant, his three-bedroom house with a Jacuzzi, his Lexus sedan. He could no longer pay even the rent on his cramped studio apartment -- not on his $10-an-hour part-time job as a fry cook at a fast food restaurant. 
 Faced with eviction, he was staring last month at the imminent prospect of joining the teeming ranks of the homeless. His last hope was a new $1.5 billion federal program aimed at preventing that fate.
 Days after Mr. Moore applied, a check for $775 was on its way to his landlord, enabling him to stay -- at least for now. 
 Much like the Great Depression, when millions of previously working people came to rely on a new social safety net for their sustenance, a swelling group of formerly middle-class Americans like Mr. Moore, 30, is seeking government aid for the first time. Without help, say economists, many are at risk of slipping permanently into poverty, even as economic conditions improve.
 The question is whether the modern-day safety net has enough money and the right initiatives to aid those who need it most. The answer could shape whether a considerable slice of the American population will recover from the trauma of recent years, and how long that will take. 
 The plight of people like Mr. Moore has little to do with the complex, intertwined causes of homelessness of decades past, like substance abuse, mental illness and domestic violence. The current surge stems directly from the recession: Millions have lost their jobs or suffered a sharp drop in earnings. They have drained their savings, losing the ability to pay their rent.
 ''Nationally, homelessness has now reached crisis proportions not seen since the Great Depression,'' says Maria Foscarinis, executive director of the National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty. 
 The severity of the situation prompted the Obama administration to create the Homelessness Prevention and Rapid Re-Housing program within the $787 billion economic stimulus package. The program rests on the assumption that intervention is the best course because once people become homeless, the odds and costs of regaining their lives escalate sharply. 
 ''This allows us to reorient a system that is focused on fixing a problem after it happens to preventing the problem,'' said Shaun Donovan, the secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, which oversees the program. ''This is the single most important thing the federal government has ever done on family homelessness. It's a transformative tool.''
 But a nagging set of questions threatens to constrain the program, say some of the social service agencies administering the money: How should these dollars be distributed, and for whose benefit? In a time of extraordinary need and limited aid, who deserves help?
 A similar debate over the fairness of bailing out homeowners has curtailed the administration's efforts to limit foreclosures, say housing experts. Under the homeless prevention program, HUD provides grants to states and local governments that in turn hand money to social service agencies that distribute it into communities. Even as these agencies embrace the program as a crucial source of funds, many complain about mixed messages from the housing department on how to use the money, sowing concerns that vulnerable people may be left out.
 On the one hand, HUD tells social service groups that they are supposed to direct prevention dollars only to people who would truly be homeless without aid. 
 On the other hand, they are supposed to help only those with a good chance to sustain themselves going forward, meaning people who can swiftly resume paying their bills.
 ''Some communities have read that to mean we should only give it to people who have a job,'' says Nan Roman, president of the National Alliance to End Homelessness, an advocacy organization in Washington. ''Those are not the people who are likely to become homeless. My fear is that we're going to spend the money and we're still going to have these enormous increases in homelessness. We won't have reached the people who most need it.''
 Social service agencies must front the money, then apply for government reimbursement, making them reluctant to risk aiding anyone who may later turn up in a shelter -- an outcome that suggests failure.
 ''People are afraid they will be chastised,'' said Connie M. Pascale, assistant general counsel at Legal Services of New Jersey, which received $38 million in program funds from the state to operate a telephone hot line. ''So they have designed their programs very narrowly.''
 To Stay in Suburbia
 Here in the flatlands of San Mateo, down the peninsula from San Francisco, Roy Perez is the one who decides who deserves help; the deal maker; the man with the checkbook. 
 A stocky former Marine with a goatee and a master's degree in psychology, he works as an intake manager for the homeless prevention program at Samaritan House, the agency where Mr. Moore went to seek help. 
 People arrive at his sunny cubicle and describe the bills they cannot pay, the gnawing proximity of the street. Except in cases where he doubts what he is being told -- something that has happened perhaps three times in the last month -- Mr. Perez is inclined to say yes. 
 ''I have to give this money out,'' he says as he prepares for a day in which he will meet six applicants. ''It's stimulus money. People need it. That's basically where I'm coming from. I'm not going to lose a night's sleep over whether I gave it to the right person.''
 From California to Florida, social service agencies report growing numbers of people who have never previously sought help and are now turning up in homeless shelters after exhausting all options -- from staying with relatives and cramming into cheap motels to sleeping in their cars. 
 From July to September of last year, the number of people turning to emergency homeless shelters and other transitional housing for the first time increased by 26 percent in seven major metropolitan areas surveyed by HUD. New York had a 32 percent increase. Cleveland suffered a jump of 31 percent. 
 The number of homeless families expanded last year in 19 of the 25 cities surveyed by the United States Conference of Mayors' Task Force on Hunger and Homelessness. 
 In much of the economy, a sense of repair is palpable, from tentative expansion on the American factory floor to the first significant job creation in more than two years. But for those out of work long-term, the downward spiral turns. Their job prospects dim as their skills and confidence deteriorate. 
 Once people lose homes, their odds of regaining normalcy lengthen, say poverty experts. 
 Simply looking for work -- let alone getting hired -- is harder without a fixed address and access to personal documents. Depression, substance abuse and attendant health problems claim families that lack stable living space and kitchens. Homeless families are a drain on taxpayers, who foot the bill for emergency shelters along with counseling and health care. 
 In postbubble America, housing is abundant, yet many people cannot afford it. The new program tries to bridge that divide, paying subsidies to landlords to cover rent shortfalls, while adding funds to move people out of shelters and into permanent housing. 
 At 9:18 in the morning, Dawn Martin sits down opposite Mr. Perez, a look of pained exhaustion on her face. 
 ''We're behind on January and February rent,'' she says.
 Ms. Martin is mortified to be asking for help. She grew up wealthy, with vacations spent on Caribbean cruises. ''I had everything I ever wanted,'' she says.
 She and her husband run a house-painting business that has been in his family for three generations. (Martin is her maiden name. She declined to be identified by her married name for fear of embarrassing her husband's family, whose name is emblazoned on his truck.) 
 They have three boys, a 12-year-old, and 9-year-old twins. At the house they have rented for seven years, on a street lined with well-tended lawns, the walls are covered with photos of her boys in their batting stances.
 Until 2008, their painting business was pulling in $100,000 a year, which paid their $2,450-a-month rent and allowed them to buy a trailer on Clear Lake, where they took the boys water-skiing.
 But last year, in a weak economy, they earned $38,000. They sold their trailer. They ran through $15,000 in savings. One day last winter, Ms. Martin noticed the refrigerator was nearly empty, and her checking account balance was down to $100. She drove to a county office and applied for food stamps.
 ''That just broke my heart,'' she says.
 Her father has money to help if it really comes down to it, she acknowledges. 
 ''I don't see him letting his grandkids land on the street,'' she says, ''but he'd hold it over our heads for a long time. That would lower me to a level that I wouldn't want to go.''
 So she is here, at Samaritan House, filling out the paperwork for the homeless prevention program. 
 ''I made appointments and then canceled,'' she says. ''I finally said, 'I have to. Money's not going to fall out of the trees for us.' I had to swallow my pride.''
 Ms. Martin and her husband need $4,900 to get out of arrears. The painting business is picking up, she tells Mr. Perez. This gives him confidence they should be able to sustain themselves. 
 But Samaritan House is on pace to run out of money as soon as next year. So Mr. Perez is in conservation mode. He will call the landlord and seek to extract a promise that he will not evict Ms. Martin and her family in exchange for $3,000.
 ''Is this family going to be homeless?'' Mr. Perez says. ''If they get nothing, probably. But if the landlord gets $3,000, probably not.''
 Who Gets the Help
 The discretion wielded by Mr. Perez in determining who receives aid is representative of the overall program. Intent on starting the program quickly, the Obama administration gave considerable latitude to local governments in fashioning their programs, resulting in conspicuous variation. In communities with advanced efforts to address homelessness, the new program has expanded those initiatives. In less-equipped places, the program has stumbled. 
 ''Implementation is all over the place,'' says Ms. Foscarinis of the National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty.
 In Detroit, where the unemployment rate exceeds 15 percent, the city chose to broadcast the availability of more than $15 million in housing aid, contrary to the advice of experts at social services agencies who feared an unruly money grab. They counseled that applications for cash assistance be handled by established agencies, like legal aid clinics and shelters. 
 Instead, in early October, the city invited the public to file paperwork en masse at a downtown convention center. Word spread that money would actually be handed out. More than 30,000 people jammed the facility.
 Fights broke out and the police were dispatched to restore order, according to the city. Tens of thousands of applications were submitted by people who were not eligible. In the months since, the city has been plowing through the pile of applications, with needy families living on the edge of homelessness caught within the crush of paperwork.
 In Pittsburgh, the city chose to set up a call center with surrounding Allegheny County to log preliminary applications. The center was immediately swamped, resulting in a waiting list for help that now exceeds 700 applicants. 
 The city of Boise, Idaho, has yet to allocate the roughly $750,000 it received for the program through a state grant, bringing accusations from social service groups that local leaders were showing disregard for laid-off workers.
 Boise officials say they have tried to get the money out quickly, but have been hindered by rules that bar them from granting money to the local housing authority, the only organization able to manage such a large-scale program.
 ''Idaho is one of those states that just does not have highly developed social service delivery systems,'' said Jim Birdsall, manager of Boise's housing and community development department.
 The Obama administration portrays such troubles as inevitable.
 ''Anytime you have a new effort, particularly of this scale, there are going to be implementation issues,'' said Mr. Donovan. ''There's going to be some growing pains.''
 Over all, he added, the program had helped 64,000 families, as of the end of December. All of the money has now been allocated by state and local governments.
 A Spartan Home for Now
 On a recent afternoon, Mr. Moore arrives at Samaritan House in a pinstriped suit, a relic from his mortgage days. He has been out in search of work, stepping into retail shops, dropping off resumes.
 Throughout his life, he had a knack for making money. His father, a Mexican immigrant, worked as a window washer. His mother was on and off welfare. At 14, he was earning $1,000 a month delivering afternoon newspapers.
 In 2004, he was earning $75,000 consulting on mortgages. The following year, he and his wife bought their home in an East Bay suburb for $400,000. 
 Mr. Moore was driving hundreds of miles to closings all over the state. He was often coming home in the middle of the night, much to the displeasure of his wife. The couple split up in 2007. Then everything fell apart. The mortgage business dried up. He lost the house to foreclosure. He moved into the studio apartment.
 By March 2008, he was driving a forklift at a home furnishings store from 7 at night until 4 in the morning.
 Needing to pay child support, he took a second job, manning a cash register from 4 a.m. to 1 p.m. at a grocery store. He quit that job because of back pain, he says. He lost the forklift job because he had to take care of his children and could no longer work nights.
 He searched frantically for work in the mortgage industry, in customer service, in retail.
 ''It just seems like no one wants my skills,'' he says. 
 So he took a job at a Red Robin restaurant, where he has gained expertise in frying bacon bits. 
 ''Family focused,'' declares a flier on a bulletin board inside the kitchen. ''I am treated like a member of the Red Robin family.''
 His own family fills out the king-size bed that takes up most of his cave-like apartment. His son and daughter sleep lengthwise, side by side, while Mr. Moore occupies the foot.
 He lies there, listening to the hum of his tiny refrigerator and imagining moving to a better place, while relieved to at least have these walls.
 He is within striking distance of recapturing stability, he tells himself, if only he can hang on to his apartment long enough to find a better job.
 ''That's my motivation,'' he says. ''I can get my life back.''
 The New Poor: Articles in this series are examining the struggle to recover from the widespread strains of the recession. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ANTONIO MOORE, a former mortgage consultant who now works as a cook
 ROY PEREZ, a manager for the homeless prevention program (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EVICTION (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); RECESSION (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); SEDANS (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (68%); MENTAL ILLNESS (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (63%); EXECUTIVES (61%); CITIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



562 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; The Business of Green; BUSINESS OF GREEN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2020 words

HEADLINE: Edging Back to Nuclear Power

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
FOR the first time since the 1970s, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has announced a step that it once took routinely: appointing an inspector for a new reactor construction project.
With 17 applications in hand from companies that want to build 26 reactors, the agency is likely to name a lot more inspectors; it also expects five more applicants in the next few years.
Is this the long-awaited renaissance of the nuclear construction business, after years of being moribund?
Certainly, some crucial ingredients are falling into place. Nuclear power provides 70 percent of the nation's carbon-free electricity, important at a time when environmentalists track carbon in the atmosphere the way baby boomers check their cholesterol levels. And while Congress has not agreed on setting a price on carbon emissions, important people say we need more low-carbon power. President Obama said in his State of the Union address that it was time to build ''a new generation of safe, clean nuclear power plants in this country,'' and his budget plan would triple the pool of loan guarantees available for construction, to $57.5 billion. 
Near Augusta, Ga., where the Southern Company opened its Vogtle 1 and 2 reactors in 1987 and 1989, workers have cleared away storage sheds and are preparing a site for construction of units 3 and 4. Vogtle received the first loan guarantees, $8.3 billion, under a program enacted in 2005; the five years that have passed are an indication of the pace of the renaissance.
Yet, undeniably, there is progress. Parts have been ordered from as far away as Italy and Japan, and there are stirrings in the supply chain here, suggesting that, while the United States can no longer manufacture all the key components, it can at least contribute to a global system. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has approved the Vogtle site, and a legion of its engineers and those at Westinghouse, the designer, are hashing out details before a new kind of license can be issued -- one that will allow cookie-cutter copies of the reactor around the country. Generic approvals for other designs are at various stages.
Boosters of nuclear power want to repeat the 1970s, with dozens of orders a year; Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, has called for building 100 plants, which would more than double existing capacity, just as the United States did from 1970 to 1990. And there appears to be bipartisan support for new reactors.
Some longtime opponents, like Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, said they still do not like the technology but would hold their noses and take a package that included some of what they want. Mr. Markey, who with Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, wrote the climate bill that passed the House last year, has been an implacable critic of the industry for decades. But if support for new reactors is the price of getting Senate agreement to a carbon cap, he said in an interview, he would negotiate over that.
Representative John Hall, a Democrat from the Hudson Valley of New York, was a popular musician in the 1970s in the band Orleans and starred, with Jackson Browne, Graham Nash and Bonnie Raitt, in a series of concerts at Madison Square Garden that raised $1 million to oppose nuclear power. He still dislikes the technology but has cast votes to help the industry, in bills that also contained subsidies for renewable energy.
''The unfortunate truth, speaking as somebody who is skeptical of nuclear power, is that we probably need to do everything, and we probably need to do it fast,'' he said.
Unlike the 1970s, when nuclear power's role was to reduce oil consumption, now there is some ambiguity. What new reactors would mostly replace is coal and some natural gas. These have both been cheap lately, while nuclear power has a cost both certain to be high and hard to predict precisely. The newer justification for nuclear power is preventing climate change, but the industry may have hitched itself to an untested imperative.
''They say, 'You know, we've really got to save the planet, and this is the panacea for supplying tons of power, 24/7, to address climate change forever,' '' said Barry Moline, executive director of the Florida Municipal Electric Association, a coalition of public power agencies based in Tallahassee. ''That's what the industry has been hanging its hat on, but the climate debate has been floundering.''
A mild summer, a cold winter, some leaked e-mail messages and some evident errors in climate change reports have created doubts, justifiable or not, about the urgency of controlling carbon emissions, he said. With the setbacks in his state and elsewhere, if there is a nuclear renaissance ''it's going to be a crawl instead of a run,'' he said.
Meanwhile, the recession has cut the demand for electricity for two years running, reducing the need to build anything at all. And in what might be a more worrisome development for the industry, even the continued operation of some existing reactors is not assured.
In Vermont, the State Senate voted overwhelmingly to close a 38-year-old reactor, Vermont Yankee, and would have to reverse itself to allow operation beyond 2012. It took the vote even though the plant is crucial to the state's ability to meet its carbon-dioxide goals under the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, sort of a mini-Kyoto agreement.
In New York, another signatory to the regional agreement, the Department of Environmental Conservation, may be doing the same thing at Indian Point, complaining that the cooling system sucks in fish and fish eggs from the Hudson River. An environmental group is using the same argument to try to close four reactors in California.
Thus the existing reactors, potential models for expansion, are beginning to look like heirlooms, vintage technology from the age of slide rules, eight-track tapes and moon landings.
At Vermont Yankee, an old wooden cooling tower collapsed in 2007, not threatening the plant's ability to shut down safely, but looking just awful. After leaks of radioactive water were found at an Illinois plant, the whole industry went looking for similar leaks and Vermont Yankee found them. The leaks do not appear to have produced any detectable dose of radiation, but plant officials had wrongly assured the state that they had no buried pipes that could leak.
While Vermont Yankee demonstrates the ability of a single plant to squander public trust, it also demonstrates the emergence of the states in nuclear regulation. The Atomic Energy Act of 1954 gave primacy to the federal government. But when members of the Vermont Senate voted to decline to provide a new ''certificate of public good,'' a requirement for any power plant, they argued that the plant could not be reliable beyond its initial 40-year operating period. The plant, though, has been running more than 500 days without a shutdown.
Underlying public attitudes about nuclear power is, if not fear, at least lingering anxiety. This is the industry that gave American English the all-purpose term for disaster, from the financial markets to a toddler's tantrum: meltdown. The recent deaths of 29 coal miners in West Virginia, of six construction workers at a natural gas plant in Connecticut in February and of five maintenance workers at a hydroelectric plant in Colorado in October 2007 have not shaken the popular conception that it is nuclear power that is dangerous. This seems to be true even as the meltdown at Three Mile Island in 1979, before many Americans living today were born, fades into memory.
''The nuclear industry is just so far removed from people's lives, they don't have much feeling for it,'' said Baruch Fischhoff, a professor of social and decision sciences at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. ''They don't really trust it. Although it hasn't done anything recently to lose the general public's trust, it hasn't done anything to gain people's trust.''
Lately, he said, the industry has ''fewer enemies, but no friends.''
But if friends are not appearing, at least tolerance is evident. A Gallup poll in March showed that 62 percent of Americans, a new high, favor the use of nuclear power.
''There's more public acceptance of nuclear power today than there has been at any time in my professional career,'' said Alan Hanson, a 30-year industry veteran now with the American subsidiary of Areva, the French reactor maker. He added, though, ''you can't buy a nuclear reactor with public acceptance.''
Mr. Hanson's company sells a reactor that several American companies would like to build, and one company, Unistar, is in line to get federal loan guarantees to help pay for it. But Unistar, a joint venture of Electricite de France, the French national electric company, and Constellation Energy, the parent company of Baltimore Gas and Electric, has not actually committed to build the plant. Among the elements of such calculations are whether Congress will pass legislation on carbon-dioxide emissions, which would help their project by handicapping the competition; the overall demand for power; and the price of natural gas, which is always volatile but has been especially low lately, partly because new drilling techniques have raised the amount of gas believed to be available.
One symptom of the national ambivalence about nuclear power is that American industry no longer has the ability to build 100 reactors itself; the American steel industry no longer has the capacity to build the biggest parts, the reactor vessels. These giant pots are about 40 feet high and 12 feet in diameter. In existing reactors, they were formed by casting flat steel plates eight inches thick, then bending them into curves, and then welding the plates together into rings. The rings were then stacked to form a cylinder; a top and bottom were attached and the product, running into the hundreds of tons, shipped by barge to a reactor site.
But the welds turned out to be vulnerable to damage over time, as neutrons, the subatomic particles that maintain the chain reaction, strayed out of the core and hit the metal, slowly making it brittle. And inspecting the welds is extremely cumbersome. So the reactor operators, in a wish list compiled 20 years ago, said that if they ever bought new vessels, they'd like them without many welds.
As a result, the new vessels are cast in rings, but American steel mills can't make those. Given enough time and the promise of enough demand, they could gear up to do so, but the industry was dormant for so long that it hardly noticed that the new requirements exceeded its abilities.
Most such parts come from Japan Steel Works, which takes 600-ton steel ingots and presses them like Play Doh into the appropriate shape. It recently installed its second press and planned to be able to build 12 reactor vessels a year.
For an American company to do the same would require an enormous capital investment.
''I don't know why anybody would,'' said David M. Ratcliffe, the chief executive of Southern, who said it would not be worth the effort unless the market looked a lot bigger than it did right now.
In a sign of the new energy landscape, ArcelorMittal, the company that owns Lukens Steel, which built most of the reactor vessels for existing American plants, has been in talks with Westinghouse over a different part of that company's new design, for the type of reactor that is planned for Vogtle. The design calls for stacking 13-foot wide steel strips laid out like stripes on an American flag, to build a dome 130 feet high. The steel strips are a bit wider than ArcelorMittal can handle, and the talks are over whether the part can be redesigned.
The company could invest in its factories to make wider plates, or even vessels, but it is not sure the market is there.
''We're not really sure where this is going,'' said Shelby Pixley, chief executive of ArcelorMittal USA Plate. The company also makes steel towers for wind machines, Mr. Pixley said, and he said he believed that business would continue to grow, but ''at this point we're not really sure what the winner is going to be at the end.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BIG PLANS: The construction site for the Southern Company's Vogtle 3 and 4 reactors in Waynesboro, Ga. Regulators have received 17 applications from companies that want to build 26 reactors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MORTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
SEEKING RE-ENTRY: Steel plate being produced at the ArcelorMittal plant in Burns Harbor, Ind. The company, which made parts in the 1960s for today's reactors, is in talks to make parts for new ones. (F1)
UNCERTAINTY: ''We're not really sure where this is going,'' said Shelby Pixley, chief executive of ArcelorMittal USA Plate, whose Indiana plant does not currently make reactor parts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MAKING PARTS: An Areva plant in France, left, where components of nuclear reactors are manufactured. Above, an illustration of the Vermont Yankee plant, where leaks of radioactive water were discovered
 the company says they have been repaired. Lawmakers in the state have voted to close the plant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AREVA) (F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); ENERGY SITING (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); BABY BOOMERS (69%); CHOLESTEROL (55%)

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: SO (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: HENRY WAXMAN (53%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); EDWARD J MARKEY (53%); BETSY MARKEY (53%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (53%); RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (70%) VERMONT, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2010



563 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: 3 Manufacturers Post Better-Than-Expected Results

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Three American manufacturers -- Boeing, Lockheed Martin and United Technologies -- all reported profits on Wednesday that topped expectations. Two, Boeing and Lockheed, reduced their outlooks for the year because of the effect of recently pass health care legislation.
 The Boeing Company, the military contractor and plane maker, reported a higher-than-expected quarterly profit on Wednesday, but cut its 2010 earnings forecast because of health care legislation. 
 ''I'm going to be looking for evidence of the trajectory of the recovery,'' said Alex Hamilton, senior managing director at C.K. Cooper & Company.
 The ''sweet spot'' of the recovery will come when Boeing starts showing a sustained flow of domestic orders, he said. ''We're not going to see that for a while,'' Mr. Hamilton said. ''But domestic U.S. airlines have been doing much better.''
 Boeing and its top rival, Airbus, were dogged in 2009 by fewer orders for airplanes as carriers around the world grappled with falling travel demand in the sagging economy. 
 Boeing said first-quarter net profit fell to $519 million, or 70 cents a share, from $610 million, or 87 cents a share, a year earlier. The results, which include a 20-cent-a-share charge on new health reform law's elimination of tax deductions that have been available to companies for retiree prescription drug expenses, beat Wall Street's average estimate of 64 cents a share, according to Thomson Reuters.
 Revenue fell 7.8 percent to $15.2 billion. The company reported an order backlog amounting to $315 billion.
 The second military contractor, the Lockheed Martin Corporation, said net earnings fell to $547 million, or $1.45 a share, from $666 million, or $1.68 a share, a year earlier. Analysts expected $1.34 a share, according to Thomson Reuters.
 The results included a charge of about 25 cents a share resulting from the health reform law.
 Revenue rose about 3 percent to $10.64 billion, compared with $10.62 billion expected by analysts.
 Shares of military contractors were hurt in 2009 by program cuts and concern that spending growth would slow under the Obama administration.
 President Obama's fiscal 2011 military budget calls for a 3.4 percent rise in base spending. While billions are set aside for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program, the Pentagon docked Lockheed $614 million in performance fees because performance had not met expectations in recent years.
 The third manufacturer, United Technologies, reported that its quarterly profit was helped by lower reorganization costs. The company's revenue missed analysts' forecasts.
 The company, which makes elevators, air-conditioners and aircraft engines, recorded a 20 percent rise in earnings, ending four quarters of declines, as heavy cost-cutting that included some 15,000 job cuts last year paid off.
 Sales were weaker than expected at the company's Sikorsky helicopter and fire and security equipment businesses, and United Tech's shares were down slightly in light premarket trading.
 First-quarter profit attributable to common shareholders came to $866 million, or 93 cents a diluted share, topping the 90 cents a share analysts had expected, according to Thomson Reuters. A year earlier the company earned $722 million, or 78 cents a share.
 The 2010 result included 5 cents a share of reorganization costs, less than the 9 cents a share recorded a year ago.
 A Deutsche Bank analyst, Nigel Coe, said that the slide in earnings ''was driven entirely'' by one-time items. ''Revenue performance was soft,'' Mr. Coe added.
 Revenue fell 1.3 percent to $12.09 billion, below the $12.26 billion analysts had expected.
 United Tech, which also makes Pratt & Whitney jet engines, bolstered the low end of its 2010 profit forecast, predicting a range of $4.50 to $4.65 a share, up from $4.40 to $4.65.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); AIRLINES (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); BUDGETS (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (93%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (87%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (84%); COOPER & CO INC (71%); AIRBUS SAS (56%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (93%); BAB (BRU) (93%); BA (NYSE) (93%); LMT (NYSE) (87%); UTX (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (93%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (87%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



564 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; The Business of Green; BUSINESS OF GREEN; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Green Economy Is Not Yet Made in U.S.A.

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
MANUFACTURING, long in decline in the United States, might rise again if the green economy were 100 percent homemade. But that big ''if'' is not what's happening and seems unlikely. Rather than ''made in America,'' much of the green manufacturing to date is ''assembled in America'' from parts made overseas.
The Obama administration is trying to change that, offering generous tax credits to generate domestic production. But the impact has been modest, because assembly plants qualify for the credits. 
''The act says that if you assemble in the United States, then you comply,'' said Tom Dyer, vice president for marketing and government policy for Kyocera Solar, a Japanese company that will assemble solar panels in San Diego from imported Japanese solar cells. ''That is what we are doing, and that is what a lot of people are doing.''
Very slowly, that reliance on imports might be changing. Gamesa North America, which is Spanish-owned, makes blades and nose cones in eastern Pennsylvania for assembly into wind turbines. A new company, SpectraWatt, a spinoff from Intel, started production of solar cells last month at a factory in Fishkill, N.Y., manufacturing a component of solar panels now often imported.
Andrew B. Wilson, chief executive of SpectraWatt and a former Intel executive, said the just-opened $50 million plant could not have been built without the $20 million in public subsidies and incentives that SpectraWatt received.
''If we want green manufacturing to flourish in the United States,'' Mr. Wilson said, ''then government support, for the time being, is necessary.''
Yet fewer than 500 applications have been filed so far for the tax breaks, and if all were approved they would add just 75,000 green manufacturing jobs, according to Robert Pollin, an economist at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, who has done studies for the administration estimating the impact.
Still, he is optimistic. ''Clean energy is a huge opportunity to revive manufacturing,'' Mr. Pollin said.
In all, fewer than 200 factories in the United States are devoted to green production, employing no more than 15,000 workers. While the numbers are rising, many of the plants are foreign-owned, and several Democratic senators want the incentives stopped until Congress can change the law, restricting the subsidies to American-owned companies.
Whatever the ownership, assembly operations that rely on imported parts do relatively little to revive manufacturing, which represents less than 12 percent of the nation's economic activity. (In the early 1950s, it was nearly 30 percent.) Employment in manufacturing similarly has fallen, to 11.5 million today from more than 16 million in 1953.
In the rise of green manufacturing, Asia, particularly China and Japan, dominates in solar, and Europe, particularly Germany and also Spain, in wind and high-speed rail, the latter a potentially giant industry that does not yet exist in the United States.
''Over the last 10 years we have not been competitive with Europe and Asia,'' said Matt Rogers, a senior adviser in the Energy Department. ''So many of the best manufacturers started there and we weren't in the game.''
Ethan Zindler, the head of North American research for Bloomberg New Energy Finance, a consultancy, commented: ''The reality is that the Europeans ramped up five years ago. And the Chinese in just the last two years have made the kind of progress that it took the Europeans five years to achieve.''
Two Chinese manufacturers, Suntech Power and the Yingli Green Energy Holding Company, have announced plans to assemble solar panels at plants in the Phoenix area, mainly from components made in China. Kyocera Solar is preparing 15,000 square feet of factory space in San Diego for the assembly of its solar panels. And General Electric will soon make hybrid water heaters -- which convert air rather than electricity into heat -- at a G.E. appliance factory in Louisville, Ky., using imported as well as American-made parts.
All three companies, and many others, acknowledge that they are responding to incentives in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which became law 14 months ago. Kyocera responded even though it has a similar plant in northern Mexico, not far from San Diego.
A cautionary note was sounded by Phyllis Cuttino, director of the Pew Environment Group's Global Warming Campaign, an advocacy organization. ''We don't want to swap our dependence on foreign oil for dependence on clean energy,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LESS JUICE G.E. is about to begin manufacturing hybrid water heaters. They use air to help reduce the electricity needed to warm the water. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GENERAL ELECTRIC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELL MFG (79%); FACTORY WORKERS (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX LAW (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); WIND POWER PLANTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); APPROVALS (63%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%)

COMPANY: KYOCERA SOLAR INC (56%); INTEL CORP (55%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2010



565 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Fed Made $47.4 Billion in 2009 From Aiding Housing Market

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve transferred $47.4 billion, a record sum, to the Treasury Department last year, a result of the central bank's actions to support the fragile housing market.
 The transfer to the public coffers rose roughly 50 percent, or $15.7 billion, from $31.7 billion transferred in 2008, the Fed announced on Wednesday in releasing its annual financial statements, which were audited by Deloitte.
 ''Central banking is a great business,'' joked Vincent R. Reinhart, a former director of monetary affairs at the Fed. 
 Unlike private banks, the Fed does not exist for the purpose of making a profit, though it inevitably does so. Historically, it paid no interest on the currency and bank reserves that represent its liabilities, while it made interest on the Treasury securities that make up its assets. 
 The Fed's profitability increased as an incidental result of the financial turmoil that began in 2007. 
 To hold down long-term interest rates and support the housing market, the Fed greatly increased its holdings of Treasury securities and acquired mortgage-backed securities and debts owed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage-finance companies that are now controlled by the government. The Fed made $20.4 billion in interest on those mortgage-related securities and debt holdings in 2009.
 In addition, the Fed profited as troubled banks turned to its discount window and other emergency lending programs.
 The Fed paid for the assets by creating reserves and, although it began paying interest, currently 0.25 percent, on those reserves in October 2008, the payments are only a small drag on the central bank's profitability. 
 Those seeking to use the Fed to help cover the nation's steep deficits and debts, however, will inevitably be disappointed. 
 ''The Fed can only play this game as long as the public is willing to hold its liabilities,'' said Mr. Reinhart, now a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research organization. ''If it tried to increase its balance sheet tenfold, say, the public would be unwilling to hold those reserves. You'd get dollar depreciation and inflation.'' 
 As it is, the Fed's balance sheet is now roughly $2.3 trillion, about 2.5 times its size before the crisis. Its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, now faces a set of challenges as the Fed prepares to eventually tighten monetary policy and return its balance sheet to a more normal size.
 All told, the Fed's comprehensive income was $53.4 billion in 2009, a $17.9 billion increase from 2008. After deducting operating expenses, the Fed transferred $47.4 billion to the Treasury.
 Along with financial statements for the Fed's board of governors in Washington and the 12 Fed district banks, the Fed released details about the assets held by five limited liability companies that were created by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in response to the crisis.
 Three of those companies, known as Maiden Lane I, II and III, were created to hold troubled assets, including mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations, acquired as a result of the government-brokered sale of Bear Stearns to JPMorgan Chase in March 2008 and the takeover of the American International Group, the stricken insurance giant, that September.
 The Fed expects to recover the full value of the loans made to those special entities and does not expect any loss to taxpayers from them, senior Fed officials said in a conference call. 
 The Fed spent $243.7 million on salaries for its roughly 2,200 employees in Washington in 2009. Those numbers could change substantially if Congress creates an independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau within the Fed, as a Senate bill to overhaul financial regulations seeks to do.
 The annual financial statements also showed that the Fed spent $479.3 million on currency printing last year. ''In just the past 25 years, the value of Federal Reserve notes in circulation has grown from $180 billion to $890 billion, an increase of almost 400 percent,'' Mr. Bernanke said at a news conference on Wednesday at the Treasury Department to unveil a new design, incorporating additional anticounterfeiting features, for the $100 note.
 ''And while in the past, most U.S. dollars were held domestically, today many of these notes circulate outside of our borders,'' he added. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: On the Rise (Source: Federal Reserve) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES (74%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (73%); BANK FAILURES (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (73%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (72%); AUDITS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); CONSERVATISM (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (68%); DELOITTE LLP (57%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (68%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



566 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Financial Debate Renews Scrutiny on Banks' Size

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
A group of Senate Democrats introduced a bill on Wednesday that would require the nation's three largest banks to shrink, in an effort to eliminate the problem of financial institutions being seen as ''too big to fail.'' 
 Their proposal, which would put specific ceilings on the size of banks, builds on a provision already in the Senate's financial regulatory overhaul package that is meant to limit future growth of large Wall Street firms. 
 ''The major issue is to keep the banks from getting too large to begin with,'' the lead sponsor of the bill, Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, said Wednesday morning. ''Too big to fail is too big. That's where we need to be much more aggressive.''
 As concern about the risk posed by the biggest financial institutions percolates among populists in Congress and at the Federal Reserve, the lawmakers plan to offer the bill as an amendment to the pending Senate legislation, which could reach the floor as soon as Monday.
 The bill would cap the amount of non-deposit liabilities of any one bank -- effectively, the amount the bank borrows in various ways to finance its operations -- at an amount equal to 2 percent of the nation's gross domestic product, a measure of the size of the economy. For major financial firms that are not banks, like A.I.G., Metropolitan Life or the financial arm of General Electric, the cap would by 3 percent of G.D.P. 
 The bill would reinforce a 1994 law that bars any single bank from holding more than 10 percent of the nation's total deposits, or about $750 billion. In the years since then, large firms have obtained waivers or used loopholes in the law to exceed that ceiling. Three institutions -- Bank of America, Wells Fargo and J.P. Morgan Chase -- are over the limit now, and would have to shed the excess within three years. 
 A number of Republicans have expressed concern about the size issue, and Mr. Brown appeared optimistic Wednesday that his provision could win Republican support.
 ''I would challenge any Republican to co-sponsor this issue,'' he said. ''If they are really concerned about 'too big to fail,' they should want to keep them from getting that big in the first place.''
 Senator Ted Kaufman, Democrat of Delaware, who is a co-sponsor of the bill, said that the Federal Reserve has had the power to limit the size of banks since 1970, but has not acted. Instead, the nation's six largest bank holding companies -- Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley are the other three -- have only grown bigger over the last year and a half, mainly as a result of government-brokered mergers. They can now borrow at significantly lower rates than their smaller competitors, a result of the bond market's implicit assumption that the government will never allow them to fail. 
 Treasury Department and Federal Reserve officials have rejected calls to break up the biggest financial institutions, saying bank size alone is not the most important threat. 
 Instead, the legislation already introduced in the Senate bill would direct regulators to compel the largest banks to hold more capital as a cushion against losses. It would set up a procedure intended to allow big banks to fail without disrupting the financial system, and with the cost borne not by taxpayers but by other large financial institutions. 
 As the debate over the regulatory overhaul heated up this week, though, a populist minority in both Congress and the Fed turned again to the size issue, and sought to go beyond a provision, suggested by Paul A. Volcker, the former Fed chairman, and supported by President Obama, that would seek to keep banks from growing any larger but would not force any to shrink. 
 ''By splitting up these megabanks, we by definition will make them smaller, safer and more manageable,'' Senator Edward E. Kaufman Jr., Democrat of Delaware, said in a speech Tuesday. 
 The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, Richard W. Fisher, broke ranks with most of his colleagues within the central bank last week, declaring that ''the disagreeable but sound thing to do regarding institutions that are too big to fail is to dismantle them, over time, into institutions that can be prudently managed and regulated across borders.'' 
 There also has been concern about the size of banks from Republicans who believe in free-market principles. Several senators from the South and West -- Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, Johnny Isakson of Georgia, John Cornyn of Texas and John McCain of Arizona -- have expressed a desire to revisit the 1999 repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act, the Depression-era law that separated commercial and investment banking. 
 Alan Greenspan, the former Fed chairman, has entertained the idea of splitting up the banks but has stopped short of advocating it. 
 ''If they're too big to fail, they're too big,'' he said in an October speech. 
 He added: ''In 1911, we broke up Standard Oil. So what happened? The individual parts became more valuable than the whole. Maybe that's what we need.'' 
 In January, the White House embraced a proposal by Mr. Volcker that would ban banks that take customer deposits from also running their own proprietary trading operations, or from making market bets with their own money. It would also limit the share of all financial liabilities that any one institution can hold -- besides deposits -- but would leave the details up to regulators. The new bill introduced by Senate Democrats on Wednesday would specify limits in the law. 
 The banking industry has become much more concentrated as it has grown in recent years. In 1995, the assets of the six largest banks were equivalent to 17 percent of G.D.P.; now they amount to 63 percent of G.D.P. Meanwhile, the share of all banking industry assets held by the top 10 banks rose to 58 percent last year, from 44 percent in 2000 and 24 percent in 1990. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: TED KAUFMAN (58%); SHERROD BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



567 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; The Business of Green; BUSINESS OF GREEN; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus Aid Is Slow to Reach Energy Savers

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH

 BODY:
FOR companies that specialize in the business of saving energy, these ought to be flush times. Last year's stimulus package devoted at least $20 billion to efficiency measures, more than any other single law. President Obama regularly preaches the virtues of better insulation and weatherizing homes.
Yet the efficiency business has not reaped the benefit that it had hoped to receive. The stimulus dollars -- enough to increase the amount of federal money some state energy offices receive by a factor of 100 -- are still being distributed. Money being doled out by different government agencies has been delayed by problems like insufficient staff in the Energy Department and pay requirements for contractors in the stimulus law. 
''It's happening slower than we would like,'' said Jim Davis, the president of Chevron Energy Solutions, a 10-year-old branch of the oil company that is devoted to energy efficiency and renewable power.
Assuming the money is eventually disbursed and the push to save energy continues, a handful of big efficiency-oriented companies, including Chevron Energy Solutions, Johnson Controls, Honeywell Building Solutions and Lockheed Martin, could gain substantially. Smaller, more local businesses that perform energy audits and retrofits for individual homes could also benefit.
''Energy efficiency'' refers, largely, to measures that help buildings save energy. They are numerous and include insulating walls and attics, changing light bulbs, replacing appliances, sealing leaky building ducts and improving the performance of heating and cooling systems.
All such measures can be costly initially but should save money long term. A report last year from the consulting firm McKinsey & Company found that the United States as a whole could save $1.2 trillion through 2020 by investing $520 billion in efficiency. California, where per-capita electricity use has remained essentially stable for three decades, is the nation's longtime leader in efficiency. Chevron Energy Solutions says the state accounts for about 50 percent of its business. But, even in California, ''we believe we've only just scratched the surface'' of the business possibilities, Mr. Davis said.
Another enormous opportunity lies with the federal government, the country's largest consumer of energy, with its vast, aging web of structures like military bases, postal centers and courthouses.
''The seriousness of the feds in attacking this problem is still a relatively new development,'' said Thomas P. Grumbly, a vice president of Lockheed Martin, which has a four-year-old efficiency business. Lockheed representatives recently attended a conference in Europe on how to make United States embassies green, he said.
Almost any building in the United States is a candidate for energy-efficiency work, if upfront money is available. Such buildings include state and local government structures, like schools and city halls, as well as offices and industrial plants.
A $20 million retrofit project at the Empire State Building that Johnson Controls is overseeing is projected to reap 38 percent efficiency savings annually by 2013, at an annual savings of $4.4 million. Stimulus dollars have reached a few projects. In the Santa Ana school district in Southern California, Chevron Energy Solutions is improving the energy efficiency of roofing, heating and ventilation systems. Under the Great Appliance Swap Out, conducted by Lockheed this spring, New Yorkers got rebates -- as much as $100 for clothes washers, for example -- to trade old appliances for new, energy-efficient models.
But in many cases, efficiency companies say, the stimulus money is still awaiting distribution. One exception is a weatherization program for homes, where the dollars have been moving, Mr. Grumbly of Lockheed said. Last year, more than 30,000 homes were weatherized with stimulus funds, and the number is increasing. Seth Kaplan, the clean energy and climate change program director at the Conservation Law Foundation, says that one of several reasons disbursement has been slow is that many localities are not accustomed to a flood of money coming in and do not have the infrastructure to use it. Another challenge, he says, is a shortage of labor in the efficiency business -- especially for specialized roles like air sealers.
''Finding somebody who needs a job and who is trained and qualified to be an air sealer and who you trust and who is available -- that's the hard part,'' Mr. Kaplan said.
Credit markets that remain tight continue to be an issue, Mr. Davis at Chevron Energy Solutions said, noting that businesses needed private money to supplement stimulus dollars. But energy prices are creeping up again as the economy bounces back from recession -- meaning that the incentive to pay for efficiency work is increasing.
Looking ahead, business leaders and entrepreneurs in the efficiency sector are optimistic.
On the federal level, President Obama signed an executive order in October requiring increased energy and water efficiency in federal buildings. Some of the stimulus dollars for federal building efficiency are still being awarded by the General Services Administration. ''The pipeline is still releasing, so to speak,'' and federal agencies are also finding other ways to finance projects, sometimes through contracts where the energy-services company pays the upfront costs and gets paid back gradually, Mr. Grumbly said.
For homeowners, innovative methods of financing efficiency improvements have cropped up. One of the most talked-about models is Property-Assessed Clean Energy, or PACE, a state and local program that allows municipalities to pay the upfront costs of retrofitting homes and to be repaid through higher property taxes.
The program, which is operating in some California cities, is still in its infancy, but in theory it will let homeowners improve efficiency without paying upfront costs, and allow the payments to be transferred to the next owner if the property is sold.
Congress is considering establishing a rebate program, called Home Star or, informally, cash for caulkers, to encourage investment in insulation, efficient appliances and revamped heating and cooling systems.
For the efficiency business as a whole, another benefit could come from a federal efficiency standard, a requirement that utilities offset a certain proportion of their growth in demand with energy-saving measures. Some states already have such a requirement, and Congress could wrap it into forthcoming energy legislation.
With the prospect of a big effort ahead, the industry says it is determined to make sure quality standards are maintained. Recent concerns over some Chinese drywall in American homes serve to underscore that the building business is not immune from such problems.
Matt Golden, the chairman of Efficiency First, an advocacy organization whose members include hundreds of efficiency-oriented businesses, said that quality was something that the Home Star rebate program, which the group supports, would address ''pretty aggressively,'' adding, ''We're going to set up a national quality insurance infrastructure and start holding contractors accountable,'' Mr. Golden said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RETROFITS: Eric Smith, top, of Chevron Energy Solutions retrofits an airconditioning system at a military base in New Jersey, while Pat Delvey, above left, and Dante Graziani work on a boiler. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (91%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); HVAC SYSTEMS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (82%); CHEVRON ENERGY SOLUTIONS (56%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (55%); HONEYWELL AUTOMATION & CONTROL SOLUTIONS (55%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (55%); SIC7382 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: JIM DAVIS (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2010



568 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: BILL ON FINANCE WINS APPROVAL OF SENATE PANEL

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senate Republicans and Democrats predicted on Wednesday that Congress would soon pass a far-reaching overhaul of the nation's financial regulatory system, indicating a potentially swift resolution of the latest partisan firefight on Capitol Hill. 
 But the sides offered starkly different reasons for their optimism. Republicans said that they had forced Democrats back to the bargaining table to negotiate a bipartisan accord, while Democrats said that Republicans were hastily abandoning their opposition in fear of a public outcry. 
 With President Obama headed to New York City on Thursday to press the case for tougher rules for Wall Street, a first crack appeared in the Republican wall of opposition.
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, voted with Democrats on the Senate Agriculture Committee in favor of imposing tougher rules for derivatives, the complex securities that were at the heart of the 2008 financial crisis. 
 The Agriculture Committee, which deals with derivatives because it oversees commodities futures trading, voted 13 to 8 to approve the bill, which was sponsored by Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, the panel's chairwoman. The bill is expected to be part of the wider regulatory overhaul put forward by the banking committee, though Democrats are still figuring out how to combine the proposals. 
 Senate Republicans on Wednesday reported progress in negotiating changes to the wider bill. But they did not point to any specific concessions they had won, and Democrats said they made none.
 In a statement later, Mr. Grassley said that his vote did not mean he would support the larger financial bill, which he said ''has a number of flaws that need to be resolved.'' 
 But Democrats seized on his defection as a sign that Republicans were finding it increasingly untenable to oppose the legislation. Democrats said they would to push for a first procedural vote on Monday, in what could be a serious test of Republican resolve.
 Senior Democrats said they viewed the vote as a no-lose proposition forcing Republicans to agree to begin debating the bill or be seen as obstructing it. 
 The Democrats' efforts have been bolstered this week by a series of developments in Washington and on Wall Street, as regulators announced a fraud case against Goldman Sachs, and then both Goldman Sachs and Citigroup reported huge profits. 
 ''Wall Street's unquenchable thirst for profits and utter disregard for ordinary consumers led to a pattern of greed and recklessness that darn near led to a complete collapse of our financial economy,'' Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and lead sponsor of the legislation, said in a floor speech on Wednesday. ''Millions of Americans lost their jobs.'' 
 Republicans initially had expressed stiff opposition to the financial regulation bill, saying it would encourage, rather than prevent, future taxpayer bailouts of financial firms. But that argument has crumbled in recent days, as Republicans insisted that they, too, wanted to clamp down on Wall Street. 
 Mr. Grassley is up for re-election this year and has long championed greater transparency as a good-governance tool. He did not explain his vote during committee proceedings although he noted his support for a section of the bill that would help protect whistle-blowers who expose fraud in the derivatives markets. 
 Mr. Grassley, who negotiated with Democrats for months over major health care legislation but ultimately refused to back the bill, is a farmer and represents a farm state with a strong populist sensibility. Speculative trading in derivatives is seen as especially harmful to businesses that truly rely on hedging against price swings in commodities. 
 As talks continued between Mr. Dodd and Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the banking committee, some Democrats said they were prepared to accede to Republican demands and drop from the bill a provision to create a $50 billion fund, paid for by big banks, which would be used to unwind failing financial institutions. 
 The Obama administration has also opposed the fund, which it fears could limit its ability to deal with bank failures. 
 To advance the larger bill, Senate Democrats need the backing of at least one Republican to surmount a filibuster. Democratic leaders have said they plan to push for a first procedural vote early next week that could test Republican resolve. Some leading Republicans, including Mr. Shelby, said they hoped a deal could be reached before then.
 In a statement after the Agriculture Committee action, the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, hailed the ''bipartisan committee vote.'' 
 Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, the senior Republican on the Agriculture Committee, said the sides agreed on 90 percent of the derivatives bill and that Democrats had agreed to help close the gap. Still, Republicans tried to minimize the defection. ''Senator Grassley decided to be a little more bipartisan than the rest of us,'' Mr. Chambliss said.
 One important amendment added to the bill by Mrs. Lincoln just before Wednesday's vote would allow the Treasury secretary to exempt derivatives tied to foreign currency rates from the new rules requiring swaps contracts to be traded on an exchange and routed through a clearing agency.
 The bill would require most derivative contracts to be traded on a public exchange and to be processed, or cleared, through a third party to guarantee payment if one of the parties to a trade went out of business. Inability to make such payments was a big factor in the failure of the American International Group, which needed a $180 billion bailout. 
 The derivatives bill also would require most big banks and Wall Street firms to spin off their derivatives trading into a separate subsidiary, a move that Mrs. Lincoln said would protect small banks from speculation in derivatives by big Wall Street banks.
 That provision is opposed, however, by the larger banks as well as the Obama administration and therefore could emerge as a Democratic bargaining chip in trying to get Republicans to sign on to the larger bill. 
 Republicans expressed some confidence that they would eliminate that provision as well as the $50 billion fund, which supporters said was intended to ensure that taxpayers were not asked to finance future bailouts. Republicans have criticized it as ''a bailout fund.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Blanche Lincoln sponsored the proposal, which Senator Saxby Chambliss voted against. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); FUTURES (78%); POLITICS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (68%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: BLANCHE LINCOLN (73%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



569 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 JAPAN TRIES TO TAKE
 Poverty Out of Shadows
 After years of economic stagnation and widening income disparities, Japan is waking up to the fact that it has a large and growing number of poor people. The government's disclosure in October that almost one in six Japanese, or 20 million people, lived in poverty in 2007 stunned the nation and ignited a debate over possible remedies that has raged ever since. PAGE A6
 GUNMEN RAID MEXICO HOTELS 
 Armed men raided two hotels in the center of Monterrey, Mexico's industrial capital, hauling away four guests and as many as three staff members and sending a wave of panic across a city that has experienced a spate of violent episodes in recent weeks, the authorities said.
 PAGE A6
 CHINA'S DAY OF MOURNING
 In an elaborately orchestrated outpouring of grief, China mourned the victims of the earthquake in western Qinghai Province, which struck a week ago and killed more than 2,000 people, by printing monochromatic newspapers, shutting karaoke parlors and canceling sporting events across the country. PAGE A12
 National
 ARIZONA IMMIGRATION BILL DIVIDES LAW ENFORCEMENT
 A bill passed this week by the Arizona Legislature to hand state and local police broad powers to enforce immigration law has split police groups and sowed confusion over how the law would be applied. PAGE A16
 PRIEST DISINVITED FROM MASS
 A former top Vatican cardinal who planned to lead a Latin Mass in honor of Pope Benedict XVI on Saturday at the Basilica in Washington has been disinvited by the conservative Catholic group organizing the event because of controversy over his role in the sexual abuse scandal. PAGE A14
 STEPPING UP COURT SEARCH
 President Obama has accelerated his search for a new Supreme Court justice, talking with several candidates and reaching out to lawmakers as he tries to select a replacement for the retiring Justice John Paul Stevens within the next two weeks. PAGE A16
 New York
 INVESTIGATORS RAID OFFICES
 Of Senate Majority Leader
 Federal and state investigators raided the Bronx offices of the Soundview HealthCare Network, seeking records as part of a joint criminal investigation into the business and political activities of the Senate majority leader, Pedro Espada Jr. The raid came one day after the state attorney general filed a lawsuit against Mr. Espada and 19 others accusing them of taking at least $14 million from the nonprofit organization. 
 Business
 PLACING A RISKY BET 
 On Rare Earth Minerals
 Molycorp Minerals is making a big bet that its mine about an hour's drive southwest of Las Vegas -- once the world leader in production of rare earth elements, but now a rusting relic -- can be made competitive again. Global demand is surging for the minerals. And customers, particularly the American military, are seeking alternatives to China, which now mines 97 percent of the world's rare earth elements. PAGE B1
 EARTH DAY IS BIG BUSINESS
 The eagerness of corporations to sign up for Earth Day reflects the environmental movement's increased tolerance toward corporate America. Many ''big greens,'' as leading environmental advocacy organizations are known, now accept that they must take money from corporations or at least become partners with them if they are to make real inroads in changing social behavior. PAGE B1
 TRADER TO TESTIFY TO CONGRESS
 Fabrice P. Tourre, the Goldman Sachs trader accused of fraud by federal regulators, and at least three top officers of the bank are said to have agreed to testify before a Senate panel next week in an effort to defend the firm's business activities and reputation. PAGE B1
 PANEL SUBPOENAS MOODY'S
 A Congressional panel created to examine the causes of the financial crisis said that it had issued a subpoena to the credit rating agency Moody's Investors Service, saying that the firm had failed to promptly respond to its request for documents and e-mail messages. PAGE B6
 Starbucks Profit Rises Eightfold B6
 Sports
 N.B.A. COACHES DEBATE 
 Fouling Late in Game
 Teams in the N.B.A. playoffs often face a dilemma that coaches at all levels wrestle with: whether to foul with a 3-point lead and the shot clock off. It is one of the most heavily debated topics among the best N.B.A. minds. It was a factor in last year's playoffs, including the finals, and probably will be again this postseason, when teams are more evenly matched and playoff survival is at stake. PAGE B12
 OLYMPIC CHANNEL SCRAPPED
 The United States Olympic Committee and Comcast have ended their plans to create an Olympic channel. The committee's announcement last year that it was proceeding with the channel prompted a rebuke from the International Olympic Committee, which said it had not granted the proposed network the rights it needed. PAGE B13
 Uncertainty at N.F.L. Draft B12
 Arts
 DESPITE NAYSAYERS, 
 Composer Wins a Pulitzer
 Jennifer Higdon was awarded the Pulitzer Prize this month for her Violin Concerto, which she wrote for the young soloist Hilary Hahn. But the prolific composer has had her share of detractors, and says she has days of writing anxiety and dark moods. PAGE C1
 SORTING BOOKS BY SCANNER
 A gigantic new automated book sorter housed in a renovated warehouse in Long Island City, Queens -- believed to be the largest of its kind -- has eliminated much of the drudgery of sorting the millions of books sent each year from one branch library in New York City to another. PAGE C1
 Home
 AWASH IN A SEA OF BLISS:
 Bathroom as Water Park
 The message at the Kitchen & Bath Industry Show at the McCormick Place Convention Center in Chicago last weekend was that a bathroom need not function merely as a spa, but also as a grown-up water park. PAGE D1
 Thursday Styles
 A FREE-SPIRITED PRIESTESS
 Of a City's Vintage Scene
 By day, Shien Lee, a recent graduate of Columbia University, pursues a range of cultural interests that include the study of 1920s German art and 18th-century opera. By night, she is an events planner and the entrepreneurial force behind a series of monthly costume parties that are at the center of a thriving New York vintage scene. PAGE E1
 Obituaries
 JUAN A. SAMARANCH, 89
 A dominant figure in the modern Olympic movement, he guided the Games over 21 years from a period of boycotts and near bankruptcy to an era of unprecedented success and damaging scandal. PAGE A23
 Op-ed
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A29
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A29

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); IMMIGRATION (79%); POVERTY RATES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); POLICE FORCES (74%); SEX OFFENSES (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); EARTH DAY (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); IMMIGRATION LAW (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); EARTHQUAKES (68%); LITIGATION (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (67%); RELIGION (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); SEX SCANDALS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); MISC METAL MINING (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); SPORTS (52%); SPORTS & RECREATION (52%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); QINGHAI, CHINA (58%); NORTHWEST CHINA (56%) CHINA (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (92%); HOLY SEE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



570 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Obama Looks to Close Sale on Financial Reform

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Well before the financial system nearly collapsed in September 2008, Barack Obama, more than any other presidential candidate, was warning about holes in the regulatory fabric and crises on the horizon. Soon he'll be making his closing arguments to push the overhaul through. 

 BODY:
Just over three years ago, early in his uphill campaign for president, Senator Barack Obama wrote to the Federal Reserve chairman and the Treasury secretary calling for a summit conference to address signs of trouble in the housing and financial markets, Jackie Calmes reports in The New York Times.
While Mr. Obama could not have known how bad things would get, then as now he saw a muscular role for government in enforcing regulations in the public's interest, while weighing them against the industry's interests so both would benefit.
It is an approach that he is likely to outline again on Thursday, as the president speaks near Wall Street in a bid to make the closing argument for the regulatory overhaul now before the Senate.
"Throughout our history there have been times where the financial sector swung way out of balance," Mr. Obama said on Wednesday in an interview with CNBC and The New York Times, citing the period that led to the Depression as the primary example.
"We have gotten into one of those places where we need to update those rules of the road," he said. "And if we do so, not only is that good for the economy, not only does it protect consumers and investors, it's also good for the financial sector, because it will rebuild trust."
Well before the financial system nearly collapsed in September 2008, Mr. Obama, more than any other presidential candidate, was warning about holes in the regulatory fabric and crises on the horizon. Even for him, however, banking regulation was hardly the high-priority issue it would become once he reached the White House.
Besides the March 2007 letter to the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and Henry M. Paulson Jr., Treasury secretary in the Bush administration, Mr. Obama as a candidate gave speeches calling for tougher regulations, one at the Nasdaq stock exchange in September 2007 and another in March 2008 at the Cooper Union in New York City - where he will return for his speech Thursday.
Advisers say Mr. Obama's early attention to the financial system's problems stemmed from discussions with wealthy investors on the fund-raising circuit and with community activists on the campaign trail who fretted about perceived abuses with subprime mortgages and looming foreclosures. In both the Illinois Legislature and in the United States Senate, Mr. Obama had sponsored bills against predatory lending and mortgage fraud.
But as a presidential candidate, many early donors and academics had his ear on financial issues. Among them were the investors Mark T. Gallogly, Joshua Steiner, Warren E. Buffett and Lee Sachs; Mr. Steiner and Mr. Sachs were veterans of the Clinton administration's Treasury and Mr. Sachs later would join Mr. Obama's Treasury.
Other advisers included Daniel K. Tarullo, whom Mr. Obama has since named a governor at the Federal Reserve; at that independent agency, Mr. Tarullo no longer can advise Mr. Obama. And coordinating Mr. Obama's economic team was Austan Goolsbee, the University of Chicago professor who is now a member of the president's Council of Economic Advisers. Mr. Goolsbee brought one of his mentors, Paul A. Volcker, the former Fed chairman, into the Obama campaign councils. Also on the team was Mr. Obama's friend Penny Pritzker, the Chicago business executive who was his national finance chairwoman for the 2008 campaign.
Except for Mr. Tarullo, such figures still influence Mr. Obama as president. But he mostly is guided by his in-house administration team, led by Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner.
Mr. Obama chose Mr. Geithner, who had been president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, despite Mr. Geithner's cautions to Mr. Obama that he should choose someone unconnected with the regulatory lapses that led to the chaos.
Another top adviser, Lawrence H. Summers, the director of the White House National Economic Council, similarly has been a magnet for blame from the political left and right. He was Treasury secretary at the end of the Clinton administration, and worked with Congress to deregulate the banking industry.
By 2009, however, Mr. Summers and Mr. Geithner were pushing for stronger regulation - especially of the unregulated nonbank institutions and complex derivative investments that had sprung up - in line with the principles Mr. Obama had outlined in the campaign.
Mr. Geithner took the lead, turning to Patrick M. Parkinson, a longtime Fed economist he knew, to write the administration's bill. (Last October, Mr. Bernanke named Mr. Parkinson the Fed's top banking regulator.)
Mr. Geithner successfully argued for sending Congress a more detailed draft than the White House had sent on overhauling health care, to put its stamp more fully on the product. But he and Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, were unsuccessful in pushing regulatory legislation ahead of the health care bill; they were concerned that with time and an improved economy, opponents in the industry and among antiregulation Republicans would become emboldened. That is what ultimately happened, officials say. But, they argue, delay was probably inevitable.
Several Democratic leaders in Congress considered the health issue a higher priority, and Mr. Geithner, in the administration's early months, was consumed with stabilizing the financial industry before trying to fix it.
The bill now before the Senate, like one the House passed late last year, hews closely to the principles that Mr. Obama outlined more than two years ago at the Cooper Union - a fact he will underscore in his return appearance there on Thursday.
Those principles called for regulating any institution with access to government funds, as well as products like derivatives, regardless of what entity offered them; requiring banks to hold more capital as a cushion against crises; streamlining the number of regulatory agencies to make them more accountable; and creating a new council to monitor systemic risks.
For all the emphasis on government regulation, Mr. Obama on Thursday will affirm his belief in free markets - the point he made in 2007 and 2008.
But, as he said in his first appearance at the Cooper Union, "Under Republican and Democratic administrations, we failed to guard against practices that all too often rewarded financial manipulation instead of productivity and sound business practices."
Go to Article from The New York Times>>

        
The Government's Elite and Regulatory Capture
        
Geithner Haunted by a Goldman Past He Never Had

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); BANKING LAW (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (74%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (72%); FORECLOSURE (69%); FAIR LENDING (64%); PREDATORY LENDING (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (60%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (50%) Barack Obama; Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Geithner; Henry Paulson; Paul A. Volcker; Timothy F. Geithner; Volcker Rule; Bernanke, Ben S; Buffett, Warren E; Bush, George W; Emanuel, Rahm; Geithner, Timothy F; Goolsbee, Austan D; Obama, Barack; Paulson, Henry M Jr; Summers, Lawrence H; Tarullo, Daniel K; Volcker, Paul A; Federal Reserve System; National Economic Council; Republican Party; Treasury Department; White House Council of Economic Advisers; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%) Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Federal Reserve System; National Economic Council; Republican Party; Treasury Department; White House Council of Economic Advisers

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%); HENRY PAULSON (89%); BEN BERNANKE (78%); RAHM EMANUEL (73%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (73%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (73%); WARREN BUFFETT (60%) Bernanke, Ben S; Buffett, Warren E; Bush, George W; Emanuel, Rahm; Geithner, Timothy F; Goolsbee, Austan D; Obama, Barack; Paulson, Henry M Jr; Summers, Lawrence H; Tarullo, Daniel K; Volcker, Paul A

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012



571 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: Profit Rose 68% at Amazon, Topping Analysts' Forecasts

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -- Amazon.com said Thursday that its first-quarter profit surged 68 percent, showing that consumers are even more comfortable opening their wallets to the online retailer as the economy slowly improves. 
 Earnings were $299 million, or 66 cents a share, in the January through March period. The amount was 5 cents more than analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected. Amazon had a profit of $177 million, or 41 cents a share in the year-earlier period. Revenue rose 46 percent to $7.13 billion, well above the $6.87 billion analysts had expected. 
 For the current quarter, Amazon expects revenue of $6.1 billion to $6.7 billion. That would be an increase of 31 percent to 44 percent over last year, but it also means Amazon's revenue could fall below analysts' expectations for $6.43 billion.
 Amazon shares fell $9.49 to $141 in after-hours trading, after finishing regular trading up $4.06 at $150.49. Earlier in the day the stock hit a high of $151.09, adjusted for splits.
 Revenue from books, CDs, DVDs and other media grew 26 percent to $3.43 billion. Electronics and other ''general merchandise'' revenue increased 72 percent to $3.51 billion.
 The first quarter ended right before the arrival of a major competitor to Amazon's Kindle e-reader, the Apple iPad tablet device. Like the Kindle, the iPad can wirelessly download books.
 As in the past, Amazon declined to give details about Kindle sales. 
 It reiterated that the device is Amazon's best-selling product, but the meaning of that is unclear, given that the Kindle can be bought only on Amazon's site. Amazon will start selling the Kindle at some Target stores this month.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Amazon warehouse in Goodyear, Ariz. First-quarter revenue rose 46 percent from a year ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSS D. FRANKLIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); TABLET COMPUTERS (70%); SALES & SELLING (64%)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (92%); TARGET CORP (55%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (92%); TGT (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (92%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (92%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (55%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



572 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Banks Object to Adopting Restrictions Like Those in Europe and U.S.

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- As momentum grows in the United States and Europe for tighter regulations on banks, opposition is building in Japan. 
 Financial industry leaders and even regulators argue that proposed measures like stronger bank capital requirements and taxes on financial transactions to curtail risk-taking, as well as new rules being debated for Wall Street, are overreactions that threaten to derail the global economic recovery. 
 But their objections are also rooted in fears that tougher rules would make it harder for Japanese banks to expand and compete worldwide at a time when they must look overseas for growth. That seems unfair, they say, considering Japanese banks engaged in few of the risky practices that set off the crisis. 
 ''Japan cannot let this trend become the global standard,'' said Hirofumi Gomi, a former Financial Services Agency chief and chairman of the PricewaterhouseCoopers Research Institute in Tokyo. 
 ''The United States, the very origin of the financial crisis, has been burned so badly it is now trying to compensate by overregulating,'' he said. ''Japan must call for a more measured approach.'' 
 Japanese banks, weakened by a financial crisis of their own in the late 1990s, were largely left behind in the push by Wall Street banks to create and deal in ever more complex securities. They stuck to more conservative investments, taking on lower risks and reaping lower returns than many of their Western counterparts. 
 As a result, Japanese lenders initially appeared to be shielded from problems related to subprime mortgage lending. In September 2008, as credit markets seized up in the United States, Japanese officials widely referred to the crisis as ''the fire on the other shore.'' The economy minister at the time, Kaoru Yosano, compared the effects of the crisis on Japan to a bee sting. 
 Subprime losses at all Japanese banks totaled 1.034 trillion yen, ($11 billion) at the end of September 2009, government figures show -- a fraction of the losses racked up by their counterparts in the United States and Europe. Japan was spared the kind of financial upheaval experienced in the West, although the global downturn hit the Japanese economy hard as exports collapsed and the stock market dropped. 
 Japanese banks did not need government bailouts, and they took advantage of the turmoil elsewhere: Nomura Holdings, the investment bank, snapped up the Asian, European and Middle Eastern operations of Lehman Brothers for about $225 million after the firm collapsed in 2008. The Mizuho Financial Group invested $1.2 billion in Merrill Lynch. 
 ''In Japan, the core group of Japanese lenders continue to operate today,'' Richard Folsom, founder of the private equity firm Advantage Partners, said at a symposium on Wednesday. ''Compared to other markets, Japan has stayed a constant.'' 
 The relative resilience of Japanese banks through the crisis has emboldened the nation's banking industry, long considered by analysts as a laggard in financial innovation, to take a stand against the measures now proposed in the United States and Europe. 
 This week, the Japanese finance minister, Naoto Kan, denounced plans first floated by Prime Minster Gordon Brown of Britain for a tax on banks to discourage excessive financial risk and generate money for governments to use to shore up the banking system in future crises. Officials in Japan have expressed concerns that too heavy a hand would weigh on banks' bottom lines. 
 ''The E.U.'s debate on the issue doesn't mean that Japan should follow suit,'' Mr. Kan said Tuesday. ''The E.U. and the United States have their own ideas, and Japan has its own.'' He said, however, that he would be open to ''hearing opinions from the United States'' at a Group of 20 finance officials' meeting this week in Washington. 
 Meanwhile, Masayuki Oku, the new head of the Japan Bankers' Association, criticized new bank capital rules proposed by international regulators. In December, the Bank for International Settlements' Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published draft changes that would require that the predominant form of Tier 1 capital -- a bank's core capital base -- be common shares and retained earnings, in a bid to better buffer against risk. 
 Analysts say new rules could be more onerous for Japanese banks, partly because they have long counted preferred securities, which combine characteristics of equity and debt, as part of their capital base. The ratings agency Standard & Poor's warned in November that Japan's lenders had some of the lowest capital ratios among major global banks. 
 ''Asian banks, who were in no way responsible for the crisis, have now been drawn into the strengthened regulatory framework,'' Mr. Oku said Wednesday. ''Will we really see results by shrinking finance -- the lifeblood of the economy -- in the midst of an economic recovery?'' 
 Takafumi Sato, a finance professor at Hitotsubashi University in Tokyo, who was once a commissioner of the Japanese Financial Services Agency, said a one-size-fits-all approach to global capital and liquidity requirements for banks was dangerous and unfair. 
 ''Any global requirement must differentiate between banks exposed to a lot of risk and those that are not,'' Mr. Sato said. ''They must be care not to overregulate banks that are able to properly measure risk, because that would unnecessarily stunt financial activity.'' 
 Japanese banks have been preparing for the tougher rules by raising capital. In the last three months of 2009, Nomura raised 435 billion yen in common equity, giving it a Tier 1 capital ratio of 17.8 percent, the bank said. 
 There is little consensus in Japan over what shape a regulatory overhaul should take. Japanese banking rules are more lax, and regulators are far less powerful than their counterparts at the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States. The Financial Services Agency in Britain, however, has said it would take steps to require banks to disclose detailed information on cross-shareholdings. (Traditionally, Japanese lenders and borrowers have held stakes in one another to bolster ties.) 
 ''This is a good chance for Japan to rethink its approach to regulation,'' said Tatsuo Uemura, a finance and law professor at Waseda University in Tokyo. ''Japan should consider the pros and cons of America's response, then come up with its own. It should not blindly follow the West.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Naoto Kan, Japan's finance minister, and Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa attended a financial committee session. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TORU HANAI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); CONSERVATISM (65%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (53%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); MIZUHO FINANCIAL GROUP INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NOMURA HOLDINGS INC (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (56%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); MFG (NYSE) (58%); 8411 (TSE) (58%); NMR (NYSE) (58%); N33 (SGX) (58%); 8604 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: KAORU YOSANO (59%); NAOTO KAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) JAPAN (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



573 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Lists Foreign Companies Aiding Iran's Energy Projects

BYLINE: By RON NIXON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Over the past five years, 41 foreign companies have helped Iran develop its oil and gas sector, which accounts for more than half of the Iranian government's revenues, Congressional investigators reported Thursday. 
 The Government Accountability Office said the companies provided expertise, equipment and financing and did construction work on oil and gas pipelines, enabling Iran to increase energy production and profits. 
 No American companies were listed in the report, but the China National Petroleum Corporation was reported to be financing an oil field in an agreement with the Iranian government estimated to be worth more than $2 billion. Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering of South Korea was reported to be building tanker ships for Iran under a $384 million contact.
 The report did not determine whether the companies had violated the Iran Sanctions Act, devised to punish foreign companies that invested more than $20 million in a given year to develop Iran's oil and gas fields.
 ''Clearly, we need to take a tougher stance against companies tied to Iran's refined petroleum capacity,'' said Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, who has been pushing for hearings on companies that do business in Iran. ''Companies whose profits fuel Iran's nuclear ambitions should not be allowed to do business with the U.S. or benefit from the U.S. economy -- period,'' she added.
 The House and Senate have passed legislation aimed at strengthening sanctions on companies doing business with Iran, and are working to iron out differences in the bills.
 The United States and its European allies are trying to win support for a tough new sanctions aimed at pressing Iran to rein in its nuclear program, but China and Brazil have resisted. Both countries have companies that work in Iran's energy sector, the report says. 
 Last month, The New York Times disclosed that over the past 10 years, the federal government gave more than $107 billion in contract payments, grants and other benefits to foreign and multinational American companies while they were doing business in Iran. That includes nearly $15 billion paid to companies that defied American sanctions law by making large investments that helped Iran develop its vast oil and gas reserves. 
 In the 14 years since the law was passed, the government has never enforced it, in part for fear of angering America's allies.
 A number of companies have recently announced that they will end or curtail their operations in Iran. The French oil giant Total and the Italian oil company Eni are also said to be considering ending their operations in Iran. Both companies were named in the investigators' report, which was requested by Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, and Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); SHIPBUILDING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); LEGISLATION (88%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%)

COMPANY: ENI SPA (84%); CHINA NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORP (83%); DAEWOO SHIPBUILDING & MARINE ENGINEERING CO (71%); TOTAL SA (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (58%)

TICKER: ENI (BIT) (84%); E (NYSE) (84%); 042660 (KSE) (71%); TTA (LSE) (61%); TOT (NYSE) (61%); TOT (BIT) (61%); FP (PAR) (61%); FP (BRU) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (83%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (71%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (71%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (61%)

PERSON: JON KYL (57%); JOE LIEBERMAN (57%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



574 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: CenturyTel to Acquire Qwest in a $10.6 Billion Exchange of Shares

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and JENNA WORTHAM; Andrew Ross Sorkin contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In one of the largest telecommunications deals in years, CenturyTel, a provider of local phone and Internet services, said Thursday that it would acquire Qwest Communications in a $10.6 billion stock swap. 
 Both companies, which have large landline operations, have sought to increase their businesses in the shadow of bigger competitors like AT&T and Verizon, which offer both landline and cellphone services. The telecommunications industry has been ripe for further consolidation, which might resemble the wave of deals that swept the sector in the 1990s, analysts said.
 The combined company will serve local markets in 37 states with about five million broadband customers, 17 million wirelines and 850,000 wireless consumers, the companies said in a statement. 
 The merger is also indicative of the broader struggles facing phone companies that are dependent on revenue from customers with landline phones, said Craig Moffett, an analyst with Bernstein Research. More consumers are disconnecting their home phone lines in favor of their cellphones or Internet telephone service. ''This is a business that is in inexorable secular decline,'' he said. ''The wireline phone companies are doing their best to find synergies to preserve the economics of their business.''
 Philip Cusick, an analyst at Macquarie Research, said: ''All the wireline telecom companies understand their business is shrinking. The wireless industry is not a growth space either. This roll-up attitude could continue for a few more years.''
 AT&T said Wednesday that it added only 512,000 wireless customers under contract, also known as postpaid subscribers, during the first quarter -- down 43 percent from a year ago. Verizon Wireless said Thursday that it added only 423,000 customers under contract during the first quarter, down 55 percent from the period a year earlier.
 Combining with Qwest would make CenturyTel the third-largest supplier of landline phone lines, trailing AT&T, which has 46.5 million wireline subscribers and Verizon Wireless, which has 32.6 million wireline subscribers.
 But that number is expected to continue to contract, especially as consumers increasingly rely on cable companies for home phone service, said Roger Entner, an analyst with Nielsen Mobile. Comcast, for example, has 7.6 million residential and business phone subscribers, making it the fourth-largest landline provider in the United States. 
 ''The idea is that consolidating the old telecommunications companies will help them better compete against cable,'' Mr. Entner said. 
 The two companies began exploring a merger in the fall, Glen F. Post III, CenturyTel's chief executive, said in an interview. He and his counterpart at Qwest, Edward A. Mueller, quickly decided that, with competition growing rapidly, combining their companies made sense.
 ''You're going to see a lot more players in this space,'' Mr. Post said. ''This transaction really positions this new company to compete and withstand the challenges of this industry.''
 Mr. Post said that while he was focused on integrating Embarq, which CenturyTel bought in 2008, and now Qwest, the company would continue to look at potential smaller transactions over the next few years. Among possible targets are companies that provide data-hosting or data-security services, he said.
 With the Qwest transaction, CenturyTel will double its size through a deal for the fourth time. The third was Embarq, a landline services spinoff of Sprint Nextel. (After acquiring Embarq, the combined company rebranded itself as CenturyLink, though it is still legally CenturyTel.)
 ''The biggest challenge now for CenturyTel is figuring out how to compete against the cable companies,'' Mr. Entner said. ''They started offering their customers a full bundle of voice, wireline, Internet and television but obviously the cable companies are further ahead because that's their core business.''
 CenturyTel, which is based in Monroe, La., and Qwest, which is based in Denver, said they expected the transaction to close in about a year. CenturyTel's market value was about $10.8 billion at Wednesday's close, while Qwest's market value was about $9.1 billion. CenturyTel said Barclays Capital, Evercore Partners, and J.P. Morgan Securities were its financial advisers, and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz and Jones Walker Waechter Poitevent Carrere & Denegre were its legal advisers.
 As for Qwest, Lazard, Deutsche Bank, and Morgan Stanley were the financial advisers, with Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom and Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr were the legal advisers. Qwest's board was advised by Perella Weinberg Partners.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Qwest worker installing a digital subscriber line. A CenturyTel-Qwest deal would create the third-largest supplier of landlines. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); MERGERS (89%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (78%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); BROADBAND (73%); INTERVIEWS (63%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (93%); CENTURYLINK INC (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); AT&T INC (86%)

TICKER: CTL (NYSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%); T (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (86%)

PERSON: GLEN F POST III (58%); EDWARD A MUELLER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



575 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Greece and Talk of Regulation Hamper Trading

BYLINE: BY CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Wall Street overcame concerns about Greece's financial troubles on Thursday and rebounded from early losses, helped by enthusiasm for shares of consumer-oriented companies.
 The major indexes recovered from sharp declines at the open after the European Union said Greece's budget deficit was larger than expected in 2009. 
 In addition, the ratings agency Moody's Investors Servicecut the country's credit rating, resurrecting worries that Greece would have trouble paying its debt even as European officials work on a plan. 
 The worries about Greece brought added volatility. Traders remain concerned that countries in Europe and elsewhere might soon face similar debt woes. 
 ''It isn't Greece itself, it is the fear of contagion,'' said Hank B. Smith, chief investment officer for Haverford Investments.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 9.37 points, or 0.08 percent, to 11,134.29 on Thursday. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 2.73 points, or 0.23 percent, to 1,208.67, and the Nasdaq composite index increased 14.46 points, or 0.58 percent, to 2,519.07. 
 Much of the market's strength came from consumer discretionary stocks, with traders enthusiastic about shares of home builders after upbeat data on the housing market.
 In addition, shares of Amazon, which announced first-quarter earnings after the market closed, rose during regular trading. Shares of Amazon jumped 2.77 percent, or $4.06, to $150.49 in anticipation of the earnings announcement, but fell in after-hours trading.
 Investors also reacted to renewed efforts to strengthen regulation of the financial industry.
 President Obama was in Manhattan on Thursday to press his case for a financial overhaul, outlining ways of giving consumers more power and scrutinizing complex financial products like derivatives. 
 Bank shares initially dropped on worries that profits would fall if the government reined in risky trading practices. By the end of trading, some of those concerns seemed to fade, however.
 Citigroup shares fell 1.22 percent, to $4.87, and JPMorgan Chase declined just 1.35 percent, to $44.74. 
 Goldman Sachs rose 12 cents, to $159.05, and Morgan Stanley jumped 22 cents, to $31.90.
 Utilities, materials and health care stocks were among those that fell. The health care sector continued to grapple with uncertainty over how new legislation would affect business, and some firms have revised their outlook.
 Baxter International, a medical products maker, said on Thursday that it anticipated slower sales growth and was lowering its outlook for the year to $3.92 to $4 a share, from $4.20 to $4.28. Baxter shares plunged 13.27 percent, or $7.82, to $51.13 on Thursday.
 Indexes in Europe declined Thursday. The FTSE 100 in London fell 58.10 points, or 1.02 percent; the CAC 40 in Paris dropped 53.02 points, or 1.33 percent, and the DAX in Frankfurt fell 61.66 points, or 0.99 percent.
 Before Wall Street opened, the Labor Department said first-time unemployment claims decreased last week.
 A separate report showed a larger-than-expected increase in wholesale prices in March, though a closely watched measure of inflation remained tame. 
 A third report, from the National Association of Realtors, showed that sales of existing homes climbed more than expected in March, rising 6.8 percent. 
 But the day's economic reports had little influence.
 ''It doesn't seem to be the economic data that is driving the market down,'' said James F. O'Sullivan, chief economist for MF Global. 
 ''Jobless claims went down, and nobody is really worried about inflation right now with the core number pretty tame.''
 Mr. Smith said the market had been due for a pullback after an extended rally. 
 ''We have gone 14 months without a correction, and that is a bit unusual,'' he said. 
 Crude oil continued to push slightly higher, settling up 2 cents, at $83.70 a barrel in New York trading.
 The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 10/32, to 98 25/32, and the yield rose to 3.77 percent from 3.74 percent late Wednesday. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders at the New York Stock Exchange listened to President Obama on Thursday. Stocks turned around from early losses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); HEALTH CARE (85%); SALES FIGURES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (66%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (64%); LEGISLATION (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (57%); BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAX (SWX) (51%); BAX (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); GREECE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



576 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Pastor's Job Offers: From Blessing to Curse

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
Luis Malagon felt blessed when he, his wife and their daughter were offered $11,000 a month to work at a new religious social service agency being planned in Brooklyn. He quit his job as a building inspector in South Carolina in February, put his house up for sale and borrowed money to move to Sunset Park.
 Settling into a cramped apartment, they waited for the project to begin on March 1. When it did not, they said, they were summoned to daylong religious services presided over by its leader, the Rev. Isidro Bolanos, who offered harangues and excuses. 
 Today, the Malagons are out of work, money and time. The paychecks they had been assured were in the mail never arrived, putting them on the verge of eviction. Their New York sojourn has gone from blessing to curse, and they are moving to a relative's apartment in Florida. 
 ''I have nothing,'' said Mr. Malagon, 61. ''I feel like an ant. Look at everything we gave up to come here.''
 The Malagons are among hundreds of Latino evangelical Christians in New York who thought they had been hired by Mr. Bolanos, and who provided him with copies of their Social Security cards, driver's licenses and other vital records. While the minister's associates insist that the agency will eventually open, Mr. Bolanos has left for Nicaragua on what an associate calls a missionary trip. 
 The Brooklyn district attorney's office and the New York police say they have begun investigations into the project. And Latino evangelical leaders around the city have scheduled mass meetings and religious services in the next two weeks to help fellow pastors and congregations affected by its falling apart.
 It is still unclear why Mr. Bolanos, the pastor of a storefront church in Red Hook, falsely told employees that he had a grant from the international relief organization World Vision and offices in a city-owned building at the Brooklyn Army Terminal. He has not responded to numerous letters and e-mail messages seeking comment, except for a brief phone interview on March 25 that he ended when asked about the false claims.
 But one member of his inner circle has concluded that from the plan's first stirrings last winter, Mr. Bolanos misled him and the other pastors who recruited their congregations for the project.
 ''We never doubted, because since he was a minister, we never thought he would lie to another minister,'' said that member, the Rev. Gonzalo Rodriguez, who has served as secretary to an executive council of pastors Mr. Bolanos assembled. ''Why should he lie? But we were never, never, never given correct information.''
 Mr. Rodriguez, pastor of Riverdale Community Church in the Bronx, was among the first clergymen hired by the project, which promised to send hundreds of people to counsel and preach to the poor and vulnerable. He said he was especially impressed when Mr. Bolanos said he had been chosen to run the program by World Vision.
 But when World Vision officials confronted Mr. Bolanos in late January about that false claim, they say he denied ever invoking its name. He told them he had received ''government funds'' for the project, said Tim Bomgardner, who directs World Vision's New York programs.
 Mr. Bolanos told a different story to his executive council, Mr. Rodriguez said: His new backer was Kristina Morris of the American Holding Charities Group, which he said was run by ''Christian Jews.'' (A national database search has turned up no mention of Ms. Morris or the group.) 
 American Holding Charities Group appeared to be as generous as it was mysterious. Mr. Rodriguez said Mr. Bolanos promised him and the other council members a salary of $65,000 a year, a new Lexus and the chance to purchase a church building for $1.
 Many people quit their jobs in anticipation of the project. The Malagon family learned about the plans during a Christmas visit to relatives in New York. When they were hired, they said, a relative gave them $7,000 to move; Mr. Malagon then borrowed $3,000 more from a family friend to cover expenses after Mr. Bolanos promised they would be paid on March 15.
 ''This is a done deal,'' Mr. Malagon said Mr. Bolanos declared. ''Take out a loan if you must, because your money is assured.''
 After the promised payday came and went without checks, the Malagons joined hundreds of others at daylong services in which Mr. Bolanos thundered about threats to the project, made excuses for the delays and took up collections. Security guards made sure no outsiders entered, and prevented people from leaving.
 On March 31, a day before they had again been promised paychecks, the Malagons got a call saying the project had been delayed because of a March 29 article in The New York Times raising questions about the plans. Instead, a project official told them, they would be mailed their checks, along with a signed employment contract, a MetroCard and a uniform voucher. 
 Three weeks later, they say they have received nothing. ''The only reason I even did this was because they said it was World Vision,'' Mr. Malagon said. ''That was the bait they put on the hook.''
 People close to Mr. Bolanos said he must have his reasons for the delays. Tanny Dumit, a lawyer from the Dominican Republic who has been advising him, said he would return from Nicaragua in two or three weeks. Although more than a dozen applicants and a notary have said in interviews that Ms. Dumit was present when they signed employment contracts, she said there were no contracts. 
 For some, the result has been a loss of religious faith. Eugene Rivera, who quit his $15-an-hour custodial job in March to accept a position as maintenance director with the project, is still unemployed. 
 ''A lot of people are leaving the church because of this project,'' he said. ''I used to be motivated in church, but I'm not anymore. ''
 To address the fallout, evangelical leaders have invited congregations from around the city to a service for unity and reflection on Saturday at United Palace Theater in Washington Heights.
 ''If there are bandits, we have to unmask them,'' said Dr. Hector Chiesa, the president of Radio Vision Cristiana, the city's leading Spanish-language Christian broadcaster. ''You cannot keep fooling the people.''
 A group of younger pastors who were part of the project, or whose relatives or friends were involved, plan a ''healing service'' -- with volunteer lawyers -- on May 1 at Iglesia Cristiana Misionera in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
 ''I am concerned people are walking away saying you can't trust preachers,'' said David Martinez, an evangelist, who said he had been dismissed from the project. ''And a lot of the pastors were not saying anything to their people. Maybe if we have the services, people can get some closure and get questions answered.''
 In recent years, some Latino congregations have fallen victim to promises of riches from questionable investments. The Rev. Dale T. Irvin, president of New York Theological Seminary, said those incidents point to a vulnerability that has long endangered these small, independent churches.
 ''What makes the people vulnerable are their hopes for a miracle,'' he said. ''They are hoping a pastor will come and rescue them.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Isidro Bolanos
 Luis Malagon moved to Brooklyn with his wife, Maria, center, and daughter Massiel. Promised jobs, they now face eviction. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EVICTION (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); RETAILERS (72%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (69%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (62%); DRIVERS LICENSES (51%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NICARAGUA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



577 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Protecting The Street They Live On

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Judging from their queasiness about federal efforts to get a grip on the casino aspects of Wall Street, it is plain what David A. Paterson and Michael R. Bloomberg would do if they were the governor of Iowa and the mayor of Des Moines. They would denounce the penny-per-ounce tax on soda that they now promote enthusiastically as vital for expanding New York's government revenues and shrinking its residents' waistlines.
 Sodas and other soft drinks in this country are typically sweetened with high-fructose corn syrup. That's a nifty boon for Iowa's corn growers. Anything that might discourage people from slugging down those drinks has to hurt the farmers. So you could count on Governor Paterson of Iowa and Mayor Bloomberg of Des Moines to give a Bronx cheer to a soda tax. 
 There would no doubt be a similar reaction if they were the top dogs in North Carolina. Mr. Bloomberg may cherish his reputation as an anti-smoking crusader, but don't bet on him being so righteous were he governing in a tobacco-growing state.
 If they were in Michigan, Messrs. Paterson and Bloomberg would surely be enthusiastic about cars, those instruments of pollution that the mayor is trying to restrict in Manhattan. They might forget how much they hate guns if they were the leading politicians in a major weapons-trafficking state like Georgia or Virginia. And you could take it to the bank that if they had been the big cheeses in Texas and Houston a decade ago, they would have sung the glories of that wonderful company called Enron.
 You may safely assume all this because the governor and the mayor make it amply clear that it is what they would do. We must take care of our own, they say. We'll worry later, if at all, about the effects on everyone else.
 With President Obama in the city on Thursday, Mr. Bloomberg was not nearly so blunt. That would have been discourteous. Sure, some sort of financial regulation was needed, he said. He gave polite lip service to the president's call for new structures to rein in Wall Street's worst impulses, those that led to the 2008 meltdown and threw millions of Americans out of jobs and homes.
 But the mayor seems convinced at heart that Wall Street, the world from which he sprang, works best when left to itself, recent evidence to the contrary notwithstanding. A tighter leash on the more blatant excesses? Last week the mayor described many of the proposals on the table as ''the bashing of Wall Street'' and ''something that should worry everybody.''
 Mr. Paterson is equally blunt, if not more so. Repeating an argument he has made many times, he said the other day that ''what we have to understand in New York is that Wall Street is to our state what grapes are to California, what automobiles are to Michigan and what oil is to Texas.'' Translation: Finance is our bread and butter. Leave it alone.
 NO question, the city and the state both need the taxes imposed on Wall Street mega-bonuses to balance their budgets. But does that require slavish loyalty to the bankers? For decades, Michigan politicians fiercely, even blindly, fought federal attempts to improve the auto industry. We've all seen the results.
 That protectiveness ''kept Detroit from innovating,'' Bill de Blasio, the city's public advocate, said the other day. ''It kept Detroit from moving towards small, more fuel-efficient cars. So actually that protectionism ended up hurting that industry.'' A mother-hen approach to Wall Street is similarly no blessing, Mr. de Blasio said.
 If nothing else, the arguments over regulation underline how thoroughly dependent New York has become on a single industry -- ''far too dependent,'' John C. Liu, the city comptroller, said Thursday.
 Mr. Bloomberg has often spoken about the need to diversify the New York economy. During his 2009 re-election campaign, he called it ''more obvious today than ever,'' and he promoted a ''five-borough economic opportunity plan.'' But with their latest comments about Wall Street, he and Mr. Paterson are basically saying: Who's kidding whom? We're a company town.
 Not the most comforting thought, perhaps. But at least New Yorkers can now empathize with Iowa politicians who speak up for corn growers, Michiganders who protect car makers, North Carolinians who fight for tobacco and even Georgia and Virginia gun defenders. They're just taking a page out of the New York playbook.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (77%); SOFT DRINKS (76%); CORN FARMING (75%); SMOKING (72%); TOBACCO FARMING (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (65%); US PRESIDENTS (62%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); DAVID PATERSON (90%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



578 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING THE AMERICAS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: U.S. May Add to Global Food Fund

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration is proposing to add $408 million to a global fund to boost food production and encourage good farming practices in the developing world, the Treasury Department announced on Thursday.
 The fund, created after the Group of 20 meeting in Pittsburgh last year, will begin with contributions from the governments of Canada ($230 million), Spain ($95 million) and South Korea ($50 million) and from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation ($30 million). It is meant to provide money to poorer countries, particularly in Africa, that invest in local farming programs and agricultural development to increase crop yields, administration officials said.
In an interview, Mr. Gates said he believed that a ''renaissance'' period of growth and development was under way in many African countries and could be spurred by the infusion of money. ''I wouldn't work on something that was some bleak 'you should feel guilty so give some money' type of thing,'' he said. 
 But he acknowledged that the structure of the agriculture aid program -- funneling money to governments that demonstrate they are investing wisely in agriculture -- could leave farmers in countries with struggling governments out in the cold.
 ''If I had one wish, it would be for good governance in all of these countries,'' Mr. Gates said. He specifically cited the Democratic Republic of Congo, where since 1998 fighting has raged, particularly in the east, and where the prevalence of rape and sexual violence is believed to be among the worst in the world.
 The United States has already contributed $67 million to the fund, and has requested another $408 million in President Obama's fiscal 2011 budget proposal. If approved, the new money would be available when the federal fiscal year starts on Oct. 1, administration officials said.
 ''A global economy where more than one billion people suffer from hunger is not a sustainable one,'' Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner said in a statement. ''At a time of limited resources and large global challenges, this fund will leverage support from around the world to achieve lasting progress against hunger and bolster agricultural productivity and growth.'' Mr. Geithner and Mr. Gates wrote about the new initiative in an opinion article in The Wall Street Journal on Thursday.
 But Mr. Gates warned that getting Congress to approve the budget request will require a fight by Mr. Obama, whom he noted had ''been to Africa -- the speeches he gave were fantastic.'' He was referring to Mr. Obama's visit to Ghana last summer, where the president told a rapt audience that American aid must be matched by African acceptance of responsibility for the continent's own problems.
 After the battles in Washington over the economic stimulus, health insurance reform and, now, financial regulation, Mr. Obama will face some opposition from both Democrats and Republicans over the scale of federal spending. The fund was created as part of $22 billion in pledges made by world leaders at the G-8 meeting in L'Aquila, Italy, last summer, and finalized at the G-20 meeting in Pittsburgh a few months later.
 The funds are meant to be invested to improve land use planning, irrigation and farm machinery, to provide technical help to farmers and to build better roads linking farmers with their markets.
 The World Bank will administer the fund and help choose projects to finance, in conjunction with the African Development Bank and the International Fund for Agricultural Development. Jeffrey Sachs, the Columbia University economist, said that supporting farm programs in poor countries has been shown to work. He pointed to the example of Malawi, where the government recently doubled the country's food production by putting in the same sort of agricultural development programs that the global fund is pushing. Mr. Sachs noted that the Group of Eight wealthy nations last year announced that they would like the program funded at $22 billion.
 ''It's of course completely stark that there's a $22 billion announcement and less than a $1 billion capitalization,'' he said. But, he added, ''I think this is the first step of something very, very important.''
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); APPROVALS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); SEX OFFENSES (64%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (63%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (93%); SPAIN (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); GHANA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



579 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft's Income Rises 35%, Driven by Sales of Windows 7

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
Sometimes breaking a sales record isn't good enough. Just ask Microsoft. 
 In the span of a couple of weeks, analysts and investors following the technology industry have had their expectations swell for a powerful recovery. Sales at giants like Intel, Apple and EMC have surged past prerecession levels to hit new highs. Both consumers and corporations have increased their technology spending, and there is talk once again of hiring in Silicon Valley. 
 Microsoft, the world's largest software maker, added to the good cheer on Thursday, as it too reported record results for its third quarter, with sales rising 6 percent to $14.50 billion. But Microsoft's numbers left investors wanting more. 
 Shares of Microsoft promptly fell about 4.5 percent to $29.98 in after-hours trading on Thursday, after the release of third-quarter figures.
 ''They had strong results, but the expectations from investors were higher,'' said Sasa Zorovic, an analyst with Janney Capital Markets. ''This was a sign that we probably need to be a little more realistic, and that things are moving slower than you would believe by the recent euphoria.''
 The hopes for a blowout quarter from Microsoft rose in recent weeks as other technology companies reported their results, and as data about the PC industry was made public.
 Intel, for example, just reported record sales of its PC chips, noting particularly strong demand for faster, more expensive laptop chips. In addition, a number of analysts raised their predictions for 2010 sales of PCs, in some cases predicting as much as 25 percent growth for the industry. 
 Microsoft's third-quarter figures backed up this optimism around the PC market. 
 Its net income rose 35 percent, to $4.01 billion or 45 cents a share, from $2.98 billion, or 33 cents, in the period a year ago. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected Microsoft to earn 42 cents a share. 
 Executives at Microsoft pointed to Windows as the main driver of revenue during the quarter, as sales of the software rose to $4.42 billion, from $3.45 billion in the same period last year.
 According to Microsoft's estimates, the PC market grew 25 percent during the last quarter, with the consumer segment rising 30 percent and business market rising 14 percent. The strength of the sales to businesses was a real highlight for Microsoft, because many companies have resisted buying new PCs. 
 ''We are encouraged by the recent uptick in business PC growth and expect this business PC refresh cycle will continue over a couple of years,'' said Peter Klein, chief financial officer at Microsoft, during a call with Wall Street analysts. 
 Brendan Barnicle, a software analyst with Pacific Crest Securities, said in an interview, ''The most important thing is that they're seeing business PCs come back,'' adding, ''This is huge.''
 Mr. Barnicle noted that rising corporate spending on PCs should drive Windows 7 sales as well as sales of Office 10, which will go on sale in June. 
 Microsoft also said its search, gaming and online software products performed well during the quarter. 
 Microsoft has tried to put the dark days of the recession and a string of product missteps behind it. The company spent much of the last 18 months retooling its core products. It now looks to rebuild its relationship with consumers over the next year via various pieces of software and gadgets. 
 For instance, Microsoft has worked to revitalize its smartphone software business, demonstrating a new smartphone operating system, Windows Phone 7, that will ship on cellphones late this year. In addition, the company just released a pair of new phones aimed at handling social networking tasks like posting photos and videos online in a bid to court a younger audience. 
 Other than the PC, Microsoft has some razzle-dazzle in store for video gamers. Later this year, it will begin selling a version of its gaming accessory code-named Project Natal. This product will allow people to do away with controllers altogether and instead play games using body gestures.
 Katherine Egbert, an analyst with Jefferies & Company, has forecast that Microsoft could generate up to $1.3 billion in sales of the Project Natal systems over the first year of the product's release if it is priced at about $100. 
 But even if the Project Natal device is a blockbuster, it will do little to impact Microsoft's overall revenue, which remains highly dependent on the Windows and Office franchises. 
 ''Microsoft's entertainment division is important, but it just doesn't really move the dial,'' Ms. Egbert said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Under its chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft is thriving as consumers and businesses begin to spend more freely. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COMPUTER CHIPS (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); INTEL CORP (58%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: STEVEN A BALLMER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



580 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Unexpected Repairs Rattle Owners of New Condos

BYLINE: By DANIEL LIBIT

 BODY:
The view from Tom and Jane Justic's eighth-floor condominium in the South Loop -- with Soldier Field in the foreground and majestic Lake Michigan behind it -- is exactly what they were looking for when they moved from Beverly in 2005.
 But the condominium that came with that view has an unexpected and unwelcome additional cost: $850 a month in special assessments for the next five years, to cover the expense of building repairs that were completed late last year.
''The sun still comes up every morning,'' Ms. Justic said one recent afternoon, rolling her eyes in mock reverie.
 Since it was constructed in 2002, the Justics' 23-story building at 1717 South Prairie Avenue has become an extreme example of the strains and pains that many South Loop condominiums and town houses now face from the area's boom in construction before the market collapsed in late 2008. Once one of the city's hottest real estate markets, the South Loop is crisscrossed by scaffolding and suffused with the frustration and anxiety of litigation between condo boards and developers. 
 Howard Dakoff, a condominium lawyer, said his firm had represented at least 10 South Loop condominium associations in fights over what they alleged was faulty construction in the last decade. But now, as suits brought by Mr. Dakoff and other lawyers have been settled, dismissed or just died in the face of mounting legal costs, the question for those still litigating and for the South Loop residents who remain in a state of real estate limbo is, how long to keep holding on? 
 Many of those associations with pending lawsuits are finding themselves financially tapped or too battle-weary to move forward. In addition, persistence in seeking relief can harm a building's reputation. 
 Steve Welhouse, another lawyer who has represented several South Loop condominium associations in lawsuits against developers, said there had been varying degrees of success in settlement terms. ''From nothing and poor to O.K.,'' he said. 
 For the moment, the fight continues over 1717 South Prairie. For residents, the dispute is costly not just in terms of legal fees and special assessments, but also in the energy expended in fights no one expected when they bought their dream homes. 
 Mr. Justic, who leads the condominium association's budget committee, and his wife have spent a good portion of his early retirement years appealing to the city, their alderman, Robert Fioretti, and the local news media in their effort to make things right. Indeed, though the court fight against the development partnership, 18th & Prairie II L.L.C., is five years old, residents are hoping that they will finally be able to present their case to Judge Brigid Mary McGrath on May 5. 
 Those in the midst of the battle say they were left with no option but to fight. ''My position is that it takes a strong board, and you have to bite the bullet and address it,'' said Anthony Bass, the condominium board's vice president. ''We didn't have a choice.'' 
 In its lawsuit, the condominium association claimed that faulty construction resulted in ''severe water infiltration'' and that the developer had failed in its duty to address repair requests made by the board within a year after the condominium turnover.
 The scaffolding came down in December, after nine months and $6.5 million worth of repairs to replace all of the windows and improve the masonry after severe cases of water leakage. The suit the board filed in 2005 against the developers and subcontractors moves slowly through Cook County Circuit Court. 
 The lead developer, William Warman, recently filed for bankruptcy protection in Florida. His partner in the project, Warren Barr, puts the responsibility squarely on the subcontractors. 
 ''It has been upsetting to me that it has all developed,'' Mr. Barr said. ''There are two sides to every story and there were efforts to try to fix the building, and I think the building might have wanted more items fixed than may have been needed through warranty provisions.'' 
 By last September, Ms. Justic had had enough. She went to City Hall looking for the mayor. She walked up to Richard M. Daley as he stepped onto an elevator, mentioned that their sons had attended school together, and told him about her plight. The next day, a member of Mr. Daley's staff telephoned her. Eventually, the city's Department of Buildings convened a meeting between the subcontractors and the condominium association.
 After the meeting, the board was offered a $500,000 settlement but rejected it, Mr. Justic said. Residents hope the offer will be increased. Mr. Bass, a lawyer, said he paid $1,100 a month for his share of the building's special assessment fees related to what the lawsuit claims is faulty construction. In trying to minimize the board's costs, he has taken on some of the litigation work himself, free.
 ''Probably the mentality of developers is that most of these boards really have to be strong to stay together to litigate,'' Mr. Bass said.
 ''But at the end of the day,'' he continued, ''I would tell any condominium association that you don't have a choice. You are either going to pay for it out of your pocket, or are going to get someone else to pay for it. The best thing you have going for you is you aren't alone.''
 Mr. Justic said, ''We are just approaching the point where we may start seeing progress, but I understand we won't see progress for a while.''
 For many residents, satisfaction is hard to come by. While the city has been trying to assist the unit owners at 1717 South Prairie, that kind of support can be a ''double-edged sword,'' Mr. Dakoff said. 
 Unit owners who end up calling the city to report faulty construction issues sometimes learn that they have, in effect, called the police on themselves -- opening themselves up to fines and deadlines. 
 Bill McCaffrey, a spokesman for the building department, said that the city was looking to revamp its building code regulations, but that any changes were unlikely for at least a year. Since new enforcement guidelines for general contractors were enacted in 2004, the city has filed 90 cases against 45 general contractors and has issued $2 million in fines. 
 Mr. McCaffrey said the city was typically more inclined to pursue the general contractors than the developers, because development partnerships often were created in a form intended to protect them from such litigation. 
 Meanwhile, Tina Feldstein, president of the Prairie District Neighborhood Alliance, said, ''Many people are forced into default now because they simply cannot afford their monthly assessment, their special assessment, and they can't refinance because their property wouldn't appraise for what it would have to appraise for.''
 Ms. Feldstein, who works as a real estate agent and owns a town house in the South Loop, said that the community needed to figure out a way to collectively resolve the troubling vestiges of the real estate boom and move on. She surmises that things are 75 percent along their way, but that ''the shakeup is not done.'' 
 Ms. Feldstein's organization, which started in 2006, has begun to shift gears.
 ''What we are here to do is build a community, to pick up the pieces and move on,'' she said.
 The Justics have no intention of moving from 1717 South Prairie. After all, they very much like their view. As for moving on, that will have to come a bit later.
 For now, Mr. Justic said, ''There is a justice to be served.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The building boom early in the decade reshaped the South Loop, but new condominium owners are having building troubles.
 Tina Feldstein, head of a neighborhood group, says people are going into default. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (93%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAWYERS (86%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); BUDGETS (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); PERSONAL FINANCE (60%); EARLY RETIREMENT (50%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); LAKE MICHIGAN (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



581 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 21B

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: That Big Farm Called San Francisco

BYLINE: By JAIME GROSS

 BODY:
Having already pointed out the fermented tea kombucha ''living'' on top of the fridge, and the kefir milk fermenting in the pantry, and the homemade sourdough crackers browning in the oven, Melinda Stone led a visitor down to the basement of the Victorian house she shares with three other creative 40-somethings in the Duboce Triangle neighborhood of San Francisco. ''There's a lot of stuff bubbling down here,'' she said enthusiastically, sliding open a door. ''I think it's beautiful.''
 Sure enough, in a corner of the dark room, five glass jugs filled with hard apple cider silently burped and fizzed. Ms. Stone (who is a part-time farmer; she and her husband own a 21-acre solar- and wind-powered farm in Humboldt County) uncorked the air lock and added some honey water, to keep the fermentation going and increase the alcohol content. ''Lots of people in San Francisco make their own hooch,'' she said. ''Alcohol is often the gateway to urban homesteading.'' 
In cities across the country, the term ''homesteading'' has taken on a new meaning. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, it referred to settlers occupying land, cultivating it and claiming it as their own. 
 Today in the Bay Area and beyond, urban homesteaders like Ms. Stone and her roommates are raising their own food in their backyards, in community gardens and on derelict and undeveloped spaces in the city. They're preserving and pickling vegetables and fruits, sewing their own clothes, baking bread, making alcoholic beverages, and much more. 
 As the movement has flourished and become more mainstream -- embraced by activists and food lovers alike -- so too have the resources for would-be urban homesteaders. 
 The husband-and-wife authors Erik Knutsen and Kelly Coyne, inspired by their adventures in their Los Angeles kitchen and garden, published ''The Urban Homestead,'' the contemporary bible on the subject. This fall, they'll have ''Making It: Radical Home-Ec For a Post-Consumer World'' (Rodale), a step-by-step book that covers everything from building a chicken coop to cooking from scratch.
 For those eager to pick up (or polish) some homesteading skills, the Bay Area now teems with accessible, affordable classes and workshops. 
 At the three-month-old Hayes Valley Farm, which is located on a former freeway ramp in the heart of San Francisco, you can practice planting a vegetable garden and learn about seed-saving (hayesvalleyfarm.com). Up in Napa, Taylor Boetticher, an owner of the Fatted Calf charcuterie, leads four-hour salumi and whole-hog butchery workshops, as well as occasional offal-themed ''blood and guts'' classes, where participants create pate, pickled pork tongues and blood sausage (fattedcalf.com). 
 Happy Girl Kitchen's monthly canning workshops, which are held in Oakland and also on a farm in the Santa Cruz mountains, focus on pickling, fermenting and jam- and jelly-making (happygirlkitchen.com). At the Institute for Urban Homesteading in Oakland, the founder, K. Ruby Blume, and other instructors teach roughly 50 classes a year, on subjects ranging from cheesemaking to ''urban rabbitry'' and animal husbandry (iuhoakland.com).
 And the chef Nicole LoBue teaches monthly four-hour ''Self-Sufficient Kitchen'' classes that are held at the Studio for Urban Projects in San Francisco. Planned lessons cover naturally leavened bread and fermented foods like kimchi and sauerkraut (studioforurbanprojects.org).
 Homesteaders who have mastered their skills can register to sell their wares at the SF Underground Market, which pops up in a different location every month. Conceived as a way to connect consumers with home cooks and small-scale purveyors and build a sense of community, the most recent market, held in a SoMa gallery last week, attracted 2,000 attendees and 70 vendors, hawking homemade items like peanut brittle and grass-fed beef jerky. 
 The first market, held in December, had 150 attendees and 8 vendors. Since the vendors don't have commercial kitchens or business licenses, attendees comply with health department regulations by signing up online as ''club members'' before the event (foragesf.com/market).
 To further empower and inspire people, Ms. Stone, an associate professor of media studies and environmental studies at the University of San Francisco, works with fellow filmmakers and students to create quirky how-to videos that she then posts to her experimental Web site, howtohomestead.org. 
 On April 29 at Southern Exposure, a San Francisco arts organization and gallery, she'll premiere films geared toward homestead newbies, including ''The Elixir of Life'' (about making alcoholic apple cider) and ''What I Learned the Year I Made My Own Linen Underwear.'' The screenings will be followed with tastings, live music and a square-dance party.
 Todd Champagne, an owner of Happy Girl Kitchen, said homesteading is more than a passing trend. 
 ''I joke at my workshops, 'Canning is the new knitting,' '' he said. ''Food security takes on a heightened importance during difficult times.'' 
 But he is optimistic that the cultural shift will outlast the economic downturn. 
 ''There's an enduring quality to these skills,'' he said. ''Once you get a taste of your own pickles, it's hard to go back.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Melinda Stone tending to the hard apple cider that is fermenting in her San Francisco basement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); GARDENING (88%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (74%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (74%); CITIES (71%); WRITERS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



582 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Credit Suisse Reports a 2 Percent Rise in Profit

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- Credit Suisse reported Thursday that its first-quarter profit rose and that it had attracted more wealthy clients to its private bank. But shares fell after trading revenue failed to keep pace with that of American rivals. 
 Credit Suisse said profit increased 2 percent, to 2.06 billion Swiss francs, or $1.93 billion, compared with 2.01 billion francs in the period a year earlier. 
 The increase beat some analysts' expectations but did not match the strong earnings reported by Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley this week. Shares closed down 4.7 percent in Switzerland, where Credit Suisse is based. 
 ''Over all, the earnings were as expected, but we've seen so many U.S. banks beat consensus that being in line is pretty disappointing,'' said Jon Peace, an analyst at Nomura in London. Some analysts, including Mr. Peace, also said that the recovery of the bank's private banking business was taking longer than expected. 
 While rivals that were hit harder by the financial crisis struggled to return to profit, Credit Suisse had focused on gaining market share and had invested in its debt trading and sales business, where it had lagged behind competitors. 
 The bank had said that it planned to add more than 100 staff members to the unit, a business that had helped raise profit elsewhere last quarter. Morgan Stanley reported a $1.8 billion profit Wednesday, bolstered by trading gains and its blossoming wealth-management division. Goldman's first-quarter profit was up 91 percent, in part because of strong growth in trading. 
 Credit Suisse said its debt-trading revenue rose to 2.66 billion Swiss francs in the first quarter, from 815 million francs in the previous quarter. 
 That was mainly driven by higher demand for credit products, a rebound of United States residential mortgage-backed securities trading and emerging markets, the bank said. But the figure was far below the record 4.02 billion Swiss francs recorded a year earlier. 
 Brady W. Dougan, the chief executive, said on a call with investors that unlike some competitors, Credit Suisse kept its risk-weighted assets relatively low. 
 Mr. Dougan said he planned to significantly increase the bank's currency, emerging markets and credit products businesses. 
 Pretax profit at its investment banking unit rose 74 percent, to 1.79 billion Swiss francs, from the previous three months but was down 26 percent compared with the period a year earlier. 
 ''Market conditions in the second quarter to date have remained similar to those in the first quarter, and we are confident that our business model will enable us to continue to generate high-quality results in good, as well as in more challenging, market conditions,'' Mr. Dougan said in a statement. 
 Credit Suisse's private banking division won 18.6 billion Swiss francs in new client money in the quarter as its main rival in the business, UBS, continued to lose assets. 
 The gains were mainly from clients in Switzerland and emerging markets, the bank said. Pretax profit at the unit rose 4 percent, to 892 million Swiss francs, from the last three months of 2009 but dropped 10 percent from the first quarter last year. 
 Fiona Swaffield, head of financial research at Execution Noble, said, ''The results at the group level were broadly in line, but the disappointment was with the private bank. The recovery is taking longer than we thought. Clients are just not particularly active.'' 
 The bank spent 2.3 billion Swiss francs on remunerating its investment bankers, or 44 percent of revenue in the quarter. That compares with 48 percent of revenue in the first quarter of last year. 
 Credit Suisse's asset-management unit reported a pretax profit of 166 million Swiss francs after a loss last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRIVATE BANKING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AFFLUENT MARKET (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (62%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (92%); CS (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%) UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



583 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Documents Show Internal Qualms At Rating Agencies

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Binyamin Appelbaum contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In 2004, well before the risks embedded in Wall Street's bets on subprime mortgages became widely known, employees at Standard & Poor's, the credit rating agency, were feeling pressure to expand the business. 
 One employee warned in internal e-mail that the company would lose business if it failed to give high enough ratings to collateralized debt obligations, the investments that later emerged at the heart of the financial crisis. 
 ''We are meeting with your group this week to discuss adjusting criteria for rating C.D.O.s of real estate assets this week because of the ongoing threat of losing deals,'' the e-mail said. ''Lose the C.D.O. and lose the base business -- a self reinforcing loop.''
 In June 2005, an S.& P. employee warned that tampering ''with criteria to 'get the deal' is putting the entire S.& P. franchise at risk -- it's a bad idea.'' A Senate panel will release 550 pages of exhibits on Friday -- including these and other internal messages -- at a hearing scrutinizing the role S.& P. and the ratings agency Moody's Investors Service played in the 2008 financial crisis. The panel, the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, released excerpts of the messages Thursday. 
 ''I don't think either of these companies have served their shareholders or the nation well,'' said Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, the subcommittee's chairman.
 In response to the Senate findings, Moody's said it had ''rigorous and transparent methodologies, policies and processes,'' and S.& P. said it had ''learned some important lessons from the recent crisis'' and taken steps ''to increase the transparency, governance, and quality of our ratings.''
 The investigation, which began in November 2008, found that S.& P. and Moody's used inaccurate rating models in 2004-7 that failed to predict how high-risk residential mortgages would perform; allowed competitive pressures to affect their ratings; and failed to reassess past ratings after improving their models in 2006.
 The companies failed to assign adequate staff to examine new and exotic investments, and neglected to take mortgage fraud, lax underwriting and ''unsustainable home price appreciation'' into account in their models, the inquiry found.
 By 2007, when the companies, under pressure, admitted their failures and downgraded the ratings to reflect the true risks, it was too late.
 Large-scale downgrades over the summer and fall of that year ''shocked the financial markets, helped cause the collapse of the subprime secondary market, triggered sales of assets that had lost investment-grade status and damaged holdings of financial firms worldwide,'' according to a memo summarizing the panel's findings.
 While many of the rating agencies' failures have been documented, the Senate investigation provides perhaps the most thorough and vivid accounting of the failures to date. 
 A sweeping financial overhaul being debated in the Senate would subject the credit rating agencies to comprehensive regulation and examination by the Securities and Exchange Commission for the first time. The legislation also contains provisions that would open the agencies to private lawsuits charging securities fraud, giving investors a chance to hold the companies accountable. 
 Mr. Levin said he supported those measures, but said the Senate bill, and a companion measure the House adopted in December, did not go far enough.
 ''What they don't do, and I think they should do, is find a way where we can avoid this inherent conflict of interest where the rating companies are paid by the people they are rating,'' he said. ''We've got to either find a way -- or direct the regulatory bodies to find a way -- to end that inherent conflict of interest.'' 
 Although the agencies were supposed to offer objective and independent analysis of the securities they rated, the documents by Mr. Levin's panel showed the pressures the companies faced from their clients, the same banks that were assembling and selling the investments.
 ''I am getting serious pushback from Goldman on a deal that they want to go to market with today,'' a Moody's employee wrote in an internal e-mail message in April 2006.
 In an August 2006 message, an S.& P. employee likened the unit rating residential mortgage-backed securities to hostages who have internalized the ideology of their kidnappers. 
 ''They've become so beholden to their top issuers for revenue they have all developed a kind of Stockholm syndrome which they mistakenly tag as Customer Value creation,'' the employee wrote.
 Lawrence J. White, an economist at the Stern School of Business at New York University, said he feared that the government's own reliance on the rating agencies had ''endowed them with some special aura.'' 
 The House bill calls for removing references to the rating agencies in federal law, and both bills would require a study of how existing laws and regulations refer to the companies.
 The addition of new regulations might inadvertently serve to empower the agencies, Mr. White said. ''Making the incumbent guys even more important can't be good, and yet that's the track that we're on right now,'' he said.
 David A. Skeel, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania, said the Senate bill ''basically just tinkers with the internal governance of the credit rating agencies themselves.'' 
 Ending the inherent conflicts of interest is ''more ambitious, but if you're ever going to talk about it, then this is the time,'' Mr. Skeel said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (76%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); HOME PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (67%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



584 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Report Says South Korea Was Told of Threat

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- South Korea's military intelligence warned the country's navy of a possible human torpedo attack from North Korea months before a South Korean warship sank in a mysterious explosion in late March, a newspaper report said Thursday.
 South Korea has not yet blamed North Korea for the March 26 sinking of the 1,200-ton warship, the Cheonan. But it has said the ship was torn in half in an ''external'' blast, fueling suspicions that it was hit by a North Korean torpedo. North Korea has denied involvement. 
 Early this year, the South Korean Defense Intelligence Command had alerted the navy to ''possible attacks of North Korean human torpedoes,'' the mass-circulation Chosun Ilbo reported on Thursday, citing an unnamed government source. So-called human torpedoes are in fact small submarines. Pilots steer them toward a target, release the submarine's warhead and ride the craft away, often killing themselves in the process.
 The command also warned that the North Koreans were vowing retaliation for a naval skirmish last November. That battle was considered a South Korean victory because no Southern sailors died while a North Korean ship was heavily damaged with an uncertain number of causalities.
 The Defense Ministy in Seoul refused to comment on the Chosun report, citing its policy of not commenting on intelligence matters.
 The human torpedoes were developed by the Japanese military and, along with kamikaze air attacks, were employed in the last, desperate stages of World War II to overcome the allies' increasingly effective defenses.
 Historians say that almost as many Japanese died in the attacks as the 162 American seamen and officers who went down in the two recorded sinkings in human torpedo attacks.
 In an era of laser-guided weaponry, the notion of a human torpedo is obviously anachronistic and indicative of the general decrepitude of the North Korean military. Making a virtue of necessity, however, North Korea often exhorts its people and soldiers to become ''human rifles and bombs.''
 The Cheonan sank in waters near the disputed western sea border between the two Koreas, the site of skirmishes in 1999 and 2002.
 On Thursday, another sailor was found dead, bringing the number of confirmed dead among Cheonan sailors to 39. Seven remain missing.
 South Korea is investigating the wreck of the rear half of the Cheonan, which was lifted out of the water last week. Engineers are expected to salvage the other half this weekend. Investigators are also scouring the sea bottom to collect debris from the explosion, which they hope will provide clues to what and who caused the blast.
 The Chosun report cited its source as saying that South Korea had detected signs of North Korea's training a human torpedo unit. Military auditors were investigating whether the navy had ignored the warning, the report said.
 Chosun also released a video on Thursday that, if authentic, would provide the first visual corroboration of the North Korean government's recent crackdown on private markets. The video shows a busy outdoor market in Onsong, the northernmost city in North Korea, in October and the same market, all but deserted, four and a half months later. ''It only shows one market at two points in time,'' said Kay Seok, a Human Rights Watch researcher based in Seoul who monitors North Korea, after watching the video. ''But it visually conforms with what we have been reading and hearing from various sources about what has been going on in markets inside North Korea.''
 After years of tolerating private markets, North Korea began cracking down on them in late November, reasserting state controls over the economy with disastrous results.
 Inflation and food shortages followed. South Korean news media reported sporadic but highly unusual outbursts of public discontent in the North.
 The authorities then relaxed some controls. But traders did not return to the markets, instead hoarding their goods, according to analysts who monitor the North Korean economy.
 The newspaper said its journalists worked with the Rev. Kim Seung-eun, head of Caleb Mission, a shelter for North Korean refugees in the South, who also sends aid into the North. The journalists and Mr. Kim sent five pen-shaped video cameras into the North with North Koreans working for the pastor. After the videos were made, Mr. Kim collected the cameras at the Chinese-North Korean border.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Japanese 'human torpedo' in 1945. Officials say North Korea uses the armed mini-submarines to get close to targets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NAVAL HISTORY AND HERITAGE COMMAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVIES (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LASERS (73%); LASER WEAPONS (73%); HISTORY (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (89%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



585 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: The Government War

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
In these columns I try to give voice to a philosophy you might call progressive conservatism. It starts with the wisdom of Edmund Burke -- the belief that the world is more complex than we can know and we should be skeptical of handing too much power to government planners. It layers in a dose of Hamiltonian optimism -- the belief that limited but energetic government can nonetheless successfully enhance opportunity and social mobility.
 This general philosophy puts me to the left of where the Republican Party is now, and to the right of the Democratic Party. It puts me in that silly spot on the political map, the center, or a step to the right of it. 
 The center has been losing political power pretty much my entire career. But I confess that about 16 months ago I had some hope of a revival. The culture war, which had bitterly divided the country for decades, was winding down. The war war -- the fight over Iraq and national security -- was also waning.
 The country had just elected a man who vowed to move past the old polarities, who valued discussion and who clearly had some sympathy with both the Burkean and Hamiltonian impulses. He staffed his administration with brilliant pragmatists whose views overlapped with mine, who differed only in that they have more faith in technocratic planning.
 Yet things have not worked out for those of us in the broad middle. Politics is more polarized than ever. The two parties have drifted further to the extremes. The center is drained and depressed.
 What happened?
 History happened. The administration came into power at a time of economic crisis. This led it, in the first bloom of self-confidence, to attempt many big projects all at once. Each of these projects may have been defensible in isolation, but in combination they created the impression of a federal onslaught.
 One of the odd features of the Democratic Party is its inability to learn what politics is about. It's not about winning arguments. It's about deciding which arguments you are going to have. In the first year of the Obama administration, the Democrats, either wittingly or unwittingly, decided to put the big government-versus-small government debate at the center of American life.
 Just as America was leaving the culture war and the war war, the Democrats thrust it back into the government war, only this time nastier and with higher stakes.
 This war is like a social script. Once it was activated, everybody fell into their preassigned roles.
 As government grew, the antigovernment right mobilized. This produced the Tea Party Movement -- a characteristically raw but authentically American revolt led by members of the yeoman enterprising class.
 As government grew, many moderates and independents (not always the same thing) recoiled in alarm. In 2008, the country was evenly split on whether there should be bigger government with more services or smaller government with fewer services. Now, according to a Pew Research Center poll, the smaller government side has a 10-point edge. Since President Obama's inauguration, the share of Americans who call themselves liberals (24 percent) has remained flat, but the share who call themselves conservatives (42 percent) has risen by as much as 10 percentage points, according to a Washington Post/ABC News poll, as former moderates have shifted to the antigovernment side.
 As government has seemed more threatening, moderates and independents have also fled from the Democratic Party. Democratic favorability ratings have dropped by 21 points over the past year, from 59 percent to 38 percent. Democrats are viewed less favorably than at any time in modern history.
 These shifts in the electorate have had predictable effects on the two parties. During periods when the government war is at full swing, the libertarian/Goldwater-esque tendency in the Republican Party becomes dominant and all other tendencies become dormant. That has happened now. 
 During periods of government war, the Democratic Party also reverts to its vestigial self. Democrats don't want to defend big government, so instead they lash out at business. Over the past weeks, President Obama has upped his attacks on Big Oil, Wall Street and ''powerful interests,'' sounding like an orthodox Reagan-era Democrat. 
 The government war is playing out just as you'd expect it to, strengthening those with pure positions and leaving those of us in the middle in the cross-fire. If the debate were about how to increase productivity or improve living standards, people like me could play. But when the country is wrapped up in a theological debate about the size of government, people like me are stuck crossways, trying to make distinctions no one heeds.
 This is a disappointing time. The Democrats have become the government party and the Republicans are the small government party. The stale, old debate is back with a fury. The war, as always, takes control. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



586 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 6157 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: Art

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'APPROACHING ABSTRACTION,' through Sept. 5. Self-taught artists are noted for producing weird, wacky and otherwise eccentric objects. This exhibition of about 60 works from the museum's permanent collection proposes that the best of them are also adept abstractionists. Few works are nonrepresentational, and most have a vibe of strangeness, but almost every piece is as compelling for its form and technique as for its idiosyncratic imagery. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)20100422 
 ASIA SOCIETY MUSEUM: 'PILGRIMAGE AND BUDDHIST ART,' through June 20. This deftly shaped show, not especially large, spans vast swaths of land and time, from India to Japan and from the first century A.D. almost to the present. Materially it's cornucopian, with all manner of painting and sculpture and a camping store's worth of pilgrim travel gear: rucksacks for sutra scrolls, monastic hiking staffs and fanny-pack shrines, not to mention charts and maps -- some cosmic, some not. The show traces the Buddha's life and the circular path his wandering took between his birth and death in northern India. It also looks at the paths of those who followed him through the centuries and to this day. Some have traveled alone and quietly, others in lively packs. The action in a mural-size pilgrimage painting from 18th-century Nepal looks like a raucous scene from ''The Canterbury Tales'' set in the Kathmandu Valley. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street , (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Holland Cotter)20100422
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'KIKI SMITH: SOJOURN,' through Sept. 12. Kiki Smith's installation ''Sojourn'' was inspired by an 18th-century needlework, Prudence Punderson's ''First, Second and Last Scene of Mortality.'' There are rich ideas in that work, about the female life cycle and the life of the artist; to these Ms. Smith adds religious, mystical and personal symbolism. The installation's many drawings, peopled with women at various stages of life, can be quite affecting. But Ms. Smith has a tendency to sugarcoat death with craft: flowers, papier-mache, antique glass, gold and silver leaf and glitter everywhere. Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20100422
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'TO LIVE FOREVER: ART AND THE AFTERLIFE IN ANCIENT EGYPT,' through May 2. Drawing from its own world-class collection of Egyptian art and artifacts, the Brooklyn Museum has assembled an exhibition exploring all facets of the Egyptian funerary industry. It's not a blockbuster, but it is fascinating. It presents more than 100 objects, from massive stone sarcophagus covers and elaborately decorated wooden coffins to little statuettes and elegant ink drawings on sheets of papyrus. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100422
 EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'PHANTOM SIGHTINGS: ART AFTER THE CHICANO MOVEMENT,' through May 9. This confusing show of works by Mexican-Americans who have come of age since the 1990s ranges from Victor Estrada's funky-surrealist paintings to Sandra de la Loza's high-concept installation of documents and a video dedicated to a historic site in Los Angeles. Margarita Cabrera's full-size, all-vinyl sculpture of a Volkswagen Beetle and Alejandro Diaz's distressed cardboard signs bearing handwritten messages like ''I beg to differ'' stand out, but a good case for the continued relevance of the identity-based show is not made. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem , (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Johnson)20100422
 FRICK COLLECTION: 'MASTERPIECES OF EUROPEAN PAINTING FROM DULWICH PICTURE GALLERY,' through May 30. That any of the nine works in this sweet dream of an exhibition sent over from London could easily be mistaken for works from the Frick's own incomparable collection tells you all you need to know about the quality on display. Rembrandt's ''Girl at a Window'' (1645) is the star of the show. Jean-Antoine Watteau's ''Plaisirs du Bal'' (about 1717) is a poetic, happy-sad vision of privileged indolence. Gerrit Dou's Vermeerish ''Woman Playing a Clavichord'' (1665) is preternaturally lucid. Nicolas Poussin's ''Nurture of Jupiter'' (1636-37), in which the toddler-age future king of the gods suckles a goat while a nymph holds him in her lap in a rocky landscape, is otherworldly. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Johnson)20100422
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'HAUNTED: CONTEMPORARY PHOTOGRAPHY/VIDEO/PERFORMANCE,' through Sept. 6. Drawn primarily from the museum's permanent collection, this show haphazardly traces photography, photo appropriation and their offshoots, backtracking six decades to Warhol and Rauschenberg, when three would have sufficed. With few exceptions, the displays are liveliest when closest to the present, in film pieces by Douglas Gordon, Tacita Dean and beyond, to the work of younger artists who have devised ways to use appropriation, setup and regular photography (together or separately). Among those are Sarah Anne Johnson and Sara VanDerBeek. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Roberta Smith)20100422
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'TWILIGHT VISIONS: SURREALISM, PHOTOGRAPHY AND PARIS,' through May 9. Considering how revolutionary Surrealist photography was back in the day, it may seem paradoxical that nostalgia would be the mood suffusing this resonant exhibition. But it makes sense. Caught in the throes of sweeping change in the cultural capital of the Western world, photographers like Andre Kertesz, Ilse Bing, Man Ray and others were as preoccupied with what was being lost as with what might be gained by modernization, and the images they made are darkly meditative. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street , (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Johnson)20100422
 JAPAN SOCIETY: 'GRAPHIC HEROES, MAGIC MONSTERS: JAPANESE PRINTS BY UTAGAWA KUNIYOSHI FROM THE ARTHUR R. MILLER COLLECTION,' through June 13. Today's graphic novelists owe a huge debt of gratitude to Hokusai, Hiroshige and the artist featured in this engrossing show, Utagawa Kuniyoshi. With wonderful formal and technical ingenuity, Kuniyoshi created woodblock prints illustrating tales of martial conflict, high-seas adventure and mythic triumph and sold them in vast quantities to the 19th-century equivalents of manga and anime fans. He also made portraits of courtesans in fashionable clothes; comical montages of anthropomorphized cats and octopuses; and antic, pornographic cartoons. 333 East 47th Street, (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org. (Johnson)20100422
 JEWISH MUSEUM: 'MODERN ART, SACRED SPACE: MOTHERWELL, FERBER AND GOTTLIEB,' through Aug. 1. The Millburn, N.J., Conservative synagogue Congregation B'nai Israel is renovating and expanding and has lent some of its art to the Jewish Museum for a small but inspiring exhibition. The synagogue commissioned three large artworks -- Adolph Gottlieb's Torah curtain, Herbert Ferber's exterior sculpture and Robert Motherwell's lobby mural -- for its midcentury Modernist building designed by the architect Percival Goodman. Temporarily installed and amply documented at the museum, they show off the mystical-spiritual side of Abstract Expressionism. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street , (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20100422
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'MASTERING THE ART OF CHINESE PAINTING: XIE ZHILIU (1910-1997),' through Aug. 1. This philosophically intriguing exhibition presents drawings and paintings by Xie Zhiliu, a 20th-century Chinese artist and professor who was trained in traditional artistic methods in his youth. That meant primarily copying and tracing drawings and paintings by past masters. Xie's elegant but unimaginative copies are interesting mainly for what they reveal about how classical artists arrived at works of seemingly effortless perfection: not by observing nature but by repeatedly imitating other artists. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100422
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'MASTERPIECES OF FRENCH ART DECO,' continuing. The largest exhibition of works from the Met's extensive holdings in French Art Deco fills a large gallery to overflowing with nearly 150 examples of art, furniture, wallpaper, decorative objects and the odd painting. Far more aristocratic than its American counterpart, French Deco devoted exquisite craftsmanship, opulent materials and historicizing design to the creation of one-of-a-kind luxury items. The desks and cabinets of the incomparable Jacques-Emile Ruhlmann quietly dominate, along with vases by Jacques Dunand and silver by Jean Puiforcat. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20100422
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'PLAYING WITH PICTURES: THE ART OF VICTORIAN PHOTOCOLLAGE,' through May 9. This seemingly modest, startlingly reverberant exhibition reveals that upper-class Englishwomen of the 1860s and '70s devised an early form of collage, the supposedly Cubist breakthrough. Adding cutout photographs of family, friends, royals and celebrities to the watercolor albums that were already an acceptable female activity, they created all kinds of witty effects -- drawing-room scenes, trompe l'oeil designs, human-animal hybrids. The effects of Darwinism and the publication of ''Alice's Adventures in Wonderland'' register in these amazing works, as does the collective, even osmotic nature of invention. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. ( Smith)20100422
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2010. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense; examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20100422
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'YOUNG ARCHER,' continuing. Is it or is it not? ''Young Archer,'' a life-size marble carving of a naked boy drawing an arrow from his lion's paw quiver, might be the earliest known sculpture by Michelangelo. Scholars disagree. On a 10-year loan from France, the legless, armless boy with a yearning expression is in the Met's bright and airy Velez Blanco Patio, where viewers may decide for themselves if it is the real thing. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100422
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'DEMONS AND DEVOTION: THE HOURS OF CATHERINE OF CLEVES,' through May 2. The need for new bindings creates the rare, maybe one-time chance to see 93 of the 157 surviving miniatures from the extraordinary illuminated book of hours commissioned around 1440 by Catherine of Cleves (1417-1479) in the southern Netherlands. Among the masterpieces of a golden age by an anonymous artist known only as the Master of Catherine of Cleves, it features exquisite, jewel-like miniatures that locate the Holy Family, apostles and saints in the here and now, among detailed interiors and landscapes and trompe l'oeil borders. The kingdom of God gives way to that of the real. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)20100422
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'ROME AFTER RAPHAEL,' through May 9. This exhibition of 16th-century Italian drawings from the Morgan's collection covers a lot of ground. It moves, in fits and starts, from the High Renaissance to Mannerism and the nascent Baroque. And it's enlivened by the classic match of Raphael versus Michelangelo; drawings by both artists, and their followers, pit Raphael's sprezzatura, or relaxed refinement, against Michelangelo's vein-popping muscularity. Look for drawings by Parmigianino (in Raphael's camp) and the sumptuous Farnese Hours by Giulio Clovio (in Michelangelo's), in addition to splendid Late Mannerist studies by Annibale Carracci. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)20100422
 MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN: 'BIGGER, BETTER, MORE: THE ART OF VIOLA FREY,' through May 2. Viola Frey's giant ceramic sculptures of men and women are among the underappreciated wonders of late-20th-century art. Rising 11 feet and higher, wearing business suits and ties or nondescript dresses, they have a spookily imposing physical presence and a clunky, cartoonish ugliness. With their blank or seemingly angry expressions, they may remind you of what it was like to be a child among grown-ups troubled by incomprehensible problems. 2 Columbus Circle , (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100422
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'HENRI CARTIER-BRESSON: THE MODERN CENTURY,' through June 28. Rarely has the phrase ''man of the world'' been more aptly applied than to the protean photojournalist Henri Cartier-Bresson, the subject of a large and handsome MoMA retrospective. For much of his long career, which began in the 1930s and officially ended three decades before his death in 2004, he was continually on the move, covering the better part of five continents, usually sending his film to various publishers and agencies for developing and editing. Many of his individual pictures are rightfully classics: those taken in the aftermath of World War II in Europe; at Gandhi's funeral; in China on the eve of the revolution. MoMA carefully mixes pictures chronologically, as if to avoid a comparison between Cartier-Bresson's daring in his early work and his later weakness for sentimentality and stereotypes, but the lack of cumulative moral and emotional intensity in the career, and in the show, is evident. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20100422
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'MARINA ABRAMOVIC: THE ARTIST IS PRESENT,' through May 31. The long-building energy wave of performance art hits the Museum of Modern Art with this four-decade survey of work by one of the form's more visible and magnetic figures. And the show's combination of stressed-out bare flesh on film and live bodies, some nude, in the galleries makes pretty radical fare for the museum. The exhibition is part true endurance-test grit, part pure diva hokum. And it comes with a mission: to demonstrate that it is possible to preserve an ephemeral medium through live re-creations of past work in a museum setting. The demonstration falls flat, but Ms. Abramovic herself is performing a new piece. It consists of her sitting absolutely still and staring straight ahead in MoMA's atrium for almost the entire time the museum is open during the show's run, an estimated 716 hours and 30 minutes, all told. Visitors are invited to participate by taking a seat across from her and meeting her gaze. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20100422
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'PERFORMANCE 7: MIRAGE BY JOAN JONAS,' through May 31. It helps to think of time as cyclical, or at least non-Western and nonlinear, when encountering Joan Jonas's ''Mirage'' at the Museum of Modern Art. The latest installation of a piece conceived in 1976, it suggests that Ms. Jonas's art has a longer-than-usual life span because it's constantly being reborn. In its current form at MoMA, ''Mirage'' consists of six moving-image works arranged in a loose circle and accompanied by a series of props: metal cones, chalkboards, a mask and a wooden hoop, among other objects. Performance, drawing, dance and video combine and recombine in arcane but thrilling ways. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)20100422
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: PICASSO: 'THEMES AND VARIATIONS,' through Aug. 30. This subtly excellent show brings together about 120 prints from the museum's collection, nimbly accounting for many of the pinnacles of Picasso's crafty exploration of the various print mediums. It also parses numerous themes -- Saltimbanques, wives and mistresses, Cubist nudes, hommages to the old masters, the burly Minotaur -- and includes stunning recent acquisitions. Revealing as much about the printmaking processes as about Picasso's freewheeling involvement with them, it casts a wide net and arranges its catch with penetrating clarity. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20100422
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'WILLIAM KENTRIDGE: FIVE THEMES,' through May 17. This well-designed exhibition of prints, drawings, films and film installations from the last 30 years showcases the artist's dazzling fusion of charcoal drawing and stop-action animation to excellent effect. The 1990 animations that meditate on the ravages of apartheid remain especially powerful. As the show traces a kind of progression away from, and back to, political subject matter, through a gallery that offers a dreamlike visit to his studio, it also traces his growing role in his own work, first as image, then as actor. And with a forthrightness that is almost touching, the exhibition also confirms that in the contest between still and moving images, moving almost always wins. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20100422
 NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: '185TH ANNUAL: AN INVITATIONAL EXHIBITION OF CONTEMPORARY AMERICAN ART,' through June 8. This year the National Academy's Annual has been pared down to 65 artists from the usual 120 or so. Reduced finances are to blame, but happily this juried exhibition doesn't suffer. Quality is high over all, and congestion has been minimized. Painting dominates, as always here, but with everything from photorealism to geometric abstraction, the show still feels rich in variety. The lineup includes the Chelsea habitues Dana Schutz, Ghada Amer and the fast-rising Alison Elizabeth Taylor, whose impressive marquetry work graces a marbled alcove. National Academy Museum, 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Rosenberg)20100422
 NEW MUSEUM: 'SKIN FRUIT: SELECTIONS FROM THE DAKIS JOANNOU COLLECTION,' through June 6. This exhibition of works from the collection of a New Museum trustee selected and installed by the art star Jeff Koons might conceivably have pulled a rabbit out of its ethically sticky headgear. Instead it teems with usual suspects, and its overcrowding benefits no one, especially the several larger, more admittedly festivalist works that form its high points. This museum has some rethinking to do, and high on the list should be coming to grips with the size and limitations of its often poorly proportioned galleries. Ultimately the air of complicity is less disturbing than the look of complacency. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)20100422
 NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'NOGUCHI REINSTALLED,' through Oct. 24. In anticipation of the museum's 25th anniversary in 2010, this show presents about 200 of Isamu Noguchi's works from the 1920s to the 1980s. They include sculptures in stone, wood, metal and clay; maquettes and models for parks and playgrounds; and props for Martha Graham dance productions. Though unfailingly suave, Noguchi's polished abstraction no longer has the urgency it once had, but the museum as a whole is a wonderful time capsule, and the sculpture garden he designed is utterly blissful. Noguchi Museum, 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Johnson)20100422
 SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN: 'A SONG FOR THE HORSE NATION,' through July 7, 2011. Including saddles, riding blankets, clothing and beaded bags and much more, this exhibition brings to light a fascinating and ultimately sad chapter in American history: the hundred-year period during which horses were central to the lives of the Plains Indians. A highly efficient form of transportation, horses enabled Navajo, Crow, Comanche, Pawnee and others to expand their territories and flourish more than they otherwise would have. It also enabled them to make war more effectively, though ultimately not effectively enough. George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan , (212) 514-3700, americanindian.si.edu. (Johnson)20100422
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'COLLECTING BIENNIALS,' through Nov. 28. Start your Whitney Biennial experience on the fifth floor, with this permanent-collection show of works by artists who were in past Annuals and Biennials. It caps off an extravaganza of new art with a humbling and diverting mix of classics, oldies and one-hit wonders. Figurative paintings from the 1950s Annuals are paired with contemporaneous Abstract Expressionism, and some big names from the 1980s (Schnabel, Condo) look refreshed. Most eye-opening is the sense that some of the most influential artists (Warhol, Hammons) barely register on the Biennial scorecard. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20100422
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: '2010 WHITNEY BIENNIAL,' through May 30. In the spirit of the economically bleak two years it represents, the Whitney has made efforts to under-pitch its 2010 Biennial, and the show lives up -- and down -- to its billing. There are fewer artists than in the past. Its installation is spartan. Spectacle is out. Much of what's in is quiet and hermetic to the point of looking blank. The prevailing aesthetic is the art of the tweak, minute variations on conventional forms and historical styles: abstract paintings stitched like quilts, performance pieces channeling the 1960s, and so on. The show feels empty where it reflects the retrenched, art-about-art spirit of the moment. But it also has strong work, particularly in video and photography, that speaks of life beyond the art factory. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)20100422
 Galleries: Uptown
 MILTON AVERY: 'INDUSTRIAL REVELATIONS,' through May 1. This knockout exhibition is the first exhaustive look at the artist's depictions of New York City's waterways, bridges and railroad yards from the late 1920s and early '30s, a period most associated with his portraits. But here he is out in the open, already summoning the deft abbreviations of form, space and light that would dominate his mature, far more pastoral landscapes. With more than three dozen works -- one-third of them oils -- this show provides an exciting new view of Avery's development and reminds us that his many-splendored achievement is still not fully visible. Knoedler & Company, 19 East 70th Street , (212) 794-0550, knoedlergallery.com. (Smith)20100422
 OTTO DIX, through Aug. 30. The first Dix retrospective in this country provides heady glimpses of the achievement of this so-called wild man of German art. Few things escaped his remorseless eye -- from the horrors of World War I to the hypocrisies of the Weimar Republic. He made every stop on the itinerary of German modernism (including Realism, Dada, Surrealism, Expressionism, folk, visionary), had a few Cubist moments and, of course, qualified as degenerate under the Nazis. This exhibition of more than 100 paintings, prints, watercolors and drawings (organized with the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts) doesn't have the scope -- or the space -- to do Dix justice, but it begins to make up for lost time. Neue Galerie, 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street , (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Smith)20100422
 ROBERT & ETHEL SCULL: 'PORTRAIT OF A COLLECTION,' through May 27. Racing from Abstract Expressionist paintings to Earthworks, this unforgivably crowded exhibition conveys the amazing instinct for the new, the next new and the next new after that that set Robert Scull, and his wife, Ethel, on one of the most influential shopping sprees in postwar American art -- until they cashed out with the 1973 Scull auction at Sotheby Parke-Bernet. In tandem with its detailed, must-read catalog, the show counts as ''It's a Wonderful Life'' for the art world. Attempting to rehabilitate the collectors most synonymous with the Swinging '60s, it demonstrates what a difference one or two people can make. Acquavella Galleries, 18 East 79th Street, (212) 734-6300, acquavellagalleries.com. (Smith)20100422
 Galleries: 57th Street
 'CELEBRATING THE MUSE: WOMEN IN PICASSO'S PRINTS, 1905-1968,' through May 8. This venture is pretty much girls, girls, girls: the artist's wives and mistresses, along with mythological goddesses, unnamed models and their more sexualized counterparts -- mantilla-topped majas in various degrees of undress. Underscoring what may have been the artist's chief obsession, it has a nearly overwhelming wildness of its own, including large swaths of the brilliantly varied ''Suite Vollard'' of 1933 -- especially the ''sculptor's studio'' sequence -- and ''Suite 347,'' an etching marathon from 1968. But there is much, much more, including wonderful linocuts of Picasso's second and final wife, the long-suffering Jacqueline. Marlborough Gallery, 40 West 57th Street, (212) 541-4900, marlboroughgallery.com. (Smith)20100422
 Galleries: Chelsea
 DONALD BAECHLER, through May 1. One of the boy wonders of 1980s painting-collage-drawing pursues his distinctive fusion of Americana and popular culture. This time his enlarged coloring-book-like drawings of generic if loaded motifs -- among them a skull, a rose, a globe and a soccer ball -- are painted-over (sometimes collaged) surfaces splashed and splattered with paint. The backgrounds make what might be called coded references to Julian Schnabel's tarpaulins or Color Field painting but also the workmanlike nature of the artist's process. The results are, as usual, seductive and remarkably unaffected, but they also look easier than they are. Cheim & Read, 547 West 25th Street, (212) 242-7727, cheimread.com. (Smith)20100422
 'BLOOD OF SPACE: DRAWINGS BY DAVID CHAIM SMITH,' through May 15. Inspired by the Kabbalah, alchemy and other mystical systems, Mr. Smith creates densely worked, diagrammatic drawings that look as if they'd been made by a Renaissance-era occultist. His semi-abstract, symmetrical compositions in pencil and ink feature an interplay between narrow crisscrossing, circular and serpentine bands and gnarly, rootlike systems. Finely printed words add philosophy reminiscent of the sentiments printed on Dr. Bronner's soap bottles. Cavin-Morris Gallery, 210 11th Avenue, at 25th Street , (212) 226-3768, cavinmorris.com. (Johnson)20100422
 ANDRE BUTZER, 'NICHT FURCHTEN! DON'T BE SCARED!,' through May 1. In his second gallery solo in New York, this young German painter continues the cartoonizing exploration of 1980s Neo-Expressionism, but here with thicker paint and noticeable improvement. In the most characteristic works, Ensor's giant stingray, Bacon's side of beef or a bright blue cousin of Casper the Friendly Ghost are slapped onto bright patchwork abstractions. Other works broach pure abstraction and even the dreaded monochrome, rendered as a thick, loamlike field of black that seems ready for plowing. There is nothing to be afraid of here, but Mr. Butzer has definitely increased interest in what he does next. Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, (212) 206-7100, metropicturesgallery.com. (Smith)20100422
 'JANET CARDIFF & GEORGE BURES MILLER,' through May 1. Few artists work with sound more inventively and with a cannier sense of theater than the Canadians Janet Cardiff and George Bures Miller. The main attraction here is ''The Carnie,'' an antique children's carousel in a dark room that looks like something you'd encounter in a ''Twilight Zone'' episode. As it revolves, speakers broadcast ominous, cacophonous modern music by the electronic composer Freida Abtan. Luhring Augustine, 531 West 24th Street , (212) 206-9100, luhringaugustine.com. (Johnson)20100422
 Galleries: SoHo
 JOSEF ALBERS/KEN PRICE, through June 5. Pairing a German abstract painter and color theorist, Josef Albers (1888-1976), and a ceramic sculptor, Ken Price (born 1935), is a bit of curatorial genius that can make your eyes feel attached to a bigger, better brain. An intricate dovetailing of works spanning several mediums and decades clarifies their individual greatness. The shared passion for strong color juxtapositions is to be expected. Less so are those for Modern architecture, pre-Columbian pyramids, stones, interior spaces (variously erotic, domestic or symbolic) and an oscillation between biomorphic and straight-edged form. Anyone interested in the curatorial arts should see this thrilling show, among the best and most timely to grace a New York commercial gallery. Brooke Alexander Gallery, 59 Wooster Street , (212) 925-4338, baeditions.com. (Smith)20100422
 JOSEF ALBERS: 'FORMULATION: ARTICULATION, 1972,' through May 8. This headlong plunge into all things Albers presents a portfolio of 127 silk-screen works that sums up his art and thought to a remarkable degree -- especially if you read the ''Statements of Content'' explaining each motif. A horizontal installation aids absorption, which can transform your understanding of both Albers in particular and abstraction in general, revealing it to be, unexpectedly, an art of everyday life. Peter Blum, 99 Wooster Street , (212) 343-0441, peterblumgallery.com. (Smith)20100422
 Galleries: Other
 FREDDIE BRICE, through May 1. Using wide brushes and mostly black and white house paint on thin pieces of plywood, Brice made paintings notable for their spontaneity, economy of means and comical, enigmatic imagery. Born in South Carolina in 1920, he moved to Harlem at 9. There is a childlike immediacy and simplicity about his self-taught style. The star of the show is the white-spotted black snake biting its own tail. KS Art, 73 Leonard Street , TriBeCa, (212) 219-9918, kerryschuss.com. (Johnson)20100422
 Out of Town
 PHILADELPHIA MUSEUM OF ART: 'PICASSO AND THE AVANT-GARDE IN PARIS,' through May 2. Size alone does not a blockbuster make. That's the lesson of ''Picasso and the Avant-Garde in Paris,'' a sprawling show but one that's engineered around the permanent collection and oddly lacking in major canvases by its marquee artist. If you can look past Picasso, though, there's an edifying exhibition here. In essence it's an inclusive and idiosyncratic history of Cubism from 1905 to 1945, one with many twists, subplots and supporting characters. Don't miss the gallery recreating the 1912 Salon d'Automne, packed with Cubo-Futurist masterpieces by Duchamp and others. Benjamin Franklin Parkway at 26th Street , (215) 763-8100, philamuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20100422
 Last Chance
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'CONTEMPLATING THE VOID: INTERVENTIONS IN THE GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM'; closes on Wednesday. In what it calls ''a self-reflexive folly,'' the museum completes the 50th-birthday festivities for Frank Lloyd Wright's building by inviting more than 200 artists, architects and designers to have their way with the landmark rotunda -- imaginatively speaking, of course. Some 193 responded, usually in digital photographs, depicting it as everything from a place to exhibit their work; to a site for trampolines, forests and aquariums; to a jumping-off point for a redesign. The architects tend to be more Oedipal, but not one really improves upon the space. The list of invitees, while global, is a trifle predictable, overloaded with sculptors and installation artists and noticeably short on painters and photographers, who also have imaginations. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)20100422
 SHIRLEY JAFFE: 'SELECTED PAINTINGS 1969-2009'; closes on Saturday. Since forsaking Abstract Expressionism in the late 1960s, Ms. Jaffe has cultivated a brightly colored, reality-based abstraction -- highly distilled and consummately composed -- that has little tolerance for pure, mute form. Her precedents include Matisse, Miro, Stuart Davis and Alexander Calder, but the rigor, wit and narrative sense with which she imbues her forms is all her own. This show's earlier works review the steady strengthening of her art; the recent ones confirm it. Tibor de Nagy Gallery, 724 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street , (212) 262-5050, tibordenagy.com. (Smith)20100422
 AMAR KANWAR; closes on Saturday. The documentary-based work of the South Asian filmmaker Amar Kanwar is unswervingly grounded in what he once called ''issues of justice,'' meaning social justice, though he is also a vivid shaper of narratives, as two ambitious pieces in this show attest. The eight-channel video piece ''The Lightning Testimonies'' (2007) is a harrowing study of the sexual violation of women during, and at various times after, the 1947 partition of the Indian subcontinent into largely Islamic Pakistan and largely Hindu India. The second piece, ''The Torn First Pages,'' is an even more elaborately scaled film installation in three parts that focuses on the activist struggle for democracy in Myanmar, formerly Burma, under a brutal military dictatorship. Marian Goodman Gallery, 24 West 57th Street , (212) 977-7160, mariangoodman.com. (Cotter)20100422
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'TIM BURTON'; closes on Monday. Given the tremendous visual appeal of Mr. Burton's movies, you would expect that this expansive retrospective of his nonmoving art would be equally exciting. Alas, it is a letdown. Focused mainly on hundreds of Victorian-Gothic-Expressionist cartoons dating from his teenage years to the present and including paintings, sculptures, photographs and a smattering of short films on flat screens, it is an entertaining show, but there is a sameness to all Mr. Burton's two- and three-dimensional output that makes for a monotonous viewing experience. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)20100422
 ED PASCHKE; closes on Saturday. In his toxically glowing paintings of circus freaks, extreme dandies, tattooed ladies and hairy, wingtip shoes from the 1970s and '80s, this Chicago Imagist, who died in 2004, explored the dark side of Pop Art. Later paintings look as if broadcast by a television on acid. Jeff Koons, Mr. Paschke's student, assistant and friend, selected the works in this terrific show. Gagosian Gallery, 980 Madison Avenue, at 77th Street , (212) 744-2313, gagosian.com. (Johnson)20100422
 QUEENS MUSEUM OF ART: DANIEL BOZHKOV AND DUKE RILEY; closes on Sunday. These two young and opportunistic artists have found a way to make the most of the Queens Museum's transitional state. (The museum is in the process of expanding.) Egged on by trusting curators and a residency program, Launch Pad, that encourages exploration of the site and the Queens community, they have turned to the surrounding park and its former ice rink for materials and inspiration. Their adjacent solo installations are well worth seeing, if only because they are profoundly at odds with each other: Mr. Bozhkov salvages while Mr. Riley torches the place in a naumachia (Roman naval battle). Flushing Meadows-Corona Park , (718) 592-9700, queensmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20100422
 JAMES WELLING: 'GLASS HOUSE'; closes on Saturday. The most methodical yet peripatetic of Picture artists continues his exploration of photography's technical and physical possibilities. These large inkjet images -- taken with a digital camera using color filters -- capture Philip Johnson's 1949 classically modernistic Glass House and its surrounding structures. The rainbow hues suggest the house as a kind of prism or lens, with the images as flawed exposures. Yet their beautiful tints and light effects suggest that Johnson's compound might almost be Mr. Welling's Giverny. David Zwirner, 525 West 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 727-2070, davidzwirner.com. (Smith)20100422
 'THE LOST WORLD OF OLD EUROPE: THE DANUBE VALLEY, 5000-3500 B.C.'; closes on Sunday. This extraordinary exhibition substantially reshapes our general understanding of early ancient history, which tends to be dominated by Aegean and Asian cultures. To these must now be added the sophisticated ceramic vessels, delightful ceramic fertility figures, jewelry, carved-stone ax heads and whatnot produced farther north during the Neo-Eneolithic, Bronze and Iron Ages by the Carpathian-Danubian peoples of present-day Romania and Bulgaria. If you manage to do nothing else this weekend, see this show. New York University Institute for the Study of the Ancient World, 15 East 84th Street , (212) 992-7800, nyu.edu/isaw. (Smith)20100422

CORRECTION-DATE: April 23, 2010, Friday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An art entry in the Listings pages last Friday about ''Rome After Raphael,'' at the Morgan Library & Museum, misspelled the given name of an artist whose work appears in the exhibition. He was Annibale Carracci, not Anibale. (The error has appeared in the Listings pages each Friday since Feb. 12 and was pointed out in an e-mail message from a reader on Wednesday.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'Masterpieces of European Painting': This show at the Frick Collection, from the Dulwich Picture Gallery, features Gerrit Dou's ''Woman Playing a Clavichord,'' as well as work by Rembrandt and Poussin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRUSTEES OF DULWICH PICTURE GALLERY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (89%); SCULPTURE (79%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (79%); PAINTING (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ART COLLECTING (78%); RELIGION (74%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (74%); HIKING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NORTH INDIA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); INDIA (90%); NEPAL (79%); JAPAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



587 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: OBAMA CHASTISES WALL ST. IN CALL TO STIFFEN RULES

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Mr. Baker reported from New York and Mr. Herszenhorn from Washington.

 BODY:
President Obama took his rhetoric of reform on Thursday to the nation's financial capital in a high-profile foray to chide Wall Street bankers for their ''reckless practices'' and to press for tighter regulations meant to avert another financial crisis.
 Addressing leaders of New York's financial giants, including Goldman Sachs, Mr. Obama described himself as a champion of change battling ''battalions of financial industry lobbyists'' and the ''withering forces'' of the economic elite. With his poll numbers sagging, the choreographed confrontation seemed aimed at tapping the nation's antiestablishment mood as well as muscling financial regulation legislation through Congress.
 But the president also struck a note of conciliation with an industry that has contributed generously to his party, beseeching bankers to work with him to forge a new regulatory structure. While he spoke, his Democratic allies in Washington moved to force a showdown in the Senate on Monday, scheduling a procedural vote that will test the prospects for bipartisan compromise and Republican resolve to block the president's plans. 
 ''I want to urge you to join us, instead of fighting us in this effort,'' Mr. Obama said in his address at Cooper Union in Manhattan. ''I'm here because I believe that these reforms are, in the end, not only in the best interest of our country, but in the best interest of the financial sector.''
 The regulation battle has become the president's top legislative priority since he signed his health care program into law last month, and both parties are jockeying for position six months before midterm elections. Mr. Obama and his allies have eagerly portrayed Republicans as handmaidens of Wall Street while Republicans have accused Democrats of trying to strangle the market and institutionalize bailouts.
 While Mr. Obama avoided directly criticizing Republicans in his address, the partisan tension in the capital heated up again when Senate Republicans blocked an effort by Democrats to start debate on their regulation bill. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said Democrats were pre-empting negotiations, while Senator Harry M. Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, said Republicans were simply stalling.
 Business interests and their allies used Mr. Obama's visit to New York to trumpet their opposition to his plans. The New York Post ran a front-page editorial under the banner headline, ''Dear Mr. President, Don't Kill the Golden Goose: City Economy Imperiled in the Name of 'Reform.' '' The United States Chamber of Commerce took out full-page ads in New York newspapers echoing the concerns of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, saying that ''beating up on Wall Street may be good short-term politics -- but not if it gets in the way of the right solutions.''
 Republicans argued that Mr. Obama's plan would encourage risky behavior and empower regulators who failed to use the authority they already have. ''President Obama says he believes in the power of free markets but his policies prove otherwise,'' said Representative Spencer Bachus of Alabama, the senior Republican on the House Financial Services Committee. ''Under the Democrat plan, certain financial institutions have no freedom to fail, and are instead propped up by taxpayer bailouts and government loan guarantees.''
 But Mr. Obama argued that he was advocating ''a common-sense, reasonable, nonideological approach'' that would strengthen consumer protection, limit the size of banks and the risks they can take, enforce greater transparency for derivatives and other complex securities, and impose more scrutiny of executive compensation.
 ''Unless your business model depends on bilking people, there is little to fear from these new rules,'' he said.
 He also bristled at the claim that Democratic legislation would institutionalize future bailouts of big banks.
 ''That may make for a good sound bite, but it is not factually accurate,'' he said. ''It is not true. In fact, the system as it stands is what led to a series of massive, costly taxpayer bailouts. And it's only with reform that we can avoid a similar outcome in the future.''
 As he castigated Wall Street for its ''failure of responsibility'' that led to the financial crisis, listening in the audience were some of the city's most prominent bankers, including Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, and Gary Cohn, its chief operating officer. The bank was accused by the federal government last week of defrauding investors during the crisis.
 Also on hand were top executives from JPMorgan Chase, Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse, Barclays and Bank of America, as well as Mr. Bloomberg, Gov. David A. Paterson and the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo. The bankers all left the room swiftly after Mr. Obama's remarks without stopping to offer much reaction.
 At the Capitol, Republicans rejected Mr. Reid's efforts to start a debate leading to a vote, arguing that bipartisan discussions were still under way.
 ''I'm not going to waste any more time of the American people,'' Mr. Reid said at a news conference.
 ''I don't think bipartisanship is a waste of time,'' Mr. McConnell retorted later in the day.
 Mr. Reid scheduled a first procedural vote for Monday evening that will force Republicans to choose between starting debate or blocking the motion. Some Republicans said they expected Democrats to force several such votes before any deal is reached as a way to paint the G.O.P. as obstructionist. Democrats have expressed little willingness to make big concessions but need at least one Republican to overcome a filibuster.
 Among the chief Republican objections is a proposed $50 billion fund, to be financed by big financial companies, that would be used to take apart any failing banks and put them out of business. The Obama administration also opposes that fund out of concern that it might hamper rather than aid efforts to deal with costly bank failures.
 Republicans have also expressed concern about a new consumer protection agency that they say could pre-empt existing state laws. Republicans also oppose a proposal in a bill advanced by Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, requiring the biggest banks to spin off their derivatives businesses.
 Democrats rebutted Republican criticisms on Thursday at a news conference where they showed video clips of Republican leaders making what the Democrats called false assertions about the bill. Republicans argued Democrats had not been honest with the American people.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Friday with the continuation of an article about President Obama's address on tightening financial regulations misidentified one of the executives shown. The man at the left with his hand on his cheek is Robert Greifeld, chief executive of Nasdaq -- not Robert E. Diamond Jr., president of Barclays, who is at the far right. (As the caption correctly noted, Paul Calello of Credit Suisse is in the center.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama talked of Wall Street's ''reckless practices'' in his address to the top bankers on Thursday in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Bob Diamond of Barclays, hand on cheek, with Paul Calello of Credit Suisse on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); LOBBYING (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); HEALTH CARE (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); PAUL CALELLO (59%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%); HARRY REID (54%); MITCH MCCONNELL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010



588 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: A Friend to Wall St., Suddenly Quiet

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; Michael Barbaro contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York has long been known as one of Wall Street's best friends on Capitol Hill, but there are apparently limits to that friendship.
 After years of being a go-to guy for the elite of high finance, Mr. Schumer has embraced new legislation that would put constraints on his hometown's leading industry.
 The stance has put him at odds with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, caused consternation among his allies at the investment houses and led to suggestions that he was putting political ambition ahead of protecting New York's interests. 
 ''There are some on Wall Street who want me to say Wall Street right or wrong, and I'm not going to do it,'' Mr. Schumer said in interview on Thursday, a few hours after Democrats brought their overhaul of financial rules to the floor.
 ''Clearly they did a lot of things wrong,'' he said. ''Too many Wall Street firms had no one looking over their shoulder, and they went off the deep end.''
 Mr. Schumer acknowledges that his evolution on the issue has not been without some anguish as he navigates gingerly between the financial patrons he has mined for millions in campaign donations for himself and his party, and constituents who were hurt by the economic collapse. 
 Normally among the most visible and audible of Democrats, Mr. Schumer has taken an uncharacteristically low profile on the touchy subject, a strategy that somewhat boomeranged when it drew some tabloid heat in New York, as well as a criticism from Mr. Bloomberg. 
 An outspoken defender of the financial industry, Mr. Bloomberg has opposed imposing new costs on or limiting the size of banks, in part out of concern that undercutting Wall Street's profitability could eat into the city's tax revenues. 
 The mayor expected Mr. Schumer to join him in backing Wall Street, and when he did not, Mr. Bloomberg used private meetings, including one on April 12 with Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, to express frustration with Mr. Schumer's position.
 Mr. Schumer said he was caught off guard by reports of the friction since the mayor had not mentioned it to him, sparking an air-clearing phone conversation between the men on Wednesday.
 ''He said, 'I don't want to get in a fight with this' and I said neither do I, but you have to tell me -- I may agree, I may disagree -- which parts of this bill are good in your opinion, and which are detrimental to New York,'' Mr. Schumer recounted. He said their respective staffs are now trying to identify the trouble spots.
 The mayor's rebuke also stirred some resentment among other members of the New York Congressional delegation, who at a private meeting Thursday made their views known to a representative of the mayor's office. 
 Aides insist that Mr. Schumer and Mr. Bloomberg remain friendly and they expect no lasting repercussions from the dust-up. Mr. Schumer's wife, Iris, served as a commissioner in the Bloomberg administration until 2007, and the couple is known to dine with Mr. Bloomberg and his companion, Diana L. Taylor. 
 But with the legislation now heading toward a showdown in the Senate, Wall Street has been left to defend itself with little public help from Mr. Schumer, who has long been among the top recipients of campaign donations from the financial services industry.
 Beyond his concerns with the substance of the issue, Mr. Schumer also has to balance pressure from a crucial constituency at home against national political trends. With Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, facing a tough re-election fight this year, Mr. Schumer is often mentioned by Democrats as a possible successor as party leader. In the current climate being seen as too close to Wall Street would not be an advantage. 
 Mr. Schumer said any suggestion that a leadership contest was a driving factor in his thinking is ''bunk,'' saying he does not expect one since he anticipates Mr. Reid will win.
 ''This is about doing the right thing for the country and doing the right thing for New York. Period,'' he said. 
 Mr. Schumer said he had used his influence as the third-ranking Democrat in the Senate and his senior membership on the Banking Committee to help draw up balanced legislation that seeks to correct flaws in the regulation of the financial industry while avoiding a legislative response that was punitive or vindictive.
 Colleagues give him credit for applying his expertise on what is a complicated subject.
 ''He understands that world very well,'' said Senator Christopher Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the Banking Committee. ''He understands the importance of getting a structure in place that works. He knows these people, he knows these institutions and he understands the importance of reform.''
 ''The last thing we want to do is put these people out of business,'' Mr. Dodd said.
 Even as Mr. Schumer has become a staunch supporter of the Democratic bill in his public comments on the issue he seems to prefer criticizing Republicans to criticizing Wall Street. 
 While Mr. Reid, the majority leader, used a news conference Thursday to lash out at the ''endless greed'' on Wall Street, and the No. 2 Democrat, Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, said, ''Wall Street and many big banks got away with murder,'' Mr. Schumer took aim at Republicans, accusing them of spreading lies about the Democratic legislation.
 ''It's time for Republicans to step up to the plate and do the right thing,'' he said.
 Mr. Schumer said he was comfortable with where he found himself on the Wall Street bill.
 ''In instances when you have difficult terrain,'' he said, ''follow your internal gyroscope and have a thick skin for the criticisms and it will all work out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Charles E. Schumer is known as an advocate for the financial industry, but he has kept a low profile as Congress considers regulatory reform. (B1)
Senator Charles E. Schumer has long been among the top recipients of campaign donations from the financial services industry. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHARTS: A Senator's Ties to Wall Street: Few lawmakers have raised more from Wall Street than Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. Mr. Schumer led the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee from 2004 to 2008, raising a record $240 million while increasing donations from Wall Street. Top recipients from securities and investment firms
 Share of total donations to the D.S.C.C. by securities and investment firms. (Source: Center for Responsive Politics) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (59%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (94%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



589 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: Ending the Slavery Blame-Game

BYLINE: By HENRY LOUIS GATES Jr.. 
Henry Louis Gates Jr., a professor at Harvard, is the author of the forthcoming ''Faces of America'' and ''Tradition and the Black Atlantic.''

DATELINE: Cambridge, Mass. 

 BODY:
 THANKS to an unlikely confluence of history and genetics -- the fact that he is African-American and president -- Barack Obama has a unique opportunity to reshape the debate over one of the most contentious issues of America's racial legacy: reparations, the idea that the descendants of American slaves should receive compensation for their ancestors' unpaid labor and bondage. 
 There are many thorny issues to resolve before we can arrive at a judicious (if symbolic) gesture to match such a sustained, heinous crime. Perhaps the most vexing is how to parcel out blame to those directly involved in the capture and sale of human beings for immense economic gain.
 While we are all familiar with the role played by the United States and the European colonial powers like Britain, France, Holland, Portugal and Spain, there is very little discussion of the role Africans themselves played. And that role, it turns out, was a considerable one, especially for the slave-trading kingdoms of western and central Africa. These included the Akan of the kingdom of Asante in what is now Ghana, the Fon of Dahomey (now Benin), the Mbundu of Ndongo in modern Angola and the Kongo of today's Congo, among several others. 
 For centuries, Europeans in Africa kept close to their military and trading posts on the coast. Exploration of the interior, home to the bulk of Africans sold into bondage at the height of the slave trade, came only during the colonial conquests, which is why Henry Morton Stanley's pursuit of Dr. David Livingstone in 1871 made for such compelling press: he was going where no (white) man had gone before. 
 How did slaves make it to these coastal forts? The historians John Thornton and Linda Heywood of Boston University estimate that 90 percent of those shipped to the New World were enslaved by Africans and then sold to European traders. The sad truth is that without complex business partnerships between African elites and European traders and commercial agents, the slave trade to the New World would have been impossible, at least on the scale it occurred.
 Advocates of reparations for the descendants of those slaves generally ignore this untidy problem of the significant role that Africans played in the trade, choosing to believe the romanticized version that our ancestors were all kidnapped unawares by evil white men, like Kunta Kinte was in ''Roots.'' The truth, however, is much more complex: slavery was a business, highly organized and lucrative for European buyers and African sellers alike. 
 The African role in the slave trade was fully understood and openly acknowledged by many African-Americans even before the Civil War. For Frederick Douglass, it was an argument against repatriation schemes for the freed slaves. ''The savage chiefs of the western coasts of Africa, who for ages have been accustomed to selling their captives into bondage and pocketing the ready cash for them, will not more readily accept our moral and economical ideas than the slave traders of Maryland and Virginia,'' he warned. ''We are, therefore, less inclined to go to Africa to work against the slave trade than to stay here to work against it.'' 
 To be sure, the African role in the slave trade was greatly reduced after 1807, when abolitionists, first in Britain and then, a year later, in the United States, succeeded in banning the importation of slaves. Meanwhile, slaves continued to be bought and sold within the United States, and slavery as an institution would not be abolished until 1865. But the culpability of American plantation owners neither erases nor supplants that of the African slavers. In recent years, some African leaders have become more comfortable discussing this complicated past than African-Americans tend to be. 
 In 1999, for instance, President Mathieu Kerekou of Benin astonished an all-black congregation in Baltimore by falling to his knees and begging African-Americans' forgiveness for the ''shameful'' and ''abominable'' role Africans played in the trade. Other African leaders, including Jerry Rawlings of Ghana, followed Mr. Kerekou's bold example. 
 Our new understanding of the scope of African involvement in the slave trade is not historical guesswork. Thanks to the Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade Database, directed by the historian David Eltis of Emory University, we now know the ports from which more than 450,000 of our African ancestors were shipped out to what is now the United States (the database has records of 12.5 million people shipped to all parts of the New World from 1514 to 1866). About 16 percent of United States slaves came from eastern Nigeria, while 24 percent came from the Congo and Angola. 
 Through the work of Professors Thornton and Heywood, we also know that the victims of the slave trade were predominantly members of as few as 50 ethnic groups. This data, along with the tracing of blacks' ancestry through DNA tests, is giving us a fuller understanding of the identities of both the victims and the facilitators of the African slave trade. 
 For many African-Americans, these facts can be difficult to accept. Excuses run the gamut, from ''Africans didn't know how harsh slavery in America was'' and ''Slavery in Africa was, by comparison, humane'' or, in a bizarre version of ''The devil made me do it,'' ''Africans were driven to this only by the unprecedented profits offered by greedy European countries.'' 
 But the sad truth is that the conquest and capture of Africans and their sale to Europeans was one of the main sources of foreign exchange for several African kingdoms for a very long time. Slaves were the main export of the kingdom of Kongo; the Asante Empire in Ghana exported slaves and used the profits to import gold. Queen Njinga, the brilliant 17th-century monarch of the Mbundu, waged wars of resistance against the Portuguese but also conquered polities as far as 500 miles inland and sold her captives to the Portuguese. When Njinga converted to Christianity, she sold African traditional religious leaders into slavery, claiming they had violated her new Christian precepts. 
 Did these Africans know how harsh slavery was in the New World? Actually, many elite Africans visited Europe in that era, and they did so on slave ships following the prevailing winds through the New World. For example, when Antonio Manuel, Kongo's ambassador to the Vatican, went to Europe in 1604, he first stopped in Bahia, Brazil, where he arranged to free a countryman who had been wrongfully enslaved. 
 African monarchs also sent their children along these same slave routes to be educated in Europe. And there were thousands of former slaves who returned to settle Liberia and Sierra Leone. The Middle Passage, in other words, was sometimes a two-way street. Under these circumstances, it is difficult to claim that Africans were ignorant or innocent. 
 Given this remarkably messy history, the problem with reparations may not be so much whether they are a good idea or deciding who would get them; the larger question just might be from whom they would be extracted. 
 So how could President Obama untangle the knot? In David Remnick's new book ''The Bridge: The Life and Rise of Barack Obama,'' one of the president's former students at the University of Chicago comments on Mr. Obama's mixed feelings about the reparations movement: ''He told us what he thought about reparations. He agreed entirely with the theory of reparations. But in practice he didn't think it was really workable.'' 
 About the practicalities, Professor Obama may have been more right than he knew. Fortunately, in President Obama, the child of an African and an American, we finally have a leader who is uniquely positioned to bridge the great reparations divide. He is uniquely placed to publicly attribute responsibility and culpability where they truly belong, to white people and black people, on both sides of the Atlantic, complicit alike in one of the greatest evils in the history of civilization. And reaching that understanding is a vital precursor to any just and lasting agreement on the divisive issue of slavery reparations. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SCOTT BAKAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLAVERY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); HISTORY (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (75%); MEN (74%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFRICA (95%); EUROPE (79%); BENIN (79%); GHANA (79%); SPAIN (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); FRANCE (79%); PORTUGAL (78%)

TITLE: The Bridge (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



590 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Block Start of Debate on Financial Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senate Republicans on Thursday blocked an effort by Democrats to start debate on legislation to tighten regulation of the nation's financial system, and the two sides traded bitter accusations about who was standing in the way of a bipartisan agreement. 
 The majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, asked Republicans to agree to begin debating the measure, which would impose a sweeping regulatory framework on Wall Street and big financial institutions. But the Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, objected, saying Democrats were pre-empting negotiations to reach a deal. 
 In response, Mr. Reid said he would call the first procedural vote on Monday in an effort to stop the Republican filibuster. That vote could test Republican resolve to oppose the measure in an election year, amid public dismay over big Wall Street profits and bonuses even as unemployment remains high. 
 President Obama traveled to New York City on Thursday to press the case for the bill by giving a speech not far from Wall Street. 
 At the Capitol, Senate Democratic leaders stepped up pressure on Republicans, and at an unusual news conference, they showed video clips of Republican leaders leveling what the Democrats said were false criticisms of the bill. 
 At the news conference, Mr. Reid suggested that Republicans were stalling and expressed doubt that the negotiations would yield any agreement. 
 Republicans have said that renewed talks are yielding progress that could lead to an agreement, but neither Democrats nor Republicans have pointed to any concrete changes that had been agreed to in recent days. 
 ''Every indication is that the chairman and the ranking member are making progress in their discussions, and that this bill will have needed improvements,'' Mr. McConnell said in a speech on Thursday. 
 Mr. Reid, however, noted that Democrats had tried for two months to reach a deal with Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the banking committee, and another month working with Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, who is also on the committee. If Republicans are ready to deal, he said, they should agree to begin debate. 
 ''I'm not going to waste any more time of the American people,'' Mr. Reid said. 
 But it was the unusual use of video clips that was most striking about the Democrats' aggressive posture. First they showed Mr. McConnell repeatedly denouncing the legislation, saying it would encourage, rather than prevent, future taxpayer-financed bailouts of big banks. Both sides agree the bill is intended to end bailouts. 
 ''This bill not only allows for taxpayer-funded bailouts of Wall Street banks, it institutionalizes them,'' Mr. McConnell says on the video in a speech on the Senate floor. In another clip, Mr. McConnell says, ''It provides for an endless taxpayer bailout of Wall Street banks.'' 
 Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat, accused Mr. McConnell of ignoring the legislative text. 
 ''If you listen to this comment by the minority leader of the United States Senate you wonder if he has read the bill, particularly if he has read the section between pages 110 and 295, which is entitled 'Orderly Liquidation Authority,' '' Mr. Durbin said. 
 ''Liquidation is the end of the bank,'' Mr. Durbin said, ''not a bailout that it could continue in business. It describes all the steps that would be taken under the bill to liquidate the bank. The management team is fired. The shareholders are wiped out. The firm's assets are sold off to pay any firm debts. Once the money is gone, the creditors are wiped out. The taxpayers don't pay for any part of this, and at the end of it, the company is gone. There is nothing to bail out.'' 
 Then, the Democrats showed clips of the No. 2 Republican, Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, saying the legislation would interfere with auto dealers, dentists or optometrists who allow their customers to pay off bills over time. 
 ''Senator Kyl says that the bill would regulate your dentist or your optometrist or your butcher if they let you pay over time -- once again, not true,'' Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said. 
 Mr. Schumer said Democrats were moving quickly to hit back after learning a lesson from the recent health care debate. 
 ''On the health care bill we allowed too many lies to get out there without rebuttal because we thought they were so obviously untrue,'' he said. ''Well, we have learned our lesson and the minute these things come out of the mouths of some of our Republican colleagues, we rebut them.'' 
 The bellicose stance by Democrats, even as Republicans insist they are hopeful of a bipartisan deal, carries some political risk. Voters, often frustrated by the acrimony in Washington, could decide that Democrats, who control Congress and the White House, are being arrogant by refusing to make concessions. 
 And Mr. McConnell, in his floor speech, said it was the Democrats who had not been honest with the American public. 
 ''When the financial regulatory bill the majority was about to bring to the floor last week still contained a number of loopholes allowing for future bailouts, I raised the alarm,'' Mr. McConnell said. ''I wasn't about to take Democrat assurances that this bill protected taxpayers. I wanted them to prove it.'' 
 ''That's really what this debate is all about: it's about proving to my constituents and to the rest of the country that we actually do what we say we're going to do around here because if you haven't noticed, there's a serious trust deficit out there,'' Mr. McConnell added. 
 He accused President Obama of failing to deliver on a promise to reduce the nation's debt, of not creating the promised number of jobs with last year's economic stimulus measure, and of favoring labor unions in bailing out American auto companies. 
 ''People need to be convinced that we're doing what we say we're doing,'' Mr. McConnell said. ''This time they want proof. And frankly, I don't blame them.'' 
 Amid the partisan rhetoric, officials on both sides said they were still working to iron out a few disagreements over specific provisions in the financial regulatory legislation, and that they remained optimistic that the overhaul would be approved. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RANKINGS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (79%); MITCH MCCONNELL (79%); RICHARD SHELBY (78%); RICHARD DURBIN (59%); BOB CORKER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



591 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Trip to Mideast By U.S. Envoy Raises Hopes

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- The American envoy to the Middle East, George J. Mitchell, flew here on Thursday to meet with Israeli and Palestinian leaders, a sign that indirect Israeli-Palestinian peace talks may be getting back on track, officials from all three parties said. 
 The talks had been expected to begin last month but were delayed after Israel announced plans to build 1,600 housing units in East Jerusalem, where the Palestinians hope to build their capital. The Palestinians and President Obama were furious at the announcement, made during a visit to Israel by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., and the Americans made a number of demands of Israel aimed at restoring the negotiations. 
 The specific demands have been kept secret but it is clear that they involve assurances that further announcements for building in East Jerusalem would not be made in the coming months and that Israel would agree to allow substantive topics, like Jerusalem, borders and refugees, to be discussed in the American-brokered indirect talks rather than insist that they wait for the direct negotiations expected to evolve from them.
 Israel has not offered a formal response to the Obama administration but officials indicated that enough understandings had been reached that indirect talks may start in coming weeks. 
 Officials from all three parties said the sides were drawing closer to the prospect of starting talks.
 Mr. Mitchell was expected to meet Friday with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and separately with Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president.
 Mr. Netanyahu has stated publicly on a number of occasions that he would not freeze all Jewish building in East Jerusalem as the Palestinians have been demanding. But he instructed all ministries involved in Jerusalem housing to provide his office with relevant plans, apparently to prevent progress on such building from being announced or approved in a way that could derail the negotiation process.
 He has also made clear that a number of other concessions would be forthcoming, notably improving conditions for the Palestinian economy through eased access of movement in the occupied West Bank, and perhaps increasing the area of responsibility of Palestinian security forces there.
 ''We want to get these negotiations started but what we don't want is to suddenly see more bulldozers and settlements in Jerusalem,'' Saeb Erekat, the chief Palestinian negotiator, said by telephone. 
 He said President Abbas needed to hear from Mr. Mitchell directly on Friday what was offered before any decision on the proximity talks could be made. But his tone indicated greater optimism than in recent weeks. It seemed likely, nonetheless, that it would be some weeks before the fate of the talks was decided.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); REFUGEES (69%)

PERSON: GEORGE J MITCHELL (89%); BARACK OBAMA (70%); JOE BIDEN (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (96%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (98%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



592 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Karzai Might Even Agree

DATELINE: Hamid Karzai is frustrating, difficult and 

 BODY:
-- as his recent anti-American rants make especially clear -- not a reliable partner. He is also the president of Afghanistan. If there is any hope of defeating the Taliban, Washington is going to have to find a way to work with him. 
 President Obama must use Mr. Karzai's planned visit to Washington next month to try to do that. 
 That is not an invitation to let Mr. Karzai off the hook. Mr. Obama needs to keep pressing him to fire the corrupt officials and cronies who have soured millions of Afghans on their own government. The Afghan leader is expert at ignoring such wise counsel, but he does so at his own peril. 
 We wonder if he even knows how close to the edge he is living -- maybe fewer public lectures and more pointed intelligence briefings that show the alienation of Afghan citizens and the strength of the Taliban might help wake him up.
 While that's going on, Mr. Obama also needs to open a second, less sensitive front in the anticorruption campaign. He should urge Mr. Karzai to ask the United Nations (which Mr. Karzai now implausibly blames for last year's presidential election fraud) to hand responsibility for overseeing Afghanistan's economic development to others more proficient in handling money. 
 The United Nations has enough to do to help strengthen Afghanistan's political institutions, oversee elections (a new Parliament will be chosen in September) and ensure that humanitarian relief gets where it is needed. 
 The International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank could all do a better job of monitoring, auditing and coordinating the billions of dollars of international aid flowing into Afghanistan. 
 These institutions performed that role, with considerable success until 2005, when the United Nations unwisely shoved them aside. A succession of critical reports since then from the United States Agency for International Development, Government Accountability Office and Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction describe shockingly weak United Nations oversight of aid-financed projects in Afghanistan, telling of defective work and unexplained transfers of funds. 
 There are other challenges that other organizations are clearly better prepared to address. Taxes and revenues that could help pay for Afghan government services now go uncollected or are diverted into the pockets of corrupt officials. The International Monetary Fund can help determine realistic targets for these revenues and help develop a system for accountability. 
 The World Bank, which has worked with the Karzai government on development projects, can better monitor public spending, payment of government salaries and procurement spending. It has a strong interest in encouraging the development of Afghan businesses. The Asian Development Bank specializes in regional projects and can help link landlocked Afghanistan to neighboring road, rail and power systems. 
 Multilateral institutions can also bring in additional donors and more fairly apportion the costs of Afghan development. They can provide Afghanistan with the technical expertise it needs to manage its own resources. 
 Afghanistan is one of the world's poorest countries, but it is not without prospects. It is believed to have huge mineral wealth, including copper, iron ore and rare earth minerals like lithium, used in making electric cars. Its agricultural areas can be more than self-sufficient if irrigation canals are rebuilt and access provided. Its carpets and textiles have a worldwide market. 
 With less corruption, better economic management and more focused international effort, it does not have to remain poor. It could begin financing its government and its further development from its own resources. 
 The Obama administration has revamped its military strategy in Afghanistan. It has grasped the importance of competent local governance, even if it has a long way to go to putting that in place. There is no chance of succeeding without better economic governance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (75%); ELECTION FRAUD (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (57%)

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); HAMAD KARZAI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



593 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: For United, A Merger Still Looms

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD; Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The announcement by US Airways on Thursday that it was ending merger discussions with United Airlines clears the path for rival talks between Continental Airlines and United. 
 But it also left unanswered questions about US Airways' long-term ability to compete as an independent carrier, leading to speculation that it might pair up with American Airlines.
 A merger of Continental and United would, if successful, create the nation's biggest network carrier. It would leapfrog Delta Air Lines, which itself took the top spot when Delta bought Northwest two years ago. And it would have a global network as well as domestic hubs that crisscross the United States, from San Francisco to New York, Chicago to Houston. 
 Airlines have been struggling in recent years as surging fuel prices and a weak economy increased costs and reduced the number of travelers. As the economy picks up, airlines have reported improving business, providing some of the impetus behind the renewed merger talks. 
 Continental and United came close to a merger in 2008, but Continental walked away at the 11th hour because of concerns about United's financial health. Since then, United has improved its cash position, aggressively reduced capacity, raised fees and cut costs, analysts said, easing fears about its financial strength. 
 While a deal could still fall through, the companies have recently exchanged financial information and are discussing a stock-for-stock transaction, according to people briefed on the talks. The top management positions have also been worked out, these people said on condition of anonymity because a deal has not been completed. Glenn Tilton of United would become chairman, and Jeff Smisek of Continental would be chief executive.
 ''It is highly likely that United engaged in talks with US Airways in order to prompt Continental to negotiate,'' said Jeff Straebler, a strategist at RBS Securities. Now, ''United will do all they can to close a deal.''
 Jean Medina, a spokeswoman for United, said the company ''thoughtfully'' considers opportunities, ''increasingly from a position of strength as United's performance continues to dramatically improve.''
 US Airways' announcement came as Continental's executives were on a conference call to discuss the company's quarterly results. 
 ''As you would expect of a responsible management team, we are examining Continental's options,'' said Mr. Smisek of Continental, who declined to elaborate. A few weeks ago, he said that Continental would consider a ''defensive'' merger to avoid being left behind. 
 All this leaves US Airways, considered the weakest of the major network airlines, in a bind and a distant rival in a business where scale matters. The company has fewer international routes than its network competitors, while it competes head to head with Southwest Airlines in many domestic markets. 
 W. Douglas Parker, the chief executive of US Airways, has been a longtime proponent of consolidation in the industry as a way to reduce capacity. While he still holds that view, he said in a letter to employees Thursday, ''For the foreseeable future we intend to remain a stand-alone carrier.'' He added, ''It is not necessary for us to be direct participants in a merger because the entire industry benefits when consolidation occurs.''
 He also defended the company's ability to survive as a stand-alone player, saying that ''industry experts'' would be wrong to suggest US Airways cannot compete on its own. US Airways, for example, has some very profitable assets, including its routes along the East Coast, according to analysts.
 The Delta Air Lines merger with Northwest Airlines set the stage for the new round of consolidation talks, having been widely deemed a success and having created an industry behemoth. 
 A potential United-Continental deal would also put American Airlines, which had been the biggest network airline until it was overtaken by Delta, at a further disadvantage. While American's executives have repeatedly stressed that they see no need to jump into the merger game, analysts have expressed frustration at the company's go-slow approach to reducing costs and expanding revenues. 
 ''I think we have a strong network today,'' Gerard Arpey, the chairman of the AMR Corporation, American's parent company, said on a conference call Wednesday. ''We are not necessarily threatened by talk of consolidation in the industry.'' 
 Some analysts were not persuaded that American could stand still while getting knocked down to third place among airlines that have both domestic and international routes. 
 ''AMR has historically been very conservative, but the industry is changing dramatically around them,'' said Hunter K. Keay, an airline analyst at Stifel Nicolaus. ''AMR cannot afford to sit and watch their competition pass them by.'' 
 Mr. Keay suggested that a marriage of American and US Airways would make sense because the companies have complementary networks. 
 ''I don't think US Airways is out of options,'' he said. ''A tie-up between United and Continental, if it happens, leaves the door open for another transformational merger.''
 US Airways and American Airlines declined to comment on speculation about a potential combination.
 Meanwhile, airlines reported mixed quarterly earnings on Thursday. Southwest said it made $11 million, in contrast to a loss of $91 million in the period a year ago. 
 Alaska Airlines said it had a profit of $5.3 million in the quarter, after a loss of $19.2 million a year ago. 
 Continental, meanwhile, lost $146 million in the quarter, compared with a $136 million loss a year ago. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Planes for United and US Airways, whose merger talks ended, at an airport terminal in Phoenix. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL EVANS/THE ARIZONA REPUBLIC, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); MERGERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (90%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (72%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%); LCC (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (72%); LUV (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%)

PERSON: WILLIAM DOUGLAS PARKER (79%); GLENN TILTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (59%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



594 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Don't Cry For Wall Street

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
On Thursday, President Obama went to Manhattan, where he urged an audience drawn largely from Wall Street to back financial reform. ''I believe,'' he declared, ''that these reforms are, in the end, not only in the best interest of our country, but in the best interest of the financial sector.''
 Well, I wish he hadn't said that -- and not just because he really needs, as a political matter, to take a populist stance, to put some public distance between himself and the bankers. The fact is that Mr. Obama should be trying to do what's right for the country -- full stop. If doing so hurts the bankers, that's O.K. 
 More than that, reform actually should hurt the bankers. A growing body of analysis suggests that an oversized financial industry is hurting the broader economy. Shrinking that oversized industry won't make Wall Street happy, but what's bad for Wall Street would be good for America.
 Now, the reforms currently on the table -- which I support -- might end up being good for the financial industry as well as for the rest of us. But that's because they only deal with part of the problem: they would make finance safer, but they might not make it smaller. 
 What's the matter with finance? Start with the fact that the modern financial industry generates huge profits and paychecks, yet delivers few tangible benefits.
 Remember the 1987 movie ''Wall Street,'' in which Gordon Gekko declared: Greed is good? By today's standards, Gekko was a piker. In the years leading up to the 2008 crisis, the financial industry accounted for a third of total domestic profits -- about twice its share two decades earlier. 
 These profits were justified, we were told, because the industry was doing great things for the economy. It was channeling capital to productive uses; it was spreading risk; it was enhancing financial stability. None of those were true. Capital was channeled not to job-creating innovators, but into an unsustainable housing bubble; risk was concentrated, not spread; and when the housing bubble burst, the supposedly stable financial system imploded, with the worst global slump since the Great Depression as collateral damage.
 So why were bankers raking it in? My take, reflecting the efforts of financial economists to make sense of the catastrophe, is that it was mainly about gambling with other people's money. The financial industry took big, risky bets with borrowed funds -- bets that paid high returns until they went bad -- but was able to borrow cheaply because investors didn't understand how fragile the industry was.
 And what about the much-touted benefits of financial innovation? I'm with the economists Andrei Shleifer and Robert Vishny, who argue in a recent paper that a lot of that innovation was about creating the illusion of safety, providing investors with ''false substitutes'' for old-fashioned assets like bank deposits. Eventually the illusion failed -- and the result was a disastrous financial crisis.
 In his Thursday speech, by the way, Mr. Obama insisted -- twice -- that financial reform won't stifle innovation. Too bad.
 And here's the thing: after taking a big hit in the immediate aftermath of the crisis, financial-industry profits are soaring again. It seems all too likely that the industry will soon go back to playing the same games that got us into this mess in the first place.
 So what should be done? As I said, I support the reform proposals of the Obama administration and its Congressional allies. Among other things, it would be a shame to see the antireform campaign by Republican leaders -- a campaign marked by breathtaking dishonesty and hypocrisy -- succeed. 
 But these reforms should be only the first step. We also need to cut finance down to size. 
 And it's not just critical outsiders saying this (not that there's anything wrong with critical outsiders, who have been much more right than supposedly knowledgeable insiders; see Greenspan, Alan). An intriguing proposal is about to be unveiled from, of all places, the International Monetary Fund. In a leaked paper prepared for a meeting this weekend, the fund calls for a Financial Activity Tax -- yes, FAT -- levied on financial-industry profits and remuneration. 
 Such a tax, the fund argues, could ''mitigate excessive risk-taking.'' It could also ''tend to reduce the size of the financial sector,'' which the fund presents as a good thing.
 Now, the I.M.F. proposal is actually quite mild. Nonetheless, if it moves toward reality, Wall Street will howl.
 But the fact is that we've been devoting far too large a share of our wealth, far too much of the nation's talent, to the business of devising and peddling complex financial schemes -- schemes that have a tendency to blow up the economy. Ending this state of affairs will hurt the financial industry. So? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (63%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (60%); JOB CREATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



595 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Obama Issues Sharp Call for Reforms on Wall Street

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama is traveling to the shadow of Wall Street on Thursday to counter what he calls ''the furious efforts of industry lobbyists'' trying to weaken or kill new financial regulations that he says are needed to stave off a second Great Depression.
 As the Senate debates how to rewrite rules governing the financial industry, Mr. Obama will lay out the elements he insists must be in any legislation to get his signature. Among them are more consumer protections, limits on the size of banks and the risks they can take, reforms on executive compensation and greater transparency for controversial securities known as derivatives. 
 In flying to New York City, the president wants to confront the financial industry more directly through a sharp speech just a few minutes' subway ride from Wall Street, and with some of its leading corporate titans in the audience. After castigating their ''failure of responsibility'' in recent years, he intends to call on them to stop resisting tighter regulation through the army of lobbyists now staked out on Capitol Hill.
 ''I am sure that many of those lobbyists work for some of you,'' Mr. Obama plans to say, according to excerpts of the speech provided by the White House for release on Thursday morning. ''But I am here today because I want to urge you to join us, instead of fighting us in this effort. I am here because I believe that these reforms are, in the end, not only in the best interest of our country, but in the best interest of our financial sector.''
 The fight for tougher regulation of the financial industry has become the president's top legislative priority since he signed his health care program into law, and both parties are jockeying for position on the issue with midterm Congressional elections just six months away. The president and his allies have eagerly portrayed Republicans as handmaidens of Wall Street, while the Republicans have accused Democrats of trying to strangle the financial markets and even institutionalize the idea of bailouts in tough times.
 The tensions appeared to ease somewhat in recent days as both sides predicted an eventual bipartisan compromise. A Senate committee on Wednesday sent to the floor a bill imposing tougher rules on derivatives, the complex securities at the heart of the 2008 financial crisis, and one key Republican senator joined Democrats in advancing the legislation.
 In an interview with CNBC and The New York Times on Wednesday, and in the speech excerpts released ahead of the Thursday event, Mr. Obama avoided incendiary language attacking Republicans, suggesting he was angling for a deal with them. But in addition to setting demands for what to include in the bill, he included tough talk about the industry that he accused of putting profit ahead of propriety.
 ''Some on Wall Street forgot that behind every dollar traded or leveraged, there is a family looking to buy a house, pay for an education, open a business, or save for retirement,'' he says in the excerpts released by the White House. ''What happens here has real consequences across our country.''
 The president's address at Cooper Union in Lower Manhattan will circle back to another speech he gave at the same location in March 2008 warning of financial manipulation, market bubbles and the concentration of economic power. He repeats some of the same lines he gave two years ago and casts himself as a prescient forecaster before the collapse later that year.
 ''I take no satisfaction in noting that my comments have largely been borne out by the events that followed,'' he says in the excerpts. ''But I repeat what I said then because it is essential that we learn the lessons of this crisis, so we don't doom ourselves to repeat it. And make no mistake -- that is exactly what will happen if we allow this moment to pass -- an outcome that is unacceptable to me and to the American people.''
 In the address, Mr. Obama plans to embrace both the financial regulation bill passed by the House last year and the version now emerging in the Senate. The White House said that Mr. Obama in the speech will lay out five elements that ''must be included'' in the final bill:
 Instituting a system to ensure that ''American taxpayers are protected in the event that a large firm begins to fail.''
 Imposing the so-called Volcker Rule, named after Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman who proposed limits on the freewheeling trading and risks taken by banks.
 Setting new transparency rules for derivatives ''and other complicated financial instruments.''
 Assuring ''strong consumer financial protections.''
 Instituting ''pay reforms'' to give investors and pension holders ''a stronger role in determining who manages the companies in which they've placed their savings.''
 The White House said Thursday's audience would include leaders from the financial industry, members of the President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board, consumer advocates, local elected officials, representatives of those affected by the economic downturn, and Cooper Union students and faculty members. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); HEALTH CARE (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010



596 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Why Women Find Their Parents Unpleasant

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Contrary to gender stereotypes of feminine domestic bliss, women are much more likely to report being in an "unpleasant state" when spending time with their parents and children.

 BODY:
I recently received a copy of "Wellbeing: The Five Essential Elements" in the mail. The book, published by Gallup Press, is a readable digest of survey data and academic research on what makes people happy and what makes them unhappy. To the uninitiated in this subject, you may find that the things you think make people happy are, in the words of the book's authors, "misguided or just plain wrong."
For example, here is a version of one chart in the book that caught my eye: Source: "National Time Accounting: The Currency of Life," by Alan B. Krueger,Daniel Kahneman, David Schkade, Norbert Schwarz and Arthur A. Stone. Table 5-3.The numbers are taken from this paper; Alan B. Krueger (a former Economix contributor and current Treasury official) was one of the authors. The study examined how Americans spent their days and how they felt when they were engaging in different activities. One well-being measure this survey helped capture is called the "U-index." The U-index refers to the percent of time that people say they are, on balance, in an unpleasant state -- for example, occasions when they say they feel more stressed, sad or in pain than they feel happy.
The bar chart shows the percent of time people are in an unpleasant state when they are around different types of companions.
It's probably no surprise that people find spending time with their bosses -- authority figures who keep them in line -- to be most unpleasant. Almost a third of the time that women spend around their bosses feels unpleasant; for men, nearly half of the time spent around supervisors is unpleasant. It's also probably no surprise that hanging out with friends -- the people we choose to spend time with -- is least unpleasant.
For most of the categories, men and women report being in an unpleasant state about the same portion of the time. But the biggest divergences relate to spending time with family, and not in the way that stereotypes of feminine domestic bliss might predict: Women appear much less happy when spending time with their children and parents than men do.
This can be partly explained by the different types of activities the two genders are likely to be doing around their families.
For example, when women are spending time with their children, they are more likely to be doing chores and handling child care, which can both be relatively stressful activities. When men spend time with their children, on the other hand, they spend relatively more time watching television and traveling -- more leisurely activities.
The biggest gap relates to how men and women feel when spending time with their parents. When men are around their parents, they are in an unpleasant state about 7 percent of the time. Women find being around their parents to be unpleasant 27 percent of the time.
Again, some of this can be explained by what men versus women are likely to be doing when they're with their parents. As Nancy Folbre has written here before, women are more likely to be tasked with caring for their elderly or disabled parents than their male counterparts are.
But even if you control for these different types of activities -- that is, even when both genders are engaging in the exact same labors or pastimes with their kin -- there are still "sizable differences in the U-index between men and women when they are in the company of their parents or children," the study's authors write.
So why do women feel less happy around their families, and especially their parents? Any explanations, readers?

        
Delayed Child Rearing, More Stressful Lives
        
Reader Response: 'Womanly' Jobs and Low Pay
        
Gender Trade-Offs
        
How Much Do We Spend Caring for Family?
        
Family Leave: Right or Privilege?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); WOMEN (68%); CHILD CARE (64%) Alan B. Krueger; childcare; family economics; Gallup; home care; well-being

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011



597 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: The Public Rage Against Wall Street

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''A Finance Overhaul Fight Draws a Lobbying Swarm'' (front page, April 20) reported that huge amounts of money are being spent as ''1,500 lobbyists, executives, bankers and others'' are doing everything they can to weaken the Senate financial reform bill. No kidding!
 Every American should understand that the challenge we're dealing with in the Senate is not whether Congress can regulate Wall Street, but to what degree Wall Street regulates Congress. 
 To pave the way for the repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act and the deregulation of financial services, the financial industry spent some $5 billion over a 10-year period in lobbying and campaign contributions. In 2009, as it geared up to fight serious Wall Street reform, the finance, insurance and real estate sectors spent $334 million on lobbying alone.
 The American people are profoundly disgusted by the greed, recklessness and illegal behavior on Wall Street that plunged this country into the worst recession in 80 years. They cannot understand how bailed-out Wall Street executives get huge bonuses, while workers lose their jobs and homes. It makes no sense to them that small businesses are unable to get the loans they need to expand and create jobs, while trillions are available to bet that the foreclosure crisis will continue to get worse or that the price of oil will skyrocket.
 Now is the time for the Senate to say no to big money, and yes to the American people.
 Bernard Sanders U.S. Senator from Vermont Washington, April 20, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Excuse the cynicism, but the government's filing of a civil suit, rather than criminal charges, against Goldman Sachs seems like a political and public relations stunt meant to embarrass the Republican leadership and mollify a justifiably outraged public.
 After watching the Bush and Obama teams funnel hundreds of billions of taxpayer funds to the banks, prodded on by the Goldman Sachs apostles within their administrations, on the pretense of stabilizing the economy, how are we supposed to take this lightweight action seriously?
 Goldman will, in all likelihood, solve this little problem by paying a settlement fine that will be a fraction of the profits it has made on schemes like this.
 Naming just one Goldman employee and expecting the country to believe that the firm's top executives were not complicit is laughable.
 While I agree that strict reforms on the banking industry are necessary, I can't help but think that the timing of these charges was meant to assist the administration's efforts in passing its financial reform bill by daring the Republicans to defend the likes of Goldman Sachs.
 Eric B. Mullen New York, April 20, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Gambling With the Economy'' (Op-Ed, April 20):
 Roger Lowenstein is correct that credit default swaps add no value to the economy as a whole; but they don't drain the economy either. For every loser, there's a winner -- a zero-sum game.
 Further, his complaint that swaps are available to parties ''with nothing to insure'' is not unique to collateralized debt obligations. Commodity and financial futures allow counterparties to speculate on or hedge exposure to many assets. Arguably, common stock is a derivative, its value being the market-determined worth of a company's assets and future earnings.
 The problem wasn't the instruments used to bet, but the enormous leverage used to magnify bets. Too many institutions were betting too much with insufficient capital. With similar leverage, investing even in common stocks can lead to ruin. Irresponsible agents with lopsided incentives can destroy value with anything. 
 John C. Bogle Jr. Wellesley Hills, Mass., April 20, 2010
 The writer runs a small institutional investment management firm.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''When Deals on Wall Street Resemble a Casino Wager,'' by Andrew Ross Sorkin (Dealbook column, April 20): The comparison of the Goldman Sachs civil fraud suit to wagering in a casino is quite apt. Goldman will probably win its suit in court by arguing, in effect, that like a casino it does not have a legal obligation to provide the odds of winning or losing at the table. Did it have a moral obligation to do so, especially to its clients, whom it claims to work for? In all likelihood the answer is yes.
 The loss of $10 billion in market value (many times any possible fines) on the day of the announcement of the S.E.C. suit is an indication of the costs Goldman faces in loss of brand value and customer loyalty. Why would anybody want do business with an institution that chose to withhold crucial information on business deals with the argument that the client is sophisticated and should have known better?
 Mark Castelino Newark, April 20, 2010
 The writer is a professor at Rutgers Business School.
 To the Editor:
 Public outrage is fixed on hedge funds that shorted the subprime mortgage market and on Wall Street firms that facilitated their transactions. Innocent investors got taken for a ride. Or did they?
 Consider the genesis of the crisis: Predatory exporters like China hoard dollars to prevent appreciation of their own currency. These hoarded dollars finance our skyrocketing federal deficit and artificially depress bond yields. Pension funds and insurance companies, frantic for return, demanded ever-riskier securities engineered to meet their ratings-driven investment criteria.
 We can demonize hedge funds for recognizing the mortgage bubble and sanction Wall Street firms for creating the product that sellers and buyers so desperately wanted. Or we can recognize the crisis as a byproduct of our catastrophic trade and budget deficits and take urgent remedial action. The alternative is fiscal disaster.
 When our currency is sold as novelty wallpaper in foreign flea markets, whom will our children scapegoat?
 Lee Vance New York, April 22, 2010
 The writer is a former partner of Goldman Sachs.
 To the Editor:
 The investment deal that Goldman Sachs created sounds like something out of the Mel Brooks show ''The Producers'': plotting to make more money with a flop than with a hit!
 Daniel Pitt Stoller Bayside, Queens, April 19, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT HOLLISTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); LITIGATION (72%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (72%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (68%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (67%); LAYOFFS (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); JOB CREATION (66%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (85%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); BERNIE SANDERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010



598 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Coney Island Getting a $30 Million Italian Makeover

BYLINE: By ELISABETTA POVOLEDO

 BODY:
ALTAVILLA VICENTINA, Italy -- Alberto Zamperla sweeps through the cavernous workshop here where his amusement rides are manufactured while workers measure and bang and solder enormous platforms, oddly shaped beams and assorted fiberglass vehicles.
 Spring is a busy time for his company, and attractions are being prepared for the summer season that is about to open in theme parks around the world.
 This year, however, one destination has Mr. Zamperla racing against the clock: Coney Island in Brooklyn, where in just a few weeks he will present a new amusement park featuring 22 rides, including the Tickler, a family-oriented roller coaster; the whirly Mega Disko; and Air Race, a heart-gulping aerobatic experience. 
 Coney Island is the largest investment yet in the 50-year history of the Zamperla Group. Zamperla is the majority shareholder of Central Amusement International, the New Jersey-based company that signed an agreement in February with New York City to build and manage the amusement area. So far, Central Amusement has spent $15 million on the refurbishment of the park, about half of the $30 million it expects to invest.
 ''Ride manufacturers have been operating rides in parks or fairgrounds for many years,'' said Andreas Veilstrup Andersen, executive director of the European office of the International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions. ''However, a project as big as Coney Island is very unusual.''
 Time has been tight, with the park's opening set for the end of May. 
 ''We had a pretty good idea of what we could produce on time,'' said Mr. Zamperla, who is chief executive and president. ''There's a lot of pressure, because all eyes are on us. Things just can't be good, they have to be perfect.''
 Luigi De Vita, managing director of the company, added: ''When we're under pressure, we give the best of ourselves.''
 Theme parks and amusement parks have a global lure, with about 758 million visitors worldwide in 2007, according to the latest study from PricewaterhouseCoopers on the outlook for entertainment and media. Worldwide revenue in 2007 was $24 billion, the study said.
 The Zamperla Group, according to industry experts, is ranked among the top five manufacturers of amusement park rides.
 The Coney Island project will be called Luna Park, after the original playground that stood there until World War II. Drawings for the new main gate on Surf Avenue mimic the original design, but flashier.
 The park at Coney Island ''had its glory but lacked an innovative spirit,'' Mr. Zamperla said of a site that in recent decades had become seedy.
 In February, Central Amusement won the bid on a 10-year lease to build and operate the park, which sits on a city-owned lot. 
 ''Their specific proposal was a nice blend of honoring the history of Coney Island while developing it as a modern 21st-century amusement park,'' said Seth W. Pinsky, president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation.
 The Zamperla Group was chosen because it had a sound track record in operating amusement parks, including the Victorian Gardens, a children's amusement area at Wollman Rink in Central Park in Manhattan. And it was known as the producer of ''some of the most exciting rides in the world,'' Mr. Pinsky said.
 The Zamperla family has been building amusement park attractions in Altavilla Vicentina since the early 1960s. Alberto's grandfather, Umberto Zamperla, opened one of the first movie houses in Italy, then moved into carnival attractions. His father, Antonio Zamperla, worked in traveling shows before deciding to settle in this Veneto town to start inventing and manufacturing rides.
 Alberto Zamperla, 58, the eldest of five children, took the show on the road, so to speak, and there are now factories or sales offices in several countries, including the United States, China and Russia. His group sells to customers in more than 90 countries and now exports about 95 percent of its products.
 There are about 185 employees in Italy, with an additional 270 around the world.
 The nuts and bolts of the business -- its administration as well as its main manufacturing activities -- are at the headquarters near Vicenza, an industrial district that is the third-largest exporting center in Italy, according to the local chamber of commerce. 
 A stroll though the headquarters at Altavilla Vicentina hints at the complexity of producing amusement park rides for the world's theme parks, including various Disney Parks (''In our business, it's the best reference you can have,'' Mr. Zamperla said), Six Flags theme parks and malls worldwide. Even the late Michael Jackson's Neverland Ranch has Zamperla rides.
 On average, the company spends about one million euros ($1.3 million) a year designing new products, using complicated computer algorithms and mathematical models. The attractions are then built and tested here. Zamperla has dozens of patents on items like merry-go-round decorations and roller-coaster seats.
 ''This is where ideas are born,'' Mr. Zamperla beamed as he looked at the MotoCoaster, a ride being prepared for a dinosaur theme park in Changzhou, China. Each ride requires about a year from design to delivery, he said, and can cost anywhere from 20,000 euros to 6 million euros. The MotoCoaster sells for 3.5 million euros and will be one of the attractions at Coney Island next year.
 Demand is growing in new markets, especially in the Middle and Far East. The Zamperla Group has a factory and sales offices in Suzhou, China, to serve the fast-growing Chinese market. ''We're not going to make the mistake of underestimating the Chinese,'' he said.
 The factory in China produces about four million euros worth of rides for the Chinese market. He exports about the same amount from Italy to China and hopes to reach 20 million euros in sales in two years.
 In well-established markets like the United States, long-term success in the amusement ride industry depends on novelty, Mr. Andersen said.
 This year, for example, Air Race, an airborne experience that the company describes as ''the ultimate thrill ride'' will have its debut at Coney Island, alongside more placid family fare. Next year, rides are expected in the Scream Zone, an addition to the park that will feature several Zamperla roller coasters intended mostly for teenagers.
 ''In the end, all we want to do is build rides that people will enjoy,'' Mr. Zamperla said. And Coney Island, he said, ''will be the perfect showcase.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers prepare a ride at the Zamperla amusement ride firm in Altavilla Vicentina, Italy. (B1)
The MotoCoaster ride was constructed at the Zamperla amusement ride company in Altavilla Vicentina, Italy, for a dinosaur theme park in Changzhou, China.
The family of Alberto Zamperla has been building amusement park attractions in Altavilla Vicentina since the early 1960s.
 A small roller coaster destined for Coney Island will be tested at the factory before being sent to Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVE YODER FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (92%); AMUSEMENT PARK EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AMUSEMENTS & GAMING (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); RANKINGS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (54%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (52%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010



599 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Dow Ends Week Up, Extending Its Streak to 5 Days

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Stocks pushed higher on Friday as the Dow Jones industrial average rose for a fifth consecutive day, and analysts saw little economic news on the horizon that would upset market sentiment next week.
 Despite potentially market-moving events next week like the Federal Reserve meeting, more corporate results and economic reports, not much was expected to emerge that would inspire a sharp change in the mood of investors.
 On Friday, all three major markets ended the week higher, with the Dow rising 1 percent and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and Nasdaq composite index up about 2 percent for the week. 
 ''There is nothing we see coming next week that would induce people to suddenly take stock and think things don't look as good as we thought,'' said Nigel Gault, a United States economist for IHS Global Insight. 
 ''It would be consistent with what I call a recent pattern of cautious optimism,'' Mr. Gault said.
 The Federal Open Market Committee, the Federal Reserve's policy-making arm, will meet Tuesday and Wednesday, but economists do not expect it to change its language or policy on interest rates. 
 ''I do not think the Fed is going to do anything that would upset the equity market,'' Mr. Gault said. He predicted that consumer sentiment would improve ''as long as the pattern of news continues the same way, which we think it will.''
 Philip J. Orlando, chief equity market strategist at Federated Investors, said he did not expect any surprises. ''Our view is that the markets are going to continue to grind higher over the last week of April and May on continued positive news out of corporate earnings releases and economic data points.''
 ''We are expecting, literally, nothing out of the Fed -- no change in policy or language,'' he said. ''Those low interest rates ought to continue to fuel the organic, cyclical recovery that we are enjoying right now.''
 The companies scheduled to announce results next week include Honda, Dow Chemical, General Dynamics, Ford Motor and United States Steel.
 On Friday, markets turned higher after traders spent most of the day balancing strong data on sales of new homes against earnings reports and news that Greece had requested an international bailout.
 At the close, the Dow was up 69.99 points or 0.63 percent, at 11,204.28. The S.& P. rose 8.61 points, or 0.71 percent, to 1,217.28, and the Nasdaq was 11.08 points, or 0.44 percent, higher, at 2,530.15. 
 While Greece's financial troubles have been known for some time, its government set the stage once again for early trading on Wall Street as it formally requested emergency international aid to help it handle its debt.
 European markets closed higher on the Greek news. The FTSE 100 index in London rose 58.32 points, or 1 percent, while the DAX in Frankfurt rose 90.81 points, or 1.47 percent. The CAC-40 in Paris was 26.65 points, or 0.68 percent, higher. 
 But by afternoon in New York, some of the optimism gave way to concern that Greece's financial woes might spread. 
 That and some earnings that disappointed investors tempered a strong report on sales of new single-family homes. The Commerce Department said that sales of new homes rose nearly 27 percent in March. 
 A separate report on durable goods suggested manufacturers continued to fuel an economic recovery, though the volatile commercial aircraft sales pushed the overall index down 1.3 percent.
 Shares of home builders rose on the housing report, with Pulte up 5.7 percent; Lennar, 4 percent; and D. R. Horton, 3.5 percent.
 Telecommunications and consumer discretionary shares were lower, while energy and health care stocks rose. CenturyTel was down 1.9 percent a day after it announced its acquisition of Qwest, which declined 1.7 percent. Verizon fell 0.8 percent after announcing earnings that were down 75 percent and reporting that fewer subscribers were signing long-term contracts.
 Microsoft was down 1.37 percent. Although the company reported Thursday that its third-quarter income rose 35 percent and sales increased 6 percent, the results disappointed investors.
 Energy shares rose along with oil prices, with crude oil rising above $85 a barrel. Chevron rose 1.8 percent and Exxon Mobil was up 0.99 percent. 
 Smith International traded 7.06 percent higher, and Schlumberger was up 6.06 percent. On Friday, Schlumberger reported slightly lower first-quarter revenue of $5.60 billion, compared with $6 billion a year earlier, but expressed optimism in its outlook for 2010 because of higher oil prices.
 Interest rates rose. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 9/32, to 98 16/32, and the yield rose to 3.81 percent, from 3.77 percent late Thursday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); CHEMICALS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); NEW HOME SALES (73%); INTEREST RATES (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (58%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (56%); FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (54%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (52%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); X (NYSE) (56%); FII (NYSE) (54%); DOW (SWX) (52%); DOW (NYSE) (52%); DOW (LSE) (52%); 4850 (TSE) (52%); GD (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (56%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (52%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (85%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010



600 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PATIENT MONEY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Save a Knee or Hip, Save Money (and Avoid Pain)

BYLINE: By LESLEY ALDERMAN

 BODY:
PROTECT your joints now, or pay later. 
 That's the message of today's column, which could be headlined Joint Economics.
 If you are one of the more than 400,000 people a year who have already had one or more hips or knees replaced -- or someone who already has no choice but to consider joining their ranks -- we offer our sympathies or encouragement or even congratulations, depending on how you are faring. But this column is for people who are not yet destined to necessarily become part of those statistics. 
 Although the human body has an amazing capacity to repair itself, our joints are surprisingly fragile. 
 When the cartilage that cushions bones wears away, it does not grow back. Thinning cartilage contributes to osteoarthritis, also known as degenerative arthritis, a painful and often debilitating condition. 
 Over time, arthritic joints can become so sore and inflamed that they need to be replaced with mechanical substitutes. A result: more pain, at least in the short term, and big medical bills.
 Fortunately, you can act to protect your joints now, to reduce your chances of needing to replace them later. 
 And protect you should. The cost for a new hip or knee -- the joints most commonly replaced -- is $30,000 to $40,000. If you have insurance, your total out-of-pocket costs will be much less, but may still be $3,000 to $4,000. And don't forget to factor in all those days of work you will miss before you get your new prosthetic. 
 Creaky joints are a growing national problem. The population is getting older, more people are overweight, and an increasing number of children and young adults are playing serious sports and getting seriously injured -- all factors that contribute to osteoarthritis. 
 ''Arthritis used to show up in people during their late 40s and 50s, now we're seeing it earlier, like in the 30s and 40s,'' said Dr. Patience White, a rheumatologist and the chief public health officer at the Arthritis Foundation. 
 The total national bill for hip replacements in 2007 was $19 billion, and $26 billion for knees, according to the federal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. Those figures are expected to rise significantly in the coming decade, Dr. White said. So protecting your joints will do more than save wear and tear on you and your budget. You could also be doing your part to curtail the national health care bill. 
 If your joints are still intact, or just beginning to creak, here are some ways to keep osteoarthritis at bay. 
 CONTROL YOUR WEIGHTThe more you weigh, the more pressure on your joints, which can lead to joint damage. When you walk, each knee bears a force equivalent to three to six times the body's weight. If you weigh a mere 120 pounds, your knees are taking a 360-pound, or more, beating with every step. 
 Studies have found a connection between being overweight and developing osteoarthritis of the knees, and to a lesser extent the hips. One recent review found that 27 percent of hip replacements and 69 percent of knee replacements might be attributed to obesity. 
 For reasons not well understood, weight is more of risk factor for women than men. 
 ''A woman's risk for developing O.A. is linearly related to her weight,'' Dr. David Felson, a rheumatologist and arthritis prevention specialist at Boston University School of Medicine, said, referring to osteoarthritis. 
 ''Men who are moderately overweight are not as at high a risk as a woman of the same weight,'' Dr. Felson said. 
 But a woman can substantially lower her risk by shedding pounds. One study in which Dr. Felson was a co-author found that when a woman lost 10 pounds, her risk of osteoarthritis of the knee dropped by half. 
 GO LOW-IMPACT Although no definitive link has been found between osteoarthritis of the knee and running (or any other sport), sports medicine doctors discourage their patients from running on hard pavement, playing tennis on concrete or activities like skiing over lots of moguls.
 ''Impact sports put too much stress on the joints, particularly the knees,'' said Dr. Donald M. Kastenbaum vice chairman of orthopedic surgery at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. ''These activities may lead to O.A. and they definitely can escalate the progression of the condition.'' 
 If you run regularly, try to do so on a track or treadmill and consider swapping one run a week for something low-impact like swimming, biking, lifting weights or tai chi.
 AVOID INJURYEasier said than done, of course. But major injuries, typically the type that require surgery, greatly increase your risk for osteoarthritis. 
 According to one big study, 10 to 20 years after a person injures the anterior cruciate ligament or menisci of the knee, that person has a 50 percent chance of having arthritis of the knee. 
 Those rates are even higher when the injury happens in your 30s or 40s, Dr. Felson said. ''As you move into middle age, it's crucial to avoid sports that predispose you to injury,'' he said. 
 Weekend warriors, who sit at a desk Monday through Friday, and then run or play basketball for five hours straight on the weekend, are at a high risk for injury, and thus for osteoarthritis. 
 GET FIT It makes sense. The better toned your muscles are, the less likely you are to injure yourself (unless you are also playing football every Saturday morning). 
 And ''building muscles up around joints acts like a shock absorber, spreading stress across the joint,'' said Dr. Laith M. Jazrawi, chief of the sports medicine division at NYU Hospital for Joint Diseases. Pilates, moderate weight lifting, vinyasa yoga and swimming are all nonimpact forms of exercise that firm up your muscles without jeopardizing your cartilage. 
 No definitive link exists between increased flexibility and lower, or higher, rates of osteoarthritis. But some doctors interviewed said they believed that by regularly stretching your muscles you are less likely to injure your joints. It can't hurt to judiciously stretch your muscles after a workout. And even if it won't protect your joints from deterioration, it will certainly make your muscles feel better.
 BE SKEPTICAL Don't waste your money on specialized nutrients. Shark cartilage, glucosamine and chondroitin -- popular supplements marketed for healthy joints -- can be expensive and probably are of limited benefit, many specialists say.
 ''There's some evidence to suggest glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate may be helpful in O.A. once it has started, but overall the results are inconclusive,'' Dr. Jazrawi said. As for shark cartilage, there is no evidence to suggest that it has any benefit for treating the symptoms or the disease, he said. Joints are like car parts. With proper care and maintenance, they last longer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. David Felson, an arthritis prevention specialist, with Stephen Carter at Boston Medical Center, an affiliate of the Boston University School of Medicine. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTHRITIS (90%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (89%); CHILDREN (79%); BUDGETS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (68%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (63%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

 
