

1 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Health & Fitness; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: A CONVERSATION WITH: JOSEPH GRAVES; 
Beyond Black and White in Biology and Medicine

BYLINE:  By LINDA VILLAROSA 

 BODY:
Despite the American obsession with race, growing numbers of experts believe that it is a meaningless concept, at least as far as medicine goes. Dr. J. Craig Venter, the president of Celera Genomics, which recently completed a sequence of the chemical letters in the human genome, has said it bluntly: "It is disturbing to see reputable scientists and physicians even categorizing things in terms of race."
 But some still see a place for race in medicine, including a number of African-American scientists and medical experts. 
 Dr. David Satcher, the surgeon general, who is black, has said that "compelling evidence that race and ethnicity correlate with persistent, and often increasing, health disparities among U.S. populations demands national attention."
Under his leadership, the government has directed millions of dollars toward eliminating racial health disparities by 2010. More recently, the Association of Black Cardiologists agreed to sponsor a clinical trial enrolling blacks only, to test a heart medicine designed for African-Americans. 
In his new book "The Emperor's New Clothes: Biological Theories of Race at the Millennium" (Rutgers University Press), Dr. Joseph L. Graves Jr., a professor of evolutionary biology and African-American studies at Arizona State University, argues that races do not exist and that race is simply a social and political construct that the world would be better without.
Racism, he says, is fueled by the idea that human beings can be separated by genetics into races.
Dr. Graves, who is 46 and lives in Glendale, Ariz., discussed genes, race and health recently while in New York City to be on a panel sponsored by the Gene Media Forum, a nonprofit organization promoting dialogue about genome research. 

Q. What prompted your interest in race and genetics?

A. The catalyst was the success of the book "The Bell Curve," which claimed that there was a genetic basis for differences in I.Q. scores between blacks and whites. Most disagreeable was the way it characterized individuals into discrete racial categories they identified as "black" and "white."
This simplistic categorization was not defensible by what we know about human genetic diversity and the amount of shared genes between people of European and African descent in the United States.

Q. You're questioning the existence of racial categories like black and white?

A. Biologically, yes. Only an incredibly small percentage of genes in human beings are involved in skin color. Possibly only six genes determine the color of a person's skin out of between 30,000 and 40,000.

Q. There may be only six genes involved in skin color, but don't they still separate people by race?

A. You have to understand that what biologists mean when they say race is different from what the common person or even society means. There are two parts to the biological definition: first, a race is a population that has significant genetic differences from other populations such that it can be considered a subspecies. A subspecies is a group that is on the way to becoming a new species. Second, a race is a population whose lineage can be considered sufficiently distinct from other lineages.

Q. Aren't the different groups of humans that most people think of as races different subspecies, and therefore different races?

A. Even though we are anatomically different from each other, there is no subspecies in our group. In fact, there are far more genetic differences within a population of humans than between them. For example, there is only about 3 to 7 percent genetic divergence between groups, compared to 20 percent in subspecies of drosophila fruit flies. It doesn't compare.
As far as distinct lineages, throughout history, we have had too much gene flow between so-called races. If sub-Saharan Africans only mated with sub-Saharan Africans and Europeans only mated with Europeans, then there might be unique lineages. But that hasn't occurred, particularly in America. Here, because of our history of chattel slavery, individuals are still classified as black by means of the "rule of hypodescent," whereby one drop of black blood makes one black. However, there is no biological rationale for this rule.

Q. Doesn't race, in the social and cultural definition, have an impact on health? For instance, isn't sickle cell disease much more common in blacks than whites?

A. Contrary to popular belief, sickle cell anemia is not a black disease nor did it originate in West Africa. The gene responsible for sickle cell provides protection against malaria, so it is present wherever we find malaria. That includes Greece, Yemen, India, East and West Africa and the Middle East, where it originated. The only reason we think of it as a black disease in America is because the slaves came from West Africa. If the slaves who worked the cotton fields of America had come from Yemen or Greece, then we would have seen it as a Yemeni or a Greek disease.

Q. You're opposed to raced-based research, like the recent study published in The New England Journal of Medicine, which showed that some heart medications do not work as well for blacks as whites. Why?

A. Present day thinking about pharmacogenetics is that there is genetic variability that relates to how a drug acts in different people. But the genes for drug activity and response don't seem to be localized in the socially defined races. What is more important is to use an experimental design to find out what the genes are. We need to know which genes are responsible for a drug given to someone, and that is not going to be limited by a person's socially constructed race.

Q. Enalapril, a blood-pressure medication, worked less well for African-Americans than whites. How do you explain that?

A. I think there were other variables at play in this study. It is entirely possible that there was some underlying physical cause to explain the different action of the drugs, coded by the social construction of race, but not genetic.
It could have been stress. Blacks and whites were matched by supposed levels of stress, but that was defined only as financial distress. African-Americans in this country face different forms of stress because of racism than whites. It could have also been diet, which was uncontrolled in the study. Since African-Americans and European-Americans don't eat the same diets, before you can explain why the drugs acted differently, you'd need to control for diet. 
Q. Is there no genetic explanation for high rates of hypertension in blacks?
A. Yes, there is a gene linked to hypertension, but we do not as yet have a clear understanding of how genetic variation and environmental differences interact to cause hypertension. For example, the gene for increased risk for hypertension is very high in Nigerians and very low in African-Americans. Yet, African-Americans in Chicago, for instance, are 2.5 times more likely to suffer from hypertension than Nigerians, though you'd expect the opposite to be true.

Q. What is the harm, particularly for physicians, in knowing racial differences in risk for disease?

A. When doctors think in terms of race, they say, "Oh, you're black" and start ticking off what you might have. But what's important to know is a person's family history. You are treating individuals, not races.

Q. What kinds of problems occur when doctors think in terms of race?

A. A student of mine came to talk to me because her husband was having trouble with his doctor. She suggested that her husband might have scleroderma, but the doctor said, "No, African-Americans don't get that disease; it's a Caucasian disease."
I explained to her that that wasn't true because we have significant amounts of European genes, so there are no so-called "black diseases." She went back and talked to the doctor, and he did have it. 

Q. It is still true that blacks suffer from significant health disparities. How do we combat that?

A. No one in America, regardless of socially constructed race, should be getting sick. Studies show that 53 percent of toxic waste sites in America are located in communities that have greater than 75 percent minority composition. Toxic materials are known to have disease causing effects, and mutations can be passed on from generation to generation. So the bottom line is that if we clean up the environment, African-Americans and other minorities will benefit. But so will everyone else. If we also give people access to education and improve the economy, we will begin to see the end of racial disparities in health. These are things we should be doing anyway. It's a win-win situation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph L. Graves Jr., an evolutionary biologist, holds that biological races do not exist. (Tom Story for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (92%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); GENOMICS (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (89%); SPONSORSHIP (88%); CARDIOLOGY (76%); EVOLUTION THEORY (75%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%); BIODIVERSITY (72%); EVIDENCE (70%); ETHNICITY (69%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%) RACE; GENETICS AND HEREDITY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; BLACKS; RESEARCH 

ORGANIZATION: SURGEON GENERAL (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: VILLAROSA, LINDA; GRAVES, JOSEPH L (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



2 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Little-Known Laureate of Performance Artists 

BYLINE:  By HOLLAND COTTER 

 BODY:
In what seemed like a flashback to the culture wars uproar of the 1990's, two National Endowment for the Arts grants recently ran into trouble. They had been approved by a peer review panel and the National Council on the Arts, only to held up at the last minute by the endowment's acting chairman, Robert S. Martin. 
 One grant, for a production of the new Tony Kushner play, "Homeland/Kabul," ultimately went through in December. The other, for a retrospective of work by the conceptual artist William Pope.L, titled "Eracism," organized by the Maine College of Art in Portland, did not. The refusal was surprising, as Mr. Pope.L had received endowment money in the 1990's to create art that will be documented in the show. 
 Mr. Kushner, who won a Pulitzer Prize for his play "Angels in America," is a high-profile cultural figure. Mr. Pope.L is not widely known even within the hermetic world of contemporary art. He has many admirers among critics and curators; Lowery Stokes Sims, director of the Studio Museum in Harlem, has called him "the poet laureate of male performance artists." But in New York he is still something of an underground presence.
In part this is because he lives and works in Lewiston, Me., where he has taught performance, film and black theater history at Bates College for more than a decade. More important, his output does not fit into ready categories. Combining performance, installation and sculpture, it is formally exacting but improvisational, politically pointed but comedic. Social inequality and consumerism are among his targets, and although his work deals intensively with the issue of race, it upsets preconceptions of what "black art" should be. 
For a New York exhibition two summers ago, he spent several days eating and regurgitating copies of The Wall Street Journal. In 1997 he tied himself to the door of a bank on East 42nd Street and handed out money, playing the role of a panhandler in reverse. In one of a series of "crawl projects" -- part ritual, part endurance test and part farce -- he crawled up the Bowery on his stomach wearing a business suit. 
In a 1996 street performance he walked down 125th Street in Harlem wearing a 12-foot-long white penis cut from cardboard, sending up stereotypes from both sides of the racial divide and suggesting that race itself is a performance dictated by social separation and skewed economics. His gallery shows often include paintings done in peanut butter, murals made of Pop Tarts and installations of Wild Irish Rose bottles: in short, art made from the cheap food and drink of the American poor.
Mr. Pope.L, 46, was born in Newark to a working-class family that moved more than a dozen times during his childhood to various homes in Manhattan, Queens and the Bronx. He says that autobiography is an important factor in his art, helping to keep it physically ephemeral and adaptable, conceptually idealistic and accessible to a wide audience. 
"I was taught this by my family," he wrote. "My grandmother, my mother and her three siblings. One cleaning woman. Two carpenters. Two nurses. Four alcoholics. One murderer. Not a Ph.D. among them." (Pope.L is the family name his mother gave him; the L stands for Lancaster.)
His education was sporadic but lively and included formative study with the Fluxus artist Geoffrey Hendricks at Rutgers University. In the 1970's Mr. Pope.L was lead singer and songwriter for an avant-garde funk band called Jon Waine, and he worked with the Mabou Mines troupe. He is also a writer and has a novel titled "Anna Prophylactic," which is almost finished. 
Although full-time teaching restricts Mr. Pope.L's personal visibility in major art centers like New York, his career has gained significant support. The national endowment has given him three grants, the most recent in 1995, the year that individual grants were eliminated. He has had five residencies at Yaddo Artist Colony and one at the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture. 
The retrospective organized by the Maine College of Art is to continue as planned, opening in Portland next summer and traveling, though the money for it is not yet fully in place. The Andy Warhol Foundation in New York announced an award of $50,000 for the show after the endowment's refusal, though this was not the rescue gesture it might have appeared to be. The Warhol grant had already been applied for and approved before the endowment uproar. 
Whether or not the show comes to New York, the city will soon be seeing more of Mr. Pope.L. He is now represented by an influential gallery, the Project in Harlem. And in March he will be included in the Whitney Biennial, a lightening rod of a show always ferociously noticed. 
Among his contributions to that exhibition is to be a performance titled "The Great White Way," in which he will crawl from the foot of the Statue of Liberty, onto a ferry and proceed up Broadway, in increments, to the bridge at 207th Street that leads to the Bronx, where his mother still lives. The piece will be the most ambitious of the many similar pieces he has done since 1978. And even with the help of an ergonomic skateboard strapped to his back for occasional relief, he estimates it will take him five years to complete. 
The results, like all his work, will be an attention-grabbing gesture with moral underpinnings. Social privilege and the lack of it is a primary theme. "In New York, as in most cities," he said in an interview with the artist Martha Wilson, "if you can remain vertical and moving, you deal with the world. This is urban power. But people who are forced to give up their verticality are prey to all kinds of dangers." 
But the performance will also be about New York as an integrated community of citizens from many backgrounds, an idea that has particular resonance since Sept. 11. "New York is usually portrayed as an architectural solid," Mr. Pope.L said recently. "I want to find a way of suturing all of the city's cultures together in one action."
He will do so by moving, laboriously, inch by inch, up the city's spine and through many of its varied neighborhoods in a journey that will no doubt bring unpredictable meetings and confrontations along the way. "Artists don't make art," he once said. "They make conversations." And to prevent the conversation with New York that begins in March from being too serious, he will perform his marathon pilgrim's progress of a crawl dressed in a Superman outfit.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William Pope.L, the performance artist, munching on The Wall Street Journal. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENDOWMENTS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); PAINTING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); STREET ART (75%); RACE & RACISM (73%); FILM (73%); EXHIBITIONS (72%); WRITERS (68%); THEATER (56%); POETRY (51%) ART; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (84%); NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (59%) NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSN; WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (NYC); MAINE COLLEGE OF ART 

PERSON: POPE.L, WILLIAM; COTTER, HOLLAND 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



3 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: A Sweeter 4th Quarter for a Sour Year 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The last three months of 2000 were wonderful for foreign stocks -- even with the fallout from terrorist attacks and a global recession. Still, the first positive quarter in the last seven made the year only a little less painful.
 Foreign equities, including stocks in emerging markets, were up 8.1 percent in dollar terms in the last three months of 2001. That was their first positive quarterly performance since a measly 0.43 percent gain in the first quarter of 2000, according to the Morgan Stanley Capital International's All Country Index, excluding the United States. This index plunged 15.1 percent in the third quarter. 
 The driving forces of the fourth-quarter rally in foreign stocks included sharp cuts in benchmark interest rates by central banks around the world and the big drop in oil prices. The interest rate cuts helped bolster consumer confidence in a coming economic recovery and the lower oil prices acted like a tax cut and reduced inflationary pressures. 
Japan was the major country to buck the trend, with its stock market declining in the fourth quarter. The 6 percent sell-off, in dollar terms, came as the economy fell into a recession, and it was not clear when the government would be able to reverse the downward trend.
The overall performance for foreign stock markets in the fourth quarter was not that far behind the United States, where stocks, as measured by Morgan Stanley Capital International, rose 10.9 percent. But some regions did have a better fourth quarter in their own currencies and in dollar terms, including the stock markets in the 12 countries now joined under the euro. Their markets rose 11.5 percent in dollars and 15.2 percent in euros, according to Morgan Stanley Capital International. (All calculations are through the close of the markets on Friday.)
For the year, the performance is still grim. The leading foreign stock indexes around the world had double-digit declines in their local currencies and a stronger-than-expected dollar has added to those losses in many cases, as the resilient dollar did in the fourth quarter. The biggest currency hit for American investors came in Turkey, which devalued its currency early last year. Stocks in the local currency, the lira, were up 43.8 percent, while they plunged 33.3 percent in dollar terms. For American investors, Japan had the biggest decline among major countries, with a drop of 19.5 percent in yen, which turned into a 30 percent decline in dollars.
The Morgan Stanley Capital International All Country Index, excluding the United States, is down 21.4 percent in dollar terms, its second double-digit consecutive annual decline. In local currencies, the index was off a slightly less depressing 15.5 percent. Before 2000, this index, in dollar terms, was up seven years in a row.
Lower interest rates bolstered markets, particularly those in Europe. The European Central Bank has made two half-point rate cuts since the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, while the Bank of England has made two quarter-point cuts and one half-point reduction. The price of oil, meanwhile, ended the year at $19.84 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, down 32 percent from $29.17 on Sept. 17.
The surprising resilience of the United States after the terrorist attacks has also helped because its economic performance is so crucial for the rest of the world. 
In addition, it appears that many foreign investors behaved like Americans in believing that they must jump back into stocks right now -- even if it turns out to be too early -- to be assured of big gains. This is one reason that technology stocks did so well in the fourth quarter, analysts said.
Opinion is divided on whether that good performance is continuing. A lot depends on whether the world economy can rebound quickly from the first global recession since the 1970's. Analysts like Joe Rooney, global strategist for Lehman Brothers in London, predict that stocks in Continental Europe will easily outperform American stocks this year. He is also favoring Asian stocks, excluding Japan's. 
But David Bowers, global chief investment strategist at Merrill Lynch, says it is not yet time to favor foreign stocks. He does not expect Europe to rebound strongly, and he expects the dollar to be stable, rather than weakening against the euro, which would make European stocks more attractive.
Among the big winners in the fourth quarter were some of the recent big losers, including both countries and sectors. South Korean stocks rose 56.6 percent in the local currency, the won, in the fourth quarter and 51.6 percent for the year, according to the All Country Index. Even though a rising dollar against the South Korean won cut that annual gain to 44.9 percent, this market was one of the best stock stories of the year.
But before last year's rally, this index, in won, had plunged 51 percent from the beginning of 2000 to its low on Sept. 27 of this year. The rebound is attributed to several factors, including an economy that avoided a recession, strong demand at home and improved government policies, according to Lehman Brothers. But even with the fourth-quarter rally, the South Korean index is still 27.9 percent from its 2000 high.
Russia was also a big performer, with its index, which trades only in dollars, rising 39.3 percent in the fourth quarter and 53 percent for the year. The recent decline in oil prices is a threat to the Russian market, which rallied early in the year on the rise in prices. The market was also helped by the closer relations between the United States and Russia after the terrorist attacks and by the apparent willingness of many investors to take riskier bets again.
But like South Korea, this Russian rally comes after big losses. The fall from its most recent high, in March 2000 , was 51.6 percent to the low last January.
Mexico is another winner. The new administration of President Vicente Fox and the results of Mexico's membership in the North American Free Trade Agreement helped both Mexico's stock market and its currency, the peso, to rally. Those factors made for a 20.9 percent rally for stocks in the fourth quarter, in dollar terms. The stronger peso was a big plus for American investors, with an annual return in pesos of 12.6 percent, a gain of 18.1 percent in dollars.
The stock market sectors that did well in the fourth quarter include information technology, up 35.9 percent, and discretionary consumer products, up 17.5 percent, in dollar terms. Information technology was helped by a rush of money into hard-hit technology stocks, including those of software companies. Consumer discretionary products were helped by expectations of an economic rebound. For the year, however, both sectors were down, with information technology off 27.6 percent and consumer discretionary products down 10.4 percent. The best-performing sectors for the year were materials, down 6.2 percent, and energy, down 8.9 percent.
The list of losers is much longer and is more than enough to erase the gains made by the winners.
Argentina has had the worst ending of the year, with riots forcing the resignation of President Fernando de la Rua, followed by the resignations of two interim presidents. The stock market was closed from Dec. 20 through Dec. 27 in the wake of the riots that forced President de la Rua to resign. The government has officially defaulted on the nation's $132 billion of debt and has set policies in motion that many analysts say will lead to a devaluation of the country's currency, which is now tied to the dollar.
On Friday, when the market reopened, stocks plunged 8.6 percent.
But the stock market had rallied on the possibility of Mr. de la Rua's resignation, jumping 27.9 percent on Dec. 19 and Dec. 20. That meant the market was up 31.8 percent in the fourth quarter in dollar terms and down only 22.2 percent for the year. Without that two-day rally, the market would have been down 33.4 percent for the year.
Finland was the biggest loser among developed countries. Despite a 47.6 percent rally in the fourth quarter, the Finnish market is down 39.7 percent for the year, in dollars. The main reason for that is the dominance of Nokia, the cellular phone company, in the Finnish stock market. Nokia is down 39 percent for the year, and it counts for more than half of the stock market's capitalization.
China had a fourth-quarter rally of 12.9 percent. For the year it was down 26 percent, in dollar terms. Although China has joined the World Trade Organization, its economy has been slowing, and some analysts expect the slowdown to worsen in the first half of this year.
Since Sept. 21, which was the bottom for most markets after the terrorist attacks, Germany has had a much stronger rally than the United States, rising 31.5 percent, compared with 19.6 percent for Wall Street. Its fourth quarter was also stronger -- 15.9 percent, compared with 10.9 percent -- although the German economy ground to a halt. In a year in which the economy was supposed to bounce back, German stocks are down 24.2 percent, in dollar terms, about twice as much as United States stocks.
Greece has not had an auspicious first year as the 12th country under the euro. Its stocks plunged 32 percent for the year, despite a 11.3 percent rally in the fourth quarter. Being outside the euro did not help Britain. Its market was up a weak 6.2 percent in the fourth quarter and off 16.1 percent for the year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders in Buenos Aires on Friday, when Argentina's stock market reopened. It had been closed since Dec. 20 because of political tumult. (Associated Press) Chart: "How Markets Around the World Fared in 2001"Change in Morgan Stanley Capital International's country indexes of market performance for 2001, in local currency and dollars, plotted weekly. Percent changes are through Friday. United StatesDollar: -12.2% BritainDollar: -16.1%Pound: -13.5% GermanyDollar: -24.2%Euro: -19.3% JapanDollar: -30.0%Yen: -19.5% All Country stock indexExcluding the United StatesDollar: -21.4% ArgentinaDollar: -22.2% MexicoDollar: +18.1%Peso: +12.6% RussiaDollar: +53.0% ChinaDollar: -26.0%Yuan: -26.0% Graphs track market performance for 2001.(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Morgan Stanley Capital International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); EURO (88%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TERRORISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); DEVALUATION (76%); INFLATION (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); BONDS (70%) STOCKS AND BONDS; TWO THOUSAND ONE (YEAR); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); TURKEY (79%); CHINA (79%); MEXICO (79%) GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY; JAPAN; ARGENTINA; MEXICO; RUSSIA; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



4 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: M.B.A. Schools Shift Focus to Jobs 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
When planning began for the reorientation program for students returning to the Sloan School of Management at M.I.T. last September, the initial goal was to help them choose courses wisely and start them thinking about what their dream job might be. That goal changed over the summer.
 The job market for graduates of M.B.A. programs has rapidly worsened, so reorientation evolved to include far more emphasis on identifying potential employers, polishing resumes and networking. 
 "It's been a long time since people had to pound the pavement," said Sloan's dean, Richard L. Schmalensee. " 'Reorientation' is the right word," he said, because the school had to shift its own attention to help its students do the same thing. 
With the deteriorating economy and the threat of further terrorism -- and as dreams of e-business riches are being replaced by nightmares of unemployment -- business schools are doing a lot of reorienting. Deans are trying to figure out what they need to do in this volatile new world to find employers for their graduates, even as they welcome an avalanche of applications from laid-off workers or people seeking to hone their skills to avert being caught up in layoffs.
This year, far fewer companies -- 30 percent fewer at some schools -- are visiting business school campuses to recruit, and those that are have made clear that their hiring needs have plummeted, according to both students and officials at M.B.A. programs. Patrick T. Harker, dean of the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, called this "the worst job market in a very long time," adding that the current economic climate is a shock to students. "This group of students has never seen a down market," he said.
To cope, students are exploring industries that would once have held no interest for them as they find that the consulting jobs they coveted a year ago are now unavailable, insecure or simply unappealing. That is also leading faculty members to reassess the classes they offer, as the popularity of courses about the Internet and start-ups wanes.
At the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business, more than 475 students will attend a winter workshop this month on interviewing skills; that number is up from 150 last year.
"We are in a period of introspection," Mr. Harker said. The issues are not new, he said, but the downturn in the economy, coupled with the terrorist attacks, has cast them in sharp relief. The top priority this year is finding jobs for graduates, most of whom have never seen a market this tough.
"We've reached out beyond the traditional recruiters," like consulting firms and investment banks, Mr. Harker said. This year, there is more activity by smaller companies that once might not have thought they could attract Wharton students, he said.
Even students at Columbia Business School, which has had very strong relationships with banks and consulting firms because it is in New York, are looking at relatively staid and perhaps more stable employers, like Goodyear Tire and Rubber, Unilever and General Motors, said Meyer Feldberg, the school's dean. The environment is similar to that of 1991-92, Mr. Feldberg said. "It was very much like this during Desert Storm," he said, referring to the 1991 war in the Persian Gulf.
This year is likely to be much harder for M.B.A. students at schools that were once considered off the beaten track for many prestigious employers but began attracting their attention during the tight labor market of the late 1990's, said Sidney E. Harris, dean of the J. Mack Robinson College of Business at Georgia State University. Many recruiters, under orders to hire very few people, will limit themselves to the most selective and best-known schools, he said. He estimated that the number of employers recruiting at Robinson had fallen by at least 30 percent this semester.
In response, many schools are reaching out to their alumni, asking them to try to hire new graduates. "That network becomes really important," said Robert S. Sullivan, dean of the Kenan-Flagler Business School at the University of North Carolina. He also said that students were searching much more actively: a group of 29 Kenan-Flagler students organized a trip to Texas to visit energy companies, including Exxon Mobil and the El Paso Corporation. (Of course, that was before the collapse of the Enron Corporation, an energy trader, last month.)
"They've now set up a club that focuses on the energy industry," Mr. Sullivan said. "That has been an industry that we haven't looked to."
Shifts in opportunities have led to changes in what students study. Interest in e-commerce courses, for example, has declined sharply, while interest has increased in biotechnology, as well as in more traditional subjects like finance and marketing.
"We have a basic e-business course that has 90 people in it this year," down from 120 people last year, said Mr. Schmalensee, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The surge in interest in earlier years was an "e-phenomenon," he said. The same pattern was evident at Robinson and other schools.
Courses on biotechnology-related businesses are becoming more popular, perhaps in place of classes on start-ups, said Mr. Sullivan, of Kenan-Flagler. "This year was the first time that we specifically focused a course on biotech," he said.
Vaguely titled courses on leadership and crisis management are also showing increased enrollments at several business schools.
But even as it becomes less clear what to study and as the job climate worsens, more people are applying to business schools, both to increase their chances of finding jobs and to hunker down during the downturn.
"It's just a booming operation," said Mr. Feldberg at Columbia, where applications to the business school have increased 60 percent so far this academic year. The surge in interest is enormous, he said.
But schools are nervously watching to see whether the downturn in the economy reduces executives' interest in participating in "executive M.B.A." programs, which offer degrees to working professionals. In the late 1990's, many companies paid for executive education programs to retain desired employees, but today the environment is quite different.
So far, many executives are paying for their own educations, both to make themselves more valuable to current employers and to appear more attractive to prospective employers, officials at several business schools said. But there is no way to know how long that trend will continue.
The officials also fear that tighter immigration restrictions on foreign students could cut into business schools' incomes. Such students make up more than a third of the population at many schools. Those students do not usually receive scholarship aid from the schools, so if they do not come to the United States, that revenue source may dry up. Officials at several schools say that it is too early to tell whether the number of applications from foreign students has fallen.
"When I started, you looked out at the world and you thought, 'Boy, how can things get any better,' " said Mr. Harker, who became dean of Wharton in February 2000. "They didn't."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert S. Sullivan, dean of the Kenan-Flagler Business School at the University of North Carolina, says that M.B.A. students are looking for work more energetically and that alumni are being asked for help. (Karen Tam for The New York Times); Meyer Feldberg, dean at the Columbia Business School, says the number of applications at schools like his is up sharply as people look for a place to weather the recession while upgrading their skills. (Justin Lane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); TRENDS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TERRORISM (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



5 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Crying With Argentina 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; Nicholas D Kristof's column will appear tomorrow.

 BODY:
Although images of the riots in Argentina have flickered across our television screens, hardly anyone in the U.S. cares. It's just another disaster in a small, faraway country of which we know nothing -- a country as remote and unlikely to affect our lives as, say, Afghanistan.
 I don't make that comparison lightly. Most people here may think that this is just another run-of-the-mill Latin American crisis -- hey, those people have them all the time, don't they? -- but in the eyes of much of the world, Argentina's economic policies had "made in Washington" stamped all over them. The catastrophic failure of those policies is first and foremost a disaster for Argentines, but it is also a disaster for U.S. foreign policy. 
 Here's how the story looks to Latin Americans: Argentina, more than any other developing country, bought into the promises of U.S.-promoted "neoliberalism" (that's liberal as in free markets, not as in Ted Kennedy). Tariffs were slashed, state enterprises were privatized, multinational corporations were welcomed, and the peso was pegged to the dollar. Wall Street cheered, and money poured in; for a while, free-market economics seemed vindicated, and its advocates weren't shy about claiming credit. 
Then things began to fall apart. It wasn't surprising that the 1997 Asian financial crisis had repercussions in Latin America, and at first Argentina seemed less affected than its neighbors. But while Brazil bounced back, Argentina's recession just went on and on.
I could explain at length the causes of Argentina's slump: it had more to do with monetary policy than with free markets. But Argentines, understandably, can't be bothered with such fine distinctions -- especially because Wall Street and Washington told them that free markets and hard money were inseparable. 
Moreover, when the economy went sour, the International Monetary Fund -- which much of the world, with considerable justification, views as a branch of the U.S. Treasury Department -- was utterly unhelpful. I.M.F. staffers have known for months, perhaps years, that the one-peso-one-dollar policy could not be sustained. And the I.M.F. could have offered Argentina guidance on how to escape from its monetary trap, as well as political cover for Argentina's leaders as they did what had to be done. Instead, however, I.M.F. officials -- like medieval doctors who insisted on bleeding their patients, and repeated the procedure when the bleeding made them sicker -- prescribed austerity and still more austerity, right to the end.
Now Argentina is in utter chaos -- some observers are even likening it to the Weimar Republic. And Latin Americans do not regard the United States as an innocent bystander.
I'm not sure how many Americans, even among the policy elite, understand this. The people who encouraged Argentina in its disastrous policy course are now busily rewriting history, blaming the victims. Anyway, we are notoriously bad at seeing ourselves as others see us. A recent Pew survey of "opinion leaders" found that 52 percent of the Americans think that our country is liked because it "does a lot of good"; only 21 percent of foreigners, and 12 percent of Latin Americans, agreed.
What happens next? The best hope for an Argentine turnaround was an orderly devaluation, in which the government reduced the dollar value of the peso and at the same time converted many dollar debts into pesos. But that now seems a remote prospect.
Instead, Argentina's new government -- once it has one -- will probably turn back the clock. It will impose exchange controls and import quotas, turning its back on world markets; don't be surprised if it also returns to old-fashioned anti-American rhetoric. 
And let me make a prediction: these retrograde policies will work, in the sense that they will produce a temporary improvement in the economic situation -- just as similar policies did back in the 1930's. Turning your back on the world market is bad for long-run growth; Argentina's own history is the best proof. But as John Maynard Keynes said, in the long run we are all dead.
Back in April, George W. Bush touted the proposed Free Trade Area of the Americas as a major foreign policy goal, one that would "build an age of prosperity in a hemisphere of liberty." If that goal really was important, we have just suffered a major setback. Don't cry for Argentina; cry with it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); RIOTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); RECESSION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); PRIVATIZATION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); MONETARY POLICY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (88%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



6 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Saving Social Security 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "No Help on Social Security" (editorial, Dec. 27): How fortunate that the recommendations of President Bush's Social Security commission seem destined to gather dust. Its mandate to develop private accounts would have undermined the program, which was never intended to be an investment vehicle. 
 It is a social insurance program to supplement private pensions and, as thousands of New Yorkers are painfully aware, to bring a measure of financial security to families when a wage earner dies or is disabled. 
 Given the inevitable boom-and-bust cycles of the economy, it's best to shelve the idea of privatization altogether and dust off the true meaning of Social Security: all Americans sharing the financial risks of growing old or being widowed, orphaned or disabled.

MAX RICHTMAN
Washington, Dec. 30, 2001

The writer is executive vice president, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (94%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (88%); RISK MANAGEMENT (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MEDICARE (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COMMITTEE TO PRESERVE SOCIAL SECURITY & MEDICARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



7 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: British Columbia's Liberals Deliver a Tax Cut, Then Pay Dearly 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
Residents of British Columbia will receive a big cut in their income taxes on New Year's Day, their second in six months. But far from winning applause, the province's governing Liberal Party is experiencing a drop in public support.
 Tax cuts were a major promise in the campaign that brought the Liberals to office in the province in a landslide election win last May. The Liberals, led by Gordon Campbell, a former secondary school teacher, real-estate executive and three-term mayor of Vancouver, won all but two of the 79 seats in the western province's legislative assembly. They defeated the left-leaning New Democrats, whose 10 years in office were marked by a growing public role in the economy and numerous tales of economic mismanagement. 
 With the Jan. 1 reductions, personal income tax rates for provincial taxes -- which constitute a much larger share of overall taxes for Canadians than state taxes do for Americans -- will have been chopped by an average of 25 percent, turning British Columbia from one of Canada's most heavily taxed provinces to one with some of the lowest tax rates.
The problem for the new government is that the cuts have coincided with an economic downturn. Rather than reverse the tax cuts, the Liberals have cut government spending.
The Liberals "promised more than they could deliver," said Philip Resnick, a political science professor at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver.
The forestry industry, which contributes about one-fifth of the province's gross domestic product and employs about 14 percent of the workers, has been hit by weakening demand and by hefty American anti-dumping tariffs on Canadian softwood lumber. Falling commodity prices have hit mines and oil and gas producers.
In addition, fewer American tourists are visiting British Columbia since the Sept. 11 attacks.
Falling tax revenues and heavier demand for social services have turned a budget surplus of 1.3 billion Canadian dollars, about $815 million, in the fiscal year that ended on March 31 into a large deficit.
A government-appointed panel concluded in July that "unless government makes some fundamental changes, there will be a persistent excess of spending over available revenues, which represents a serious threat to the financial health of the province."
The government plans to reduce the provincial civil service by 28 percent, or 9,800 jobs, including 4,800 layoffs.
A three-year spending freeze has been imposed on health care and education, the two biggest items in the province's budget. Benefits under the government-financed drug plan are being tightened.
Gary Collins, British Columbia's finance minister, contends that the tax cuts will actually help the situation. "By fueling consumer spending and business investment, they will help to restore our province's economic leadership position," he said.
But many British Columbians disagree. A poll conducted by Ipsos-Reid Canada in mid-December indicated that the Liberals' approval rating has dropped to 49 percent, from 71 percent just three months earlier.
What concerns many British Columbians equally is a sense that the province is returning to a long tradition of political polarization. 
The Liberals "are governing as if there's no need to continue to dialogue," said Norman J. Ruff, political science professor at the University of Victoria, in the provincial capital. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); TRENDS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); MAYORS (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); REAL ESTATE (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (64%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%) TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: SIMON, BERNARD; CAMPBELL, GORDON 

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (91%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%) CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%) CANADA; BRITISH COLUMBIA (CANADA)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



8 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Oil Deals That Warmed Customers' Hearts Leave Them Steaming 

BYLINE:  By ABBY ELLIN with JOSEPH KAHN 

 BODY:
For the last few years, Thelma Di Diego has locked in the cost of heating oil for her home in Montclair, N.J., because she wants both certainty and savings.
 Last winter, when oil was about $1.80 a gallon, Mrs. Di Diego paid just $1.15, cutting her costs by more than $1,000 on the 1,600 gallons of fuel she uses each year. 
 But the contract that Mrs. Di Diego signed in June to pay $1.25 a gallon this winter has proved to be a bad bet. With the economy weak and cold weather arriving late in the Northeast, heating oil prices today are 40 percent lower than a year ago. 
"We pay $1.25 a gallon when it's going for 80 cents," Mrs. Di Diego said, and that is a painful gap. "Every penny counts," she added, "especially with the economy and when you're retired."
Many homeowners throughout the Northeast, where more than a third of all homes are heated with oil, are echoing her sentiments as oil prices dip well below the rates they locked in over the spring and summer. Never mind that last year, when oil prices were high, they reaped big savings.
"We've been getting many calls from angry customers," said James W. Pierson, president of the J. W. Pierson Company in East Orange, N.J., which sells Mrs. De Diego her home heating oil. "We try to explain the difficulties of the market, that we buy the product in advance from major oil companies, but some people don't understand it."
Heating oil is a mom-and-pop industry, unregulated by government, and there is no data on the number of customers who lock in contracts ahead of the heating season rather than take their chances on market prices. Dealers say that customers are more prone to sign contracts after a winter when oil prices are high, like a year ago -- and that the customers who try to be canny shoppers are the ones most easily disappointed when prices make unexpected moves.
"People who normally shop around for pricing are the ones who get more upset than the ones who stay with you and understand these situations," Mr. Pierson said. "All of a sudden the price drops, and they want out of the contract. It doesn't work like that, but people don't care. Today's consumer is price-driven."
Because the business is extremely competitive, homeowners can sometimes negotiate with a supplier for a lower rate if market prices drop below the contracted price. The industry, of course, discourages such bargaining.
"A deal is a deal," said Eric DeGesero, executive vice president of the Fuel Merchants Association of New Jersey. "If the price goes the other way, as it did two years ago, when the price shot up dramatically, you don't see people asking to pay more."
The situation is more complex for natural gas customers. To meet the needs of large numbers of gas users, nearly all utilities buy fuel on long-term contracts. When prices spike upward, the deals generally moderate the pain, but when supplies are ample, consumer prices do not fall as sharply as prices at the wellhead.
Moreover, because most utilities need state regulators' approval for rate changes, consumer gas costs tend to lag movements in the market price for natural gas.
That analysis is borne out by government statistics. Consumers nationally paid an average of more than $10 per thousand cubic feet for natural gas last winter, a hefty 60 percent increase over the price in the winter of 2000. But the spot price for natural gas almost quadrupled in the same period, a statistic that means the commodity costs may not have been fully passed along.
The higher prices kept filtering through the system to consumers through the spring and summer, however, even as spot prices fell back to earth. The Energy Information Administration, part of the federal Department of Energy, does not have up-to-date consumer price information. But its early estimates are that natural gas prices for consumers in October and November were significantly below the prices a year ago. That would mean that lower spot prices had finally begun trickling down to consumers.
The fixed-price contracts for oil primarily affect homeowners in the Northeast and the Middle Atlantic states, where more than three-quarters of all houses depend on oil for heat. Oil is used to heat 11 percent of the houses in the Midwest, 6 percent in the South, 4 percent on the West Coast and 1 percent in the Rocky Mountain states.
Given that big utility companies and energy traders armed with weather forecasts and market intelligence can bet wrong on oil prices, the average consumer can do little more than act on gut instincts when offered a chance to lock in a price for heating oil months ahead of time. 
"It's like buying insurance," said Larry Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New York. "Here you're buying peace of mind. When you buy a fixed-price deal, you're saying you want the certainty that you're not paying more this winter. For people who like budgeting, fixed prices are a good thing."
Customers who are a little more adventuresome might choose a price-cap option, which guarantees that they will not pay more than a specified price no matter what happens to market prices for oil. That arrangement is another kind of insurance policy, and customers usually pay a premium for it. 
Most companies offer lock-in rates only during the spring or summer months, when the coming winter's heating oil prices are just a guess. Occasionally, though, there is less guesswork involved. The Halstead-Quinn Propane Company, a dealer in Mount Kisco, N.Y., that serves Westchester and Putnam Counties and the north Bronx, is offering to lock in a rate of 99.5 cents per gallon through Jan. 1, 2003.
"The only reason we can do this is because we are just signing up to sell heating oil," said Robert Almeida, a manager for Halstead-Quinn.
Such offers, of course, are no help to homeowners who are already committed to higher rates, like Michael Diamond, a homeowner in Woodbridge, Conn.
Over the summer, Mr. Diamond, who owns Premiere Maintenance, a company that provides janitorial and landscaping services, locked in a price of about $1.15 a gallon to heat his split-level home, which has 3,000 square feet. Though he will lose money on the deal, he is not very upset.
"I'm not unhappy because two years ago I was locked in at $1.12 and it was going for about $1.70," he said. "I've been with the same oil company for three years. I use 700 to 800 gallons a year. This year I may be overpaying by a nickel or a dime, but it's offset by what I did in the winter of '99."
Mrs. Di Diego is philosophical, too. "It's a chance I took, and I lost out," she said. Still, she is fairly certain that she will let her costs float with the oil market in the future.
"I don't think I'll ever do this again," she said. "In the future, I think I'll risk it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Oil deliveries like this one on Long Island are common in the Northeast and Middle Atlantic states. Many heating oil customers who signed fixed-price contracts many months ago are not happy now that rates have dropped. (Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Michael Diamond of Woodbridge, Conn., is losing money on his current oil contract, which has a fixed price of about $1.15 a gallon. Two years ago, he said, his contract price was $1.12 and oil sold for around $1.70. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. C3) Chart: "Locking In Too Soon"The price of heating oil has been steadily dropping, leaving some customers who signed contracts last summer paying prices higher than the current market rate. Graph tracks the price of oil per gallon from September 2000 through December 2001.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEATING OIL (92%); HEATING OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); FUEL DEALERS (78%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); RETAILERS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HEATING OIL 

COMPANY: J W PIERSON CO (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454310 FUEL DEALERS (67%); SIC5983 FUEL OIL DEALERS (67%)

PERSON: ELLIN, ABBY; KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NORTHEASTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



9 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES; 
The Euro Takes a Visible Shape: Pocket Change

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Tuesday, Jan. 1 

 BODY:
Europe's dream of a common currency became tangible this morning, when euro notes and coins became the legal tender in 12 nations with a combined population of 300 million.
 Cash machines from Madrid to Helsinki began dispensing euro notes as soon as the clock struck midnight, culminating a process under way for a decade. 
 Until today, the euro has been invisible and almost untouchable. It was traded in money markets and used in securities transactions, but it was of little use in buying a newspaper, baguette or cup of coffee. 
Now that coins and notes are available, some hope the currency will open the way to a closer political union among European nations. Page A8. 
The euro has already had a profound economic impact -- one that most economists consider healthy. Thanks largely to the euro, Europe today is far more efficient, flexible and stable than it was when leaders committed themselves to a single currency 10 years ago.
Inflation and interest rates are now as low in Italy and Greece as they are in Germany. Sharply fluctuating exchange rates within Europe, which caused havoc for companies as recently as 1993, have been virtually eliminated.
The euro's most profound impact, however, has been in reshaping the economic ground rules in Europe. Because of the tough entrance requirements to join the euro club, governments have been forced to reduce their budget deficits. They have surrendered their authority to tackle problems by printing more money, instead handing power over monetary policy to the politically independent European Central Bank.
Just as a common currency makes it easier to compare prices among countries, it also makes it easier to compare economic performance, said Frits Bolkestein, head of the European Commission's efforts to push ahead a single European market. And because the currency fluctuations have disappeared, those differences are easier to exploit.
It is no accident that Spain, Portugal, Ireland and the Netherlands have all grown much faster than bigger countries like Germany and France. The smaller countries have put themselves through wrenching reforms and then surged ahead by offering lower labor costs, greater flexibility or a combination of both.
Romano Prodi, now president of the European Commission, was prime minister when Italy was struggling to win acceptance into the euro club. He remembers how Italian interest rates were two and three times the German rates. He remembers how top German officials initially treated Italy's ambitions as almost laughable.
But Italy did make it into the club. It cut its deficit, stabilized its exchange rate and brought down its inflation to German levels. As investors became more confident in Italy, interest rates on Italian bonds dropped to some of the lowest levels in history. That reduced Italy's huge interest rate payments and helped bring down the deficit even more.
"For me, as an Italian, the euro is pure joy," Mr. Prodi said in an interview.
It is easy to forget, and even many Europeans do, that the euro has existed since Jan. 1, 1999. That was when Germany, France, Belgium, Luxembourg, Spain, Italy, Portugal, Ireland, Austria, Finland and the Netherlands officially locked their national currencies together and created the euro as a new combined currency. Greece joined the group two years later. Britain, Denmark and Sweden have stayed out.
To be sure, the euro has been a disappointment to those who expected it to challenge the dominance of the dollar. In the three years leading up to the introduction of euro notes and coins, the euro has not eroded the dollar's position as an international reserve currency. It has not brought Europe's economic growth up to that of the United States. 
And even now, when the American economy is in recession, the euro has not become a safe haven for international investors. The dollar still accounts for 68 percent of the reserve currencies held by governments around the world, while the euro accounts for only 13 percent.
The shaky confidence of investors about Europe is etched clearly on the value of the euro: still down about one-fifth against the dollar since 1999, the euro is worth about 90 cents.
Another example of the euro's impact is in changing the ground rules for doing business, including the way companies raise money.
Before the euro, European companies raised money primarily by borrowing from banks. The single currency, which brought with it a single range of interest rates, opened the way for a European corporate bond market. Because investors no longer had to fret over the comparative strength of the Portuguese escudo versus the Dutch guilder, they could pool bonds from different countries, creating a big, efficient market.
Large companies began raising millions and billions of euros by selling bonds. The volume of corporate bond issuance in Europe has quadrupled in the last four years, according to economists at Deutsche Bank.
To some extent, Americans have the luxury of watching the euro as bystanders. In and of itself, the single currency has only a limited and indirect bearing on American trade and investment ties with Europe.
In theory, a single currency makes Europe a more efficient, and therefore, better place to invest. But investors have poured far more money into the United States in the last few years, convinced that its economic growth will remain stronger than Europe's for the foreseeable future.
That judgment is shared by European central bankers, who think that Europe's long-term growth is about 2.5 percent a year while that of the United States is closer to 3.5 percent.
Most economists think that difference is the main reason the euro's value against the dollar has failed to recover much even after the United States sank into recession this year.
Many economists, including those at the European Central Bank, say this gap reflects Europe's inability to push through economic reforms that would make its labor markets more flexible and its way of doing business simpler and more efficient. The euro provides pressure for reform, and the European Central Bank is a cheerleader for reform. But neither can by themselves make it happen.
"The common European currency is a solid building," remarked Rolf Breuer, chairman of Deutsche Bank. "But there are still some things that need to be done in terms of interior design."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since July 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (92%); CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); COINS & COINAGE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); TRENDS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (72%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CURRENCY 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

PERSON: ROMANO PRODI (51%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (88%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (96%); ITALY (95%); GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FINLAND (92%); SPAIN (88%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); MEXICO (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); GREECE (74%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



10 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Main Stock Gauges Fall For Second Year in a Row
The three major stock market averages have now fallen for two consecutive years for the first time since the brutal recession years of 1973 and 1974. But a rally in the final three months helped to create optimism that the worst is over for both stocks and the economy.
 With moderate declines on the final day of the year, the Dow Jones industrial average finished 2001 off 7.1 percent, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 13 percent and the Nasdaq composite sank 21 percent. Page A1. 

The last three months of 2000 were wonderful for foreign stocks, but the first positive quarter in the last seven made the year only a little less painful. World Business, Section W.

Business Schools Review Approach
The job market for graduates of M.B.A. programs has rapidly worsened, so the reorientation program for students returning to the Sloan School of Management at M.I.T. evolved to include far more emphasis on identifying potential employers, polishing resumes and networking. "It's been a long time since people had to pound the pavement," said Sloan's dean, Richard L. Schmalensee. " 'Reorientation' is the right word." With the deteriorating economy and as dreams of e-business riches are being replaced by nightmares of unemployment, deans are trying to figure out what they need to do in this volatile new world to find employers for their graduates. C2.

Influence Without Paper or Coins
Europe's dream of a common currency became tangible this morning, when euro notes and coins became the legal tender in 12 nations with a combined population of 300 million. But the euro has already had a profound effect on the economy in Europe. A1.

Difficult Year for Merger Advisers
The business of advising companies on mergers and acquisitions fell by slightly more than half last year, to $1.71 trillion from $3.46 trillion in 2000, according to preliminary figures. However, the business of underwriting stocks and bonds climbed about 24.7 percent. C4.

No Deal Reached With Big Board
The Giuliani administration was unable to close a long-sought deal with the New York Stock Exchange to build a heavily subsidized new trading complex on Wall Street. B5.

Qwest to Share Customers' Data
Some customers of Qwest Communications re angry that the company intends to share with its subsidiaries data like phone services used, billing information and places called. C2.

F.C.C. Told to Re-Examine SBC Plan
A federal appeals court ordered the Federal Communications Commission to reconsider whether SBC Communications should be allowed to offer long-distance phone service in Kansas and Oklahoma. A three-judge panel ruled that the commission did not pay enough attention to competitors' complaints that SBC charged too much for access to its network. Shares of SBC fell 32 cents, to $39.17. C2.

EchoStar Ordered to Keep Channel
A federal judge granted a temporary restraining order against the satellite operator EchoStar Communications, which had threatened to drop the ABC Family channel because of poor ratings, Walt Disney. C3.

9 States Oppose Microsoft Delay
Nine states seeking stricter antitrust penalties against Microsoft asked a federal judge to reject the company's proposal to delay hearings in the case until the summer. C2.

Hyundai Securities Extends Talks
Hyundai Securities of South Korea extended a deadline for selling shares in it and two affiliates to a consortium led by American International Group. World Business, Section W.

U.S. Financial Markets Are Closed
All United States financial markets, government offices and banks are closed today in observance of New Year's Day. Most overseas financial markets are also closed. The markets will reopen tomorrow.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,021.50 down 115.49Nasdaq composite -- 1,950.40 down 36.8610-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.02% down 0.08The euro -- $0.8913 up 0.0081The dollar -- 131.62 yen up 0.38 Graph tracks the daily closing price of SBC Communications shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MERGERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); BONDS (76%); COINS & COINAGE (74%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); EURO (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (64%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (62%); JUDGES (60%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (84%); CENTURYLINK INC (62%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (84%); CTL (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



11 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1910 words

HEADLINE: Today the Europeans Are Jingling Euros, Musing on the Unity They'll Buy Europe 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: SAARBRUCKEN, Germany, Dec. 27 

 BODY:
Here in the Saarland, where French and German blood once spilled with gory regularity, the frontier barriers are gone, and, starting on Tuesday, a single European currency will jingle in people's pockets on both sides of the border.
 Some euro coins carry the German eagle, some the French tree of liberty, some the monarch of little, nearby Luxembourg, but all have the same value. 
 Soon, as people travel more, coins with the symbols of other nations will mix more and more. That will create a kind of coherence from the cacophonous history of wars that will make Europeans feel more European, opening the way to a political union. 
That's the idea, anyway, and Doris Leroux-Keilhauer is willing to give it a shot. "It's certainly more than a change of coins," she said. "It will have a political impact, but exactly what that will be we don't know." 
Jo Leinen, the Saarland's representative in the European Parliament, is confident. "People for the first time in their lives are carrying Europe with them in their pockets," he said. "And I'm sure a European identification will flow from that."
With Europe now economically united, national leaders squabble over the future politics of Europe. There is a great disconnect between people's pride in being European -- not Russian or American -- and their considerable distaste for the institutions that this greater Europe has engendered, which seem to be of the governments, by the politicians and for the bureaucrats.
Polls consistently show that most people favor the idea of a united Europe, Mr. Leinen said, and they are proud of their decades of peace since the horrors of World War II. "But they don't like European institutions or the practice of European politics," he said. "We have a Europe built from the top down, not the bottom up. 
"This is a Europe of the governments, not of the citizens. They built Europe without the Europeans, behind closed doors. There is a democratic deficit, and we have to fix it." 
Mrs. Leroux-Keilhauer, now 56, was born in 1945, as the war ended, and neighboring coal-rich Alsace-Lorraine, which the Nazis had joined with the Saarland and called Westmark, was taken back by the victors. She works at Saarbrucken's fine historical museum in the castle square, where the Gestapo headquarters were and where Alsace's strange history, caught between France and Germany, is laid out nicely.
The nationality of the people of this region has changed five times since the Franco-Prussian war of 1870-71. The people of Saarland have voted twice this century, in international plebiscites after German defeats in both World Wars, to return to German sovereignty. The last time, in 1955, the vote was dominated by the desire to join the German postwar "economic miracle" and have the strong, stable German mark.
After a transition period, the mark came to the Saarland on July 6, 1959 -- known as "Day X." Werner Mockel, 62, remembers the vote and the excitement of getting the mark, much the way the East Germans felt in 1990 with reunification, when they, too, could put the real mark in their pockets.
But the introduction of the euro, a kind of "Day E," brings no particular joy, he said, only worries about the economic influence of supposedly less-disciplined nations, like Italy and Greece. "At least with the euro you can compare, you can go to Spain or across to France and see more easily if it's a rip-off or a decent price," he said.
The historical experience of the people here has made them more wary of nationalism than most, said Mr. Leinen, who remembers the shock he felt as a young boy, born in a village straddling the French-German border, trying to visit relatives on the French side after the Saarland became German again in 1957.
"For the first time there was a border, with guards asking for passports, and we kids didn't have them," he said. "I was 9, and I remember saying to my parents, 'These borders are stupid.' "
Ms. Leroux-Keilhauer still carries her French maiden name and the German name of her late husband. "I'm a good example of German-French cooperation," she jokes. Her brother's wife is from Normandy and she has relatives in Montreal, so she's now studying French, and finds this new world a lot safer and more palatable than the old.
"I feel German, but also European," she said. "Europe is something real, but it's hard to define."
Is the euro a step to a real European state? "Well, it could be," she said, wary, then bolder: "I hope so. I'd like to see it. But not like today." 
By that she meant the bureaucracy that Brussels, the informal capital of the new Europe, represents to people, and the lack of democracy. 
"Many people are afraid to lose the mark," she said. "People are afraid prices will go up. But they didn't ask us. The decision was made for us."
The German wariness is real. But it was Helmut Kohl, the former chancellor, who sold away the mark in exchange for German reunification. Facing opposition from the Francois Mitterrand, the president of France at the time, Mr. Kohl did a deal: German support for the euro in exchange for French support of reunification.
At the Maastricht summit meeting of the European Union in February 1992, the deal was done, and a common currency, which the former British prime minister, John Major, once called a project "with all the quaintness of a rain dance and about the same potency," will now unite a market of some 306 million people -- but excluding Britain, Sweden and Denmark.
But there is something hollow here. If the euro coins are a metaphor for coherence from diversity, the euro bills are a metaphor for an artificial unity, constructed by artists and ad men and approved by politicians. The bills have no faces, no heroes, no models for life or culture. They are amalgams of bridges and buildings and doors that are pan-European, but designed to be identified with no particular country. In a sense, they are a euphemism for a culture that does not exist, because no one can agree upon it. Even Homer is regarded as too Greek, Leonardo da Vinci as too Italian.
In France, Philippe de Villiers, a conservative politician, said people should mourn the passing of national heros like Marie Curie and Pascal from their banknotes in favor of "anonymous computer-generated images of bridges and arches leading to nowhere."
With her complaint that no one asked the Germans about the euro, Ms. Leroux-Keilhauer also puts her finger on another big problem with the European project that Mr. Leinen, the European member of Parliament, understands. 
"We must create a legitimacy of its own for European politics, with European parties, European elections and full competence for a European Parliament to control a European executive," said Mr. Leinen. "We need to move from a Europe of treaties to a Europe of a constitution."
Mr. Leinen is at one end of a debate about the political future of Europe that the fuss and euphoria over the euro hides. How to balance the power of the governments with the democratic idea of one-person, one-vote? Will Europe be a real nation-state, and if so, what kind? Will it be a federation, more similar to the United States, or a confederation, with most real power kept by the nation-states?
The debate is taking on an urgency with the prospect of enlargement. In the next few years, a Europe already unwieldy with 15 nations will expand to as many as 25, and the rules will simply have to change, with different weight given to countries of different sizes.
Even the current practice of a six-month presidency of the European Union by each nation in turn will become almost ludicrous with 25 countries, probably including Poland, Hungary and others. Germany or France would get the presidency only once every 12.5 years. 
Previous efforts to deal with such questions have ended in national acrimony and absurdly complicated formulas that no ordinary European understands, as at the 2000 European summit meeting in Nice, France. So this year, at Laeken, Belgium, governments threw the problem to a constitutional convention, to start next March, headed by Valery Giscard d'Estaing, a former French president. Mr. Giscard compares the event to the American constitutional convention of 1787, and the job is expected to take two years.
A reunited Germany, with the largest population and hence the largest democratic weight, wants parliament to rule Europe, with the role of the governments lessened. France, always wary of larger Germany, wants to preserve a significant measure of sovereign control. Smaller countries, and those with significant Euroskepticism, like Britain and Denmark, want even more sovereignty. 
Still, says Christoph Bertram, director of the SWP foundation, a research institution that advises the German government and Parliament, most Europeans agree that something must be done, and soon. "The ways that governments have messed up the constitutional structure has led to great wariness on the part of most people," Mr. Bertram said.
But with France holding national elections in May, and Germany in September, a serious debate is likely to start only afterward. "For Germany and France, this constitutional change is a big challenge," Mr. Bertram said. "But I'm not sure they know how to meet it yet."
But for now there is amusement and even anticipation. "I have three wallets, one for France, one for Germany and one for Belgium," Mr. Leinen said. "Now I can throw two of them away."
Petra Weiss, 30, an architect shopping in Karstadt's department store, thinks the transition to the euro will go smoothly. "It's this year's millennium bug," she said. It will make her shopping in the nearby French town of Sarreguemines, where the cheese and fish are better and the taxes on food lower, that much easier. And with the euro, it will be simpler for residents here to pay their French parking and speeding fines.
But the euro by itself is just a symbol of unity. "The euro will get us closer together," Ms. 
Weiss said, "but it's only a little step. The European idea is still fiction, I think. Europeans must unite in order to have a real voice and weight in the world, and the euro won't solve this problem."
Despite all the intra-European squabbles over immigration, politics, security, enlargement and the like, says Michael Naumann, editor of Die Zeit, the huge influence of the world's single superpower, the United States, will push Europeans together.
"Change comes in times of need, for political and military reasons, and finally out of the looming fears that America's role as superpower will manifest itself as it has done after Sept. 11," Mr. Naumann said. "Colin Powell brings together a great alliance on paper, and in reality, the Pentagon decides what to do. In the long run it produces bad blood among leaders and may be counterproductive to European interests. 
"So to have a more level playing field, there is a foreign-policy necessity for Europe to come to terms with its priorities -- not anti-American, but pro-European. It has to happen."
There is a growing confidence that something called Europe is being built, said Antonio Puri-Purini, an adviser to the Italian president, Carlo Ciampi. "I don't buy for a second this nonsense that the euro was done for technical reasons to help the common market," he said. "Big events don't come out of small lines of bureaucratic thinking. And this is a big event. For countries that managed to kill each other in the millions in the last century, this is not such a bad result."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The euro sign was projected on the Pont Neuf yesterday in Paris, above. Jo Leinen, a member of the European Parliament, far left, said people can now put a piece of Europe "in their pockets." Doris Leroux-Keilhauer, left, is waiting for the euro's "political impact." (Becker & Bredel for The New York Times); (Associated Press); A family admired a new 50-euro bank note that was distributed today by a cash machine in Brussels on the new currency's first day. (Associated Press) Map of Europe highlighting Saarbrucken, Germany: With the euro's introduction, another barrier falls in Saarbrucken.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (92%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); HISTORY (75%); WORLD WAR II (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%) CURRENCY 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) SAARLAND, GERMANY (95%); ALSACE, FRANCE (92%) EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (93%); LUXEMBOURG (92%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) EUROPE; SAARLAND (GERMANY); GERMANY; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



12 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: Meeting at Harvard On Diversity Policy 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: BOSTON, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
Jesse Jackson said today that he would meet with the president of Harvard University to discuss its diversity policy after reports that two prominent black professors may leave because of a dispute with the administration.
 "The clarification will be good for Harvard, its faculty and the nation," Mr. 
Jackson said. "Harvard is our flagship university, and there is concern expressed by the professors about the need for an unequivocal commitment to affirmative action, or inclusion." 
 The university's president, Lawrence H. Summers, is looking forward to a meeting "to talk about a range of issues," a Harvard spokesman, Joe Wrinn, said.
The professors, Henry Louis Gates Jr. and Cornel West, are considering leaving for Princeton.
Aides to Mr. Summers said Professor West felt insulted in a meeting between the two men in October at which Mr. Summers encouraged Professor West, who has recorded a rap CD, to embark on serious scholarship and to become a leader in fighting grade inflation.
Mr. Jackson said music should not be an issue. Whether Professor West "was on a rap record or conducting a symphony, he's written 16 books, held in critical acclaim," he said.
Mr. Summers, inaugurated in October, said he supported diversity and meant no offense in the meeting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (73%); RAP MUSIC (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%)

PERSON: JESSE JACKSON (90%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



13 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Merger Business Plunges for Investment Banks, but Underwriting Is Up 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
So who suffered the least?
 For 2001, that is the measure by which Wall Street banks may have to measure their performance. 
 Indeed, with the economy and the stock market in a deep slump last year, Wall Street bankers had a tough time trying to do anywhere near the amount of business they did in 2000. In total, business dropped off by about 15 percent, according to Thomson Financial.
The most lucrative business, advising companies on mergers and acquisitions, fell by slightly more than half, to $1.71 trillion from $3.46 trillion in 2000, according to preliminary figures from Thomson. However, the business of underwriting stocks and bonds climbed about 24.7 percent in 2001, buoyed in part by a raft of interest rate cuts. 
"It was definitely a sober year," said Richard Peterson, chief market strategist at Thomson Financial.
Goldman Sachs, which just six months ago appeared to be losing market share in offering merger advice, ended the year with a commanding 34.8 percent of the business, considerably more than its next biggest competitor, Merrill Lynch, which held 27.7 percent of the market and edged out Morgan Stanley Dean Witter for second place.
Despite Goldman's lead in market share, its business fell 52 percent compared with 2000. Merger business for Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse First Boston dropped even more, 58.6 percent and 56 percent.
When simply measuring which banks suffered the least compared with their performance the year earlier, J. P. Morgan Chase and Merrill Lynch easily came out on top. J. P. Morgan moved up the rankings to fifth from sixth and lost only 33.4 percent of its business, showing its strength despite the tough market. Likewise, Merrill Lynch leaped to the No. 2 spot for the first time in nearly five years, though its business was down 35.7 percent compared with the previous year.
"We genuinely picked up market share and narrowed the gap this year," said Douglas Braunstein, global head of mergers and acquisitions at J. P. Morgan Chase. The bank has been especially aggressive since its own merger to package merger advice with other capabilities like offering loans to clients.
But Mr. Braunstein says the importance of the bank's loan facilities might be overstated. "While we bring the balance sheet to the table, about 70 percent of the projects we work on are on the sell side, takeover defenses or delivering fairness opinions -- projects that do not directly involve the use of our balance sheet."
Merrill Lynch managed to gain ground because much of the merger activity was in more traditional sectors and not in technology, where the bank has struggled. "For us, we were helped by the fact that the activity this year was across a wide variety of industries and geographies," said Steven Baronoff, head of global mergers at Merrill Lynch. "That breadth plays to Merrill's strengths."
Merrill jumped in the ranks thanks, in part, to a rash of deals that came together in the last month. In fact, Mr. Baronoff said he was surprised by the amount of activity after Sept. 11. "I would have anticipated a more dramatic decline," he said. According to Thomson, 1,795 deals valued at a total of $204.2 billion were announced after Sept. 11, about one-quarter for the year in the United States.
Most experts expect next year will show signs of a recovery. "The M.& A. market has been in decline for 18 months," said Stephen Munger, Morgan Stanley's global co-head of mergers. "We're beginning to see a lot more discussions. The question is when companies will be prepared to act."
For all the declines in the mergers and acquisition business, a boon in stock and bond underwriting helped offset those losses.
The Salomon Smith Barney unit of Citigroup unseated Merrill Lynch as Wall Street's lead underwriter of stocks and bonds in 2001. The top-spot trophy is a coup for Citigroup, which, like J. P. Morgan Chase, has been using its commercial banking muscle to help score clients in other parts of its business. According to Thomson Financial, Salomon Smith Barney ranked No. 1, with $486.9 billion in total proceeds raised, and Merrill was No. 2, at $432.7 billion. Last year, Merrill led with $377 billion in issues, compared with $355.7 billion for Citigroup.
Credit Suisse First Boston remained in third place, with $346.9 billion, while J. P. Morgan Chase edged up one spot, to fourth, with $315 billion, and Goldman rose one position, to fifth, with $302.5 billion.
Morgan Stanley, which was fourth in 2000, slipped to sixth last year, with $277.6 billion.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Leading Underwriters"Managing underwriters of corporate securities, ranked by dollar amount raised through new issues in the United States for full-year 2001. For this ranking, the lead manager is given credit for the entire issue. Salomon Smith BarneyDollar volume (millions): $486,920.7Number of issues: 1,574Share of market: 12.0%Rank in 2000: 2 Merrill LynchDollar volume (millions): 432,696.5Number of issues: 2,012Share of market: 10.6Rank in 2000: 1 Credit Suisse First BostonDollar volume (millions): 346,942.1Number of issues: 1,312Share of market: 8.5Rank in 2000: 3 J.P. Morgan ChaseDollar volume (millions): 315,087.5Number of issues: 1,094Share of market: 7.7Rank in 2000: 5 Goldman, SachsDollar volume (millions): 302,458.2Number of issues: 795Share of market: 7.4Rank in 2000: 6 Morgan Stanley Dean WitterDollar volume (millions): 277,576.8Number of issues: 929Share of market: 6.8Rank in 2000: 4 Lehman BrothersDollar volume (millions): 260,641.9Number of issues: 861Share of market: 6.4Rank in 2000: 8 UBS WarburgDollar volume (millions): 252,830.5Number of issues: 949Share of market: 6.2Rank in 2000: 9 Deutsche BankDollar volume (millions): 224,381.1Number of issues: 770Share of market: 5.5Rank in 2000: 7 Banc of America SecuritiesDollar volume (millions): 162,462.2Number of issues: 728Share of market: 4.0Rank in 2000: 10(Source: Thomson Financial Securities Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET SHARE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); MERGERS (90%); BONDS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); RANKINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); TRENDS (76%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (57%); INTEREST RATES (54%) BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



14 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 99 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
POLYMER DEFAULTS ON LOANS AND EXPLORES ITS OPTIONS

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

 BODY:
 The Polymer Group, which laid off 600 workers last month, said yesterday that it defaulted on loans and that its lenders planned to block the company from paying $17.8 million to bondholders due tomorrow. 
Polymer, which makes fabrics used in diapers and surgical products, said it was "continuing to explore various financial restructuring alternatives with third parties." It has hired an investment banking firm, Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, for assistance. The company, based in North Charleston, S.C., said its bank lenders had given it more time to repay the full amount of the loans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); BONDS (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (83%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (83%)

ORGANIZATION: POLYMER GROUP INC (PGI) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (83%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (51%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



15 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

India Praises Pakistan On Move to Quell Militants
India credited Pakistan with beginning to crack down on two militant Islamic groups operating in Pakistan that India had almost immediately blamed for an assault on Parliament. Jaswant Singh, above, India's foreign minister, said that Pakistan's arrest of Hafiz Muhammad Saeed, the founder of Army of the Pure, was "a step forward." A10

Aftermath of Lima Explosion
Countless people stood waiting to enter the central morgue in Lima with the slimmest hopes that their loved ones survived the fireworks explosion on Saturday night that set four blocks ablaze and killed nearly 300 people. President Alejandro Toledo immediately barred the sale and use of fireworks and is establishing a commission to investigate the incident. A3

Argentina Without a Leader
Argentina drifted rudderless, without a president, a cabinet or a functioning government, as people waited for the Peronist Party to resolve its bitter internal differences over who should run the country and for how long. It is likely that by today, the country will have its fifth leader in less than two weeks. A3

World Briefing A10

NATIONAL A16, A18-19

Medicaid Offers New Benefits On Nutrition and Pain Care
Medicare, starting today, will pay for two services badly needed but little used by the elderly, nutrition therapy and pain management. The nutrition benefits will be available to more than seven million people who have diabetes or kidney disease. A16

New State Laws Abound
The new year brings a host of new state laws, including an Oregon ban on smoking in most workplaces and tougher drinking statutes in New Hampshire and Alabama. A19

Lament on Judges' Pay
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist warned that a combination of relatively low salaries and a tortuous confirmation process was making the federal judiciary increasingly unappealing as a career move for lawyers in private practice. The risk, he said in his annual year-end report, was that the judiciary would lose the perspective of lawyers from the private sector, and would become the exclusive domain of lawyers already in public service. A16

NATION CHALLENGED A12-14

U.S. Troops May Join Search In Mountains for Taliban Leader
The Pentagon is strongly considering plans to send large numbers of American ground troops, most likely marines, into the mountainous Kandahar region of southern Afghanistan to help search for Mullah Muhammad Omar, the Taliban leader, Pentagon officials said. A1

President Bush said that it was "just a matter of time" before Mullah Muhammad Omar was captured, but he did not say if and when the marines would join in any search. A14

Accord on Troops in Kabul
The interim administration of Afghanistan and Maj. Gen. John McColl, the commander of the British-led peacekeeping force in Kabul, reached an agreement on the terms under which the peacekeeping force will operate. One official said that British troops would have the freedom to patrol on their own. A13

Postal Workers Rebuff Union
A vast majority of the 5,000 workers at the main post office in Manhattan reported to work, despite calls from the New York Metro Area Postal Workers Union to stay home because anthrax spores had been found on a sorting machine. A14

SPORTS D1-7

Notre Dame's Choice
Tyrone Willingham of Stanford is to take over as head coach of the University of Notre Dame's legendary football program, the two universities said. Willingham would be the first black head coach of any of Notre Dame's sports. D1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

An Extraordinary Shift In City Government
The mayoral transition from Rudolph W. Giuliani to Michael R. Bloomberg began when Mr. Bloomberg took an oath at the city clerk's office. It was the first of three ceremonies; a swearing-in by Mr. Giuliani in Times Square followed, and an official inauguration at City Hall was planned for today. This represents an extraordinary shift in city government, with the change of mayoralty; a new comptroller, William C. Thompson; new public advocate, Betsy Gotbaum; and a mostly new City Council. A1

Violent Crime Falls Again
Violent crime in New York City registered its biggest drop in five years in 2001, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced, a decline all the more startling because it came as many other cities saw their violent crime rates start to increase. Both violent crime and overall crime fell by more than 12 percent, and the number of murders was the lowest since 1998 -- there were 640 as of Sunday. B1

No Deal on Stock Exchange
The Giuliani administration was unable to close a long-sought deal with the New York Stock Exchange to build a heavily subsidized new trading complex on Wall Street, a deal Rudolph W. Giuliani was trying to complete before he left office. B5

Neediest Cases B2

FASHION B8

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Health & Fitness F5-7

ARTS E1-22

OBITUARIES B7

Donald Clayton Spencer
An inventor of the modern theory of deformation of complex structures was 89. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

For Stocks, 2001 Was a Loss
The Dow Jones industrial average finished 2001 off 7.1 percent, the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index lost 13 percent and the Nasdaq composite sank 21.1 percent. But a rally in the final three months helped to create optimism that the worst is over for both stocks and the economy. On the last day of the year, the Dow, S.& P. and Nasdaq indexes all ended down at least 1 percent. A1

The Euro Era Begins
Europe's dream of a common currency became tangible this morning, when euro notes and coins became the legal tender in 12 nations with a combined population of 300 million. Thanks largely to the euro, Europe is now far more efficient, flexible and stable than it was when leaders committed themselves to a single currency 10 years ago. A1

As people travel more, euros with the symbols of other nations will mix more and, officials hope, and more, contribute to creating European coherence and opening the way to a political union. A8

Markets Closed Today
Financial markets are closed in observance of New Year's Day. Most overseas markets are also closed.

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Lighting the new year; here comes the euro; a city that knows snow.
Columns: Paul Krugman.

Crossword E21
TV Listings E22
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALIBAN (89%); RELIGION (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); LAWYERS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ARMIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); MEDICARE (73%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); ANNUAL REPORTS (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%); SMOKING (64%); DIABETES (64%); MEDICAID (53%); SMOKING BANS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); INDIA (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



16 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Hyundai Securities Delays Talks on Saleof a Big Stake 

BYLINE:  By DON KIRK 

 BODY:
Hyundai Securities of South Korea said yesterday that it had extended a deadline for selling shares in it and two affiliates to a consortium led by the American International Group.
 Negotiations to take over the financial companies of the Hyundai Group, once South Korea's largest conglomerate, have now gone on a year and a half. A deal would be the largest foreign investment in Korean financial services. A Hyundai Securities official gave no reason yesterday for the impasse. 
 Although the two sides have signed a memorandum of understanding, negotiators have balked on the issue of the value of the shares. Their tentative agreement calls for the consortium to pay more than $800 million to acquire control over all three companies, including Hyundai Securities, Hyundai Investment Trust and Securities and Hyundai Investment Trust Management.
A group advocating shareholders' rights has threatened legal action if the board of Hyundai Securities sells shares at a significant discount, as it has promised to do. The price set by the board, according to the group, is nearly half the current listed price for Hyundai Securities. 
The negotiations between A.I.G., which is based in New York and is the world's largest insurance company, and Hyundai Securities come amid questions about South Korea's openness to foreign investment. The talks are one of three crucial negotiations with large Western giants that have now dragged on into the new year, disappointing investors who had hoped for deals in December. The others are talks on the takeover of Daewoo Motors by General Motors and on a possible alliance of Hynix Semiconductor and Micron Technology. 
Hopes are still high for Daewoo Motors and General Motors to reach an agreement in January, despite protests by workers demanding job security. At the same time, Hynix and Micron have edged toward a strategic alliance that might include a takeover by Micron of Hynix's memory chip production.
The common denominator in all the talks is the breakdown of the huge chaebol or conglomerates that controlled Hyundai Securities, Hynix and Daewoo Motor before South Korea's financial crisis in 1997 and 1998 brought them to the brink of collapse.
The International Monetary Fund, which pieced together a $58 billion bailout plan for the Korean economy in December 1997, has reportedly urged the creditor institutions that now own Daewoo Motor and Hynix to step up efforts to dispose of them. The fund cited a welter of laws and regulations that have kept major companies on life support while impeding negotiations for selling them to foreign investors continued.
The troubles at Hyundai Securities resulted largely from the failure of the Daewoo Group in mid-1999, which also brought about the bankruptcy of Daewoo Motor, whose debts are estimated at about $16 billion. Hynix, formerly Hyundai Electronics, has accumulated debts of $8 billion since taking over the semiconductor division of LG Electronics under government pressure during the economic crisis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); INSURANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); SEMICONDUCTORS (69%); MEMORY CHIPS (69%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (69%); COMPUTER CHIPS (64%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (64%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: HYUNDAI CORP (92%); HYUNDAI GROUP (91%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); SK HYNIX INC (85%); LG ELECTRONICS INC (58%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HYUNDAI SECURITIES; AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP 

TICKER: 011760 (KSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); HY9H (FRA) (85%); 000660 (KSE) (85%); LGLD (LSE) (58%); 066570 (KSE) (58%); MU (NASDAQ) (54%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (92%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%) SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; 

PERSON: KIRK, DON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



17 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Argentina Drifts, Leaderless, as Economic Collapse Looms 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
Without a president, a cabinet or a functioning government, Argentina drifted rudderless today, as people waited for the Peronist party to resolve its bitter internal differences over who should run the country and for how long.
 The surprise resignation of the interim president, Adolfo Rodriguez Saa, late Sunday means that by Tuesday Argentina is likely to have its fifth leader in less than two weeks, counting temporary caretakers. 
 But with bank accounts partly frozen, a moratorium on payment of the foreign debt and political leaders clearly at a loss for what to do, the possibility of an economic collapse loomed as an even larger concern. All day long, nervous depositors lined up outside banks in hopes of withdrawing some of their money. 
"You know, I've lived through a lot of bad moments in the history of this country," said Carlos Ricardo Santistevan, 72, a retiree waiting in the rain outside a downtown bank in what he said was his fourth attempt to collect his pension for December. "But this situation is the most absurd, and it's entirely the work of our incompetent and corrupt leaders."
Argentina's descent into institutional confusion began with food riots and political protests earlier this month that led to the resignation of Fernando de la Rua midway through his four-year presidential term. This weekend, protesters took to the streets again to complain of the continued austerity and corruption that they said Mr. Rodriguez Saa had imposed on the country, forcing him to turn to unsympathetic leaders of his own party for support.
Fearful of new violence, police units equipped with tear gas, truncheons and guns were stationed outside the unoccupied presidential palace and Congress building this morning. Metal barriers were also put up and some streets were blocked off, but sporadic rainfall discouraged protesters from gathering. 
The resignation of both Mr. Rodriguez Saa and the next in line under the Constitution, the president of the Senate, Ramon Puerta, left power nominally in the hands of Eduardo Camano, the majority leader of the lower house of Congress. But Mr. Camano said today that he did not consider himself president and that the only official action he would take would be to call a special session of Congress on Tuesday to choose a new leader, as required by law and the Constitution.
"It's not enough to choose a president," Mr. Camano warned in a television interview today. "Argentina is insolvent," he added, and whoever takes office "has to have a serious program of government" to rescue the country from chaos.
President Bush said today that he was "confident the country will stay together until they get elections." But he said the future president would have to come up with a plan to deal with the economic crisis. 
Within the dominant Peronist party, two conflicting positions seem to have emerged. One faction recommends designating another caretaker president and going ahead with an election on March 3, as established by the Congress when it selected Mr. Rodriguez Saa as interim president. 
Because of the crisis, elections are necessary "more than ever," Nestor Kirchner, governor of the small southern province of Santa Cruz and already a declared presidential candidate, said today. "Legitimacy is bestowed by the vote of the people."
But another, apparently larger, group argues that the country simply cannot afford the distraction of a two-month campaign to elect a new president, who in any case would be likely to take office with a very weak mandate. They want the special session of Congress to immediately designate a president who would serve out the remainder of Mr. de la Rua's four-year term and form a coalition with opposition parties.
"I don't believe that elections are the solution," said Carlos Ruckauf, the influential governor of the province of Buenos Aires. "What we need right away is a government of national salvation."
Throughout the day, the man most often mentioned to assume such a role was Senator Eduardo Duhalde, 60, a veteran Peronist leader. He has served twice as governor of Buenos Aires Province and as vice president under Carlos Menem and was the Peronist candidate in the 1999 election won by Mr. de la Rua.
Leaders of Mr. de la Rua's unpopular Radical Party also want to avoid an emergency election, which they fear would result in a devastating defeat for them. In public statements throughout the day, they appeared to be eager to join in a Peronist-led government, whether headed by Mr. Duhalde or someone else.
One group not taking part in the maneuvering is the once-feared and formerly all-powerful military. Nearly 20 years after the armed forces had to relinquish power, they are still so discredited in the public eye that they think it wise to remain on the sidelines. 
Economists affiliated with both the Peronist and Radical parties were also reported to be meeting today as part of the effort to build a government of national unity. Their objective is to try to agree on a budget, find a way to avoid a crippling devaluation of the peso and create a system that would permit withdrawals from bank accounts without causing the financial system to collapse.
But those efforts were of little consolation to the bank depositors who stood in line with their umbrellas. They are still limited to cash withdrawals of $1,000 a month from their accounts and say they remain skeptical that a solution is near.
"I don't think we have hit bottom yet," said Matilde Lezcano, a pensioner. "I don't know how much lower we can sink, but you have to wonder if there is anyone who can get us out of this hole."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Argentines lined up outside a Buenos Aires bank yesterday in hopes of withdrawing at least some of their money. Banks accounts are party frozen. Today, the country could get its fifth leader in less than two weeks. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); TRENDS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); RIOTS (71%); CORRUPTION (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (67%); POLICE FORCES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARGENTINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; ELECTIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) ROHTER, LARRY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PUERTA, RAMON; RODRIGUEZ SAA, ADOLFO; CAMANO, EDUARDO 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) ARGENTINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



18 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: DEALING WITH THE CRISIS; 
Taking Command in Crisis, Bush Wields New Powers

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER with DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex., Dec. 31 

 BODY:
It was late on a Saturday, just days after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, when President Bush was ready to sign an order freezing the assets in the United States of suspected Islamic terrorist groups, the first showy financial strike against Al Qaeda. The order was to be announced, or so the plan went, the following Monday by Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill. But the president suddenly had another idea.
 "I am about to sign this order," an aide recalled Mr. Bush saying. "Why am I not announcing it?" 
 The staff scrambled, and by Monday morning it was the president, not Mr. O'Neill, who made the announcement, reinforcing the message that Mr. Bush would direct the war against terrorism on many fronts. 
Nearly a year after taking office, Mr. Bush has seized the catastrophe of Sept. 11 to project himself as the commander in chief at the center of the crisis and to reach for new powers.
His most assertive action was a November order establishing military tribunals for accused terrorists, but Mr. Bush has also moved to keep presidential papers secret and permitted sweeping government efforts to investigate anyone suspected of terrorism. To help in those investigations, he expanded government wiretapping and allowed the monitoring of communications between some people in federal custody and their lawyers.
And yet Mr. Bush returns to Washington next week facing a variety of challenges. In foreign policy, he is trying to avert a war between India and Pakistan, and monitoring the financial collapse of Argentina, which an administration official acknowledged today had not been a sufficient focus of the White House after Sept. 11. Domestically, Mr. Bush says he will try to revive an economic stimulus package that failed in a bitter round of partisan Washington combat at the end of December. He also faces Democrats increasingly willing to challenge his policies, even while avoiding taking on a president with high approval ratings.
Mr. Bush did win big legislative victories on a $1.3 trillion tax cut and an education bill, but the White House is not expecting as easy a ride in 2002.
"He's got more problems with the Congress than with the public," said John Morton Blum, the Yale historian who taught Mr. Bush 20th-century American politics in college.
The result is that Mr. Bush is likely to spend a considerable portion of his political capital if he hopes to revive the agenda he laid out so forcefully a year ago.
"I think the lesson he learned from his father's presidency is that if you have capital you must use it wisely -- but use it," said Dan Bartlett, the White House communications director. 
And he has shown that he is willing to use it to accomplish goals that go far beyond prosecuting the war. With only cursory consultation of Congress, he announced the American withdrawal from the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, with surprisingly little backlash from Russia or the allies. Similarly, Mr. Bush threatened a veto if Congress spent more than he wanted on domestic security. Congress protested, then acquiesced.
Some historians say Mr. Bush seems captivated by Theodore Roosevelt, who grabbed more power for his office than any other president since Abraham Lincoln. The week before his inauguration, Mr. Bush kept a book of Roosevelt speeches on the coffee table in his living room at the Texas ranch, where he was preparing his inaugural address. On Friday at his ranch, Mr. Bush said he had just finished reading "Theodore Rex," the second volume of Edmund Morris's biography of Roosevelt, this one focusing on the White House. 
"I see in Bush's performance to date the very large possibility that his model for the presidency is essentially that of Theodore Roosevelt," Mr. Blum said. So far, he added, "I think he has claimed powers, and tried to aggrandize the office."
But unlike Roosevelt, Mr. Blum argued, Mr. Bush "doesn't exude power, at least not yet."
Other historians say Mr. Bush's presidency has expanded simply because of circumstance.
"The story of Bush has been the aggregating of power over the last few months," said William E. Leuchtenburg, a historian at the University of North Carolina, "but I doubt that it has an awful lot to do with Theodore Roosevelt.
"In any war, there's going to be a very great accretion of power to the president," he said, adding, "He has an area he can roam around in and be as big a president as he wants to be."
Such a turn of events once seemed improbable: Mr. Bush began in the cold rain of January with an uncertain mandate, lost Republican control of the Senate by the spring, then faced a disappearing surplus and a menacing recession by the end of the summer. With no notice to the allies, he declared that the Kyoto treaty on global warming was "dead," adding to European fears about an isolated America determined to go it alone. Mr. Bush's staff worried that his presidency seemed small. 
But then came Sept. 11, when Mr. Bush's powers as commander in chief coincided with the desires of many of those swept back into office by his election. First among them was Vice President Dick Cheney, who said he believed that Bill Clinton had squandered the power and prestige of the presidency.
"I think it starts with a strong cabinet," said Andrew H. Card Jr., Mr. Bush's chief of staff. "Look at the people in the news since Sept. 11 -- Cheney, Rumsfeld and Powell. They are strong leaders. But they also brought a great appreciation of the power of the presidency to their offices."
Mr. Card added that when the attacks occurred, "the president knew he had to be commander in chief in the broadest sense of the word -- commander of the military, but also of the firefighters and the police and the mail carriers."
At home, Mr. Bush used his powers through much of the fall to bend Congress to his will. In November, when he was under severe pressure, even from Republicans, to increase spending for domestic security, he resisted. On Nov. 6, he summoned a delegation from Capitol Hill and bluntly announced that he would veto legislation that went beyond the $40 billion he had already agreed to for this fiscal year for countering terrorism and rebuilding New York. 
Representative David R. Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin and the ranking minority member on the Appropriations Committee, had expected a negotiating session rather than an ultimatum. He was furious.
"I said," Mr. Obey recalled, " 'You can say anything you want, this is your house, Mr. President. But I've been coming down here for 30 years, and this is the first time that a president has told me his mind is closed before the subject is even opened.' " Mr. Bush was unmoved. "Thank you very much," he told the delegation, several people present said. "I've got another meeting."
An administration official said Mr. Bush had not meant to be rude, just uncompromising. "It was also a test of who was going to be paramount, the legislature or the executive, when it came to spending," the official said.
As commander in chief, Mr. Bush made it clear from the first days of the war that he alone would make major strategic decisions. On the first weekend of bombing, he silenced a debate among his advisers about whether to broaden the war on terrorism's goals to include toppling Saddam Hussein of Iraq, saying that decision would come only after Al Qaeda was routed. And while European leaders have argued it would be a mistake to expand the war to Iraq, Mr. Bush had made it clear that he alone would make that call.
Critics say Mr. Bush is showing his true stripes as a unilateralist who is interested in alliances only when they do not get in his way. Mr. Bush's closest advisers disagree.
"George Shultz had this idea that you 'garden,' which means you have to constantly tend to your alliances," said Mr. Bush's national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice. She added that while "the president is very much of that school, that never meant, from his point of view, that you simply go along to get along," citing his decisions on the Kyoto agreement and the A.B.M. treaty.
"You have to stand for something," she added. "You have to have a sense of what American interests are." Often that fits into a broader alliance, she said, and "the war on terrorism is a great example of this."
That is also a telling example of the Bush style. In the first days after the attacks, Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney decided that all the major strategic decisions about the war would be made in Washington. They built a coalition in the loosest sense -- with the exception of Britain, all the members were nonvoting partners.
"No one wanted to re-create the worst moments of the gulf war, when the allies and the Arab states argued about what to do next, and how," one aide said.
As he tried to create workable alliances abroad, Mr. Bush found he also had to repair relations among agencies of the executive branch. Aides said Mr. Bush was stunned to discover after Sept. 11 how little the F.B.I. and the C.I.A. communicated. He set a new course, aides say, and now insists that Director Robert S. Mueller III of the F.B.I., sit in on the daily C.I.A. briefing in the Oval Office. The director of central intelligence, George J. Tenet, then remains for the F.B.I. briefing.
"It's not unusual for the president to say at the end, to the two directors, 'Now I want you two to go off and work on this specific problem,' " Mr. Card said. "And the message travels down pretty fast."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush on Dec. 13 with, from left, Gen. Richard B. Myers of the Air Force, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld and Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser. (Associated Press); (Photographs by Reuters)(pg. A12) Chart: "HIGHLIGHTS: First Year of a Changed Presidency"JAN. 20 -- George W. Bush is sworn in as the 43rd president.MARCH 31 -- Faces first foreign policy crisis as American spy plane makes an emergency landing in China after colliding with a Chinese fighter jet.JUNE 7 -- Signs $1.35 trillion tax cut into law, fulfilling a major campaign promise.AUG. 9 -- Announces he will allow federal money for limited research on existing stem cells.SEPT. 11 -- Addresses the nation after the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.SEPT. 14 -- Visits rescue workers at the World Trade Center site.SEPT. 20 -- In an address to a joint meeting of Congress, warns the Taliban to turn over Osama bin Laden or face military attack.OCT. 7 -- Announces the beginning of American military action against Afghanistan.OCT. 11 -- Gives his first formal East Room news conference, saying he would welcome a role for the United Nations in rebuilding Afghanistan.NOV. 10 -- Tells the United Nations General Assembly that all its member countries must join the fight against terrorism.NOV. 13 -- Signs order allowing the use of military tribunals for terrorism suspects.DEC. 13 -- Notifies Russia that the United States will withdraw from the Antiballistic Missile Treaty. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); AL-QAEDA (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); HISTORY (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); WIRETAPPING (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); TAX RELIEF (63%); TAX LAW (61%); RELIGION (57%); MILITARY COURTS (52%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%); LAWYERS (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); AL-QAEDA (58%); US AIR FORCE (59%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



19 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: THE MAYORAL TRANSITION: UNFINISHED BUSINESS; 
Deal to Build New Complex Eludes Mayor And Wall St.

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The Giuliani administration was unable to close a long-sought deal with the New York Stock Exchange to build a heavily subsidized new trading complex on Wall Street, a deal Rudolph W. Giuliani was trying to complete before he left office.
 Mayor Giuliani had hoped to announce the billion-dollar stock exchange deal before his term ended, much as he pushed last week to announce plans for new billion-dollar baseball stadiums for the Yankees and the Mets. The two sides failed to agree on specific terms of a deal last Thursday. Talks continued through this week. 
 Today, Richard A. Grasso, chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, and the mayor decided to keep the project alive by signing a more general new agreement. This way, though details were not set, both sides agree in principle that they still plan to build the 10-story trading complex with the largest public subsidy ever granted to a single company, at least $865 million.
Under the agreement, the exchange has until March to decide whether it wants to build an office tower over the trading complex, as the city had initially suggested. That leaves Mr. Grasso to discuss the project with the incoming administration of Michael R. Bloomberg. In general, Mr. Bloomberg has been skeptical about public subsidies for private companies. The complex would be built on a block bound by Wall, Broad and William Streets and Exchange Place.
"I'm truly delighted that the tireless efforts of Mayor Giuliani, Governor Pataki and their respective teams have produced this agreement," Mr. Grasso said in a statement released yesterday. "With this agreement, the exchange underscores our commitment to New York, and our strong belief that the capital of financial services will remain at the heart of New York City."
But three years after Mr. Giuliani first announced the project, its exact shape is very much up in the air. After the attack on the World Trade Center in September, Mr. Grasso grew increasingly wary of the original proposal for building a 50-story tower over the trading complex. Fearing that the tower could become a target for terrorists, Mr. Grasso jolted city officials in November when he suddenly announced that the tower "was not a salable transaction."
From the city's point of view, the tower had been integral to the economics of the project, which was initially discussed in a much different atmosphere from what prevails now. The Giuliani administration had asserted that Lower Manhattan needed additional prime office space and that rents from the tower would offset the $480 million cost of acquiring the site for the trading complex.
Land aside, the city and state were already providing an unprecedented level of subsidies: $225 million in cash from the state, a $255 million cash grant from the city, and $160 million in tax breaks.
City officials, who had planned to close the deal in December, told Mr. Grasso that they would eliminate the $255 million cash grant if the tower was not built, according to people who had been briefed on the talks. That sparked a new round of negotiations between the Giuliani administration and Mr. Grasso. But the city had already signed contracts to buy the land for the project and emptied the existing buildings.
The new agreement gives the exchange several options, including no tower and a smaller office building, said Michael Carey, chairman of the city's Economic Development Corporation. But the amount of the city's total subsidy will rise and fall with the size of the tower.
The state, which has not been involved in the latest talks, is unsure whether it will also reduce its contribution to the project.
"There seem to be a couple of different proposals," said Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation. "We have not been in direct negotiations with the exchange. We want to take a look at the final version to determine in what way the state will participate. But we are committed to the project."
The stock exchange project began in the the mid-1990's, when Mr. Grasso threatened to move to New Jersey if the state and the city would not help it expand beyond its cramped home on Wall Street.
Some urban planners and budget watchdogs questioned the need for an expanded trading floor, given the growth of electronic trading. Many doubted that the exchange would ever leave Lower Manhattan anyway, since so many of the city's investment banks had already received tax breaks to remain in the city. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BASEBALL (71%); TERRORISM (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (57%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%)

INDUSTRY:  SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES; 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



20 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: SPORTS BUSINESS; 
Low-Key Steinbrenner Greets Stadium Plans

BYLINE:  By Richard Sandomir

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani looked ecstatic. Yankees and Mets executives acted pleased. So why did George Steinbrenner look like an underwhelmed bystander?
 This was last Friday, when Giuliani announced nonbinding agreements with the teams to split the cost of new ballparks costing $800 million each. Steinbrenner let his Yankee executives, Randy Levine, the president, and Lonn Trost, the chief operating officer, speak for him. Steinbrenner looked uncomfortable and stood in the background. 
 "We're happy to do this for New York," Steinbrenner said, without brio, when asked to step forward.
Maybe his reaction had its roots in knowing that unlike other team owners who made deals in the 1990's while he was dawdling, Steinbrenner would not receive a stadium free of charge. The Yankees, like the Mets, would be paying $23 million annually (to cover half the debt service on tax-exempt bonds) for the first 20 years of his lease, and gradually more for each of the next 15 years.
He would have to kick in 4 percent of his gate receipts, which would have cost him $4.56 million last season -- more revenue sharing! -- but which would be more in the new stadium because ticket prices inevitably rise considerably at a new stadium. And he would have to pay 35 percent of net receipts from nonbaseball events -- a category of revenues that may be meager, especially if two retractable roof stadiums compete for conventions, tractor pulls, concerts, religious conclaves, the Final Four and other events with Madison Square Garden, the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, the Meadowlands and a proposed Newark arena.
Or maybe Steinbrenner displayed little glee (save for the prospect of shorter lines at bathrooms, which he pitched as a perk especially for women, and at concession stands) because this deal with Giuliani is in limbo unless the new mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg, approves it. If Mayor Mike rejects Mayor Rudy's deal, Steinbrenner may need to go one-on-one with Bloomberg, as he did to snare David Wells before Wells signed a contract with Arizona.
In the summer of 1988, a more directly involved Steinbrenner backed out of a lease extension in the Bronx through 2032. That deal was negotiated with Mayor Edward I. Koch and would have meant renovating Yankee Stadium, not building a new one.
That a new Yankee Stadium should cost $800 million is not a surprise. In a 1996 study of possible sites for a new or renovated ballpark, cost estimates rose to more than a $1 billion. But the cost of a new Mets stadium has risen from $500 million since the co-owner Fred Wilpon displayed the stadium model in 1998.
That is a 60 percent leap in three and a half years. "It's a function of a more current estimate," said Dave Howard, the senior vice president of the Mets. "At the time, we felt those numbers were realistic, but as we flushed out the design, and as construction costs and the cost of living accelerated, the estimate rose."
So, two stadiums with different styles -- the Mets' design, to echo Ebbets Field, the Yankees' design, to remind fans of the prerenovation Yankee Stadium, complete with a revival of the former roof-ringing facade -- cost exactly the same. 
The dramatic inflation in the cost of the Mets' ballpark plays into a clause of the deal with Giuliani: each team is responsible for cost overruns beyond $800 million. Had the Mets estimated a stadium at $650 million, and their design ambitions caused it to cost $800 million by the planned 2006 opening, Wilpon might have had to sell his retractable roof to a team needing warm or dry weather.
No longer in the Giuliani plan is a Shea Stadium renovation to lure the Jets back to Flushing, as Wilpon proposed in 1998.
Another casualty is the use of the West Side railyards for a Yankee ballpark. Steinbrenner's coveting of the location helped delay his ultimate decision to stay in the Bronx.
"No one supported me," Giuliani said. Now the site is open to the Jets and/or an Olympic stadium. But whether its construction is more viable under Bloomberg is questionable.
Another element missing from the Giuliani plan is any estimate of economic impact. He says there will be, has said for years there would be.
"It's important that the teams do well and expand," Giuliani said, adding, "This is an investment by the City of New York." But no figures, no pie charts, just assertions.
And no tears for Yankee Stadium. "I look to the future," Giuliani said. "I'm not mired in the past."
If Bloomberg approves Giuliani's two-stadium plan, doubters will inevitably wonder if the vow not to raise taxes to pay for the $1.6 billion in tax-exempt bonds can be kept. Will the cash flow the city gets from the stadium -- plus ticket and sales taxes -- pay its share of the debt? Will the city have to take money from other uses to help fund it?
If the deal ends up looking exactly as Giuliani presented it, it could be a good one, if no taxes are required and the cash flow is enough to satisfy the city's debt and Steinbrenner.
But Robert Baade, a professor of economics at Lake Forest College in Illinois and a perennial skeptic of public financing of stadiums, suggested that the deal as outlined last Friday may be different once it reaches a final, signed lease.
"The financing sounds magical," Baade said. "I don't know how they're doing it. Once you see the whole memorandum of understanding, and you see what the teams will give up, you'll see what they're getting in return. We'll see who is ultimately responsible for cost overruns once you connect the dots of the fine print." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); MAYORS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); SPORTS REVENUES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (68%); TAX LAW (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); TICKET SALES (67%); PRICE INCREASES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



21 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: THE MAYORAL TRANSITION: OVERVIEW; 
Bloomberg Takes Oath as 108th Mayor of New York

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
With American flags waving and confetti falling, a visibly moved Michael R. Bloomberg was sworn in early this morning in Times Square as New York's 108th mayor. Mr. Bloomberg, a billionaire businessman and political novice, now inherits the responsibility of governing New York City from Rudolph W. Giuliani, whose uncompromising will and sheer ubiquity made him synonymous with the city he presided over for eight years.
 The highly symbolic celebration, the first such ceremony in Times Square, was intended to assure New Yorkers that the city now, in Mr. Bloomberg's hands, was a safe one. A few minutes after the famous ball fell, Mr. Giuliani administered the oath to Mr. Bloomberg, whose eyes soon welled with tears as he promised to fulfill his new duties. He then said "Thank you, Mr. Mayor," and the two men hugged, before Mr. Bloomberg turned, his thumbs up, to greet the screaming crowd. 
 In Mr. Bloomberg, New Yorkers receive a man in many ways as different from Mr. Giuliani as the city inherited by the two men at the beginning of their terms. 
Mr. Giuliani came into power issuing a moratorium on fear and chaos, and took on a city with a fractured economy, soaring crime rates, myriad social problems and many residents seemingly longing to leave. Mr. Bloomberg takes the helm of the city less than four months after the most calamitous event in its history tore a hole in Lower Manhattan, leaving economic and public safety problems of a wholly different kind, with little precedent for their solution and a largely novice City Council to help him deal with them. 
The contrast between the two men was clearly visible yesterday. Mr. Giuliani did his usual canter from event to event, doing early morning television interviews, swearing in new firefighters, holding his final news conference, ringing the bell at the New York Stock Exchange and racing off to Times Square. Mr. Bloomberg presided over an ecumenical breakfast with religious leaders at which he warned of impending budget doom, was sworn in, then closed his schedule to the public. 
Along with the change in mayors, today also marks a seismic shift in city government prompted by the city's term limits law, which forced top citywide officials and two-thirds of the City Council out of office. Along with the new mayor, a new comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., a new public advocate, Betsy Gotbaum, and more than three dozen newcomers to the City Council will officially become part of city government beginning today. 
While the city's spirit and determination are doubtlessly stronger than what Mr. Giuliani encountered years ago, its resources are far more limited, with a decimated Fire Department, an embattled police force whose members are lured by other opportunities and a looming $4 billion budget gap that must be closed through an inevitable reduction in services.
The depth of New York's resolve, which has awed the rest of the country since Sept. 11, is perceived to be personified by Mr. Giuliani, whose shadow Mr. Bloomberg must find a way to escape artfully as he seeks the support of citizens who barely know him, and from whom he will seek so much. 
The transition began yesterday morning, when Mr. Bloomberg paid his 15 cents, a registration fee required under law, in pennies at the city clerk's office and took his oath to discharge faithfully the duties of the office of mayor. "I'm sort of mayor," Mr. Bloomberg declared afterward. (The City Charter dictates that any elected official take the oath of office within 30 days after his or her election is certified by the City Board of Elections.) 
Mr. Bloomberg's official inauguration will be held today on the steps of City Hall. With perhaps unintentional portent for the city's baseball culture, the master of ceremonies will be Al Leiter, the Mets pitcher. Bette Midler will sing the national anthem, followed by invocations by various religious leaders. 
Judith S. Kaye, the chief judge of New York State and a friend of Mr. Bloomberg, will administer his oath. Then Mr. Bloomberg will deliver his inaugural address, in which he is expected to call on the rest of government to join him in the painful attempt to cut the budget significantly, with no agency to be left unscathed. 
Mr. Thompson will also deliver an inaugural address, as will Ms. Gotbaum, who will be sworn in by former Mayor David N. Dinkins. Cardinal Edward M. Egan will deliver the benediction. The salsa musician Willie Colon will perform, followed by other spiritual readings. 
While the substantive differences between their administrations remain to be seen -- Mr. Bloomberg has offered few clues, outside official appointments, about his priorities and plans -- Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Giuliani are vastly different men, in background and personal style.
Mr. Giuliani was born in Brooklyn, was schooled at Manhattan College and plans to retire in Staten Island. He came to prominence as an aggressive and highly visible United States attorney, whose proclivity for the midnight perp walk would presage the arrests of the homeless, incendiary news conferences and flamboyant proclamations on everything from art to civil rights to ferrets that took place during his tenure as mayor. 
Of all that he loves to boast about, little gives him more pleasure than his exhaustive knowledge of the city, its neighborhoods and people, even though his closest circle was made up principally of people much like himself. When not dieting, he loves Italian food, and his most highbrow indulgence was nights at the opera. He is most comfortable at a Yankees game, as a rabid fan of the team. 
Mr. Bloomberg's exposure in the city's daily papers was, until last year, more or less relegated to the business or society pages, where his philanthropy, charity balls and celebrity dates made him well known among a tiny sliver of New York City. He went to Johns Hopkins University and earned a master's in business administration from Harvard.
Self-assured, capable of being quite bawdy in private and seemingly at ease in the skin of a very wealthy man, Mr. Bloomberg seems far less confrontational than Mr. Giuliani. His supporters suggest that he will be more open to negotiations with those Mr. Giuliani preferred to work around.
As a privately held company, Bloomberg L.P., Mr. Bloomberg's business, was prone to far less scrutiny in the financial pages than a publicly traded company, and Mr. Bloomberg responded to the new media scrutiny during his mayoral campaign with prickly disdain. His Boston accent results in the odd attachment of the letter "s" at the end of words where it does not belong, and he does not even pretend to drop his loyalty to the Red Sox, even though his baseball interests seem marginal at best. As he wraps the mayoralty around him, New York will ostensibly see at last what matters to Mr. Bloomberg most. 
Mr. Bloomberg displayed his wry humor yesterday morning at the breakfast at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, which was attended by such notable members of the clergy as Cardinal Egan, the Rev. Calvin O. Butts of Harlem, the Rev. Floyd Flake of Queens, Imam Izak-el Mu'eed Pasha and Rabbi Arthur Schneier. 
"We are going clearly to go through some tough economic times," Mr. Bloomberg said. "As I went around, a lot of you offered me your prayers. But honestly, thank you very much -- I can use them. I could also use $4 billion to balance the budget, if just in case any of you have some extra funds that you don't know what to do with."
At City Hall yesterday, the feeling of a massive shift in culture and power was palpable. City officials lined the halls, shaking hands and watching workers assemble the steps for this morning's ceremony. Rehearsing performers filled the building with the sounds of salsa, "The Star-Spangled Banner" and dolorous bagpipe music. 
After Mr. Giuliani's final news conference in the Blue Room -- where over the last eight years he had derided the Board of Education, deconstructed his love life, boasted about his crime statistics, called reporters names, cooed over his Yankees and remembered the dead in Lower Manhattan -- the departing fire commissioner, Thomas Von Essen, stood in the corner, whispering tips to Nicholas Scoppetta, his successor.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael R. Bloomberg arriving at the Municipal Building in Lower Manhattan to take his oath of office at the city clerk's office. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERM LIMITS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CRIME RATES (74%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (73%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); POLITICS (72%); BUDGETS (71%); RELIGION (62%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS; PUBLIC ADVOCATE (NYC); COMPTROLLERS; INAUGURATIONS; TERM LIMITS (POLITICAL OFFICE) 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; THOMPSON, WILLIAM C JR (COMPTROLLER); GOTBAUM, BETSY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



22 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Bagan Journal; 
On the Road to Mandalay, an Ethical Predicament

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: BAGAN, Myanmar 

 BODY:
It is a magical sight: most mornings at dawn, two hot-air balloons bearing tourists rise up and float silently above this ancient city of Buddhist temples and pagodas. After dodging and weaving for an hour through soft breezes, they set down on a parched riverbed.
 Children from a nearby village gather to gape as the British pilots deflate the balloons and pop bottles of Champagne for the passengers. Rough travel, this is not. 
 It is precisely the kind of tourism deplored by democracy advocates inside and outside Myanmar. They say that travelers should not visit this country, once called Burma, because tourism dollars help underwrite its repressive military government. If people insist on going, the critics say, they should at least avoid plush hotels and sightseeing activities.
Sipping Champagne after a recent flight, some passengers explained their decision to make the trip.
"I worried about political correctness prior to visiting Myanmar, but now I feel it is politically incorrect not to visit," said Helen Hasenfeld, an administrator at the California Institute of Technology.
Mrs. Hasenfeld, who was traveling with her husband, said she had avoided package tours organized by the state tourism agency. She felt confident that most of her money was going to private tour guides and shopkeepers. The balloon tour, though operated by foreigners, employs a Burmese crew. 
"The current regime," Mrs. Hasenfeld said, "is helped, not hindered by an American tourism boycott."
That point of view is gaining credibility, even among some of the junta's harshest critics. With little sign of internal political change, some analysts now believe that the best way to help the 46 million people of Myanmar is to engage them -- not leave them in permanent isolation.
James Mawdsley, a British human rights advocate, was imprisoned in 1999 for handing out pro-democracy pamphlets in Myanmar. He was beaten and tortured, and endured a year in solitary confinement.
Yet Mr. Mawdsley said in an interview, "If you respect the Burmese people, and you're going there to learn about them, that's fantastic."
The campaign against tourism in Myanmar dates to 1996, when the government declared a "Visit Myanmar Year" in an effort to jump-start its threadbare tourism industry. Pro-democracy groups urged people to decline the invitation, citing Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel Peace Prize winner and heroine of the democracy movement.
In 1995, she said: "It is too early for either tourists or investment or aid to come pouring into Burma. We would like to see that these things are conditional on genuine progress towards democratization." 
Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi has not publicly changed her position, though people who know her say she is more open to tourists, provided that they avoid organized tours. She remains under house arrest in Yangon, the capital, and has not spoken to reporters in months.
Last year, Burmese pro-democracy groups in Britain organized a boycott of the Lonely Planet travel guide series after it published a new edition of its guide to Myanmar. After being bombarded for months with angry letters and e-mail messages, Lonely Planet now says it gets little pressure.
"It's almost petered out to nothing," said Anna Bolger, a marketing manager for the company in Melbourne, Australia. "By rights, the campaign ought to be raging, since nothing has changed in Burma."
To mollify critics, Lonely Planet published a section summarizing the arguments for and against traveling to Myanmar. It also gave an unvarnished description of the pro-democracy protests in 1988, which were brutally put down by the military, and of the 1990 elections, which were ignored by the junta after the opposition, led by Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, won a huge victory. Ms. Bolger said the company's publisher, Tony Wheeler, would travel to Myanmar in January to gauge developments. 
In Myanmar itself, opinions on tourism fall squarely into two camps: democracy advocates and everybody else.
"We don't want tourist money," said one prominent dissident. "The generals get all the benefit, not the people. We know we will suffer to some extent, but they will suffer more."
There is no question that Myanmar's rulers are hooked on tourism as a source of hard currency. All visitors are required to change $200 into local currency on entering the country, and a slice of that goes to the government. Many of the best hotels are partly owned by the state.
Critics say that tourists also unwittingly endorse the government's repressive tactics. To make the archaeological zone of Bagan more attractive, the state uprooted villagers from their homes and moved them to a new town several miles away. They were given a pittance to build new houses.
In Mandalay, the former capital, the government used forced labor to restore the vast moat that surrounds Mandalay Fort. The moat sparkles in the sunlight, but large billboards on the red-brick wall warn that the army and the people will "cooperate and crush all those harming the Union."
On the other hand, when visitors spend money on food, handicrafts, or private tour guides, those dollars flow to individual Burmese. They earn a far better living than they would without the tourist trade.
"People say tourism will make the government more entrenched, but it's already entrenched," said Ma Thanegi, a journalist and former aide to Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi who has split with her former mentor on the issue. "If the tourists don't come, women in textile factories will lose their jobs," she added. "They are ones who are hurt."
Mrs. Ma Thanegi said critics overlooked the potential for political change that tourism provides. Every visitor brings a fresh perspective to a country that has been largely shut off from the outside world since Gen. Ne Win seized power and set Burma on a socialist course in 1962.
Whatever its merits, the boycott campaign has had a measurable impact. Myanmar never developed into the tourist mecca its rulers hoped. Barely 200,000 people came in 2000, -- far short of the 500,000 the generals set as a target during Visit Myanmar Year. Arrivals through September 2001 were running at about the same pace, according to the Pacific Asia Travel Association.
"We have come to a sad state in the tourism industry because of the corruption of the government," said one tour guide, as he sat moodily on a horse-drawn cart, bumping past one of Bagan's breathtaking temples. "We know the political situation has to change for things to improve."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hot-air ballooning over Bagan's temples and pagodas is a popular tourist activity, but one that many democracy advocates in Myanmar deplore. (Angela Tung for The New York Times) Map of Myanmar highlighting Bagan: Bagan is filled with breathtaking Buddhist temples and pagodas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURISM (90%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (89%); ETHICS (88%); LODGING (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); TRENDS (78%); TOUR OPERATORS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (74%); BOYCOTTS (73%); TOUR PACKAGES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); RELIGION (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); POLITICS (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); INTERVIEWS (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (64%); NOBEL PRIZES (64%); TORTURE (63%); HOUSE ARREST (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (57%) LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MYANMAR (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) MYANMAR

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



23 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: The Legacy of Rudy Giuliani 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
How appropriate that your Dec. 28 news article about New York City police officer recruitment problems appeared on the same day as the one about Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's farewell address touting the successes of his administration. While the city as a whole may have prospered during Mr. 
Giuliani's tenure, our vital city employees, like our police officers and teachers, have not.
 Mr. Giuliani has done little to raise these employees' salaries, which drastically trail those in the suburbs and make recruitment far more difficult. Nor has he explained how the city can expect to compete for high-quality employees when much higher pay is available just a short distance away. 
 Of course the mayor should oversee the budget in a responsible manner. But it was irresponsible for him to fail to address these festering problems during a time of economic prosperity and then literally to pass the buck to the next administration.

DANIEL A. SIMON
New York, Dec. 30, 2001













LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



24 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1792 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
AfterTwo-Year Drop in Markets, Calendar Turns on Note of Hope

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The three major stock market averages have now fallen for two consecutive years for the first time since the brutal recession years of 1973 and 1974. But a rally in the final three months helped to create optimism that the worst is over for both stocks and the economy.
 With moderate declines on the final day of the year, the Dow Jones industrial average finished 2001 with a loss of 7.1 percent, the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index fell 13 percent and the Nasdaq composite sank 21.1 percent. 
 "At least for the first half of 2002, the economy will get better, and the stock market will get better," forecast Charles H. Blood Jr., a strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman, stating an opinion that is widely held.
Despite the losses of the last two years, many investors who rode the market through the 1990's remain far ahead of where they were a decade ago. All the major averages are higher than they were in mid-1998. 
Though investors have not pulled out of the market in large numbers, many have become more cautious. Recently they have invested far less in mutual funds than they did earlier, while stepping up their purchases of presumably safer funds that hold corporate bonds or Treasury bonds.
Investors have had reason to worry about stocks. The collapse of Enron was the most prominent disaster of the year, but it was not even close to the biggest dollar loss for shareholders. Enron's market value fell more than $61 billion, a fraction of the $148 billion lost by investors in Cisco Systems, according to calculations by Howard Silverblatt of Standard & Poor's. Five other big companies had steeper declines in market value than Enron did: EMC Networks, Oracle, Nortel Networks, Merck and General Electric.
G.E. fell 16.4 percent, only a bit worse than the S.& P. 500, but as the largest company in America, with a market value of $398 billion, even a small decline produces a large dollar loss for shareholders. Merck, down 37.2 percent, warned that earnings will not grow in 2002. The others are large technology or telecommunications companies whose businesses suffered and whose share price fell by more than half, ranging up to the 79.3 percent fall for EMC, the leading data storage company. Enron's shares fell 99.3 percent. 
The best performer, in total market value, was Microsoft, which gained $123 billion as it managed to avoid the threat of legal dismemberment. I.B.M., the big technology company that seems to have done the best job of riding out an industry downturn, added $62 billion in shareholder value.
The best-performing stock in the S.& P. 500, in terms of percent gain, was Nvidia, a software company that was up 308 percent. The next four companies in S.& P. performance, all up at least 140 percent, were retailers: Office Depot, Autozone, Best Buy and J. C. Penney. Of those, all but Autozone were bouncing back from sharp declines and remain below where they were in earlier years.
The recent rally began after the stock market bottomed on Sept. 21, in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks. The best performances during the rally came from stocks that tend to rise and fall with the economy, including technology stocks. The Nasdaq composite turned in its second-best quarter ever in the last three months, rising 30.1 percent.
The rally was so strong that the Russell 2000, an index of relatively small companies, ended the year with a 1 percent gain. It was the only significant index to rise for the year, and its performance could presage a return to leadership by smaller companies.
"The market has a head of steam" and is likely to go higher early in 2002, said Steven Leuthold of Leuthold & Company, a money manager based in Minneapolis. The valuations of smaller companies remain far lower than those of most large ones, he said, adding that in the next bear market big companies were likely to suffer far more.
If the recession that began last spring turns out to be a normal one in duration, and if the recovery is also in line with the historical norm, then investors seem likely to be rewarded for their optimism. That is the prevalent view on Wall Street, where it is recalled that sustained declines for the major stock market averages are rare. The most recent period when the Dow and Standard & Poor's 500 fell for three consecutive years was 1939 to 1941.
For 2001, the Dow's recent recovery took it from a 23.6 percent decline through Sept. 21 to a loss of just 7.1 percent. That follows a 6.2 percent decline in 2000.
The Dow's recovery was helped by strong performance from economically sensitive stocks. Three of the 30 Dow components -- Intel, Home Depot and Citigroup -- gained more than 50 percent in the rally.
The S.& P. 500, which has a smaller representation of stocks that are particularly sensitive to the economy, fell further earlier in the year and recovered less at the end, to finish off 13 percent in 2001 after dropping 10.1 percent in 2000.
The Nasdaq composite, which was the star of the bull market with its technology companies, also managed to stage a strong revival after Sept. 21. But it had fallen so far early in the year that it ended down 21.1 percent for 2001, compared with a fall of 39.3 percent the previous year. 
But the rally left the index with a gain of 30.1 percent in the final quarter, a performance topped only by the 48.2 percent gain in the last three months of 1999, as the Internet bubble was nearing its peak in the spring of 2000. 
Stocks showed small declines for most of yesterday -- a day many investors treated as a holiday -- before widening their losses in the final hour. The Dow, S.& P. and Nasdaq indexes all ended the day down at least 1 percent.
For the year, the S.& P. closed up or down at least 1 percent on 42 percent of the trading days, up from 40 percent in 2000, for the greatest volatility since 1974. The Nasdaq moves exceeded 1 percent on 68 percent of the days, making it the second most volatile year for that index, behind the 75 percent in 2000.
If the recession is nearing an end, then the two forces that deserve the most credit for keeping the downturn narrow will be the Federal Reserve, which cut interest rates 11 times during the year, and American consumers, whose innate optimism surprised many forecasters both before and after Sept. 11.
The housing market, which in previous recessions generally suffered quickly and deeply, seems likely to emerge barely scathed. In fact, 2001 may end up setting a record for home sales. Similarly, the automakers offered discounts -- partly through zero-percent financing -- that wiped out their profits, but kept car sales surprisingly strong.
The fact that the consumer did not give in also makes it less likely that consumer spending will rebound sharply in the early months of the recovery. That makes it more likely that the recovery will be less vigorous than in the past.
One factor that could keep consumer spending relatively strong, however, is a continued belief that the boom was a normal time, not an extraordinary one. 
"If households expect the type of financial-asset returns that occurred in the 1980's and 1990's, then they may see little need for a higher savings rate," said William C. Dudley, chief United States economist at Goldman, Sachs. He noted that investors who split their money between large stocks and long-term corporate bonds would have earned an average annual return of 16 percent from 1982 through 1999. 
Mr. Dudley says that even assuming a good economy, the annualized return on such a portfolio will probably average 7 percent to 8 percent in the future. If so, consumers may conclude they need to save more -- thus depressing current economic activity -- to finance their retirement plans. But that adjustment is likely to be a prolonged one.
The declines in the stock market, while they have gone on for two years, are not that severe by one measure. At the lows in 1974, the Dow and S.& P. had fallen to their lowest levels since 1962, and a whole generation of investors had losses on their investments. At the lows of 2001, all major indexes were higher than they had been in early 1998. A three-year low seems far less daunting than a 12-year one.
In the late 1990's, a belief that the economy was entering an age of rapid productivity gains helped to spur the bull market. The Federal Reserve, which came to believe in the productivity story, has continued to forecast that it will soon resume.
"This is an incredibly important issue," said Stephen King, an economist with HSBC in London. "If growth rebounds after the latest downswing and the U.S. economy delivers a continuation of the growth rates of the late 1990's, then we will truly be in a new golden era. At least some of the rapid gains in equity prices seen in the late 1990's will have been justified."
If growth does not rebound, some of the assumptions of the late boom could come under question, leading to greater investor disenchantment with the stock market. But it seems likely that it will be many months, at the earliest, before there is a clear answer to that question.
It is not only the stock market that now seems to be confident of a recovery. The corporate bond market also seems to have concluded that things are looking up. Credit spreads -- the difference between yields on corporate bonds and Treasuries of similar maturities -- have narrowed and long-term interest rates declined only slightly for the year, despite the Fed's aggressive easing.
One difference between the current recession and the one that ended a decade ago is that the financial system appears to be in much better shape. No large banks are viewed as being in trouble, while many seemed shaky then. Thus they are in better position to lend to companies with good prospects. Credit for companies with high credit ratings remains plentiful in the capital markets, although it is difficult for companies with poor credit to borrow.
Many of the excesses of the late 1990's, particularly in the telecommunications industry, were financed by the bond market and even by equipment suppliers, rather than by banks. Still, many of those excesses are being worked through, and banks are suffering from them. 
Last week Global Crossing, which built a fiber optic network largely on borrowed money, staved off a bankruptcy filing by persuading banks that are owed $2.25 billion of its $11 billion in debt to waive provisions in their credit agreements. Global Crossing stock fell 94 percent in 2001, ending the year at 84 cents. It peaked in 1999 at $64.25. 
The prevailing mood on Wall Street is that while there are companies like Global Crossing that may be permanently damaged, the American economy will rebound and most stocks will do quite well in 2002 and beyond. As the new year begins, there is optimism.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) ChartAfter several years of solid gains, stock markets have had their second consecutive down year. Graphs track the Dow Industrials, Standard & Poor's 500, and Nasdaq Composite gains from 1997 to 2001.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. A1) Chart: "Before and After"Major market indexes hit their lows of the year on Sept. 21, shortly after the markets reopened following the terrorist attacks. Since then, stocks have rallied strongly, paring their losses for the year. Dow IndustrialsPERFORMANCEJAN. 1 - SEPT. 21: -23.6% PERFORMANCESEPT. 21 - DEC. 31: +21.7% PERFORMANCEFULL YEAR: -7.1% Standard & Poor's 500PERFORMANCEJAN. 1 - SEPT. 21: -26.8 PERFORMANCESEPT. 21 - DEC. 31: +18.9 PERFORMANCEFULL YEAR: -13.0 Nasdaq CompositePERFORMANCEJAN. 1 - SEPT. 21: -42.4 PERFORMANCESEPT. 21 - DEC. 31: +37.0 PERFORMANCEFULL YEAR: -21.1 Russell 2000PERFORMANCEJAN. 1 - SEPT. 21: -21.6 PERFORMANCESEPT. 21 - DEC. 31: +28.9 PERFORMANCEFULL YEAR: +1.0(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4) Chart: "Another Volatile Year"The Nasdaq composite declined 21.1 percent in 2001, a year only slightly less volatile than 2000. It moved up or down at least 1 percent on two-thirds of the trading days. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 13 percent, in what proved to be its most volatile year since 1974. Graph tracks yearly change in volatility and performance of the Nasdaq* and S. & P. 500 from 1971 through 2000. *Index began Feb. 5, 1971.(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets, Standard & Poor's)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); CORPORATE BONDS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (82%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); NVIDIA CORP (50%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (54%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); NVDA (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (50%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (50%)

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002 



25 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: WINE TALK; 
A Back Story and a Happy Ending

BYLINE:  By Frank J. Prial

 BODY:
AT the Los Angeles County Fair wine tastings a few years back, we judges would tear through 100 cabernets in the morning, take a break, and come back for 90 zinfandels in the afternoon. That's a good five hours in an ugly room, sniffing, tasting and scribbling notes. When it was over, we were, let me tell you, exhausted. 
 How did we recuperate? We'd return to our hotel, flop in deck chairs and -- yes -- open a couple of bottles of wine. What was the difference? The place, the people, the time. Sure, wine can be analyzed and critically judged. But to be truly enjoyed, it must be a part of life. 
 I was thinking of making a list of wines I really liked last year when it occurred to me that, out of context, my list would read like a railroad timetable. Missing was what movie people call the back story.
For example, one of the most memorable wines was a simple Bourgogne rouge from Nicolas Potel at a restaurant called Les Fermes de Marie, at Megeve in the French Alps. I was in the area to write an article on Marc Veyrat, at his far more famous restaurant, La Ferme de Mon Pere. Each Veyrat meal was pure theater, with expensive wines in major supporting roles. But the Potel wine in a more modest restaurant with a simple meal -- roast chicken -- is the one I remember best. Nicolas Potel is the son of the late Gerard Potel, once head of the legendary Domaine de la Pousse d'Or in Volnay. He makes his wines from purchased grapes, but what delicious wines they can be. This simple red Burgundy was the perfect uncomplicated wine for a relaxed lunch in a modest country restaurant away from the stagey pressures of the three-star place further up the mountain.
More recently, in the Napa Valley in California, I sampled a delicious Joel Gott zinfandel recommended by a bartender at Don Giovanni in Napa. Delicious. I had a glass of it the next day at Tra Vigne. A good zinfandel. But more than that, one of my favorites, years ago, was a zinfandel nuevo from Montevina made by Joel's father, Cary Gott. The back story makes it more fun. 
Again in France, in St.-Emilion, I had a chance to drink the 1998, 1982 and 1953 vintages of Chateau Figeac. Not in a drab tasting room, clipboard at the ready, but at lunch on the lawn at Figeac with Thierry Manoncourt, the owner and one of the great gentlemen of Bordeaux. Clever people, the Bordelais. They stage things so well that their wines can't help tasting good. As Clive Coates has written about the chateau: "Figeac gives the impression of space, money and established aristocracy. There is nothing rustic or arriviste about Figeac." Oh yes. Of the three, the '82 was easily my favorite.
A Guigal Cotes-du-Rhone is always a good bet, but one I shared with Jancis Robinson, the English wine writer, and her husband, Nick Lander, at the Brasserie Balzar in Paris struck us all as particularly good. Was it? With a great dinner at Balzar, it certainly seemed so. 
Then there was the delightful Beringer Knight's Valley cabernet sauvignon I enjoyed on a nighttime Air France flight from New York to Paris. Once, Air France served decent wine, even in economy. No longer. The quality of their wine has shrunk even faster than the size of their seats. This was wine I had poured into a clean plastic mineral water bottle and carried on board with me. Somehow, the bit of subterfuge made a good wine seem even better. The crew never complained; I'm sure they were ashamed of what they were required to serve.
Not all wine needs a Hollywood backdrop to be outstanding. At home, I've been enjoying some of the new -- to me -- Beaujolais producers and dipping into the wines of southern Italy, a vinous treasure trove if there ever was one. Louis Jadot, a prominent Burgundy house, has been exploring single-vineyard Beaujolais at its Chateau des Jacques in Romaneche-Thorins. I particularly liked a Moulin-a-Vent from La Roche, one of the chateau's five vineyards. Moulin-a-Vent at its best is as good as Beaujolais gets; some of the other people making memorable ones are Jacky Janodet and Alfred Bertolla at the Domaine de Granit. 
Which is not to slight the old master, Georges Duboeuf. One night we opened a magnum of his '95 Moulin-a-Vent that had been aged in oak barrels. What an exciting wine. It had richness, depth and a long finish. Mr. Duboeuf is known for his light-hearted, easy to drink wines; it was obvious that he has other tricks up his sleeve.
As for those southern Italian gems, it's hard to know where to begin. Abruzzi, Calabria, Puglia, Sicily and Sardinia have become a cornucopia of great, reasonably priced wines. Almost any Montepulciano d'Abruzzo is worth sampling; I liked one from Masciarelli. Cosimo Taurino's Notarpanaro, from Puglia, joins his earlier success in this country, Salice Salentino, to make two delicious reds at bargain prices. From Apollonio, another producer in Puglia, I tried and liked a primitivo, which may be the ancestor of our own zinfandel. 
I was ready to forget about the "nouveau" season, which usually lasts only through the end of the year, when I got a surprise, an authentic nouveau gewurztraminer from California. Called New Gewurz, it comes from the Alexander Valley Winery in Sonoma County and is one of the best gewurztraminers I've tasted from this country. I had always liked the ones made by Lenz Vineyards on Long Island and Navarro Vineyards in Mendocino County in California. But this wine had the richness I usually associate with the Hugels or the Zind-Humbrechts in Alsace. Not at all complex, it is a bright, cheery wine with enough acid to keep things lively. We enjoyed it just the other day. A nice way to end a troubled year. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Rollin McGrail) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); WINE (90%); MOUNTAINS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); BOURGOGNE, FRANCE (79%); ALPS (75%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002 



26 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1677 words

HEADLINE: The Poetry of the Nuyorican Experience; 
Writers Following in the Literary Tradition of Miguel Pinero Thrive in a Poets' Cafe

BYLINE:  By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
"Where are my boricuas?" Anthony Morales shouted during a recent Friday night poetry slam at the Nuyorican Poets Cafe, asking for the Puerto Ricans in the house.
 The ethnically mixed, gentrified crowd at this legendary Lower East Side space may not have known it, but Mr. Morales was paying homage in his poem to the founders of the stage where he stood, to those 
 stoned crazy prophets of revolution,
giving poetic solutions to political pollution,
organizing rhythmic confusion of assimilation
to this untied states nation of eggs, cheese and bacon upon wakin'. 
One of those prophets was the poet and playwright Miguel Pinero. He is the subject of "Pinero," a new film starring Benjamin Bratt that has put the spotlight on the Nuyorican poets' scene, which came into being in the 1960's and 70's and is still going strong as the popularity of poetry surges nationwide.
Though Mr. Morales, a 21-year-old Bronx native majoring in English and Latino studies at Columbia University, may be far removed from the heroin-infested, crime-ridden, self-destructive world of Pinero, he nevertheless belongs to the same literary tradition, born of the Puerto Rican experience in the United States. "My poetry is about trying to make sense of the world, of being a young Puerto Rican male," Mr. Morales said. "We have incredible stories we got to tell."
In 1974 the story Pinero told in "Short Eyes," a prison drama presented by Joseph Papp's Public Theater and at Lincoln Center, won the New York Drama Critics Circle Award for best American play. It was developed in a workshop at the Ossining Correctional Facility (Sing Sing), where he was serving time for armed robbery. That year Pinero, known as Miky, was one of the founders of the Nuyorican Poets Cafe; he died of cirrhosis of the liver in 1988, when he was 41.
His poetry, with verses in both English and Spanish, had a strong political and social foundation, using the language of the street to document urban and prison reality. What became the Nuyorican poets' movement was influenced by Beat writers like Jack Kerouac, firebrand black poets like Amiri Baraka and Puerto Rico's oral poetry traditions. And it was informed by the discrimination, segregation and other harsh experiences suffered by Puerto Ricans who settled in New York.
In the spoken word, the Nuyoricans, or Puerto Rican New Yorkers, embraced identity and culture.
"We were coming out of the 60's, and there was a switch from self-hate to self-love," said Sandra Maria Esteves, 53, a published poet born in the Bronx to a Puerto Rican father and a Dominican mother and who, along with Pinero, was one of the founding poets of the Nuyorican movement. "That was an important marker for us. Embrace who we are. That was very different from the messages I got when I was growing up."
Today Nuyorican poetry can range from sonnets to the frenzied verses of competitive slams, and its themes are universal: the politics of daily life, sex and love, discovery of self. The poets function in a less cohesive, more glamorized setting than in Pinero's days. This is now poetry promoted by hip-hop and delivered in a more theatrical, performance-oriented way, which some Nuyorican poets criticize as being more often about entertaining and shocking an audience than about self-expression.
Miguel Algarin, the primary founder of the Nuyorican Poets Cafe, says poetry today takes place in a more integrated setting. "For once," he said, "America is truly brought together into one from its myriads of ethnicities -- 10,000 ethnicities become sharply focused into an art form, and ironically, the North American Puerto Rican, the Nuyorican, has become the mainstream of American poetry." 
But a preoccupation with the Puerto Rican condition still anchors Nuyorican poetry and gives it its bite, as it did 30 years ago.
Many young Nuyorican writers said they were driven to poetry by racist encounters in mostly white schools, by witnessing injustices suffered by family members or neighbors at the hands of the police, landlords or welfare workers, and by the need to express themselves, "to prove," as one poet said, "that I was a human being."
Some noted parallels to black and Chicano poetry.
"This is a survival thing," said Willie Perdomo, 34, a Nuyorican poet, who said he had his share of rough times while growing up in East Harlem. "When you see things that are wrong, you want to say it's wrong. It's a raw language for a raw experience."
Questions of identity are also thoroughly explored. In a poem called "Ode to the Diasporican," Maria Teresa Fernandez, a 30-year-old Bronx poet known as Mariposa (Butterfly), takes on those who say she is not "the real thing" because she was not born in Puerto Rico. Puerto Rican, she writes, "is a state of mind, a state of heart, a state of soul."
Even the term Nuyorican has often come to encompass Puerto Rican poets elsewhere in the United States. The winner of this year's individual title at the National Poetry Slam in Seattle was Mayda del Valle, 23, of Chicago, who moved to New York only a year ago and competed as part of the Nuyorican Poets Cafe's team.
She won with two poems: "Descendancy," about the frustrations of being stereotyped and limited by labels, and "Tonguetactics," a defense of Spanglish.
"It's a different experience to be a Puerto Rican from Chicago and a Puerto Rican from New York, but there are similar underlying experiences," Ms. del Valle said. "The sense of not belonging in Puerto Rico and not belonging in the United States is something everyone goes through. I consider myself part of the movement and I definitely feel the connection."
The Nuyorican Poets Cafe is still home for many Nuyorican poets and remains a thriving poetry hub, but its neighborhood has become trendy and expensive and freer of crime and drugs. The cafe has broadened its audience and core way beyond its bohemian Puerto Rican roots. At the recent Friday poetry slam, about 120 people crowded around tables and lined the bar: college-age, beer-drinking, well-behaved Latinos, blacks, whites and Asians.
Nuyorican poets today also read at places like the Point in the Bronx, Bar 13 in Greenwich Village and the Poetry Project at St. Mark's Church in the Bowery. Some earn a living conducting poetry workshops in schools and traveling for readings at colleges; others hold day jobs in the news media and publishing.
And they are often found not only reading but also acting and singing in their own shows and performance pieces. "Spic Chic," a one-man show opening at the Nuyorican Poets Cafe this month, features poetry, music, drama and monologues to portray Puerto Rican pride in surviving life in the United States.
Luis Chaluisan, 44, the show's creator, calls it "the further adventures of an unrepentant Rican with no self-pity."
"You know what a Nuyorican is?" Mr. Chaluisan asked. "It's someone who finds solutions. How do I surmount this?"
But despite the vibrant scene and the poets' increasing opportunities to read, teach and be published, the work remains largely marginalized, some poets said. Most of it is not read by mainstream critics and scholars, does not find its way into major literary journals or magazines that publish poetry and is underrepresented in bookstores, they said.
Martin Espada, 44, who has published six collections of poetry and is a professor of English and Spanish at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, says this situation partly reflects the dearth of Puerto Rican editors in the publishing industry. And he says it might also show distaste for reminders of the poor social and economic conditions many Puerto Ricans have endured in this country.
"Puerto Rican poets are chroniclers," said Mr. Espada, a Brooklyn native who cites as his early influences the novel "Down These Mean Streets," by Piri Thomas; the poem "Puerto Rican Obituary," by Pedro Pietri; and "Short Eyes," which was later made into a film.
"We write about the same things everybody writes about," he said. "The difference is that the people who populate our poems suffer from the system that we live under rather than benefit from it; therefore our work is considered political."
Nuyorican poets have expressed a wide range of opinions on "Pinero," written and directed by Leon Ichaso ("El Super," "Crossover Dreams").
Founders and veterans of the Nuyorican Poets Cafe, like Mr. Algarin and Mr. Pietri, who also appear in the movie, attended its premiere last month in New York. Some, like Ms. Esteves and Mr. Espada, criticized the choice of Pinero as a subject, noting that there were other worthy poets with less sensational lives, or who transcended drugs or other problems and did not die young.
"Hollywood and Broadway gave us 'West Side Story,' " Mr. Espada said. "Decades go by, and what did we get? We got 'Capeman.' Why is it that our hero has to die in the end?"
Many other poets, however, said they were moved and energized by the film, which not only recognizes an American literary movement but gives younger generations a sense of being part of a continuum.
"It was validating in saying we exist," Mariposa said. "Not only are we still here, but we have a tradition and a history."
Among some of these younger Nuyorican poets, Pinero remains an icon.
"The language that he used was his biggest influence," Mr. Perdomo said. "He made the street come alive. You could hear people on the street talking the same way. He represented poets who were giving voice to the voices."
Now Mr. Perdomo and his peers are forging their own legacy. A manager at Henry Holt & Company who has published one poetry collection and a children's book in verse, Mr. Perdomo said he wrote with a sense of threat, as the Puerto Rican population in New York shrinks.
"Puerto Ricans on the Lower East Side are being pushed toward the river," he said. "People are moving back to Puerto Rico. A lot of the writing is coming from a sense of urgency."
His goal, he said, was "to leave a solid body of work behind, so that that kid on 110th Street can go to the library and have his world turned upside down and find a voice."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Benjamin Bratt playing the title role in the new film "Pinero." (Abbot Genser); Willie Perdomo, 34, a Nuyorican poet who has published two books, gives a reading at the Young Women's Leadership School of East Harlem. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. E3); The Nuyorican Poets Cafe, top, lures young writers like Anthony Morales, left. Above, Sandra Maria Esteves, center, a founder, with the poets Mayda del Valle, left, and Mariposa. (Susan Farley for The New York Times); (Left and above, Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times); Miguel Pinero in 1974, the year he helped found the Nuyorican Poets Cafe and his play "Short Eyes" won an award. (Bob Greene)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POETRY (92%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); PRISONS (69%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (67%); RACE & RACISM (65%); ROBBERY (62%); LIVER DISEASE (62%); THEATER (56%); HEROIN (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) PUERTO RICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002 



27 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: More Homeless Youth 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Homelessness in New York" (editorial, Dec. 27): 
 New York's estimated 10,000 throwaway or runaway youths are a contingent of the city's homeless that is too often neglected. 
Many are too old for foster care and too young for the adult homeless system. As family and child homelessness increases in this economic downturn, the need for comprehensive homeless youth services -- and user-friendly delivery systems -- has never been greater. 
 If the status quo continues, more homeless youth will be locked into cycles of poverty, incarceration, homelessness and dependency. The costs to communities, the government and society at large will only escalate as homeless youth become homeless adults.

BEVERLY BROOKS
Director, Safe Space
New York, Dec. 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (97%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002 



28 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
A Family in Distress Learns to Communicate Again

BYLINE:  By AARON DONOVAN

 BODY:
Lisa Sam returned home from school one day in March 1998 and thought something was wrong.
 "I heard stomping upstairs," she said. "My father was like, 'Go get some water!' " 
 There was a fire burning in her family's house in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. 
Wellington Sam Jr., Lisa's father, tried to put out the fire, first by stomping on it, then with water, but it quickly raged out of control.
He got out safely with Lisa, and the two watched firefighters work from across the street. The top floor of the two-story row house was gutted, and the rest of it was soaked with water. 
Mr. Sam and his wife, Elizabeth, along with their four daughters -- Lisa, Victoria, Cassandra and Veronica, and a son, Darryl, (now 17, 15, 12, 10 and 8, respectively) -- were without a place to live. The Red Cross helped them find lodging in a motel in Sheepshead Bay, and for two months they lived with difficulty in two adjoining rooms. 
"With the fire we became angry with each other," said Victoria, now a 10th grader at the Cobble Hill School for American Studies. "We were angry with the fact that we didn't have a place to live, and we took it out on each other."
Times were particularly difficult for Mr. Sam. His father, Wellington Sam Sr., had had a series of strokes and a bleeding ulcer. Feeling overwhelmed by events beyond his control, the younger Mr. Sam left his family and moved in with his ailing father, who lived in a Bedford-Stuyvesant brownstone.
Mr. Sam lived there until December 1999, when his father died at age 94. Then he moved into his van, which he parked on Eastern Parkway in Crown Heights near his office in downtown Brooklyn. Mr. Sam was a fire safety supervisor at 1 Metrotech Plaza, where he worked the graveyard shift.
Some months later, a guidance counselor at Public School 308 in Bedford-Stuyvesant suggested that Veronica, now a fifth grader there, could use counseling. She referred Veronica to the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service, one of the seven local charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
The bureau determined that the whole family needed counseling. "The family really didn't know how to communicate with each other," said Laurel Stanley Glynn, a counselor. "One of the first things I did was to help them realize that Veronica was not the issue, but was a symptom of what was going on with the family."
After about a year of counseling, the relationships between the family members improved, the Sams said. "It doesn't happen suddenly," Mr. Sam said. "You come to realize that the entire family is sitting down and there's no arguments, there's no name calling, there's no bringing up of past memories."
Victoria said: "It's much quieter. There's not much name calling going on. Everyone is on a whole new level of niceness."
That familial niceness has been strained again more recently by more difficulties. Mrs. Sam has not had a job since September, the last time she worked as a substitute teacher. For 19 years, she had worked at Bear Stearns, but quit her job as a microfilm technician there in 1999 when she was demoted after an argument with a co-worker. She is now collecting unemployment insurance benefits of $69 a week.
Mr. Sam, too, began collecting unemployment, after he was laid off from his job. His van was impounded last January because he had a large number of unpaid parking tickets, and he moved into a homeless shelter.
Mr. Sam gives his family $160 a month, but the family continues to struggle financially. Until recently, the girls were sleeping on bunk beds that Ms. Glynn, the counselor from Brooklyn Bureau, said were broken.
So Ms. Glynn paid for new beds for some of the children with money from the Neediest Cases Fund. She also gave the family money for a new sofa to replace an old tattered couch.
Ms. Glynn used $1,200 for three new beds -- for Cassandra, Victoria and Veronica -- a new dresser for Darryl, who did not have one, and for the sofa. She also paid $1,350 for one month's rent and security deposit for Mr. Sam so he could move out of the shelter where he was living and into an apartment of his own in Bedford-Stuyvesant.
Now, Mr. Sam said, he can start looking for work with renewed vigor. "Realistically, we're separated," he said. "I see my kids as often as I can. But I have to realize I'm outside the family. First I have to get employment that supports my obligations to myself and my obligations to the family."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK*
FDR Station
P.O. Box 5314
New York, N.Y. 10150

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $5,826,887.18
Recorded Friday: 85,757.11

Total: $5,912,644.29
At similar period last year: $6,686,759.05

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elizabeth, left, and Wellington Sam Jr., right, with four of their five children. From left, Victoria, Veronica, Darryl and Lisa. (Kelly Guenther for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); FIRES (77%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (72%); CHARITIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: SERVICE ONE (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002 



29 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Top Secret Memo 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

 BODY:
 To: Abdiqassim Salad Hassan, transitional president of Somalia
From: Transitional Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Somalia
 Somalia's most urgent priority at the moment is to get bombed by the Americans. Then maybe somebody will finally start paying attention (and money) to our country.
Fortunately, it seems likely that the Americans may oblige -- although there is always the risk that they will get mixed up and hit Somaliland or Sierra Leone instead. Washington is thinking about the next stage in its war on terrorism, and in the search for a target that all players can agree on, these supposed terrorist training camps in Somalia keep coming up.
American knowledge of Somalia is based almost entirely on "Black Hawk Down," now playing at cinemas. It leaves viewers strongly supportive of dropping conventional or nuclear weapons on Somalia.
(Indeed, it's hard to think of a Westerner who has really understood our country since Sir Richard Burton sneaked inside, in 1854. And, considering what he wrote about the sexual practices of our women -- even if he wrote in an admiring tone -- he studied us with rather too much enthusiasm.)
Of course, our government has hitherto publicly opposed being bombed. We have used various arguments against bombing, noting that if our feeble government were toppled and total chaos reigned, then Somalia could become an even greater breeding ground for terrorism.
We have invited Americans to inspect for themselves. Indeed, it would be nice if American officials dared to come, joining us for a traditional Somali breakfast of camel liver and then chewing khat and getting high together, for a mellow discussion of international terrorism. But it seems unlikely.
So let us adopt a new tactic. If some suspected training camps in the desert are to be bombed, let us embrace that fate. Frankly, there is nothing here left to be destroyed. 
The reality is that our transitional government, only a year old, is already falling apart. We are broke and have not paid police or soldiers for three months. Our biggest company, Al Barakaat, has been shut down because Washington claims it was financing terrorists. 
Somalia's greatest problem is that it has been forgotten by the West. Here we are, arguably the poorest and most devastated country in the world, three-quarters of our population malnourished, only 14 percent of our children going to elementary school, our own "national" government ruling only half of this one city of Mogadishu, and we can't get any assistance.
We can call our strategy the Manila Method. The Philippines had a long-running, annoying insurgency in the south, and for years the Americans paid no heed. But then Manila claimed that its insurgency was intimately related to Al Qaeda. 
Bingo -- the Americans condemned this new threat to international security and are helping to eradicate it.
Now in Somalia, everyone is trying to play the Qaeda card. Our enemies, the warlords in the city of Baidoa, are fulminating about the supposed Qaeda networks here, in hopes that the Americans will drop bombs on us. The separatists in Somaliland are offering to help the Americans against us. In the old days, factions in Somalia pretended to be Communist or capitalist to win favors from the superpowers; now they talk about Al Qaeda.
So here is our proposal, Mr. President. We issue a formal invitation to Osama bin Laden to come to Somalia, on behalf of a fictitious warlord in some nearby town -- say, Gialalassi. Then we will announce a few sightings.
The Americans will obligingly drop bombs. At a penny a pound, the scrap metal itself will be a boon to Somalia's economy. And if Osama does come, we can turn him in and claim that $25 million reward.
Then we will announce that Gialalassi has surrendered, and the Americans will arrive to search for Osama. Journalists and aid workers will come, each carrying money belts full of hundred-dollar bills. Foreign exchange reserves will soar. Somalia will be saved.
It may seem strange, Mr. President, that the only way for one of the poorest, most fragile countries in the world to get international help is for it to be linked to terrorism and then bombed. But that is how the world works today. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); WAR ON TERROR (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); AL-QAEDA (70%); POLICE FORCES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (73%) SOMALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); PHILIPPINES (92%); SOMALILAND (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002 



30 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: THE MAYORAL TRANSITION: TAKING OFFICE; 
New Leaders Say Fiscal Belts Are on the Last Notch

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
While New York City's top three elected officials took their oaths of office yesterday, promising to repair the city's economy, fix the school system and create housing for working families, dozens of new members of the City Council looked on and braced themselves for the hard choices ahead.
 "As we tackle the financial challenges before us, we should not abandon our values or our priorities," William C. Thompson Jr., the new comptroller, said in his inaugural address. "We must be mindful of not sacrificing our long-term health to meet short-term needs." 
 Precisely how the City Council and the Bloomberg administration will do this remains to be seen. For the fiscal year beginning in July, the city faces a $4 billion budget gap -- nearly 10 percent of the entire budget. 
The comptroller's office and the office of the public advocate, Betsy Gotbaum, were already facing budgetary troubles before Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, in his inaugural address, challenged them to reduce their staffs by 20 percent. Mr. Thompson and Ms. Gotbaum both suggested that it would be nearly impossible to perform their basic functions if they accepted the mayor's challenge. 
Mr. Thompson said his office had already undergone a cut of about that magnitude over the last year and his office might have trouble performing its legally mandated functions to monitor city spending and contracts. 
And several City Council members said they were not sure that it would be wise to make the cuts. "It is nice to be able to say things, but we've got to make sure that we can do them so that the city can run," said Helen Foster, who took over her father's seat in the Bronx. "We need to get in. We need to actually start the business running, going, and find out if in fact it is doable. And right now, at this point, I can't say that it is. Most City Council members have been working with shoestring staff, and so when you talk about cutting, we all kind of, you know, held our breath, like, 'You've got to be joking.' "
Bill de Blasio, a council member from Brooklyn, said that if the 20 percent reduction freed money for education and served people, the cuts could be good. But he cautioned that while the central staff of the Council could withstand the trim, individual members' offices could not. "The bottom line is you can't cut the member offices without really undercutting local service to communities," Mr. de Blasio said.
Several members of the new government said yesterday that the shortage of funds created problems within their own offices and affected the city's ability to deliver services. Officials and others emphasized the need to focus on education, housing and economic development in poor neighborhoods, issues that were campaign priorities before the terrorist attack of Sept. 11.
"The thing that's going to be the most challenging is to navigate the very rough economic times but at the same time make sure that the most vulnerable in New York are able to get services that they need," said Dr. Irwin Redlener, president of the Children's Health Fund and the Children's Hospital at Montefiore, who has worked with the new administration on health issues. Somehow, he said, officials "have to make the city economically promising while also ensuring that the basic safety net gets repaired and actually enhanced at a time when resources are going to be limited."
One way to do that, officials suggested, would be to more fully involve nongovernment groups in performing government services. In his inaugural speech, Mr. Thompson said he would "seek out new and more creative ways of leveraging public and private partnerships for the common good," adding that he would find "new ways to invest in our neighborhoods" to create low-cost housing, boost economic development and increase jobs.
Like Mr. Thompson, Ms. Gotbaum said her job was now even more important, because in a time of economic difficulty, "you need the public advocate here to watch and see who's falling through the cracks."
For example, Ms. Gotbaum said, agency heads in the new administration may be unaware of funds available to them. "That's a role for the public advocate to go and say, 'We'd like to work with you to get that,' " she said.
A group of council members is already at work on a similar agenda. Brought together by the Working Families Party, a political party founded largely by unions, the group includes incumbents like Christine Quinn, Philip Reed and Bill Perkins, all of Manhattan, as well as newcomers like Mr. de Blasio, Gale Brewer of Manhattan and G. Oliver Koppell of the Bronx. Hoping to form a progressive caucus within the Council, the group has developed a list of what it calls common-sense proposals for the new administration. Its agenda focuses on aggressively pursuing state and federal funds already earmarked for certain programs, like grants under Temporary Assistance to Needy Families and the Workforce Investment Act, and to make sure that more eligible families take advantage of school lunch programs, food stamps and the earned-income tax credit.
For her part, Ms. Gotbaum outlined ways to do more with scarce resources. She said she would try to expand her office's ombudsman function by working with the complaint divisions in place at various city agencies. She also suggested that she would accept help from New Yorkers who want to volunteer.
"One valuable legacy of the tragedy is the tremendous reservoir of good will among New Yorkers," Ms. Gotbaum said. "We all want to lend a hand in rebuilding our home. I intend to use my office to tap into this good will, to offer New Yorkers a way according to their talents and abilities to pitch and speed our recovery." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); FAMILY (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002 



31 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1731 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK: Markets & Investing; 
Prognosis for Stocks Brightens After 2 Years of Big Declines

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
FOR investors, 2002 should be better than 2001.
 Of course, that prediction is not exactly going out on a limb. Despite a rally in the fall, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended 2001 down 13 percent, the second straight year the index fell more than 10 percent. The Nasdaq composite index, which includes many computer and biotechnology stocks, performed even more poorly, giving up 21.1 percent after a 39.3 percent loss in 2000. 
 So investors, like all Americans, can be forgiven for wanting to put 2001 behind them. And with the possibility of an economic recovery early this year, the outlook for stocks appears solid, at least for the next couple of months. 
But analysts warn investors not to get too giddy. Although the economy and corporate profits will probably be growing again soon, the rate of growth may be lower than investors expect. As a result, stocks will rise only moderately this year, they say.
"It is a foregone conclusion, unless something comes totally off the radar screen, that there will be both an economic and a profit recovery before the end of the first half" of the year, said Charles Pradilla, the chief market strategist for SG Cowen. "But there may be some disappointment with the vigor of the recovery. We are not going to get the terrific profit rebound that we were expecting." Like many strategists, Mr. Pradilla forecasts that the S.& P. 500 will end 2002 at around 1,250, a gain of 8.9 percent from its current level of 1,148.08.
The year just past offers reasons for both optimism and fear. The decline in the S.& P. 500 and the enormous losses suffered by many technology investors are proof that stocks can be dangerous, especially for investors who take on too much risk or use margin loans to increase their leverage.
But as they examine their year-end mutual fund and brokerage statements, shareholders might be wise to remember that 2001 could have been much worse. Over the last three months, the stock market has rewarded the optimists, including many small investors, who kept faith in the resiliency of the economy after Sept. 11.
Since their lows of late September, the Dow Jones industrial average and S.& P. 500 have both gained about 20 percent, while the Nasdaq composite index, which contains most big technology stocks, has risen 37 percent. Almost no one expected stocks to recover as quickly as they have, especially given the failure of Congress to pass a stimulus package to aid the economy. But it now appears as though the economy will pull itself out of recession no matter what Washington does.
Housing construction remains very strong, for example, and consumer spending across the board seems solid, though not great. After plunging in September and October and dipping in November, consumer confidence recovered strongly in December. Initial claims for unemployment benefits are dropping, although they remain high.
Even the technology sector seems to be bottoming out after a yearlong slump. Over the last month, several leading technology companies -- including Cisco Systems, the leading maker of Internet equipment, and Nokia, the Finnish cellular phone company -- have reported that business is better than analysts expected.
"The transition from recession to recovery will start in the spring," said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at the PNC Financial Services Group, which manages more than $300 billion in bonds and stocks.
The recovery is being driven by the Federal Reserve, which cut short-term interest rates 11 times last year, and by plunging prices for oil and natural gas, said Tobias M. Levkovich, equity strategist of Salomon Smith Barney. The combination of lower rates and lower energy prices gives consumers and business more money to spend on other goods and services, helping to stimulate the economy.
In addition, companies spent much of 2001 working off excess inventories, so even a moderate increase in demand this year will lead to higher production and profits. And with inflation low, the Federal Reserve will face little pressure to increase short-term interest rates when the economy does rally.
"I do think the market has seen the worst and that the tendency for the market will be to grind its way higher," said Gail P. Seneca, chief investment officer of Seneca Capital Management, which manages $15 billion.
Ms. Seneca says that the S.& P. 500 will gain 8 to 10 percent in 2002. She expects stocks of midsize companies -- those valued at $1.5 billion to $5 billion -- to do better, rising as much as 15 percent, and she likes specialty pharmaceutical companies and niche manufacturing companies. Two of her favorites are the SPX Corporation, which makes specialty tools and equipment, and the Biovail Corporation, which creates time-release versions of both branded and generic drugs.
Before investors grow too excited, analysts warn that they should recognize that this year's recovery may not be as strong as other post-recession bounces. Consumers are carrying heavy debt loads and do not have much room to increase their spending, while businesses are still trying to figure out whether the investments they made in computers and Internet equipment at the end of the 1990's were smart. Even with the Fed's rate cuts, corporate spending on computers and communications equipment is 30 percent lower now than at the end of 2000.
Long-term interest rates, which are crucial for both the economy and the stock market, have, meanwhile, crept higher over the last month. After falling as low as 4.18 percent in November, the interest rate on the 10-year Treasury note, a benchmark for mortgages and corporate bonds, had climbed to 5.02 percent on Monday. And short-term interest rates are already so low that the Federal Reserve does not have much room to cut them further. The Fed, the nation's central bank, last month cut its benchmark federal funds rate, the interest charged on overnight loans among banks, to 1.75 percent, the lowest level in four decades.
In addition, investors are generally too optimistic about the speed at which corporate profits will recover after a recession, said Steven Wieting, a senior economist at Salomon Smith Barney. At the end of 1990, the average market strategist estimated that profits for companies in the S.& P. 500 index would rise 14.3 percent in 1991. In fact, profits fell 15.3 percent in 1991.
The consensus for 2002 is for net operating profit of $52.71 per share for the stocks in the S.& P. 500 index, an increase of 16.1 percent, according to analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial/First Call.
Mr. Wieting notes that the S.& P. 500 rallied strongly in 1991 even though profits were far short of expectations. But he warns that a profit shortfall might have more severe consequences in 2002 because stocks are more expensive relative to their earnings than they were a decade ago. The S.& P. 500's price-to-earnings ratio stands today at 25, excluding one-time charges, compared with 15 in January 1991 and a historical average in the mid-teens.
With the S.& P. already expensive, price-to-earnings ratios will probably not expand further, so stocks will rise only as quickly as profits, Mr. Wieting said. "All we've got ahead of us are just expectations of recovery in earnings," he said.
The problem is even more acute in the technology sector, which has had the biggest gains this fall. The stocks of some smaller technology companies have tripled or quadrupled in value since bottoming out in late September. Even giants like Intel have posted gains of 60 percent or more. The average large technology stock now trades at more than 50 times its annual profits, according to Salomon Smith Barney. That is the second-highest level ever, after ratios seen in the fall of 1999.
"There are a number of companies that still have very, very high multiples," said Michelle Clayman, chief investment officer of New Amsterdam Partners, which manages $1.4 billion.
Ms. Clayman said investors seemed to be hoping that technology companies would rapidly return to the sales and profits they posted during the Internet bubble in 1999 and early 2000. "It's very tempting to say tech led the market up in the bull market, so that's where you need to be," Ms. Clayman said. But investors need to recognize that the technology spending bubble is "unlikely to be repeated," she said.
Instead, Ms. Clayman likes capital goods and basic materials companies, as well as some energy companies. Among her top picks is Pogo Producing, a $1.4 billion energy company with wells in the Gulf of Mexico, Texas and Louisiana. Pogo has "nice properties on their own, yet at the same time there's been a lot of consolidation in the oil patch, and this is an acquisition target," she said.
A potential pothole is the declining quality of financial reporting. Investors have largely shrugged off the collapse of Enron, the Houston energy trader that filed for bankruptcy after admitting that it had for years overstated its profits and understated its debts. But if other big companies are forced to restate their earnings or are suddenly denied access to credit, investors' confidence in corporate financial statements could be severely shaken.
In addition, there is a real, but unquantifiable, risk of another major terrorist attack, which could hurt consumer confidence and the economy. Most analysts say they are simply assuming that a second attack will not occur, because they have no way of figuring out what the effects of an attack might be or how likely it is to happen.
Finally, the United States will probably not get much help from either Europe, where growth has been anemic for years, or Japan, where the economy has been mired in a decade-long slump. Nor have overseas stock markets had much appeal for American investors. All the major European markets, as well as those in Japan and Hong Kong, have performed worse than the S.& P. 500 last year.
Despite the possible roadblocks, the combination of low inflation, low energy prices and decent economic growth should produce solid gains for the market this year, Mr. Levkovich of Salomon Smith Barney said. He predicts that the S.& P. 500 could close this year between 1,300 and 1,350, a gain of 13.2 to 17.6 percent, although he is not as sanguine about 2003 and beyond.
"We got ourselves into a mode in the last five years or so that 20 to 25 percent gains were normal," Mr. Levkovich said. "And that's not normal."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christian Northeast) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



32 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK: Markets and Investing; 
Individual Investors, While Chastened, Are Not Giving Up

BYLINE:  By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH 

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH not exactly disillusioned by what happened to his stock portfolio in the sliding markets of 2000 and 2001, David J. Sunseri, perched behind a counter at the Pennsylvania Macaroni Company, his lavishly provisioned food emporium in a commercial area called the Strip, grumbled that it had forced him to rethink the future.
 "Of course, everyone lost money," he said, consoling himself that his adviser, Eric M. Koter of Salomon Smith Barney, moved him substantially out of technology before many of the sector's stocks collapsed, helping to hold the erosion of his various privately managed accounts and mutual funds to about 11 percent from their peaks to post-Sept. 11 lows. Compared with what he paid, he's still comfortably ahead. 
 Still, he cringed at the huge hit -- "my biggest disappointment" -- suffered by the mutual funds earmarked for the education of his children, David Jr., 17, and Elizabeth, 14, and wistfully pointed to his seemingly lost chance of retiring to the golf courses and ski slopes while still in his 40's.
"If things had continued," said Mr. Sunseri, who is 45, "another two years, and I'd be gone" from the family-owned business. 
But Mr. Sunseri, though sobered by the first back-to-back annual declines in major averages since 1973-1974, has not fled from stocks; he remains committed for the long haul.
His portfolio these days contains a bit more cash and a greater proportion of blue-chip companies than it did in the halcyon days of technology start-ups, but neither real estate nor bonds hold much allure for him.
In this, Mr. Sunseri seems to have plenty of company, judging from interviews with numerous investors and brokers in the Pittsburgh area. Scarred but largely unbowed, they say the stock market is still the place to be, even as they acknowledge that the five-year string averaging more than 20 percent annual returns that they enjoyed from 1995 through 1999 was probably a once-in-a-lifetime phenomenon.
The 1990's as a whole, in fact, was the best decade in stock market history. Interest rates fell as inflation remained subdued. Corporate profits and productivity climbed. And investors became convinced that stocks had become such safe investments that they no longer required the higher returns relative to bonds -- what economists call a risk premium -- that stock buyers had traditionally demanded. They bid prices up with abandon.
"People were operating with the view that stock markets always go up, and they didn't go down," said Mike Mortensen, chief executive of the PNC Brokerage Corporation, a bank unit with about 125,000 individual accounts, one-third of them in the Pittsburgh area.
The enthusiasm was such that policy makers in Washington began to contemplate some mechanism for allowing Americans to channel Social Security taxes into stocks, an idea now sidetracked by the market decline and, more recently, by the priority of the campaign against terrorism.
John E. Tiano, a 47-year-old dentist with two offices in the Pittsburgh metropolitan area, shared much of this ebullience, succumbing in late 1998 to what he found to be a surprisingly persistent mania for speculative dot-com and other technology stocks.
"I caught a pretty good wave," he recalled, nearly doubling his substantial net worth within three years before heavy tax bills and the market skid brought him back to reality. Even now, he said, he still enjoys a handsome profit.
Nowadays, with a period of sleepless nights and "a lot of internal turmoil" behind him, Dr. Tiano has cut his stock-market expectations to single-digit percentage growth and added to his relatively modest holdings of municipal bonds. But he remains about 75 percent committed to stocks, down from 90 percent, and harbors particular optimism about biotechnology.
"Over all, investor psychology has, I'm sure, been damaged" by the bear market, he said. "But I'm still heavily invested."
Mr. Mortensen concurred that while investors have gravitated in a conservative direction -- his staff is selling many more fixed annuities these days -- risk aversion has prompted no general exodus from stocks.
"We have not had redemptions in any meaningful way, which is sort of surprising to me," he said, referring to bank-sponsored and other mutual funds. And, he added, in every month for the last two years more people have opened new accounts with PNC's brokerage business than have closed their accounts.
Another local investor who caught Nasdaq fever was Mark Brown, a 43-year-old partner in a company that automates the processing of health care data. He dived heavily into high technology in the middle of 2000 "in part because of all the press it was getting," he said ruefully one rainy night as he waited outside the Benedum Center for the Performing Arts for a performance, appropriately enough, of "Les Miserables." The individual stocks in his portfolio lost 55 percent to 60 percent of their value in the last year, leaving him with paper losses.
"A bit of a frenzy" was how he described the market that lured him into fledgling companies working on such novel products as a blood substitute and an ice-repellent windshield.
But while Mr. Brown holds a bit more cash these days, he has shifted no money to bonds or real estate and has hung on to both his mutual funds -- down about 20 percent last year -- and his shriveled portfolio of individual stocks.
"I'm in it for the long run," he said gamely.
Even Kay Barry, a marketer for a health care company, whose once six-figure portfolio has been savaged by the implosion of CMGI, Enron and other former market darlings, is keeping 60 percent of the remaining "mess" in stocks, down from a former 90 percent.
Despite considerable disillusionment -- Ms. Barry, whose misfortune includes skids of 40 percent to 50 percent in mutual funds, wishes her broker had been able to rein in her wild enthusiasm for highflying technology stocks -- she has no taste for fixed-income investments.
"Bonds, I don't think they're going anywhere," said Ms. Barry, joking that she was drowning her financial sorrow in a drink as she waited for a friend one evening in the lobby of the Omni William Penn Hotel.
"I'm getting into real estate," Ms. Barry said, discussing her main financial adjustment. She now owns one home each in Florida, Virginia and here in Pittsburgh.
Nor do investors show much inclination to retreat to the security of certificates of deposits on which yields are minimal following 11 rate cuts by the Federal Reserve last year. A sign in the window of Fidelity Bank recently advertised a 13-month "C.D. special" offer paying 2.9 percent interest, a return just a percentage point above the current annual inflation rate, and taxable to boot.
Stock-market mutual funds, though enjoying continued inflows of money, have fallen from favor with some investors who wound up with large tax bills last April on distributed profits at a time when their investments had shrunk in value, in many cases severely. "That turned a lot of people off to funds," said Mark C. Sekera, a senior investment adviser in the local office of Charles Schwab. "You see a lot of people now who prefer individual stocks for the control" over the tax consequences when they are ready to cash out.
Discussing the idea of investing Social Security money in stocks, Mr. Brown said, "I was never a fan of this, even when the market was breaking all the records." Losses like those of the last couple years, he added, would probably mean calls for "people to be hung from the highest tree."
Judging by investors in Pittsburgh, where respect for the city's smokestack industrial heritage can still inspire a historic marker for a grease factory, the stock market gyrations have taught or reaffirmed some basic lessons: one is the truism ignored in the late 1990's -- that stocks carry risk; another is that diversification pays; and, less obviously, that allocating a portfolio into various types of investments is far more important than the choice of specific securities.
"Disciplined investors are not disillusioned" about stocks, said David S. Williams, manager of the Salomon Smith Barney office here. People are financially better educated these days, he said, and "they understand you're going to have bad times and good times in the market."

GRAPHIC: Photos: David J. Sunseri, left, had hoped stock market riches would enable him to retire early from his family business on the Strip in Pittsburgh. The market's retreat has changed those plans, but Mr. Sunseri says he remains committed to stocks for the long haul.; Kay Barry, who had major losses in her investments in stocks, is now putting some of her money into real estate, like this property near Pittsburgh. But she says she is keeping 60 percent of her leaner portfolio in stocks, down from 90 percent. (Photographs by Gary Tramontina for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); SPORTS EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); GOLF (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



33 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK; 
Global Oil Glut Contains Subtle Dangers

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE

 BODY:
WHATEVER happened to the energy crisis? Remember those predictions last spring by the Bush administration that unless the United States expanded oil and gas drilling to federally protected lands and encouraged companies to build a power plant a day, American economic might would atrophy?
 The market, it turned out, took care of matters. When demand was high and energy prices rising during the first half of the year, companies responded: 2001 was the first year in a decade that domestic oil production increased, however slightly, the Energy Department said. 
 But the economic slowdown that deepened after the Sept. 11 attacks, particularly the slumps in travel and trade, have created a global oil glut that the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries is struggling to control to prevent prices from tumbling any lower. 
Most people see low energy prices as a boon, but they contain subtle dangers. If the price of oil falls too low, the economies of American allies from Mexico to Saudi Arabia could be threatened and the health of the domestic industry and states like Alaska and Texas eroded.
"The United States isn't just the largest consumer of oil but one of its largest producers, up there with Russia and Saudi Arabia," said Adam E. Sieminski, oil strategist for Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. "If prices fall very low, it will be hard for a lot of American states."
The question that OPEC and the oil companies have been unable to answer is how to smooth the wild swings in the price of oil and the industry's boom and bust cycles. After the economies of Asia collapsed in 1997 and the fallout spread, the price of oil fell to about $10 a barrel by late 1998. On Sept. 20, 2000, it rocketed to $37.20, the highest level since the Persian Gulf war of 1991, only to tumble late last year.
Gasoline prices, which some at midyear predicted would reach $3 a gallon, had dropped below $1 in parts of the United States by December.
OPEC's response has been to try to manage world oil markets, by raising output when demand is high and cutting production when it is low, to keep the price of of crude oil in the OPEC basket within a range of $25 to $28 a barrel.
But OPEC's strategy of keeping oil prices at those relatively high levels eventually backfired. High prices gave non-OPEC exporters, most notably Russia, the cash to repair old wells, drill new ones, and raise overall output. OPEC cut production 3.5 million barrels a day, or 13 percent, throughout 2001 to try to prop up prices, but Russia and others did not. They, in turn, took over the market share that OPEC had relinquished, and prices continued to fall. Last week, with promises of cuts from nonmembers, including Russia, OPEC ministers agreed to reduce the group's production by 1.5 million barrels a day as the new year began.
Any output reductions OPEC makes this year to shore up prices will be passed on to the major oil companies, all of which pump oil in OPEC territory. Typically, OPEC members direct foreign operators of joint ventures in their countries to reduce production first, before cutting their own production.
David J. O'Reilly, the chairman of ChevronTexaco, has said that the company expected to cut production by 40,000 barrels a day, largely at projects in Nigeria and Venezuela, both OPEC members. The amount is small compared with the 2.7 million barrels a day that ChevronTexaco pumps around the world.
Most analysts say that a price of $20 to $23 a barrel would provide ample revenues for producing countries without endangering a global economic recovery.
"From the United States's point of view, $22 or $23 a barrel of oil would be ideal from both perspectives, because the government is thinking about the future of producer countries," said Gerald J. Kepes, a specialist in exploration and production at the Petroleum Finance Company, a Washington consulting group.
Yet oil companies are being cautious about increasing their exploration and production budgets because of falling oil prices and uncertainty surrounding the recovery of the global economy. Light sweet crude ended 2001 at $19.84 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange after tumbling to $17.45 on Nov. 15 from a peak above $32 a barrel early in the year and a post-attack peak of $28.81 on Sept. 17.
According to a survey by Salomon Smith Barney, oil companies increased spending on exploration and production 24.8 percent in 2001, the steepest jump in 20 years. The companies are expected to increase their spending on foreign projects 9.7 percent this year, but spending on domestic exploration and production, especially for natural gas, is expected to fall 14.7 percent. 
But when the economy rebounds, which economists expect to begin this spring, will the domestic oil industry be ready to ramp up oil and gas production? A protracted lag could lead to higher prices again, as demand rises but supplies remain constrained. "We're certainly looking at the boom-and-bust pendulum again." Mr. Sieminski, the Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown oil strategist, said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gasoline could be found for less than $1 a gallon in parts of the country last month. At the start of last summer, there were worries about $3 gas. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times, top; Associated Press, bottom left; Marty Katz for The New York Times, bottom right) Chart: "Reversal"The average daily production of crude oil in the United States rose slightly last year, for the first time since 1991. Graph tracks prouduction of millions of barrels a day from 1990-2001*. *Through Dec. 21, 2001(Source: Energy Information Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MARKET SHARE (70%); DESERT STORM (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



34 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK: Markets & Investing; 
Strong Dollar Erodes Global Investments

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
OH, another year of wondering if the beleaguered euro will finally rally against the dollar. And yes, another year of wondering where the Japanese economy is going and, therefore, wither the Japanese yen.
 Even if sometimes boring, these are important questions for American investors. The strength of the dollar in recent years has eaten into returns, or increased losses, for Americans who are buying stocks and bonds abroad. 
 The bite, which comes when assets in weaker currencies are translated back into stronger dollars, was not that big last year in Europe. The 5.5 percent decline in the euro against the dollar turned a 19.8 percent fall in Germany's benchmark DAX stock index into a drop of 24.1 percent and changed a 26.2 percent plunge in Italy's MIB30 index into a 30.2 percent fall. But in Brazil the pain was more significant. A 16 percent decline in the Brazilian currency, the real, magnified a loss in the country's main stock index, the Bovespa, from 11 percent to 24.9 percent.
While not as bad, the difference to investors in Japanese stocks was nonetheless negative. The 8.7 percent rally of the dollar against the yen since the terrorist attacks has made the loss for American investors in the Nikkei 225 stock index a 33.6 percent decline, rather than a 23.5 percent drop for the Japanese.
The currency news was not all bad, however. In Mexico, a rally of the peso against the dollar increased a 12.7 percent gain in the Bolsa stock index to a 18.5 percent return for American investors.
What is in store for this year? It is difficult to tell because the dollar has had a habit, recently, of defying conventions. As the American economy slowed last year it was thought that the dollar would decline in value. While it weakened some, it still remained relatively strong. After the terrorist attacks, a further decline was expected. But that did not occur -- the dollar is actually slightly stronger against the euro than it was on Sept. 10, and is much stronger against the yen.
On a broader basis, using an inflation-adjusted, trade-weighted dollar against the currencies of the trading partners of the United States, the dollar ended last year at a 12-month average that was the strongest it has been since the 12 months ended in September 1986. That was the end of a period in which the dollar had been its strongest since it began to be freely traded in the early 1970's.
For the year ahead, many analysts expect the dollar to continue to rise in value against the yen. At 131.62 yen per dollar at end of the year, the Japanese currency is already at a three-year low against the dollar.
One reason for the forecast is that the Japanese economy is in recession again and there is no recovery in sight. The second reason is that the Bank of Japan, the nation's central bank, and the government are already driving down the value of the yen. A weaker yen could help a recovery by making Japanese exports cheaper and, therefore, more attractive abroad.
Larry Kantor, global head of foreign exchange strategy at J. P. Morgan, said the dollar could rise to at least 135 yen by the end of 2002. If the Japanese government gets more aggressive in its effort to reduce the value of its currency, the dollar could move even higher, he said.
One check on a tumbling yen could be China, which has already indicated that it is not happy about a cheaper yen. This is because a weaker yen could allow Japanese companies to compete more effectively with Chinese exporters in the world market.
Analysts are uncomfortable forecasting the euro's course this year in part because the past predictions of a strong euro all proved to be wrong. Since its debut, the euro has fallen 23.6 percent in value, including a 5.5 percent fall last year. The good news was that this was the smallest of the three annual declines, and that the lowest low for the euro -- so far -- was hit in 2000.
This is the year the euro, which was born on Jan. 1, 1999, as an accounting unit, actually becomes a tangible currency in 12 countries as banknotes and coins denominated in marks, francs, lire, pesetas, guilders, escudos, punts, markkas, shillings and drachmas finally disappear. But it is not clear that this will make any difference.
Some analysts see the euro declining for a fourth consecutive year. Others said they thought the euro would finally rally, ending the year modestly stronger against the dollar. At the end of 2001, each euro was worth 89.13 United States cents, down from 94.27 cents a year earlier.
Mr. Kantor of J. P. Morgan is in the positive camp, but not because he thinks the euro has suddenly changed and is going to be strong. J. P. Morgan economists have a very weak forecast for the United States economy in the beginning of 2002, and the firm's equity strategist thinks the stock market will do poorly. Because of this, Mr. Kantor believes investors will shy away from American markets, which will mean that European investors will not need to buy as many dollars and so the United States currency will fall in value. He is forecasting the euro at $1 by the spring, an increase of 12.2 percent from the end of 2001. (But that would still leave the euro 16.7 percent below its debut value of $1.16675.)
But when the American economy does turn around later in the year, the dollar will rebound, Mr. Kantor said. So by the end of 2002, he expects the euro to be around 90 cents to 95 cents. At 95 cents, that would be a 6.6 percent jump, a positive year for this beleaguered currency. Mr. Kantor also warns that if the American economy turns out to be stronger than expected, the euro probably will not rally.
As far as other currencies go, there is it likely that Argentina will unhitch its peso from its tie to the dollar and let it float. That would cause the Argentine currency to plunge and the dollar to soar.
But many analysts said that other Latin American countries have detached themselves enough from Argentina's financial and economic problems to avoid having their own currencies hurt by trouble in Buenos Aires. While the Brazilian real fell sharply last year, a strong end-of-the-year rally turned a 31.2 percent decline to 16 percent fall and showed that fallout from Argentina was less dangerous than many investors and economists had feared.
As for the Mexican peso, it had a good year because of the bounce from the new administration of President Vicente Fox. Mexico is also now usually seen as a member of North American Free Trade Agreement rather than a Latin American country. But the rally of 2001 is likely to lose its momentum this year, some analysts said.
So investors cannot expect much help for their foreign investments from the dollar in 2002.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Holding Its Own"Despite the economic downturn and the terrorist attacks, the dollar has been surprisingly resilient. Graph tracks Trade-weighted dollar index from 1985-2001.Weighted average of foreign exchange values of the dollar against currencies of major U.S. trading partners, adjusted for inflation. Graph tracks Euro in dollars from January-December.Scale is inverted to show dollar's rising value. Graph tracks Yen to the dollar from January-December.(Source: Federal Reserve; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EURO (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); RECESSION (78%); BONDS (72%); TERRORISM (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); BRAZIL (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); ITALY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



35 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK: Markets & Investing; 
Oversupply and Slackened Demand Vex Commodity Markets

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
NOWHERE do the laws of supply and demand govern economic activity more nakedly or completely than in the buying and selling of commodities.
 For the most part, commodity prices moved lower for the better part of 2001 because supplies were high, demand contracted and the dollar, the currency in which most commodities are priced, was strong. The outlook for this year is not much different, even if the global economy begins to recover. 
 "In order to have a recovery in prices, we are going to need more than a modest recovery in economic activity," said Steve Strongin, director of commodities research at Goldman, Sachs & Company. 
"To draw down inventories, we are going to need a substantial rebound. Growth of 4 percent to 5 percent for a few quarters or 3 percent for a couple of years would do it."
An unweighted index of commodities futures prices published by the Commodity Research Bureau rose 11.1 percent in 2000, largely because of sharp gains in energy prices. In the year just concluded, that same index fell 16.3 percent. After reaching its high of 231.88 on Jan. 22, it closed the year at 190.61
"The C.R.B. index will probably recover somewhat next year," said David Rinehimer, head of futures research at Salomon Smith Barney.
"But without a weather event or some exogenous factor you can't predict, I don't see any markets that should have dynamic moves to the upside, or to get excited about."
For most of last year, oil prices were the exception to the relentless slide in futures prices, but they tumbled late in the year on a supply glut, as the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries struggled to persuade other oil-producing nations to agree to cut output. Crude oil, which began the year at $26.80 on the New York Mercantile Exchange, climbed above $32 and stayed in the upper $20's until it declined from a post-attack high of $28.81 on Sept. 17, to $19.84 at the end of the year.
Natural gas plunged 73.7 percent in futures markets, to $2.57 per million British thermal units.
Abundant harvests dragged down prices of corn and soybeans and consumables like coffee. Live cattle also slipped, but hogs managed a small gain on the year. "Natural disasters, drought, low commodity prices and global surpluses have hurt producers," Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman said last month.
Corn, a $4 billion-a-year export for the United States and the nation's most important feed grain for raising beef, pork and poultry for Americans' tables, fell 11.1 percent, to $1.9975 at the end of the year.
One reason for the price slides was that export markets were shrinking since December 2000, when Japanese inspectors said that tests of shipments of American corn had detected StarLink, a genetically modified corn that is not approved for human consumption in the United States and is banned in Japan and some other nations. The Agriculture Department said corn exports were running 4 percent lower so far this crop year compared with the period in 2000. Japan, Taiwan, Egypt and Mexico, the biggest buyers of American corn, have all cut purchases. 
Other grains were mixed. Wheat futures rose 3.4 percent from 2000 to end the year at $2.89 a bushel.
Industrial commodity prices were undercut by a sharp decline in manufacturing. Gold, once a weather vane of inflation expectations, also had a lackluster year. Gold closed at $279 a troy ounce, down from a high of $293.25 on Sept. 26 but up from $273.60 at the end of 2000. Platinum fell 19.1 percent.
In large measure, the market became saturated with goods because at the start of 2000 producers had little reason to expect the world economy would stumble.
"Demand was a lot weaker than anticipated at the beginning of the year," Mr. Rinehimer said. "Not many folks were looking at a global recession."
William E. Byers, director of futures research at Bear, Stearns, said that "historically, people have looked at the supply side as the most important part of the equation because demand for most commodities is usually pretty static."
There are signs that the imbalance of supply and demand is beginning to right itself, Mr. Strongin said. But it will take many months before the change shows up in prices.
And it will take some time to bring commodity prices back up to where they stood at the end of 2000.
Reflecting the slump in the industrial economy, copper prices fell 22.9 percent last year. Cotton tumbled 42.9 percent. Coffee prices, reflecting abundant harvests, slid to 30-year lows and ended the year down 29.5 percent.
The slump has aggravated already weak conditions in developing countries like Chile and Brazil, which are major commodity exporters. Brazil is forecasting a 2002 coffee crop that could match the record set in 1961 of 39.6 million 132-pound bags. The United States Agriculture Department puts Brazil's 2001 harvest at an estimated 33.7 million bags. 
In contrast, in some commodities like aluminum, capacity has been shrinking in important producing areas like Brazil and the Pacific Northwest. "Investment is very low, with a net reduction in capacity," Mr. Strongin said. Still, it will take time for inventories to be worked off.
As tracked by the London Metal Exchange, industrial metal inventories bottomed in the first quarter of 2001, said Mr. Byers of Bear, Stearns, and have been rising ever since.
"This is a decent indicator of what is going on in the market," he said. "By the time that indicator turns, prices will have already moved."
Consequently, analysts say, by next January the picture will look much brighter.
"There was excess capacity for much of the 1990's," Mr. Strongin said. "We would expect prices to stabilize over the next six to nine months and then move higher. It is highly likely you will be hearing very optimistic statements 12 months from now."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harvesting coffee beans in Costa Rica. Overproduction pushed coffee prices sharply lower last year, when they plummeted to a 30-year low. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); MEALS & FEEDS MARKETS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PORK (78%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); POULTRY (73%); GRAIN MARKETS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (70%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); LIVESTOCK FEED (69%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); MEATS (68%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); AGRICULTURE (65%); WEATHER (65%); GRAIN FARMING (65%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (64%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); COSTA RICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



36 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK: Markets & Investing; 
Junk Bonds Still Have Fans Despite a Dismal Showing in 2001

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
AFTER a year filled with failures in the high-yield debt market, junk bonds are expected to live up to their name again in 2002.
 With the economy weak and many companies carrying a lot of debt, default rates on junk bonds will probably rise to new highs this year, analysts say. But that prospect has not deterred junk bond investors, who returned to the market with some vigor in the fall of 2001. Like stock investors, high-yield bondholders are expecting the nation's economy to recover this year and figure that prices on junk bonds have already fallen far enough to compensate them for the higher risk of defaults, analysts say. 
 "The market has already adjusted to reduced expectations," said Sean Egan, the managing director of the Egan-Jones Ratings Company, an independent bond rating agency in Wynnewood, Pa. "The bonds are already way down."
The last 12 months have been by any standard a grim stretch for high-yield debt, the worst year since 1991, when the United States last fell into recession. About 8.9 percent of high-yield bonds defaulted last year, up from 6.3 percent of junk bonds in 2000. Over all, including investment-grade debt, as of Dec. 26, there had been defaults by 196 bond issuers around the world on $107 billion in debt in 2001, according to Standard & Poor's, up sharply from 2000, when 117 companies defaulted on $42 billion in debt.
Leading the march down were the telecommunications companies that raised hundreds of billions of dollars from investors during the last five years to build high-speed fiber optic networks around the world. The list of high-profile telecommunications bankruptcies includes Winstar Communications, 360networks and the At Home Corporation, and more big defaults in the sector are expected. Global Crossing, which has $11 billion in debt, announced on Dec. 21 that it had suspended paying dividends on some of its preferred stock to conserve cash.
Over all, high-yield bond defaults will probably peak in the summer, said Diane Vazza, the managing director for global fixed-income research at S.& P. "We are looking at a bottom of a recession in the first quarter of 2002," Ms. Vazza said. "Typically, defaults peak six months after that."
Standard & Poor's forecasts defaults on 11 percent of high-yield debt in 2002, as struggling companies burn through their cash. But the market has already anticipated many of those defaults, she said.
As a result, some investors are still opening their pockets to buy junk debt. Despite the rising default rate, companies were able to issue $85 billion in high-yield bonds last year, compared with $54 billion in 2000, Ms. Vazza said.
The credit quality of junk bonds varies widely. At the upper end of the junk spectrum are those rated Ba1 by Moody's Investors Service or BB+ by S.& P. Bonds that the rating agencies consider riskier because the issuing companies and municipalities have less likelihood of repaying them may be rated triple-C or D or even be unrated. Junk prices are also much more volatile than those of other bonds, often moving in tandem with the equity markets. After Sept. 11, junk bonds tumbled, along with stocks, but by the end of last year prices were up and yields easing in the sector.
One sign that the $650 billion junk market has stabilized is the shrinking spread in yields between junk bonds and bonds issued by the federal government, which are considered the safest form of debt. Ten-year junk bonds ended the year paying an interest rate of 10.70 percent, or 5.68 percentage points higher than the 10-year Treasury note, according to Bloomberg Financial Markets. That spread was down considerably from Oct. 11, when the high-yield rate peaked at 12.09 percent, or 7.43 percentage points above the 10-year Treasury. The shrinking spread means that investors are not demanding as much extra interest to buy junk bonds.
Also, the ratio of credit rating downgrades to upgrades is expected to drop quickly, another sign that companies are becoming healthier and bonds less risky, Ms. Vazza said.
There will "still be companies that are defaulting," she said, "but in terms of credit quality, we are going to see an improvement."
Still, junk bonds remain too risky for many investors, said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at the PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh. "They may yield more than Treasuries, but the risk of being wrong is much greater on the downside."
For investors who do want to speculate in high-yield bonds, one alternative may be a junk bond mutual fund, which can offer investors the relative safety of diversification.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Volatile World of Junk Bonds"As investors jumped back into the high-yield bond market in late 2001,the yield premium over Treasury notes of comparable maturity narrowed sharply. Still, analysts see more defaults in 2002. Graph tracks weekly yield spread between 10-year junk bonds and 10-year Treasury notes from 1997 to 2001.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH YIELD BONDS (97%); BONDS (93%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); PREFERRED STOCK (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); FIBER OPTICS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AT HOME CORP (65%); GVC NETWORKS LLC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



37 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: DANCE NOTES; 
Dueling Tributes To Graham Legacy

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
Performances of work by Martha Graham have been hard to come by, especially in New York, Graham's home base, since the start of a bitter 19-month struggle over the rights to Graham's name and choreographic repertory. Each side in the dispute -- the Martha Graham Trust and the Martha Graham Center of Contemporary Dance -- is planning a performance for April 18 to commemorate the 76th anniversary of Graham's first formal concert, and each program is expected to include her dances as well as work by other choreographers. 
 A federal district judge in Manhattan, Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum, effectively gave the center the green light in mid-December to perform Graham dances denied them by the trust, which licenses the works, pending the settlement of an appeal by the trust. "We're up and running and dancing again," said Dale Cendali of O'Melveny & Myers, the lawyer for the center. Neither side has settled on a space or the dancers for its concert. 
 "They do this at their own risk," said Judd Burstein, the lawyer representing the trust and its director, Ronald Protas, to whom Graham left her work on her death in 1991. Mr. Burstein is appealing a ruling made in August by Judge Cedarbaum that allowed the center and its school to continue using Graham's name and teaching her technique, which Mr. Protas had sought to prevent. 
"We will not try to stop them," Mr. Burstein said, adding that as a new lawyer on the case he needed time to prepare briefs for the appeal hearing. Mr. Burstein said, however, that the center might have to pay substantial damages if Mr. Protas won the appeal. 
The first phase of the trial focused on Mr. Protas's trademarking of Graham's name. The second phase, which begins on April 22, will address copyright or the ownership of Graham's work. 

Holiday Cheer
Rebecca Kelly, the choreographer, was unprepared for one telephone call she got on Christmas morning. "Merry Christmas!" an unfamiliar voice wished her. The caller was Donna Whitmer, who was raising money for the Hopkinsville Dance Team of Kentucky. Ms. Whitmer was not asking for a donation. Instead, she had a check for $1,000 that the team -- 19 girls in grades 9 through 12 at the Hopkinsville High School -- wanted to donate to Ms. Kelly's company -- Rebecca Kelly Ballet -- and school after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
"We pay for our own uniforms, and we were raising money for that," Ms. Whitmer said of the team, which dances during halftimes of their high school's football and basketball games and competes nationally. "But it didn't seem appropriate. We wanted to do something for New York. The girls are too small to donate blood, but they wanted to be able to do something." 
They also wanted the money they raised taking up collections and selling ribbons and raffle tickets to go to "a real person." Being a dance team, they reasoned, they ought to give the money to a dance group. Heather Sensing, another team fund-raiser, had relatives in Manhattan who knew of Ms. Kelly's work. One of Ms. Kelly's programs -- dance classes for parents and young children -- was in Battery Park City and was closed after Sept. 11. 
Ms. Kelly has not decided what to do with the money, a choice the team left up to her. She has thought of giving scholarships to families who lost a parent in the attack or had to leave their homes downtown. "They can't think about the pleasures they used to have," she said. "There are so many other things they've had to focus on." 
Ms. Kelly has found it hard to go back to creating dances after the attack. "It was so encouraging to get this phone call from Kentucky," she said. "We're feeling so disoriented now. We need to get back to the rituals of dance and provide a circle of warmth." 

Studio Splendor
The terrorist attacks forced the Mark Morris Dance Group to postpone the opening of its spacious, airy new home in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, a block from the Brooklyn Academy of Music. The formal opening occurred on Dec. 19, attended by dancers, writers, donors and politicians, some of whom spoke. Leave it to Mr. Morris, however, to cut to the heart of the matter. 
Dance seems to be in an edifice-building mood, despite the weak economy, but the Morris building will probably be one of the best-appointed. Will this unaccustomed splendor deter dancers from embracing their famously poverty-bound and single-minded profession with the necessary passion? Will dancers be spoiled? "This is something people deserve," Mr. Morris said firmly. He urged his guests to enjoy "the wonderful dignity" of the rest of the building. This -- and the choice of dance as a profession -- was proof, he said, that dancers are serious adults. 

Footnotes
Dance Theater of Harlem has received a $350,000 donation from the Moody's Corporation, the provider of credit ratings, research and business analysis. The money will go to the company's educational and community outreach programs. . . . The Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival will celebrate its 70th anniversary with a festival of films, exhibitions and talks at three Manhattan theaters, from Jan. 12 to Feb. 24. Among the promising events are screenings at Lincoln Center's Walter Reade Theater of Carmella Vassor's "Standing on the Edge, We Dance," a documentary about the Philadanco founder and director Joan Myers Brown, as well as an evening with Mark Morris and Donald Saddler, the veteran ballet and Broadway dancer and choreographer, at the 92nd Street Y. There will also be dance performances at the Puffin Room in SoHo. Information: www.jacobspillow.org. . . . Incorporeal pedestrians will mill about with the three-dimensional ones in "Pedestrian," a public art project that begins on Feb. 13 at three Manhattan locations. Created by Paul Kaiser and Shelley Eshkar, who collaborated with Merce Cunningham on the monumental "Biped," the installation will project crowds of miniature computer-generated moving people onto the ground from above. Real-life walkers may find they are getting a view of what they might look like to a bird soaring high above 45 Rockefeller Plaza (51st Street between Fifth Avenue and the Avenue of the Americas) and 144 West 125th Street, the home of the Studio Museum in Harlem. A third installation may be seen at the studio of Eyebeam (540 West 21st Street, in Chelsea), which is producing the project with the Art Production Fund. "Pedestrian" disappears on March 23. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); DANCE (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); DANCERS (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); LAWYERS (88%); BALLET (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (76%); JUDGES (75%); BLOOD BANKS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (70%); APPEALS (68%); BLOOD DONATIONS (60%); TERRORISM (60%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (60%); BASKETBALL (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: O'MELVENY & MYERS LLP (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); KENTUCKY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002 



38 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Seeks U.S. Waiver On Air Quality 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

DATELINE: ALBANY, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
Citing the Sept. 11 attack, the Pataki administration has asked Congress to waive federal air quality controls on New York's transportation projects for four years.
 The governor is seeking an amendment to the Clean Air Act, in part, state officials say, because the small state agency that did the work of meshing the transportation and air quality plans, the New York Metropolitan Transportation Council, was on the 82nd floor of 1 World Trade Center. Three of its staff members are missing and presumed dead, and its records and computers were lost when the trade center was destroyed. 
 State officials also contend that the disaster has wrought such large-scale changes in the movement of people around the region that the old transportation plan is not valid anymore. The destruction has created new, pressing needs, like rebuilding West Street and the PATH train and subway tunnels, and, possibly, adding ferry service to replace the lost PATH line, or creating new park-and-ride locations. In the meantime, officials say, changed commuting patterns, especially for former PATH riders, can mean more driving and more air pollution. 
"We need the waiver in order to give us time to rebuild the transportation plan and also allow us to make immediate improvements in response to the World Trade Center attack," said Jennifer Post, spokeswoman for the State Department of Environmental Conservation. "Without the waiver, we're frozen into transportation projects that don't make sense any more."
But the request has alarmed environmentalists, and its prospects in Congress are uncertain. Critics contend that the state's reasoning is greatly overstated, and that a waiver would set a dangerous precedent by undermining the Clean Air Act. The waiver the state is seeking, they say, is so broad and would remain in place so long, until late 2005, that it would apply to projects that have nothing to do with the recovery from the attack.
"It would mean they could go ahead and do a project without having to first gauge what the air quality impact would be, and that's not good," said Andrew H. Darrell, New York regional director of Environmental Defense, a nonprofit group.
Some Democrats suggest that the Pataki administration may also hope that obtaining the waiver will speed up the flow of federal money to the state for road and construction projects, to help the sagging economy. 
Under current rules, for every area that does not meet federal clean-air standards, including New York City and its suburbs, the federal government imposes targets for reducing pollution over several years. The state must show that its projects, like building highways or widening old ones, will not prevent it from meeting those targets, or it will lose the federal aid that transportation projects rely on.
State officials say New York cannot embark on any projects that are not in its current plan unless it first conducts a detailed study showing that it will still comply with air quality requirements. They contend that the state needs the flexibility to bypass that time-consuming requirement, and even to exceed its pollution targets.
The Pataki administration began seeking these changes in mid-December, when the State Department of Transportation sent a letter to members of Congress asking for the waiver, and when Carl Johnson, a deputy commissioner of the Department of Environmental Conservation, traveled to Washington to lobby for it. Officials say that Gov. George E. Pataki himself, a Republican, has not called members of Congress to press for the change.
There is little chance that Congress would go along without the support of New York's delegation, and the waiver's prospects are murky, at best, in the Democrat-controlled Senate. New York's senators, Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton, are both Democrats. Mrs. Clinton, in particular, plays a pivotal role because she sits on the Environment and Public Works Committee, which would consider such a bill. She declined to be interviewed on the matter.
Environmental Defense, the Natural Resources Defense Council and another group, the Tri-State Transportation Campaign, have sent a letter to Mrs. Clinton contending that if any bill is passed, it should be "a more targeted waiver," with offsetting requirements like strict pollution controls on construction equipment and ferries, and replacement of diesel buses and trucks with vehicles that burn cleaner fuels. These groups, usually among the governor's closest environmental allies, have taken the lead on the issue, while groups more critical of Mr. Pataki have stayed in the background.
"They have to show that they need a waiver, and if so, it has to be very narrowly drawn," said Ashok Gupta, a senior economist at the Natural Resources Defense Council. "Some kind of waiver might make sense, but giving a blanket waiver, much less for four years, is not a good idea."
The prospects for a waiver are stronger in the Republican-controlled House of Representatives. Several versions of a bill based on the Pataki administration's request have been printed by the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and Representative Vito Fossella, a Republican from Staten Island who sits on that committee, has taken the lead in stating the administration's case.
Members of New York's delegation, Congressional aides and environmental lobbyists say that the Pataki administration is unlikely to get what it is asking for, but that a much more limited waiver might pass.
"Everyone agrees the state has some problems due to 9/11 that need to be addressed," said a Democratic aide in the New York delegation, "but a lot of people have serious concerns about the implications of this for clean air. And one concern is that it would set a precedent."
Mr. Darrell of Environmental Defense said, "If a bill goes forward, I think it will be a very different bill from what's out there now."
For years, members of Congress from New York have opposed efforts by their counterparts from other regions to weaken the Clean Air Act or make exceptions to it.
"For New York to now ask for it to be reopened is to invite the Republican leadership in Congress to eviscerate the act," said State Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester County Democrat and chairman of the Environmental Conservation Committee; he has been lobbying members of Congress to rebuff the governor. "There is no reason on God's earth to use Sept. 11 as an excuse to gut clean air protections."
Environmentalists say the state may not be required to conduct extensive pollution studies before beginning certain projects, like merely rebuilding what was destroyed.
They concede that with the damage done to the Metropolitan Transportation Council, the planning agency, the state will need extra time to show that overall, it is still meeting its pollution targets. The federal government can grant that time administratively, without amending the law, environmentalists say.
More important, environmentalists say, the state's pollution targets are probably still attainable. In this respect, the recession and the aftermath of the attack could work in the state's favor because the loss of tens of thousands of jobs in Manhattan means fewer people commuting to work. Also, they contend that ferries and park-and-ride spots can be designed so that they replace street traffic and can be shown to reduce air pollution, or at least not to increase it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (91%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (60%); FERRIES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION COUNCIL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002 



39 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 4982 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK: Round Table; 
Wall Street's Prescriptions in a Convalescing Economy

 BODY:
AFTER an unprecedented run of five consecutive years in which many investors earned profits of 20 percent or more in the stock market, the major averages have now lost money for two straight years, and the economy is mired in recession.
 To get perspectives on what will happen this year, Gretchen Morgenson and Floyd Norris of The New York Times turned to two of Wall Street's most respected strategists, and to one man who was in that group before he started a hedge fund just a few days before the stock market peaked in 2000. They are Abby Joseph Cohen of Goldman, Sachs and Byron R. Wien of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, and Charles I. Clough Jr., who started Clough Capital Partners in Boston after stepping down as Merrill Lynch's top market guru. 
 The good news is that all think that the stock market will rise this year and the recession will end, though they do not agree on whether the recovery will be a relatively short, sharp "V shaped" event or a more drawn-out, harder "U shaped" rebound. They are also split about whether the good old days will return. Following are excerpts from that discussion:

Q. Thank you all for coming. Last year was an extraordinary one, both for the economy and the stock market. Where do we go now? What's going to happen to the economy?

COHEN -- I think that the economy will be looking better in 2002 because even though the National Bureau of Economic Research didn't tell us until December that we're in a recession, the recession is probably much closer to its end than its beginning.
The peak in economic activity was the fourth quarter of 1999: real G.D.P. growth of 8.3 percent. The peak in terms of profit growth was also the fourth quarter of 1999: S.& P. operating profit growth of 22 percent. And we have now gone through almost two years of economic deceleration, enormous inventory cutback, reductions in capital spending. And now we're into what is the most painful part of an adjustment process in the economy, and that's in the labor markets. Our judgment is that come spring things will start to look better. We expect economic data to start to stabilize, and what we're hoping is that we begin to see inventories rebuilt, consumer spending stabilize and ultimately, as the year goes on, the labor markets tighten up.

WIEN -- I think we're going to have a recovery in 2002. I think that too many people think it'll be a V recovery, starting with a bell-ringing on July 1 and heading up strongly from there. I'm skeptical. I think sometime toward the middle of the year business conditions will get better. But it will be a feeble recovery, more of a U-shape with a weak right arm to the U. So I look for a recovery but not a dramatic one.

CLOUGH -- Well, I think you have to put it in the context of where we're coming from. The economy, as Abby pointed out, fell into recession in 2001. The events of Sept. 11 obviously exacerbated that, especially in the manufacturing sector and large portions of the services sector.
There's going to be a bounce-back from that. In early October there were trucks lined up at the Ontario border that couldn't get in. So there was an artificial compression of economic activity. It think the bounce-back from that artificial low is going to look and feel like recovery. We may already be beginning to see parts of it.
But I think the real issue is what happens after that natural bounce-back. And there's one major cycle going on here that suggests that the recovery will be sluggish and may be sluggish for a long time, and that's the investment cycle: the overinvestment that became the Achilles' heel of the economy. It takes time to heal that. So I would say 2002 in the first half might actually look pretty good as we hit that snapback effect. I might differ from the consensus and say we might have more difficulty in the latter part of 2002 and 2003 sustaining it because it's going to be a while before the investment side of the economy comes back.

WIEN -- This was a capital spending-led boom that occurred in the 1995-to-1999 period. And it's a capital-spending-led bust. There is an overinventory of capital equipment out there. We're going to have to work off that inventory, which is going to take a while. In addition to that, I think the profit recovery is going to be sluggish, and you need strong profits to become ambitious in terms of capital spending. So for those reasons, I think the recovery will be shallow at best.

Q. So what does the stock market see? It seems to see something far rosier.

WIEN -- The stock market sees a V recovery. The stock market is very optimistic that at the beginning of the second half of the year the economy is going to recover strongly and profits are going to go up. The stock market has a much more ambitious target for S.& P. 500 earnings than we do.

Q. And yours is, while we're on the subject?

WIEN -- We think the S.& P. 500, in 2002, will earn $50. And I think most estimates are above that. There are some estimates that are below. But the consensus is definitely above $50. And even that may be in jeopardy.

Q. Abby, are you more optimistic on profits?

COHEN -- No. Our number for S.& P. operating earnings that we put in our valuation model: $37 for 2001, and $42 for 2002. That is our totally scrubbed U.S. GAAP-consistent generally accepted accounting principles operating earnings estimates. We then have the second series, which is what the data vendors want us to report, which is not U.S. GAAP consistent. Instead, it's more of an "earnings before whatever approach," very simplistic. For 2002, we have about $50 to $52.

CLOUGH -- I think earnings are in trouble. And I think the accounting profession is about to undergo massive restructuring of principles and organization. The Enron event is really just the icing on the cake. Accounting principles have been violated five ways to Sunday for years -- as evidenced by huge write-offs that never stop. They just go on and on and on.
One of the things that corporations have given you over the last several years, even during the boom times, was that in the midst of very rapid reported earnings gains there was huge nonfinancial corporate borrowing. In fact if you subtracted capital expenditures from borrowing, you still got a lot of borrowing, which means that cash flow earnings -- real cash flow -- never came close to what companies were reporting.

WIEN -- When I first entered this business the numbers that were reported by a company were taken as gospel. You really believed in them. Because there was an adversarial relationship between the accountants and the corporation.
Now there's kind of a collegial cooperative relationship. And part of that is encouraged by the fact that most of the major accounting firms have large consulting organizations, and they both do consulting and auditing.
In the case of Enron, for example, Enron paid Arthur Andersen $52 million in 2000; $27 million of it was for consulting services. And it would seem to me that that would put the auditors in a difficult position.

Q. Let's turn to the stock market.

CLOUGH -- What investors have to get used to is that total returns in all the capital markets are going to compound out at substantially lower rates than what they had or were expected to do in the past.
We are in a deflationary period. And it's more than in manufacturing, it's also in the services side. You can see what's happening in the pharmaceutical industry for the first time ever. But the offset is that in the middle of the last recession short rates were 11 percent -- now they're 2 or 1 percent. That's a dramatic change in terms of the price of credit. So the price-earnings ratio is likely to be higher.
My guess -- and it's only a guess -- is that it works out probably to 6 or 7 percent annualized returns in capital markets. But they are achievable. The capital markets looking ahead will provide modest but decent returns.

Q. How about in 2002? Where's the Dow? What are the averages going to be?

CLOUGH -- Where do the averages go? Well, the honest answer is, I haven't the slightest idea. But I'll take a shot. I'll say 11,300 for the Dow, 1,250 for the S.& P., about 2,300 for the Nasdaq.

Q. Byron, how about you?

WIEN -- Those numbers are similar to mine. For the S.& P. 500, I'd say 1,200. For the Dow: 11,000. For the Nasdaq: 2,200.

Q. Abby?

COHEN -- Since the markets reopened on Sept. 17, we've been using the following ranges: S.& P. 500 is 1,300 to 1,425, and the Dow is 11,300 to 12,400. With regard to the Nasdaq, we stopped forecasting the Nasdaq at the end of 1998. Our valuation models are driven by things like earnings and cash flow, and the Nasdaq didn't have earnings and cash flow so we suspended our forecast.

Q. O.K. She's much more optimistic than you guys are about the stock market in 2002. Why is that?

WIEN -- From 1995 to 1999, the market went up 20 percent every year. It averaged, I think, pretty close to 25 percent during the five-year period. It had never done that before. It left the market at a level of overvaluation that may not have been corrected yet. So there's nothing to say that we might not have a three-year period where the market is down every year. The price-earnings ratio of the market using Abby's and my numbers is about 23. While you can say that there are flaws in the price-earnings ratio concept, and I would agree with that, it isn't totally irrelevant. And the long-term average is 14 to 21. So it's above the long-term range.
Now interest rates are low; inflation is dead. And so maybe you can argue for a higher multiple, but there's just no way to say that the market is cheap out there.

CLOUGH -- Not only was it a question of overvaluation, but the corporate sector has left itself very highly leveraged, the consumer sector has left itself very highly leveraged. When we do start an economic recovery there's not going to be a lot of pent-up demand, certainly not in the durable sector. Housing and autos really haven't even broken yet. So there are a lot of drags on an economic recovery.
I think the thing about profits that you have to understand is that profits are a leveraged enterprise. You get a lot more profits if the economy grows at a 4 percent rate than if it grows at a 2 percent rate. Profits are going to labor under that kind of an environment. And that's the kind of environment I see.

WIEN -- You've got to look at what you're entitled to as an investor. In my view all you're entitled to is the profit growth plus the dividend. In the 20-year period from 1981 to 2001, that was about 10 percent. The market during that period gave you about 15 percent. So you got five extra percentage points of reward in relation to how much earnings were increasing. That left the market at a point where, particularly if profits are struggling, there could be some adjustment. And that's why the returns from the market may be below the long-term average of 10 percent.

Q. Abby?

COHEN -- At the end of 1998, we told our clients that it was time to think about the same sort of long-term trends that Chuck and Byron are talking about. And that we thought that earnings growth would be 7 to 8 percent rather than the 15 percent that had been experienced previously. And that returns from the market would be on the order of price appreciation of 8 to 10 percent.
I'd also agree that the recovery from this economic recession will be more muted than the average. If housing and autos are already strong, they're not going to add that much more vigor in 2002.
In addition, I would raise one other point we've not really touched on, and that's the rest of the world. The rest of the world is lethargic. The Fed has lowered interest rates 11 times. The European Central Bank is acting as if there's not much of a problem. And yet, there's not one country in Europe whose industrial production didn't go down in November. There's not one country in Europe that doesn't have a higher unemployment rate than we do and an unemployment rate that's rising. I'm very concerned, too, about the global situation, which is not particularly bright. I haven't even mentioned Japan.

WIEN -- We've gone pretty far in this discussion without mentioning Sept. 11. And the stock market has sort of sloughed it off. The stock market, while it hasn't had a great year, is now trading higher than it was on Sept. 10. And while we may have subdued the Taliban and identified a number of Al Qaeda cells, I don't think that the threat of terrorism has totally been diminished. Even if it has, the costs associated with the terrorist attacks are real. There are going to be higher costs for insurance, for transportation, for security and for inventories as a result of those attacks. And that's going to put additional pressure on profit margins.
The stock market is saying that the risk premium should be about the same as it was before -- the risk premium has declined in the market back to where it was prior to the attacks -- and that the stock market is fairly optimistic about the ability of the economy to recover strongly. And I'm suspicious of both of those concepts.

Q. Chuck, how do you see the world?

CLOUGH -- It does look like a sluggish place. China is a huge area of impact on corporate activity. It's developing very rapidly. It's certainly making it more difficult for Japan to fight its way out of its deflation. And it's going to make it difficult for a number of Asian countries to come back as fast as they might have otherwise. But it's also going to have an impact on the price of manufactured goods here and in Europe. All of that makes it difficult to see an awful lot of profits growth looking ahead.

Q. Before the recent boom, people talked about basic industries like autos and steel as having worldwide overcapacity, and there were dire forecasts that the countries with the highest production costs would be the big losers. That was forgotten during the good days. And now suddenly it's back. Do we have a long-term problem with overcapacity in a lot of industries?

COHEN -- Yes. A number of the industries that you mention do have short-term issues. We're not recommending auto stocks in the United States for the obvious reasons. But on a longer-term basis, what we see happening is that a lot of the U.S. participants may in fact have gained some advantage over the last few years because they have become more efficient. The productivity of the workers has increased. Let's keep in mind that the productivity of the U.S. worker is probably 30 percent above that of other industrial nations. And that's going to be very very helpful to us as we come out of recession. When we're in recession, everybody's going to feel the pain. As we come out of recession, we think there could be some market share improvements.

CLOUGH -- This is the first time that we'll come out of a recession with not only excess capacity in manufacturing but in a lot of services as well. So we're going to test a lot of the theories about how we do come out of recession. The price of capital was zero for many industries -- telecom, for example -- for a pretty extended period of time there. So the bubble was not only in the financial markets but it was in the investment side of the economy as well. You saw it confined in energy in the 70's, and it took 15 years for the energy sector to recover. This one's much more pervasive. It's not only in telecom. You've got this pattern of overexpansion in the services sector as well. Overcapacity seems to be pretty systemic throughout the global economy.

Q. What about the consumer? The consumer is a huge piece of this economic puzzle in the recovery.

WIEN -- I think the consumer will continue to spend because most people still have jobs. Even though the unemployment rate has gone up, we still have 94 percent of Americans who want to work with jobs. But they're not feeling as secure about those jobs as they were before, and they're not being compensated as well. So consequently I think the consumer will be a positive in the economy, but only a mild one.

COHEN -- With regard to unemployment, the reality of the situation is that the impact has come hardest on our youngest and lowest-paid workers. If you look at who have lost their jobs since the beginning of the year, about two-thirds fall into that category. So it helps explain why personal spending continues and personal income growth has actually been positive with the exception of the last three months, even though the unemployment rate is rising. It's because the people who have lost their jobs were earning at the bottom end of the income spectrum.

CLOUGH -- This might be the first recession we go through where consumer credit doesn't decline. Without some deleveraging in the consumer sector, it's hard to make a case for a really powerful recovery looking ahead.

WIEN -- We've made the point that the consumer isn't going to do it. And earlier we made the point that we can't count on capital spending. So it's pretty convincing that the recovery is going to be a meager one.

COHEN -- We're not really talking about the consumer collapsing. Consumer spending is a positive number and will probably get a little more robust.
A recovery comes about for a variety of reasons. No. 1, the consumer continues to spend. No. 2, inventories at some point start to rebuild. And maybe we're getting close. The other thing that could be helpful to us is selective capital spending. There's going to be a rolling recovery. And there are some areas where we see demand beginning to improve in capital goods over the very short term.

Q. The Fed had a really tricky time of it in 2001. The interest rate cuts have not really done what everybody thought they would do in the time that everybody thought they would do it. Going forward, what do we see from the bond market and interest rates in response to this?

WIEN -- More investors got hoodwinked on Fed easing than on any other single concept. The prevailing view last January was that the Fed is your friend and if the Fed is cutting rates the market's going up. In an environment where earnings are deteriorating as fast they did last year, it doesn't matter that the Fed is easing.

CLOUGH -- What ails the economy? An overbuilt capital stock. And again it extends beyond fiber optics. It extends into large numbers of the areas. The price of the overnight Fed funds rate doesn't change demand for this kind of stuff.
I think we could be in a period where we should get ready for astonishingly low interest rates for a fairly extended period of time.

WIEN -- That would be good for growth stocks.

CLOUGH -- You've got to find growth, though.

COHEN -- And equities in general. I think the Fed is not getting the respect that it deserves. Chuck makes a very good point that much of the weakness in the economy is in sectors where interest rate policy is not particularly effective. And let's keep in mind that the areas of the economy which are strong now are areas where interest rate policy is very effective. Housing and autos are extraordinarily strong.
In addition, I think the Fed deserves a great deal of credit for the other function, which is supervision and regulation. The Fed went into the nation's commercial banks in '97 and again in 1998 during the Asian crisis and the currency crises saying, "You guys better make sure of your lending standards." And the banks did a fabulous job. We are now two years into a very broad-based economic deceleration, and I'm not aware of any banking failure.

Q. Is there going to be disappointment in terms of returns for Individual Retirement Accounts and 401(k)'s? Are people being set up for returns that are not going to match their expectations and their plans?

WIEN -- We know that during the late 1990's people expected their mutual fund returns to be in excess of 20 percent. And then they scaled it down to 15 percent. I don't think that there's anybody who expects less than 10. And I think less than 10 on an equity fund is a reasonable possibility. Certainly they haven't gotten 10 over the last two years. And some of them have taken big hits.

CLOUGH -- I remember reading, in the midst of the dot-com boom, an anecdote that one couple looked at their 401(k) and they found it was over a million dollars. And they both quit their jobs and booked a cruise to Australia. True story. I don't think they realized what that would be after tax. But it was a signal of how easy it was to inflate what your retirement assets really were going to be.
So the totally risk-adverse investor, I think, looking forward is going to have to change his or her investment structure. That's why I don't think there's going to be a large exodus of household capital from equities or bonds. I do think there will be more and more pressure to balance portfolios, but I don't see a massive exodus here because the money rate simply won't be much of an enticement.

WIEN -- One of the drivers for the market in the 1995-1999 period was the enormous amount of money that flowed into equity mutual funds. That isn't happening anymore. It's true that the withdrawals have been sluggish. But the net new money coming into funds is almost nonexistent.

Q. We've seen over the last several years quite a flood into the dollar. International investors wanted dollar-based assets and bought a lot of dollars to fund those assets. And that kept the dollar stronger than one might have expected, given balance of payments numbers. Is that going to continue?

COHEN -- Over the longer term it might move lower because of the current account issues and so on. But for the moment, the United States, although we have cyclical problems, is nevertheless looking relatively good. It looks good vis-a-vis Japan. And the Europeans, while there was great enthusiasm about the euro when it was introduced, are feeling that perhaps it's not such a bad thing to own dollars.
By the way, the opposite is also true. If you take a look at what U.S. investors have done, most are not particularly interested in owning non-U.S. equities at this point. The last time we were was the same time the Europeans were interested in owning U.S. stocks, which was the end of 1999, early 2000. They were buying U.S. technology stocks. We returned the favor -- we bought tech and telecom stocks in their markets.

Q. Does that prove that foreign investors are always wrong?

COHEN -- Almost always, yes. Yes. It's not 100 percent, but it's a pretty good rule of thumb.

WIEN -- The U.S. is still the cradle of entrepreneurship. And entrepreneurship is what creates opportunity for investors. In the 1980-2000 period, the United States created 75 million new jobs. And at the same time it eliminated 44 million jobs. It eliminated the 44 million in the old economy sectors -- the steel, auto, basic industry sectors -- and created the new jobs in technology and biotechnology, other fields, the Home Depots and Intels, etc. Europe during that same period created 5 million jobs. And they were all in the public sector.

COHEN -- What Byron didn't tell you was that the population of the two groups is the same. So it becomes even more striking.

WIEN -- My point is that that isn't going to change. So I think capital flows are still going to be positive; whether they will be sufficient to offset the trade flows, I don't know. But I don't think the dollar is headed for a period of significant weakness.

Q. So where should people invest now?

WIEN -- In the growth area, the only sector that we like right now is health care. And we like a variety of facets of it. Most of the things that we like are stocks that were beaten down in the post-Sept. 11 decline and have come back some but not a lot. And that would include industrials, capital goods companies, materials companies, retailers. And another sector in the growth area that we would like is cable.

Q. Give me some names.

WIEN -- BJ's Wholesale. There are two retailers, BJ's Wholesale, one that's probably not familiar to all of your readers, and Abercrombie & Fitch; one conglomerate, ITT; two health care stocks, Medtronic and Abbott; and one dirty old cyclical, Dow Chemical.

CLOUGH -- We've looked for areas where profitability has been very low, the cost of capital, as a result, has been very high, and as a result there's some restriction on supply. And we've got a couple. The hospital industry has been almost in a depression in many of the public sector hospitals ever since a lot of the third-party payments were cut back. And we think that's about to change, that many hospitals are looking at double-digit revenue growth now. Two stocks I scratched down here were Select Medical and HCA.
The second is international reinsurance. This is a story that I think has some very powerful fundamentals behind it. Insurance rates and insurance capacity were already contracting before Sept. 11. I think Sept. 11 kind of exacerbated that. So we like the Ace Ltd. and the Principal Financial Group among others in the property casualty sector.
And some financials are pretty cheap: Golden West Financial and Washington Mutual, among others.
And the cable industry does look like it's going from a period of massive investment needs, as digital cable comes on to generate more positive cash flow, and the stocks are down. We like Adelphia Communications and Cablevision Systems.

COHEN -- We think that there is significant opportunity still in technology: computer-related technology, software and service.
We think that this is an environment that will be good for well-managed financials. Many of the banks look good. Some of the diversified financial services companies look good. And we want to own energy equities when everybody's talking about how warm it is and how low the spot market is.
Finally, within the S.& P. at least, industrials. This is the first time in three years that we're suggesting some of the down-and-dirty industrials because it's the first time we think that consensus earnings estimates are probably in the right place and the stocks are priced relative to that.
And finally, outside the usual S.& P. portfolio, there are two things. One is higher-quality corporate bonds -- and I don't mean necessarily the highest-rated corporate bonds, but even some with lower ratings that are just kind of being ignored because of the problems in the telecom area. And finally, small- and mid-cap stocks.

WIEN -- I do have a disagreement with Abby. In my view, technology has come a long way since Sept. 21. And its earnings prospects have improved, but its multiples have improved faster. So technology, in many cases, seems almost as expensive today as it did on Sept. 10, and it wasn't cheap then. So technology would be a sector we would avoid.

Q. You've told us what we should own. What should we avoid now?

WIEN -- Tech and financials.

CLOUGH -- Well, I think Byron's right. There are shorts in both of those sectors. And I think there are still a lot of problems ahead for the subprime lenders. Not only does consumer credit go bad as unemployment grows and employment and income slow, but a lot of them are heavily dependent on the ability to securitize their assets. They make a lot of loans very aggressively, and they have to securitize those assets.
Some of the stocks that have rallied way too far and are going to have difficulty, really, creating much in the way of earnings in the years ahead are some of the telecom chip providers. I'm also skeptical about some consumer durables. We do like the housing stocks, but that's because there's a consolidation to larger players there. But some other consumer durables in the mobile home area and even the auto stocks, I think, are going to have trouble ahead. So I look for problems there as well.

Q. Abby?

COHEN -- Telecom is an area that we're still not comfortable with. I would have some discomfort with Europe. In the United States we've already had a dramatic reduction in consensus expectations for G.D.P. for earnings and so on. That is not yet the case in Europe, where investors and the central banks also have been very lethargic in recognizing the difficult situation that's being faced.

Q. What about the government?

WIEN -- There's been a complete reversal in thinking about government, from thinking it was irrelevant and in the way to thinking, "God, I'm glad we've got one." That's in terms of the national security. In terms of the economy, though, I think there's a lot of criticism of the Fed. And there's certainly criticism of the president's stimulus policy. And there's even some criticism of Ashcroft's policy on national security.

COHEN -- Let's be honest about where the problem in the economy is. It's inadequate demand, it's consumers feeling funky. And a good deal of the pain from the recession has fallen on middle-income and lower-income people, and the stimulus package that was proposed by the president, and one that's supported in the House, doesn't really address that, in my view, as directly as it could. Some of the measures that could be very effective would be the extension of the rebate program, providing an extension of the earned-income tax credit. Also the extension of the unemployment benefits. Basically, getting to the heart of the problem and affecting those who've been most directly impacted by the recession would be helpful.

CLOUGH -- I'm skeptical that fiscal policy is likely to have that much of an impact, not because of uncertainty and delay in getting a package -- the problems the economy is dealing with have to do more with investment cycles, and fiscal policy doesn't really change that very much. So my guess is more than ever the economy simply needs time to heal the excesses that we've lived through.

Q. Since the market peaked in March 2000, investors have been remarkably able to withstand enormous confidence-shattering events, whether it's Enron or the telecom bust. Have investors just become very resilient and long term in their focus and willing to withstand anything?
 $

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (55%) 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002



40 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: The Bloomberg Era Begins 

 BODY:
One of the tests a New York City mayor faces at the very beginning of his administration is how to look comfortable while sitting outside in freezing weather during an hour-long inauguration on Jan. 1. Mayor Michael Bloomberg surmounted that challenge yesterday, in a ceremony that had its own kind of warmth, despite the participants' blue lips and frozen fingers.
 Standing before a huge American flag that covered City Hall, Mr. Bloomberg told New Yorkers what they already knew -- that the coming year will be a tough one in which everyone will have to make sacrifices and set aside traditional differences. He was short on specifics, except for a call to give the mayor control of the school system, and a delicate suggestion that he was not nearly as enthusiastic as Rudolph Giuliani had been about spending money on new professional baseball stadiums. The city, he said, should have the world's best cultural and sports facilities "when we can afford them." 
 Mr. Bloomberg sent out all the right political signals. The new mayor has been remarkably successful at making it clear that his administration will not be a simple extension of his predecessor's, and the inauguration yesterday continued that theme. Even the choice of master of ceremonies, New York Mets pitcher Al Leiter, sent the message that the era of the Yankee-worshiping Mayor Giuliani had come to an end. All new chief executives promise to be good listeners, but Mr. Bloomberg's promise that New Yorkers would always know their voices had been heard seemed particularly telling as he took command from a man whose great talents did not generally extend to inclusion. While Mr. Bloomberg paid a rightful tribute to his predecessor, he also had praise for former Mayors Edward Koch and David Dinkins. 
The peculiar nature of Mr. Bloomberg's political candidacy and the effects of the Sept. 11 trauma have combined to give him some enormous advantages. Like Mr. Koch, he inherits a city that has already conceded that times will be tough and sacrifices will need to be made. But no one feels New York has brought these problems on itself, and Mr. Bloomberg will not have to apologize to the nation while asking for help. Like Mr. Dinkins, he needs to bring together a city in which minority residents in particular feel estranged from City Hall. But unlike Mr. Dinkins, he is leading a city that has already found an unfamiliar cohesion in the troubles of last year.
Like Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Bloomberg will have to be a fighter. But the enemy he has been given is, for once, not an internal one. Mr. Koch had to take on wasteful New York fiscal practices. Mr. Dinkins was supposed to fight New York bigotry, and Mr. Giuliani promised to defeat New York criminals. The new mayor has to lead New York in a struggle to take back the city from an assault by terrorists. We are all on the same side, and the country is on our side. That gives him an enormous advantage, at least in the beginning.
The theme of most New York City inaugurations is the unwilling transfer of power, as the new mayor generally attempts to define how he will do the job differently than the people who came before. Mr. Bloomberg's job was a little more delicate -- to assure people he will carry on the great achievements of the Giuliani administration without succumbing to its weaknesses. All in all, he handled his assignment well. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BASEBALL (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); POLITICS (72%); TERRORISM (62%); HIJACKING (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); SPORTS (53%); SPORTS & RECREATION (53%); EXECUTIVES (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (89%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002 



41 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: THE MAYORAL TRANSITION; 
Comptroller Praises City's Fearless Optimism

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of the inaugural address given yesterday by Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., as recorded by The New York Times:
 Mayor Bloomberg, Public Advocate Gotbaum, Mayor Giuliani, Mayor Dinkins, Mayor Koch, colleagues in government, family, friends and all New Yorkers: I am honored and humbled to stand before you today as New York's 42nd comptroller, especially at this pivotal moment in our city's history. 
 I, like many of you, have watched with pride as New York has shown the world that no act of terrorism can compromise our democratic way of life or crush our stubborn spirit of optimism. Time and time again we have been touched by the many quiet acts of compassion, heroism and humanity that bear witness to the tenacity and courage of the people of this city. New Yorkers never give up. Our strength flows from our diversity; our differences provide a wealth of wisdom, gathered from traditions and cultures from around the world. And we are better for it. 
On this Inauguration Day I am reminded of the words of Henry Clay, who noted in 1829 that government is a trust and the officers of the government are trustees. And both the trust and the trustees are created for the benefit of the people. 
At this time of tradition and change it is a particularly daunting task to make decisions that will affect the lives of New Yorkers. And so it is with a sober understanding that I accept such an awesome responsibility of leadership in this majestic city, a city of fearless people. 
I know we will meet the challenges before us. Indeed, we will overcome them all. It is our tradition as Americans. We have survived hardship before. New York has suffered depression, fiscal instability, recession and now terrorism. But by your presence here today I know that you are as committed as I am to holding on to our hope and our faith in an abiding future.
Yes, there are challenging times ahead for our city. But as we tackle the financial challenges before us, we should not abandon our values or our priorities. We must be mindful of not sacrificing our long-term health to meet short-term needs. The noted economist John Maynard Keynes once said the difficulty lies not in the new ideas, but in escaping from the old ones. 
Today we must fearlessly embrace new solutions to problems, some of which were not even anticipated six months ago. We must seek out new and more creative ways of leveraging public and private partnerships for the common good. 
As comptroller, I will be a fiscal activist. I will not only work to safeguard our finances, but I will stand firmly committed to overcoming the challenges Keynes described by creating new ways to invest in our neighborhoods. Working families and middle-class families need affordable housing. Communities need the tools for real economic development and real job creation. 
I'm a native New Yorker, a son of this city, a graduate of its public schools. As president of the Board of Education I had one goal: to help our children receive the same chance for a solid educational foundation that I received. We must join together to make that happen today, not tomorrow. 
I'm proud to be the first African-American ever elected to the position of comptroller in this city's history. It's a testament to New Yorkers. When all is said and done, we put character first. So, today let us link arms in partnership, for the time has come for us to rebuild, to raise up new structures that will not only house our bodies but nourish our souls and reflect our dreams. 
There will rise an even greater city that will fully understand the value of its diversity. And from this strength we will rebuild and forge a new social contract that will unite this city and reinforce our place as a beacon of hope to the entire world. Today, let us begin the new New York renaissance.
Thank you and God bless you all. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: William C. Thompson Jr., right, was congratulated by his father after being sworn in as city comptroller yesterday. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FAMILY (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); HISTORY (76%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (60%); JOB CREATION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%); RUDY GIULIANI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002 



42 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: KABUL; 
Afghan Leader Warily Backs U.S. Bombing

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, Jan. 1 

 BODY:
The chairman of Afghanistan's interim government, Hamid Karzai, said today that he wanted the American bombing of Afghanistan to continue until all terrorist activity was rooted out, but he also expressed concern about mounting civilian casualties. 
 With reports that up to 100 villagers in Paktia Province had been killed in airstrikes overnight Saturday, Mr. Karzai said he planned to raise the issue of civilian deaths with American officials today or on Wednesday. Tribal leaders from Paktia had already asked Mr. Karzai to halt the bombing of their province after an airstrike 12 days ago on a convoy of tribal leaders on their way to Kabul. 
 "We want to finish terrorists in Afghanistan -- we want to finish them completely," Mr. Karzai said. "But we must also make sure our civilians do not suffer." 
Asked when the civilian cost would become too high to justify the bombing campaign's continuation, Mr. Karzai said, "We must make sure there is no civilian cost at all."
The Pentagon has accused the Taliban of exaggerating civilian casualties, and it has accused Taliban and Al Qaeda fighters of hiding among women and children. "This was a valid military target," said Cmdr. Dan Keesee, a spokesman for the United States Central Command in Tampa, Fla. 
Mr. Karzai made his comments in an interview today at the Gulkhanna Palace, at an extraordinary moment in his country's history. Just over a week ago, he took office in Afghanistan, inheriting a country broken by more than two decades of war.
A foreign peacekeeping force, led by the British, is gearing up to begin patrolling Kabul, the capital, even as another foreign force continues intensive bombing in the country's southern provinces.
Mr. Karzai said he welcomed both forms of intervention. For now, peacekeepers will operate only in Kabul, but Mr. Karzai said unequivocally that he wanted to see them in other cities. He said Afghans from the country's most remote corners had come to him asking for peacekeepers.
He said he did not know what was behind the weekend bombing near the village of Niazi Qala. American officials said that they had struck a Taliban and Al Qaeda compound, but villagers told foreign news agencies that many civilians had been killed.
Mr. Karzai said he had sent a helicopter to bring elders from the area to Kabul today so that he could investigate the incident. Another group of tribal leaders drove to Kabul this afternoon.
An aide to Mr. Karzai said he believed that, as with the airstrikes on the convoy in Paktia, deliberately faulty intelligence might have been fed to American officials. A fierce power struggle is raging in the region, largely over who will serve as governor of Paktia and its neighboring province, Paktika.
One group, supportive of Pacha Khan Zadran, a commander who was a delegate to the Bonn conference, has tended to play up the presence of Al Qaeda and Taliban members in the province and play down casualties, leading to suspicions that Mr. Zadran's backers may be encouraging the airstrikes to consolidate his power.
Another faction, which may include some former midlevel Taliban officials, has insisted, perhaps a little too fervently, that the airstrikes are completely mistaken.
"People are using this to settle old scores," Mr. Karzai's aide said of rivalries in the province. "This is politically motivated."
Still, Mr. Karzai gave no sign that his support for the war against terrorism was abating. He called it "our war," saying, "I'm glad the United States has joined in." He said he had authorized the arrest of Mullah Muhammad Omar, the Taliban leader, who is believed to be hiding in Helmand Province, and welcomed American involvement in a mission to capture him.
But he said many lower-level Taliban -- "common people" who had been forcibly recruited, for example -- would be released from the country's prisons and allowed to go home. "The bad guys will stay," he said, as will foreigners who had been fighting on the Taliban's behalf.
According to the records of the International Committee of the Red Cross, about 4,300 prisoners of war are being detained in prisons throughout Afghanistan. Estimates by the American coalition have placed the figure closer to 7,000.
Security remains paramount on Mr. Karzai's agenda. He acknowledged a problem of lawlessness on the country's highways, which has made it difficult to deliver aid and to import goods. He said he was appointing provincial governors who would be responsible for controlling security in their areas.
He also said he had raised concerns with Yunus Qanooni, the interior minister, about the behavior of Northern Alliance soldiers toward Pashtun elders coming to Kabul, including thefts of cars. But he also blamed saboteurs and terrorists still hoping to destabilize the country for some of the city's security problems.
Mr. Karzai refused to explain why his government had essentially modified the Bonn agreement, which had specifically called for all Afghan armed units to be sent out of Kabul. Western military sources said on Monday that Afghan officials had insisted that in the Dari language, the Bonn agreement only called for troops to be removed from the "streets of Kabul," and thus the soldiers would be kept in barracks, in the city.
Asked about the inconsistency of that policy with the Bonn agreement, Mr. Karzai said, "There is a new agreement."
On the question of disarming hundreds of groups and possibly hundreds of thousands of individuals, Mr. Karzai seemed to suggest that the disarmament would not be comprehensive. He ticked off the list of armed entities -- civilians with arms, armed groups, mujahedeen, former mujahedeen -- and said: "There are good and bad people. The bad guys should be disarmed by whatever means."
Mr. Karzai called restoring order to the country's chaotic and bankrupt economic system "as important as security." He said his administration was working quickly to set up a customs system and other mechanisms to generate revenue, select a head of the central bank and work out a new currency policy. "That is a priority area," he said.
For now, Afghan's currency is printed in Russia, and its value tends to fluctuate wildly. Before the bombing began on Oct. 7, for example, Afghans were trading their afghani at 83,000 to the dollar. In the days before Mr. Karzai's swearing in, the exchange rate improved dramatically -- to 11,000 to the dollar. Now it is at 25,000.
Saying there was no money left in the country's banks, Mr. Karzai produced a note from a former Taliban member with information about how the Taliban and "foreign elements" had looted the central bank. He said he planned to meet with the man in the hope that some of the lost revenues could be recovered.
Later this month Mr. Karzai will travel to Japan for a donors' conference on Afghanistan. Aides say he wants to make sure that the pledges Western countries made when the war against terrorism was at its height will be kept. He will also probably visit the United States after Congress reconvenes later this month.
For now, much of Mr. Karzai's time is taken up with greeting delegations. On Sunday, he said, he met with former President Burhanuddin Rabbani, with whom he will have lunch on Wednesday, and Abdul Rab Rassoul Sayyaf, a commander whom some see as a potential troublemaker.
He said they had come to offer their support, and, he suggested, to seek a bit of patronage for their supporters. "Everybody wants appointments," he said.
Mr. Karzai and his aides are also trying, hastily, to put in place the infrastructure for a functioning government. This morning, for example, he met with his minister for women's affairs, who still has no office.
Daoud Yaqub, a spokesman for Mr. Karzai, said people had no idea of the logistical difficulties facing the new administration. Without a telephone system in place, for example, something as simple as coordinating a meeting with the United Nations special representative to Afghanistan requires sending emissaries with notes. Some ministers have been given satellite phones, but there is concern that they will run up bills that will have to be paid out of their ministry budgets. 
Mr. Karzai, who today wore the green Uzbek cape that has become his trademark, seemed unfazed by the trials facing his administration. He said the week since he took office had been easier than when he was in the countryside, where he had no one to organize his time.
By comparison, things now seemed quite organized and civilized, he said. Indeed, part way through the interview, an aide entered carrying two scones. They had been sent by Mr. Karzai's sister-in-law in Baltimore.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The chairman of Afghanistan's interim government, Hamid Karzai, said he planned to raise the issue of civilian deaths with American officials. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (91%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOVERNORS (65%); HISTORY (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (96%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002 



43 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Pakistan Leader Orders End to Support for Militants
President Pervez Musharraf told his military intelligence agency to cut off backing for Islamic militant groups fighting in the disputed territory of Kashmir, senior officials said. They said future support would go only to groups with local roots that are not part of the Islamic holy war movement that has its most notorious expression in Osama bin Laden's Al Qaeda. Groups like Hizbul Mujahedeen, the officials said, would get "moral and political" support from the Pakistani government but not military training and weapons. A1

Zambians Protest Election
More than 1,000 angry opposition party supporters took to the streets and clashed with riot police officers as dozens of protesters stormed the Supreme Court to accuse the Zambian government of rigging the presidential election last week. Judge Peter Chitengi ordered the government not to release the final election results and said he would decide today whether he had the legal authority to delay the inauguration, as opposition parties have demanded, to allow an investigation into complaints of stuffed or stolen ballot boxes and other vote tampering. A8

New President in Argentina
Eduardo Duhalde, a veteran Peronist politician with a strong populist streak, was chosen by an emergency legislative assembly as Argentina's fifth president in less than two weeks. He announced that he would form a "government of national unity" in a last-ditch attempt to return from "the verge of disintegration and chaos." Like Adolfo Rodriguez Saa, an interim president who resigned on Sunday, Mr. Duhalde encountered stubborn resistance from within his own party. A6

Problems After Lima Explosion
Officials said that so many victims of the fireworks explosion in Lima that killed nearly 300 people were burned so badly that perhaps only 20 percent of the bodies would be identified. President Alejandro Toldeo has announced that the government will pay for DNA analysis, part of a series of measures taken in the days after the fire. He has also named a commission to cover burial costs and to help relocate people who lost their homes. Prosecutors and the police continue to confiscate fireworks caches. A6

U.S. Envoy to Return to Mideast
The Bush administration said it would send Anthony C. Zinni back to the Middle East to try to end 15 months of Israeli-Palestinian violence. The move was an indication that Washington sees a new determination on the part of Yasir Arafat to rein in militant Palestinian factions. Mr. Zinni, the Bush administration mediator who left in mid-December during a period of widespread violence, will return to the region tomorrow for four days of talks, the American Embassy said. A3

World Briefing A5

NATION CHALLENGED A10-11

Marines Seize Taliban Post In Major U.S. Operation
A convoy carrying about 200 United States marines and backed by helicopter gunships and Harrier jets rumbled out of Kandahar before dawn to secure an abandoned Taliban compound. Their destination was in Helmand Province, where special forces have been searching for Mullah Muhammad Omar, the Taliban leader, and where perhaps 2,000 Taliban are still hiding. Officials said the marines, accompanied by Afghan fighters, had secured the compound without hostilities and were expected to return to base today. A1

Wary Support for U.S. Bombing
The chairman of Afghanistan's interim government, Hamid Karzai, said he wanted the American bombing of Afghanistan to continue until all terrorist activity was rooted out, but he also expressed concern about mounting civilian casualties. A1

A.C.L.U. Offer to Aid Detainees
The American Civil Liberties Union has written to the consulates of 10 countries, including Jordan, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Morocco and Yemen, "to offer our assistance" to people who have been held by the United States since Sept. 11. A11

EDUCATION B11

DINING F1-10

NATIONAL A12

People in Wheelchairs Find a New Welcome Aloft
The struggling airline industry is making concessions to passengers who request wheelchairs because disabled travelers represent a fast-growing market that the carriers are competing to serve better. But efforts to cater to the growing numbers of passengers who use wheelchairs has caused some difficulties and occasionally taxes the entire system. A12

A Holiday of Mayhem
An estimated 90,000 adherents of off-road recreation finished blasting their way through a long weekend of racing and partying in the sand hills of southeastern California. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Bloomberg Says the Future Will Hinge on the Economy
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, in his inaugural address on the steps of City Hall, called on New Yorkers to recognize the limits of government in trying times without sacrificing big dreams and big ideas. He said he would set an example of sacrifice by trimming his office staff by 20 percent, and he asked other elected officials to do the same. A1

Just hours into his term, the mayor got caught up in a dispute of who was the first baby born in the new year. B1

3 Emerge in Race for Speaker
City Council members said last-minute political shifts had created a three-way race among Bill Perkins and A. Gifford Miller of Manhattan and Angel Rodriguez of Brooklyn, all Democrats. The council will elect its speaker next Wednesday. B1

State Seeks Air Quality Waiver
The Pataki administration asked Congress to waive federal air quality controls on New York's transportation projects for four years. Officials said one reason for the waiver to the Clean Air Act was the loss of staff members, records and computers involved with compliance in the Sept. 11 attack on the World Trade Center. B1

Manhattan Pilgrimage
Thousands braved cold winds and three-hour waits for an opportunity to climb the new viewing platform erected at ground zero, where the work of recovering bodies and clearing debris continued unabated. B3

Neediest Cases B8

ARTS E1-12

SPORTS D1-7

Satisfaction for Oregon
Oregon beat the Big 12 champion Colorado, 38-16, in the Fiesta Bowl, giving the Ducks, who were miffed at being left out of the Bowl Championship Series title game tomorrow, a tenuous claim to a split national championship. D1

Notre Dame's New Coach
Tyrone Willingham officially became the head football coach, the first African-American to head the fabled football program, or any athletic program, at Notre Dame. He said the most pressure he felt was to produce a national championship. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

The Outlook for Stocks
Prospects for the market appear solid, at least for the next couple of months, but analysts are warning investors not to get too giddy. Although the economy and corporate profits will probably be growing again soon, the rate of growth may be lower than investors expect. As a result, many analysts say, stocks will rise only moderately this year. C1

Credit markets outperformed the stock market in what proved to be a volatile 2001, and analysts expect that volatility to continue for awhile amid uncertainty over the recovery and Fed policy on interest rates. C6

The Euro Era Begins
Europeans flocked to cash machines from Barcelona to Berlin to get the new euro notes that became the single currency of 12 European nations immediately after midnight. A6

OBITUARIES B10

Eileen Heckart
The actress who won an Oscar for "Butterflies Are Free," three Emmys and a special lifetime achievement Tony was 82. B10

Thomas A. Sebeok
A pioneer in the science of signs and symbols, who was noted for challenging the theory that apes and chimpanzees could learn language to communicate with humans, he was 81. B10

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: The Bloomberg era begins; an uncertain parks policy; Steven R. Weisman on presidential ranches.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E12
TV Listings E11
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); TERRORISM (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ELECTION FRAUD (75%); RIOTS (74%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); MILITARY TRAINING (73%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (73%); FIRES (72%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); HELICOPTERS (50%); DNA (50%); DNA TESTING (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (73%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (92%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); ASIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ISRAEL (79%); INDIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002 



44 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK: Markets & Investing; 
Bonds May Have Tougher Time Outperforming Stocks in 2002

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
TWO things will be remembered about the bond market in 2001 -- and both say something about the new year.
 One was the wrenching turns in interest rates as 2001 ended. It took about 15 weeks for the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note to fall a full percentage point to its 2001 low of 4.18 percent on Nov. 7. Then it took just two weeks to shoot back to 5 percent; two weeks to fall to 4.66 percent and just another week and a half to soar to 5.19 percent. That volatility reflected the uncertainty about the outlook for the economy and the Federal Reserve's interest-rate policy. That uncertainty -- and volatility -- should continue for a while in 2002. 
 Those wrenching twists also wiped out a big portion of the gains bonds had been making last year. At the low for Treasury interest rates, the return on Treasury notes and bonds was 13.1 percent; by the end of the year, it was 6.7 percent. In contrast, high-yield junk bonds rallied at the end of the year, from an annual return of 2.8 percent on Nov. 7 to 4.5 percent.
The second memorable thing for bonds last year was that the credit markets outperformed the stock market. Investment-grade bonds over all, including Treasuries, corporates, mortgages and agencies, had a return of 8.3 percent last year, according to Merrill Lynch bond indexes. While that was down from an annual return of 12.9 percent on Nov. 7, it stood in sharp contrast to the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which fell 13 percent.
This was the second straight year that domestic bonds have been a better bet than stocks and the first two-year outperformance by bonds since 1992-1993. Emerging market bonds, excluding Argentina, had a total return of 19.8 percent in 2001. But Argentina's bonds, on which the government has defaulted, declined 66.9 percent in value. So there was a dip of 0.8 percent over all for emerging market bonds, according to J. P. Morgan bond indexes.
The question is: Can this outperformance continue? While that answer is up in the air, "there is little doubt that making money in bonds will probably be more difficult in 2002 than it was in 2001." said Amy C. Falls, global fixed-income strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
The key variables for volatility and performance are the shape of the economic recovery that is in the consensus forecast for the spring and how long Fed policy makers wait before they decide to push up their short-term interest rate benchmark, the federal funds rate on overnight loans among banks.
The surge in interest rates at the end of the year meant that many investors believed that the economic recovery had begun -- or would begin soon -- and that a strong rebound would force the Fed, which lowered rates 11 times in 2001, to turn around and raise them as a bulwark against inflation by June, if not earlier.
Other analysts, however, say the recovery will be moderate, in part because the recent rise in longer-term interest rates is putting a drag on housing, through higher mortgage rates, and on corporate investment. A slower recovery would make it unlikely that the Fed would move before the end of this year or possibly not before early 2003. Another restraint on the Fed, these analysts argue, is that inflation pressures will remain contained. The core Consumer Price Index, which excludes food and energy, rose 2.8 percent in the 12 months through November.
If the recovery is quick, many investors will take bigger risks to get the higher yields needed to offset the decline in bond prices that comes with rising interest rates. With the economy improving, high-yield bonds would become more attractive because company outlooks would improve. The expectation of a quick recovery set off a rush into high yield at the end of 2001. But if there is a slow recovery and a patient Fed, then picking companies with higher credit ratings would be a better bet.
In an environment of rising or steady interest rates, mortgage-backed securities look good. It is falling interest rates that are troublesome to mortgage performance, as homeowners rush to refinance their mortgages at lower rates.
Analysts generally agree that interest rates hit bottom in November and will move higher this year. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note is forecast to reach between 5.5 percent and 5.75 percent, from the 5.02 percent where it ended last year. The yield on the two-year note, which finished 2001 at 3.04 percent, could rise to 3.75 percent this year.
That rise in rates means that the Treasury market is not the place to be, as rising rates will push Treasury prices lower. (Merrill Lynch argues that there is one more Treasury rally in store as investors find out the recovery will not be immediate or strong. Then interest rates will rise.) This means that the bet for this year in bonds -- whether they outperform stocks or not -- is on what is known as spread product. This covers the other fixed-income securities, including investment-grade corporate bonds, agency and mortgage-backed securities and below-investment-grade junk bonds. They all trade at a higher yield than the comparable maturity in the Treasury market, and the difference is called the spread.
Analysts are recommending investing in spread product for several reasons. First, these sectors offer higher yields than those in the Treasury market. In addition, analysts say that while yields will also rise in these sectors of the fixed-income market, they will go up less than Treasury yields. This means that the spread among corporates, agencies, mortgages and junk bonds will narrow versus Treasuries, and this is a profit opportunity.
This is very much the same advice that analysts gave going into 2001, and it worked out, except maybe in the junk bond market, where an annual rate of return of 98.5 percent in January turned to a minus 8.9 percent in December. The return for corporate bonds was 10.7 percent, compared with 9.1 percent in 2000. Mortgages returned 8.1 percent, compared with 11.3 percent in 2000, and agencies had a total return of 8.3 percent, compared with 11.9 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Good Year"Domestic bonds outperformed the stock market for the second straight year in 2001. Here are the monthly returns by type of bond, according to Merrill Lynch indexes. Graph tracks mortgage, U.S. Treasury, corporate, and high-yield returns for 2001.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (85%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



45 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: Don't Shoot! We're Only Shopping 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: MAIZURU, Japan, Dec. 28 

 BODY:
Framed by freshly unloaded stacks of Siberian lumber, thousands of used Japanese bicycles were loaded onto a ship here today, their tires flat, their chains rusted and their once-prim plastic shopping baskets cracked and faded. They are headed to North Korea, gifts from Kim Jong Il, the "Dear Leader," to his nation of 23 million people, in honor of his birthday.
 "Kim Jong Il's birthday is in six weeks, and he has promised a ration of one bicycle for every household," a Japanese dealer of second-hand goods who is of Korean descent said with a wave to the old bicycles that already covered every possible surface of the Su Song Chon, a low and rusting North Korean coastal ship that was pressed into service for foreign trade. 
 When Mr. Kim shopped for the masses to perk up his 60th birthday festivities, on Feb. 16, it was only natural that he would turn to this mist-shrouded port, 500 miles across the Sea of Japan from North Korea. Here, in Maizuru, a lovely natural harbor where glassy waters are cupped by forest-covered mountains, the number of North Korean trading ships has increased fivefold in five years, reaching 295 last year. 
Recently, a bitter war of words has erupted between Japan and North Korea over a mystery boat that sank after an intense gun battle with Japan Coast Guard ships in the Sea of China on Dec. 22. All 15 crew members of the boat apparently died. North Korea, while denying ownership of what the Japanese news media call "the spy ship," accused Japan of "brutal piracy."
But here on Japan's quiet coast, the northwest shore that faces the Korean Peninsula, it was business as usual today, with seven North Korean boats tied up at wharves here. Because Japan and North Korea do not have diplomatic relations, the North Koreans do all their trading without setting foot on land. Standing on a wooden gangplank, a yard from Japanese soil, the leader of one boat's crew was not happy to see visitors. 
"No pictures, give me the film, you have no right to take pictures inside the port," the North Korean man, who sported a gold watch and designer sunglasses, said as his crew froze in their loading tasks, glaring with suspicion at the unexpected visitors. He ceremoniously dropped the film into the salt water.
Much of North Korea's notorious prickliness may come from an acute awareness that it has badly lost the development race. 
With a state farming system that does not produce enough food and a military that eats up as much as one-quarter of its gross national product, North Korea relied in 2001 on food donated by Japan, South Korea and the United States to help feed a third of its people. Although the donations averted a recurrence of the famines of the late 1990's, North Korea directed its harshest political vitriol last year at those three donor nations.
Half a century ago, North Korea's living standards were not much lower than postwar Japan's. Today, North Korea's per capita income is $760 and Japan's is $32,000. The gap is comparable to that between the United States and Honduras.
A rare intersection appears in this out-of-the-way port, known to Japanese tourists as the starting point for pleasant summer drives along a coastline of craggy cliffs, white beaches and bobbing fishing boats.
"Wonsan, Chongjin, Nampo," said Fumio Kitai, the local Japanese customs director, reading down a shipping list of home ports for 24 North Korean ships that have come here in December. From his office, a crane could be seen lowering a used Japanese car into the hold of an ancient freighter, the Nampo Two. Its port side was streaked with long fingers of rust.
"Used bicycles, refrigerators, televisions, radio-cassette players, second-hand beds, sofas, tables," he said running down the list of Japanese castoffs that flow through here to North Korea. In 2000, with Japanese recycling laws raising disposal costs, the surge in used goods helped triple Japan's exports to North Korea from Maizuru, Japan's busiest port for trade with North Korea.
In turn, Japan imports fish, snow crabs and matsutake mushrooms from North Korea. 
Some of Japan's hand-me-downs are too expensive for North Korea's pinched consumers. Most of the Japanese cars are smuggled into China, evading China's high taxes on imported cars.
"Guided by flashlight signals, Chinese smugglers carrying bags of cash enter the North to test the quality of cars," Chosun Ilbo, a South Korean newspaper, wrote recently of the cross-border trade. "North Korean drivers take them across the Tumen River, driving through shallow streams."
The newspaper estimated that a five-year-old Toyota Crown or Nissan Cedric bought in Japan for $3,000 would fetch twice the price at the Chinese border. The newspaper reported, though, that the number of North Korean groups pursuing this lucrative trade had increased to more than 100 from 6 in the early 1990's.
Japanese companies have also discovered that producing their goods in North Korea allows them to pay some of northeast Asia's lowest wages without fear of labor unrest.
Earlier this month, Daiei, a struggling Japanese supermarket chain, was selling men's suits for $80, a promotional price made possible by North Korean labor. In 2000, imports of clothing from North Korea through Maizuru totaled $2.4 million, a nearly 1,000-fold increase over 1999 levels.
"Japanese companies export textiles to North Korea, they process the cloth, and then it comes back through here," Mr. Kitai said. Leafing through his 2,795-page customs manual, Mr. Kitai found, on Page 1,667, that Japan's only major export restrictions to North Korea concerned military equipment and fishing boats.
In October, a Tokyo court gave suspended jail sentences to four men convicted of selling used fishing boats to North Korea without government permits. As the Dec. 22 clash showed, Japan remains deeply concerned about North Korean "spy ships." According to the Japanese news media, the ship that sank was one of three North Korean "spy ships" tracked by United States military satellites after leaving Nampo, North Korea, in early December.
In the past, Japan says, North Korean boats have landed spies on Japanese beaches, and the crews have smuggled drugs into Japan and kidnapped about a dozen Japanese young people, presumably to use as Japanese language instructors.
During the last two years, almost one-third of all illegal amphetamines seized in Japan have come from North Korea, according to Japan's National Police Agency. North Korea, which has refused to join the International Narcotics Control Board, raised international suspicions in 1998 when its diplomats in Thailand exported from Bangkok to Pyongyang 2.5 tons of ephedrine, a major ingredient for the manufacture of amphetamines.
Reports by North Korean defectors of industrial-scale state amphetamine factories now seem increasingly credible. Over the last two years, Japanese seizures of amphetamines from other Asian countries have averaged 80 pounds. Japanese seizures of amphetamines from North Korea have averaged 670 pounds.
"They need drug smuggling to get hard currency," said Hajime Izumi, an international affairs professor specializing in Korea at Shizuoka Prefectural University. He said that with a reduction in remittances from Koreans in Japan, North Korea had sought to earn hard currency through drug sales and counterfeiting.
"We haven't had any problems with them here," Hisao Nishiyama, the local deputy director of the Japan Coast Guard, said after peering through powerful binoculars from his harbor front office at two North Korean ships. North Korean flagged ships do not have insurance and tend to be in worse shape than Liberian or Panamanian flagged vessels, he said. 
But, he conceded, the high-seas battle last week, about 800 miles southwest of here, so rattled local fishermen that Coast Guard officials have given security talks to the Maizuru fishermen's association.
With geography dictating who will use this port, Akira Ono, the manager of Maizuru's port promotion association, said: "We hope this incident is not going to damage our trade. Trade brings benefits to both sides."
Still, the latest confrontation put another dent in North Korea's already battered image in Japan. Tallying up 577 e-mail messages received in the four days after the confrontation, the Coast Guard reported that 98 percent of the messages supported their conduct. Although autopsies on two of the bodies indicated that the two men had drowned, few people have criticized the Coast Guard for not rescuing the boat's crew members from the water; Japanese officials said Coast Guard officers were concerned at the time that the men were armed.
The conflict came only days after the United Nations World Food Program made a worldwide appeal for $400 million worth of food to feed North Koreans next year. With Japan gearing up to host a major Afghanistan aid conference in Tokyo in January, aid officials worry that Japan may lose interest in feeding North Korea.
"Now the Japanese public mood is quite negative to helping North Korea," Mr. Izumi said. Moreover, Japan is trimming its overall foreign aid budget as part of a recession-driven austerity. "Even though it is humanitarian aid," he added, "it is now quite difficult in Japan to get public support for North Korea."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A cargo of used Japanese bicycles passed through Maizuru's port and onto two ships from North Korea, including this one, the Chonglyu, despite hostility over a battle at sea over a boat believed to be North Korean. (Yoshihiro Yamashita/Asahi Shimbun) Map of Japan highlighting Maizuru: In Maizuru's port, it's business as usual for North Korea and Japan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY VESSELS (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); FAMINE (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (73%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (65%); ESPIONAGE (64%); ARMED FORCES (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC OCEAN (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); JAPAN (98%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002 



46 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1657 words

HEADLINE: THE MAYORAL TRANSITION; 
Mayor's Speech: 'Rebuild, Renew and Remain the Capital of the Free World'

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's inaugural address yesterday, as recorded by The New York Times:
 Thank you, Reverend, clergy, elected officials, honest guests, my fellow citizens. I am honored and humbled to serve as the 108th mayor of the City of New York. 
 Let me begin by saluting the leadership that Rudy Giuliani has provided over the last eight years. In our darkest hour he was a ray of hope, a voice of reassurance to millions. He made us all proud, and he reminded the world that New Yorkers don't quit. Everyone please stand again and join me in honoring Rudy Giuliani. 
I just want you to know that last night in Times Square when Rudy swore me in, he said to me, "Don't fail our people." Rudy, I will not. 
I also want to recognize former Mayors Ed Koch and David Dinkins, who have devoted their lives to serving the city of New York. Everything we do is built on your service in the past, gentlemen. Thank you both.
Today we celebrate the orderly transfer of power through a democratic process. Here in New York we understand all too well the price of our liberty. Just half a mile from these steps we lost 3,000 of our friends, families, neighbors, co-workers, including more than 400 heroes who gave their lives to save others.
On the worst day in our city's history we were at our best. We saw the spirit of New York in our unity of purpose. Our police, firefighters, emergency service workers exemplified the highest ideal of our national character. That sacrifice continues today. Americans are fighting terrorism around the world. And here at home our uniformed services continue the task of ensuring our safety. 
I pledge that my administration will strive, in everything we do, to honor the memory of those we have lost and honor those now fighting for our freedoms. We will rebuild, renew and remain the capital of the free world. 
To meet the challenges facing our city we must work together to draw upon the energy, entrepreneurship and talents of all New Yorkers. We are the toughest, most resilient and most determined people on the planet. Throughout our history New Yorkers have always made the sacrifices necessary to achieve a better tomorrow. And there will be a better tomorrow. 
In the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's, Gov. Hugh Carey brought together the city, the state, labor and business. He went to Washington to deliver our message, and he prevailed. This time Washington came to New York. Within days of the tragedy, President George W. Bush stood at ground zero and pledged that America stands with our city. Thank you, Mr. President, for all you have done and all that you will do to fulfill that explicit pledge. 
We are also indebted to a leadership of United States Senators Chuck Schumer and Hillary Clinton and to the dean of our Congressional delegation, Charlie Rangel. They and their colleagues are the ones who represent us so ably in Washington. And together we pledge to the president and to the Congress, we will justify America's support. 
In Albany we are fortunate to have a governor, George Pataki, who understands and appreciates the importance of our city. I look forward to working closely with the governor and with our state legislative leaders, Senate majority leader Joe Bruno and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, who have been so supportive. 
As mayor I will form a new partnership with Washington, with Albany, with our City Council, with our borough presidents, with our community boards, with our municipal unions, with business and with all New Yorkers. The people have asked us to set aside partisan differences to overcome traditional barriers and to cooperate in this new partnership. This is an historic moment. We cannot afford to fight with each other. We must work together. 
I am especially pleased that my good friend for 30 years, John Whitehead, has assumed the chairmanship of the Lower Manhattan Redevelopment Corporation. John and his committee have been charged by Governor Pataki and Mayor Giuliani with coordinating all the proposals for rebuilding the World Trade Center site. And we know he and his committee will arrive at a consensus we all can support.
And as we must rebuild Lower Manhattan, so we must also invest time and effort throughout our entire city. As Toni Morrison has said, New York is the last true city. And it is the vitality of our neighborhoods that define us. Those streets where we work, raise our children, form friendships and learn the values that we carry through life. New York has been and will continue to be a magnet for people from all over the world. This is where the arts, business, research and technology converge to create the world's foremost urban economy. 
Based on my experience building a business here in New York, I can guarantee that New York is the best place in the world to do business. No city can match New York for its intellectual capital, financial know-how and cultural vibrancy. 
To our corporate leaders, I urge you to strengthen your commitment to New York. This is no time to leave the Big Apple. Your future is New York. And New York's is better than ever. 
I have said it before and I want to say it again: New York is safe, strong, open for business and ready to lead the world in the 21st century. We will continue to improve our quality of life and attract visitors, tourists and businesses in record numbers. We will focus on public safety. We will work tirelessly to provide safe streets and homes for all New Yorkers. We will go forward. We will never go back. 
We will focus on adding and retaining jobs for all our people. The ability for everyone to have the skills and opportunity to feed one's family is the basis for a free, healthy, democratic society, and we must ensure all have it. 
We will improve our public schools. Parents know that their children are safe and receiving an education that prepares them for the future is what they demand. We will test our educators. We will test our students. But the real test is that of political resolve, the test of ourselves. The need is real. The time is now. Without authority there is no accountability. 
The public through the mayor must control the school system. To do this, I will build a partnership with the governor, our State Legislature, the City Council, the borough presidents, the teachers' union and parents. Together we will create a school system that works for all our children. 
Rebuilding our city, restoring our infrastructure, continuing the fight against crime and reforming our schools will not be easy in the current economic climate. It will require tough decisions and hard choices by all of us, in government, the nonprofit sector, business and labor. I will be asking all parts of my city government to do more with less. I will ask for their help, and I will seek their advice. 
But the facts are clear. We will not be able to afford all that we want. We will not even be able to afford everything we currently have. And since leadership means setting an example, and in my book the search for efficiency always begins at the top, I pledge to reduce staffing in the office of the mayor by 20 percent. And I hereby challenge the comptroller, public advocate, borough presidents and the City Council to do the same. 
We cannot ask of others what we are not willing to do ourselves. I will do my part to balance the budget, as I am sure every city employee will do in turn. Let me say once more though, we cannot repeat the mistakes of the past. We cannot drive people and business out of New York. We cannot raise taxes. We will find another way. 
And even though we must sacrifice now, let us not forget we are still a city of big dreams, of big ideas, big projects and a big heart. We must plan and develop for the long term. We can never abandon our future. We will bring new life to our waterfront and stimulate new investment in housing, schools and, when we can afford them, the world's best cultural and athletic facilities. These, along with our parks and transportation infrastructure in all five boroughs, cannot be ignored. We will plan now and build as funds become available. We will emerge from short-term pain to long-term gain. 
This is a city where 140 languages are spoken. Since the days of the Dutch, wave after wave of immigrants have transformed this city. They have flourished because of the culture of tolerance and acceptance that characterizes New York. Our challenge is to strengthen that culture and fight bigotry in any form, wherever it may happen. I will not allow any form of bias to drain our energy or divide our communities. 
Those of us in government must remember that we are here to work with and serve all eight million New Yorkers. When I launched my campaign in Queens, I said my only regret was that my father did not live to see my dreams come true. I want New Yorkers to have the same opportunity my father wanted for my sister and me, the opportunity to pursue one's dreams. 
In the next four years I will devote myself to building a better New York. I promise that I will govern free from partisanship and prejudice. I promise that I will listen, and whether you ultimately agree with my decisions, you will know that your voice has been heard. 
On election night I vowed to build the best government that this city has ever seen, an inclusive, diverse, energetic and innovative government; the right team to lead our city through difficult times. I am very proud of the administration we are assembling. 
But government alone can't find the solutions to all of our problems. It is not in City Hall but in the Rockaways, Bay Ridge, Washington Heights, New Dorp and Belmont, there and in the hundreds of neighborhoods throughout this great city are many of our answers. Together we will make the hard choices. We will forge a new partnership that binds all New Yorkers to meet our challenges head-on, and we will prevail. 
Thank you and God bless New York. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg stepped onto his new turf, heading to a lectern at City Hall to deliver his inaugural address. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RELIGION (73%); HISTORY (67%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); TERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002 



47 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: THE MAYORAL TRANSITION: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
Blueprint for Tough, and Brighter, Times

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
With his very first speech, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg began yesterday to confront one of the great complications that faces this new mayor: how to at once prepare the city for tough times ahead without driving its nervous citizens and business leaders into abandoning a city in distress.
 The new mayor is not the first chief executive to take over a government at a moment of great difficulty, faced with the task of imploring constituents to endure short-term sacrifices for the long-term public good. 
 But given the circumstances of these past four months in New York, Mr. Bloomberg cannot do what leaders in his predicament routinely do, as he is well aware. 
In short, the new mayor cannot push ahead and present a picture of a city in peril -- as a way, for example, to coerce unions to accept smaller pay raises -- without risking an exodus of people and corporations, or dissuading businesses that relocated after Sept. 11 from returning to New York.
What Mayor Bloomberg instead attempted to finesse yesterday, in what aides said would be the predominant message of the administration for a while to come, was to talk at once about the difficult times New York faces, but temper it with a bright view of the city's future.
"Throughout our history, New Yorkers have always made the sacrifices necessary to achieve a better tomorrow," Mr. Bloomberg declared in the heart of his speech. "And there will be a better tomorrow."
But this is a nuanced message that would be difficult for even the most experienced politician to execute. And it has fallen to a man who until yesterday at noon, had never done anything remotely like standing on the steps of City Hall and addressing an audience that included a governor, two United States senators, three ex-mayors and a two-level platform holding cameras and television crews from around the world.
And whatever assets Mr. Bloomberg brings to his new job as the founder of a successful corporation, this first mayoral address -- in effect, the public debut of someone who was known until now primarily through his television advertisements -- was evidence that public speaking may not be one of them. 
The new mayor spoke in a stiff and swift monotone. The crowd -- many of whom gathered gray blankets around them against the cold -- grew restless as the speech went on, notwithstanding the fact that it was only 14 minutes long.
Mr. Bloomberg, a diminutive man, climbed on top of a small platform to give himself a bit of a lift as he stood before the lectern; Cardinal Edward M. Egan, who is a large man, had to discreetly kick it away when he approached to end the inaugural ceremony with his benediction. Still, even with the lift of his platform, Mr. Bloomberg seemed dwarfed by the huge American flag that was unfurled behind him.
"He's no showboat," said Edward I. Koch, the former Democratic mayor who was one, and who endorsed Mr. Bloomberg and watched his speech from his own front-row seat on the stage.
He added: "His was a substantive speech, as far as I was concerned. He doesn't yet have a lyrical quality. But it will come."
Another Democratic official who generally finds Mr. Bloomberg praiseworthy said, "His problem is not going to be conceptualizing -- I think it's going to be communicating."
After eight years of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, it is perhaps unrealistic -- or even undesirable -- to expect another mayor with such a theatrical flair. And even those politicians who squirmed a bit at Mr. Bloomberg's delivery were impressed with the sophistication of what he said.
"We will not be able to afford all that we want," said Mr. Bloomberg, the founder of Bloomberg L.P. He appealed directly to his fellow business executives in urging them to stay the course. 
"New York," he said, "is safe, strong, open for business and ready to lead the world in the 21st century." 
It was impossible to walk away from the speech without getting a sense of tough fiscal times ahead, particularly when he said he would cut his own staffing budget 20 percent, asked other elected officials to do the same, and used the word "sacrifice" three times.
But he never used a hammer: he didn't talk about, say, city workers accepting lower pay increases, or people getting used to dirtier streets or parks, or shorter library hours.
Although he invoked the inaugural image of Gov. Hugh L. Carey, who came into office in 1975 in the midst of the city's most severe fiscal crisis, this speech did not approach the alarming tenor of Mr. Carey's famous declaration that "Now the times of plenty, the days of wine and roses, are over," offered in his first State of the State message.
"Hugh Carey is a different speaker and he spoke at a different time," said William Cunningham, who was a senior adviser to Mr. Carey in 1975, and was appointed on Monday as Mr. Bloomberg's communications director. 
Mr. Bloomberg, Mr. Cunningham argued, was by nature optimistic and neither accustomed to, nor comfortable with, the notion of invoking fiscal catastrophe as way of preparing the city for severe cutbacks. 
And Mr. Bloomberg was intimately involved in preparing the speech he delivered yesterday. He wrote out long sections of it by hand, and kept tinkering with it through New Year's Eve. 
One result of this, an aide said, was that it was pervaded with a relentless spirit of civic boosterism that might be hard to imagine coming from a politician, particularly because Mr. Bloomberg linked it so closely to his own previous life.
"Based on my experience building a business here in New York, I can guarantee that New York is the best place in the world to do business," Mr. Bloomberg said. 
"No city can match New York for its intellectual capital, financial know-how and cultural vibrancy. To our corporate leaders, I urge you to strengthen your commitment to New York. This is no time to leave the Big Apple."
Still, even if Mr. Bloomberg wanted to take the doom-and-gloom route, it is doubtful that he could have. He is a man new to politics, taking over from a mayor whose competence was unchallenged, at an anxious and uncertain time.
Mr. Bloomberg has no illusions, an aide said, about just how difficult the year ahead is going to be, as he struggles to contain a budget disturbingly out of balance, and considers how to rebuild the city's downtown.
From that perspective, the last thing that New Yorkers needed to hear on this bright first day of the New Year was that things were going to get any worse.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Charlotte Bloomberg, the new mayor's mother, congratulated Mr. Bloomberg after his speech yesterday afternoon in which he sounded a cautious note of troubled budget times ahead for the city. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); Bundled against the New Year's Day cold, Mr. Bloomberg's daughters, Georgina and Emma, waited for their father's first mayoral speech. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); CITIES (89%); BUDGETS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLITICS (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); TRENDS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); TERRORISM (67%); RELOCATIONS (67%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); NAGOURNEY, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002 



48 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: THE INDIA-PAKISTAN TENSION: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
Seeking a New Ending

BYLINE:  By CELIA W. DUGGER 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Jan. 1 

 BODY:
Confrontations between India and Pakistan over Kashmir, the beautiful Himalayan land, have unfolded like movie sequels with the same discouraging plot line. But recently, the sheer force of events seems to have fast-forwarded the story line between these old enemies and suddenly a different, more hopeful ending seems possible, if still unlikely. 
 Pakistan's military ruler, President Pervez Musharraf, has taken steps to crack down on two "holy warrior" groups that defense analysts say Pakistan has sponsored to fight Indian rule of Kashmir -- and that India has accused of carrying out an attack on Parliament on Dec. 13. The groups' leaders and dozens of their members have been arrested in the last week. 
 In just the past day or two, Indian officials have begun to consider for the first time the possibility that General Musharraf may be prepared to alter Pakistan's longstanding strategy of fomenting anti-India violence in Kashmir. 
Though the Indians deeply mistrust him as the architect of a Pakistan Army incursion into the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir in 1999, they say perhaps General Musharraf is bending under severe pressure from the United States and an extreme military threat from India.
India's prime minister, Atal Behari Vajpayee, acknowledged as much in his New Year's message today. If Pakistan is sincere about rooting out terrorism, he said, then India is "willing to walk more than half the distance to work closely with Pakistan to resolve, through dialogue, any issue, including the contentious issue of Jammu and Kashmir."
But the suspicion of Pakistan's motives runs deep here -- and it is possible that the arrests of Islamic militants in Pakistan only signals a tactical retreat to buy time or disguise some new strategy.
Will these men, now held on general charges, be released once the world's attention moves on from South Asia? Indian officials ask. Will Pakistan try to shift its support to anti-India rebels who are Kashmiris and therefore more easily defended as indigenous freedom fighters?
"It is still too early to form a final opinion," Arun Jaitley, a senior minister in the Indian government, said in an interview today. "A signal here or there may be only a transient indicator. I still have my fingers crossed."
The general and his men are saying the right things. General Musharraf declared on Christmas Day that "wicked, bigoted extremists" would not be allowed to destroy Pakistan from within.
Pakistan's foreign minister, Abdul Sattar, has called these Pakistan-based groups "unconstitutional armies," suggesting that Pakistan is searching for a rationale to act against them that is not about India, but about Pakistan's own internal security.
A high-ranking military intelligence official in Pakistan said today that General Musharraf had decided to "completely cut off all support to nonindigenous groups in Kashmir," and had ordered the closing of the military intelligence division that has long dealt with the militant groups.
The Kashmiris' struggle for independence began as an indigenous one in the late 1980's, but was largely taken over in the 1990's by the Pakistanis, who sought to use it as a vehicle for their own proxy war with India for control of Kashmir.
India is now trying to test General Musharraf's intentions. On Monday it handed over a list of 20 people, most of them Indians, who are suspected of committing sensational acts of terrorism over the last 10 to 15 years. India says these accused men are fugitives who have been given sanctuary in Pakistan and must be handed over for trial here.
But today, Pakistan said it would not hand over any of the 20, saying India lacked evidence against them.
In the meantime, India is keeping up its dangerous game of military brinkmanship with Pakistan.
India is not pulling back any of the hundreds of thousands of troops it has moved to the border since the Dec. 13 attack, which India laid at the doorstep of Pakistan and two militant Islamic groups operating there.
"It is too short a time to think of de-escalating now," said a defense official. "We'll have to see if things are stabilizing. We'll be watching the steps Pakistan takes on the list of 20 people we have provided." 
If India becomes convinced that General Musharraf's actions are a ruse, the two countries could still topple into their first full-scale war as declared nuclear powers.
Now, India insists the mobilization of its million-man army -- the largest buildup mounted since India and Pakistan's last war 30 years ago -- is purely defensive, while Pakistani officials have said they fear that an attack is imminent.
Indian officials clearly hope diplomacy, backed by the threat of war, will achieve their aim of ending violence in Kashmir and other parts of India.
But what if Pakistan does not go far enough in satisfying the ultimatums India has issued?
Immediately after the attack in New Delhi, which Indian officials have described as an attempt to murder India's senior elected leadership, India's cabinet declared that India would liquidate the terrorists wherever they were. Mr. Vajpayee has defined the current crisis as his country's last, decisive battle against Pakistan-sponsored terrorism.
Sept. 11 and Dec. 13 have become paired dates in the minds of many senior officials here. India's response to the attack on Parliament has been influenced by the Bush administration's Sept. 11 template, with its moral absolutism about terrorism and its overwhelming application of military power against the terrorist suspects and -- crucially -- the government that harbored them.
Before Sept. 11, India's military had consciously chosen not to cross the line into Pakistan-held Kashmir, even when severely provoked by Pakistan in 1999. Indian officials judged then that the risks of war with nuclear-armed Pakistan were too great. 
But recently, senior Indian officials have spoken openly, if still not publicly, about striking across the line that divides Kashmir between India and Pakistan at the Pakistan-based groups that India holds responsible for terrorist acts -- and about being prepared for the large-scale conflict that could follow.
There is a deep frustration here with what some defense officials and strategic experts see as Pakistan's nuclear bluffing and the way it has turned India into a kind of paralyzed giant, unable to use its greater conventional military power against Pakistan for fear of a suicidal escalation of warfare.
Unlike India, Pakistan has never committed itself to a no-first-use policy on nuclear weapons. Some say they believe that Pakistan's nuclear arsenal -- and the protection it affords against Indian conventional power -- has emboldened Pakistan to bleed India in Kashmir, sponsoring groups that kill hundreds of soldiers and policemen a year in dozens of attacks.
"Because of our softness, the feeling in Pakistan is that India will take it -- that India is like a lazy cow in the field that will only use its tail to brush off the mosquitoes and insects that are biting it," said Naresh Chandra, who recently retired as India's ambassador to the United States.
There is a strain of thinking here that says Pakistan would never use its nuclear weapons because it knows it would suffer a catastrophic counterattack.
"I do not subscribe to the theory that India and Pakistan are crazy countries who would resort to nuclear war out of anger," said K. Santhanam, the physicist who was project coordinator for India's 1998 nuclear tests and now heads the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses here.
India's implicit threat of war has motivated the United States to turn the screws on Pakistan to crack down on "holy war" groups that have been fighting Indian rule of Kashmir for years.
The Indians hope the Americans will be as effective in getting Pakistan to change course on Kashmir as they were in persuading General Musharraf to ditch the Taliban. President Bush and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell have been on the phone to General Musharraf in recent days. 
"Pakistan cannot continue to support these groups for even one day if the American government puts enough pressure on because Pakistan is so vulnerable economically," said a senior Indian minister.
India's leverage with the United States is great now because the Bush administration wants to avert a war that could jeopardize America's endgame against Osama bin Laden, who may have fled to Pakistan. The United States needs Pakistani troops in the hunt for Mr. Bin Laden, not fighting India.
So far, India's brinkmanship seems to be energizing American diplomacy and squeezing concessions from the Pakistanis. Later this week, both India's prime minister and Pakistan's president will be attending a South Asian regional conference in Nepal.
Up to now, India has given no public hint that Mr. Vajpayee might be willing to meet the general to talk about the current crisis. But a senior Indian official said: "Our prime minister is capable of taking very daring, unconventional decisions. You never know. It's possible."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Villagers left their home in Ratangarh in Punjab State, two miles from the Pakistan border, yesterday. Firing across the border is frequent. (Reuters)(pg. A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (89%); ARMIES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ARRESTS (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); RELIGION (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); CHRISTMAS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-PAKISTAN 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%) MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN); DUGGER, CELIA W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) KASHMIR (98%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (93%) INDIA (99%); ASIA (98%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) INDIA; KASHMIR AND JAMMU; PAKISTAN

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002 



49 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: THE MAYORAL TRANSITION: OVERVIEW; 
BLOOMBERG OFFERS EXAMPLE WITH VOW TO CUT STAFF 20%

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Barely half a mile from the spot where terrorists struck New York City this fall, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg called on New Yorkers yesterday to recognize the limits of government in trying times without sacrificing big dreams and big ideas.
 "Rebuilding our city, restoring our infrastructure, continuing the fight against crime and reforming our schools will not be easy in the current economic climate," Mr. Bloomberg said in an inaugural address minutes after being sworn into office on the steps of City Hall. "It will require tough decisions and hard choices by all of us, in government, the nonprofit sector, business and labor." Transcript, Page B4. 
 On a day of monumental shifts in the city's government -- there was a change of guard in the offices of public advocate and comptroller and roughly two-thirds of the City Council -- Mr. Bloomberg said he would set an example of sacrifice by trimming 20 percent of the staff in his own office, and he asked other elected officials to do the same. 
"I will be asking all parts of my city government to do more with less. I will ask for their help and I will seek their advice.
"But the facts are clear," he continued, as suddenly rapt audience members, shivering under wool blankets, looked on with fresh attention. "We will not be able to afford all that we want. We will not even be able to afford everything we currently have. And since leadership means setting an example, and in my book the search for efficiency always begins at the top, I pledge to reduce staffing in the office of the mayor by 20 percent. And I hereby challenge the comptroller, public advocate, borough presidents and the City Council to do the same." 
Mr. Bloomberg did not cite specific agencies from which he would seek cuts, and it is presumed that some areas of government will certainly be asked to scale back their budgets more than others. And the actual savings from cutting office budgets, with the exception perhaps of the mayor's office, would be minimal. For example, a 20 percent cut to the $2.6 million earmarked this year for the office of the new public advocate, Betsy Gotbaum, amounts to about $520,000, a fraction of the roughly $40 billion city budget.
But in calling for trims from the offices of the comptroller and public advocate by name, Mr. Bloomberg seemed to be making it clear that he expected elected officials to lead the city through trying times by example. 
In Ms. Gotbaum's case, the issue of staff cuts is particularly thorny: a prior budget cut combined with a cash freeze of 15 percent in most agencies by Mr. Giuliani after the Sept. 11 attacks meant that her office's budget declined by about 21 percent between this fiscal year and the last one. As it stands, Ms. Gotbaum may have to hire fewer staff members than planned, and her response yesterday may portend negotiations with legislators and union leaders as Mr. Bloomberg moves to plug a budget gap of roughly $4 billion.
"Betsy Gotbaum of course appreciates the need for all agencies to tighten their belts in this time, " said her spokeswoman, Jen Bluestein. "In terms of the specific 20 percent budget cut, I think she feels that if she takes the budget cut it should be from the original budget of the office, not from the rather diminished amount that she currently has."
The new Queens borough president, Helen M. Marshall, also seemed to balk, saying that the prior cash freeze, combined with a 20 percent reduction, would be a serious blow to her office. "We will be out of money," she said.
Mr. Bloomberg, who called for racial harmony, consensus building and grass-roots activism by neighborhoods, drew on traditionally conservative themes when discussing his fiscal policies. 
New taxes would be anathema in a Bloomberg administration, he said, stressing that government partnerships with private industry would lead the way toward solvency.
"Let me say once more though, we cannot repeat the mistakes of the past," Mr. Bloomberg said. "We cannot drive people and business out of New York. We cannot raise taxes. We will find another way.
"To our corporate leaders, I urge you to strengthen your commitment to New York," he added later. "This is no time to leave the Big Apple. Your future is New York."
The effect of Sept. 11 on New York City threaded its way through almost every moment of the inauguration, beginning with the invocations from various religious leaders, and continuing throughout the speeches of Mr. Bloomberg, Ms. Gotbaum and the new comptroller, William C. Thompson. When Bette Midler minced onto the stage to sing the national anthem, it was not simply adorable, even if the diminutive Ms. Midler's neck was embellished with blue fur. The city's pain, while perhaps less acute than a few months ago, seems intrinsic in that song, as well as in the gigantic American flag that was displayed on the front of City Hall for the occasion.
But Mr. Bloomberg was also careful to sound tones of optimism and renewal, insisting that New York's greatness would not be compromised, nor, he seemed to hint, would government's largess.
"And even though we must sacrifice now, let us not forget we are still a city of big dreams, of big ideas, big projects and a big heart," said Mr. Bloomberg. "We must plan and develop for the long term. We can never abandon our future. We will bring new life to our waterfront and stimulate new investment in housing, schools and, when we can afford them, the world's best cultural and athletic facilities." 
Mr. Bloomberg appeared to be referring to Mr. Giuliani's 11th-hour attempt to secure new stadiums for the city's two major league baseball teams, a plan Mr. Bloomberg has responded to lukewarmly. 
The new mayor also hinted at other goals of his administration. He made it clear that he would continue Mr. Giuliani's fruitless attempt to dismantle the Board of Education and place the future of public education firmly under the mayor's control.
"The public through the mayor must control the school system," he said. "To do this, I will build a partnership with the governor, our State Legislature, the City Council, the borough presidents, the teachers' union and parents. Together we will create a school system that works for all our children." 
He added: "The real test is that of political resolve, the test of ourselves. The need is real. The time is now. Without authority there is no accountability."
The mayor's speech had a dab of something for everyone. In the spirit of diversity, he permitted the Mets pitcher Al Leiter to serve as master of ceremonies, ending the Yankees' long rule over the heart of City Hall. Mr. Giuliani applauded loudly when Mr. Bloomberg pledged not to raise taxes. Former Mayor David N. Dinkins was visibly pleased by Mr. Bloomberg's promise that racial discord would not be tolerated in his administration. Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Charles E. Schumer appeared tickled when the mayor said he would continue to seek financial aid from Washington, even as he couched his determination in diplomacy. 
"Within days of the tragedy, President George W. Bush stood at ground zero and pledged that America stands with our city," he said. "Thank you, Mr. President, for all you have done and all that you will do to fulfill that explicit pledge."
Joseph P. Lhota, the departing deputy mayor who gave the most support from the Giuliani administration to Mr. Bloomberg's campaign, raised his fist in the air when Mr. Bloomberg stressed that sacrifice would come from the mayor's office first. 
"In the fiscal area he said it straight up, 'It starts with me,' " Mr. Lhota said. "And God forbid if any commissioner doesn't get on board. The mayor has to set the tone, and he set it."
Many incoming council members and others said that they felt included in Mr. Bloomberg's speech, which left them willing to work with him on tough choices.
"I think we all realize there needs to be cuts and we are all prepared to make them," said Alan J. Gerson, the new council member from Lower Manhattan. "I especially appreciated his call for partnership."
Anthony Miranda, the president of the Latino Officers Association, a fraternal group in the Police Department that clashed often with the Giuliani administration, said that he was somewhat optimistic about the new leadership.
"If he follows through and does what he talked about -- fighting against discrimination, giving equal access to all groups, fairly representing all the communities in the city -- we will applaud that approach," Mr. Miranda said.
While many of those who landed in the coveted seats on the steps of City Hall were familiar to any New Yorker -- two current New York senators and one famous former one, two former mayors, the departing City Council speaker, Peter F. Vallone, and former Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, to name but a few -- there was also a fresh bevy of faces. 
There were the many important women of Mr. Bloomberg's life: his two daughters, Emma and Georgina; his mother, Charlotte; his ex-wife, Susan; his sister, Marjorie Tiven; his girlfriend, Diana Taylor; and Patricia E. Harris, his deputy mayor and general right-hand woman. There was Kevin Sheekey, who has yet to be given a title but nonetheless wields considerable influence, who arrived at the festivities with his tiny twins. There was Carol Robles-Roman, unknown to city government until Mr. Bloomberg appointed her deputy mayor for legal affairs. 
And off to the Tweed Court House for his modest inaugural reception -- where peanut butter and jelly sandwiches and hot chocolate were the most popular fare -- went the man whom many New Yorkers know least of all, the 108th mayor of New York City, in a festive burgundy tie.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael R. Bloomberg, who was sworn in as mayor yesterday, was surrounded by well-wishers at City Hall. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. A1); The departing mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, far left, was among the dignitaries and politicians attending Michael R. Bloomberg's inauguration. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (88%); TERRORISM (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); TRENDS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (56%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; INAUGURATIONS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002 



50 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Let's Roll 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN; Maureen Dowd is on vacation.

 BODY:
All hail to President Bush for how he has conducted the war against Osama bin Laden. Mr. Bush has emerged a far better commander in chief than anyone predicted. In the war on terrorism he has shown steely resolve, imagination, leadership and creativity. Thank you, Mr. Bush.
 And now, I wish Al Gore were president. 
 Why? Quite simply because instead of showing resolve, imagination, leadership and creativity on the domestic front, Mr. Bush has done just the opposite. He has tried to use the tremendous upsurge in patriotism, bipartisanship and volunteerism triggered by the tragedy of Sept. 11 to drive a narrow, right-wing agenda from Sept. 10 into a Sept. 12 world. It's wrong. It won't work. It sells the country short and it will ultimately sell the Bush presidency short.
I have no problem with nation-building in Afghanistan, but what I'm really interested in is nation-building in America -- using the power of Sept. 11 to make our country stronger, safer and a better global citizen in the world of Sept. 12, beginning with how we use energy.
But so far, all that's happening is that we've made the world safer for Saudi Arabia and OPEC to raise oil prices again. In case you missed it, last Friday the Saudi-led cartel cut production by 6.5 percent to boost oil prices, while the world is struggling to get out of a recession induced in part by the terrorism of Osama bin Laden and 15 Saudi hijackers.
Frankly, the thought that U.S. taxpayers, who have had to bail out the airline industry (which was devastated by Sept. 11 and by higher gas prices) and to finance the $1 billion-a-month war against bin Laden, will now have to pay more for oil because the Middle East regimes we're protecting want to hike the price, is an outrage.
You'd think maybe the king of Saudi Arabia would say: "America, we're as upset as you that Osama bin Laden and 15 Saudi youth were involved in the terrible attack on your shores. So we want to help America -- the engine of the global economy -- recover, as well as the developing world. As such, we're going to keep oil prices extremely low for the next six months, then we'll slowly lift them back to the $24-$28 range. It will cost us, but that's our tax cut for the world."
Is that too much to ask? Well, it seems so -- which leads me back to President Bush.
The most obvious bold national project that Mr. Bush could launch now -- his version of the race to the moon -- would be a program for energy independence, based on developing renewable resources, domestic production and energy efficiency. Not only would every school kid in America be excited by such a project, but it also would be Mr. Bush's equivalent of Richard Nixon going to China -- the Texas oilman weaning America off of its dependence on Middle East oil. That would be a political coup!
It would also be Mr. Bush's best response to foreigners who are enraged by America's refusal to join the Kyoto treaty to stop global warming. Mr. Bush could say that by weaning America away from oil gluttony he would be doing more for the environment than Kyoto ever would, which would greatly improve America's standing as a global good citizen.
There are lots of ways Mr. Bush could go. "Today one out of every seven barrels of oil produced in the world is consumed on American highways," says the respected oil consultant Philip Verleger. "We could cut that by a third in five years if Washington were to offer tax incentives for manufacturers to produce more efficient vehicles and for consumers to buy them. Such tax cuts could be paid for with a higher gas tax, gradually phased in. Then we could replace all those American flag bumper stickers with ones that read: 'I cut my oil use by a third, how about you?' "
I don't want to be dependent on Mideast oil anymore. Countries in that region haven't had a good century in 700 years -- and they're not going to soon. Oil is their curse, as well as ours. It's corrupted their rulers, enabled them to keep their women backward and out of the work force, and prevented them from developing innovative economies that make things instead of just take things from the ground. They have a lot of homework to do before they will be stable allies.
We will all benefit if they succeed, but for now we have to look after ourselves. So, Mr. Bush, "Let's roll." Ultimately, presidential greatness is measured by what you do at home. If this war on terrorism ends with nation-building only in Afghanistan and not in America, it will be no victory at all. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); HIJACKING (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); CARTELS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (65%); TAX LAW (64%); AIRLINES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (79%); AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002 



51 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: History's Rough Draft in a Map of Ground Zero 

BYLINE:  By DAVID HANDELMAN

 BODY:
LAURA KURGAN emerged from the R train at City Hall on Saturday carrying a shoulder bag crammed with a thousand copies of a map of the area unlike any other.
 Ms. Kurgan, a 40-year-old architect with pixie-ish dark hair, designed the map, "Around Ground Zero," to help visitors explore a zone that defies easy access. Every day thousands of tourists pour into Lower Manhattan to see the site of the twin towers' collapse. Conventional street maps are of no help. "People are extremely disoriented," Ms. Kurgan said. "They have no idea what they're looking at." 
 It took Ms. Kurgan, working with architects, designers, researchers and students, all of whom volunteered their time, about a month to produce the four-color map, which highlights an area from Duane Street to Bowling Green. She was distributing it for the first time on Saturday. "I've never stood on the street and handed anything out before," she said, making her way through a throng of tourists.
Along with streets and public transportation routes, the 18-by-24-inch folding map shows the locations of unobstructed sightlines, impromptu memorials and the viewing platform that opened on Saturday, as well as a suggested walking path around the site. Colored stars indicate building condition, from moderate damage to total collapse. The flip side has an aerial photograph of the site taken Sept. 23. 
"The main way people get around the site is to ask policemen where to go," Ms. Kurgan said, mentioning one officer at West and Murray Streets who had a map that identified only the streets that were open. Among things people need to know, she said, is that they can view the site from the south.
Ms. Kurgan, a South African native who teaches at the Princeton University school of architecture and has lived in New York since 1985, produced the map under the auspices of New York New Visions, a temporary coalition of architects, planners, engineers and artists who are donating their expertise to make recommendations for renewing downtown.
Donald Shillingburg, one of three former students of Ms. Kurgan's who contributed to the map, said he thought it would help offset a carnival-like atmosphere developing around ground zero. "People are used to a kind of spectacle tourism," he said. "You have to help them out, to fulfill their reason for coming." Three institutional donors, including Princeton University and the Van Alen Institute, contributed $8,700 to print 20,000 copies; Ms. Kurgan is hoping to raise money for a much bigger print run.
Among the volunteers distributing maps on Saturday were an arts magazine editor, a sociologist and a sculptor. Stationed among vendors hawking ground zero hats and red, white and blue scarves, they worked the east side of John Street, a block south of the new viewing platform.
Although at first suspicious of anything distributed free, visitors quickly realized what the maps were, and some doubled back for extra copies.
While handing them out, Ms. Kurgan said that this was the first map she had designed, inspired in part by an artists group that produced a kind of touristic map of war-torn Sarajevo in 1996. Like her map of ground zero, it showed "all the things that disappear after reconstruction," she said. 
While a lot of public attention is being paid to rebuilding, Ms. Kurgan said she wanted to document the site as it is now, creating not only a helpful tool for visitors that can be updated with each printing, but also a series of snapshots of an area undergoing change. "Maps are always political and utilitarian, and sometimes they can be aesthetic," she said. "I suppose this map is all three. But the political aspect is what interests me most. I want to put the emphasis on memory, on thinking about commemoration before thinking about rebuilding."
One volunteer cartographer, Janette Kim, had to redraw the map three times before it was printed a week ago to incorporate the latest barricade lines and the new viewing platform. "The graphics are about understanding that however temporary the site looks, it's kind of a construction, too," Ms. Kim said. "They've created a city based on the emergency."
Assuming she can raise the necessary money, Ms. Kurgan hopes to update the map as the perimeter continues to shrink and streets reopen. "It's the most volatile site in New York," she said. Updating a Web site would be easier than remapping and reprinting a piece of paper, Ms. Kurgan said, but she wanted an object that people could have in their hands while visiting the site.
In practice, that proved somewhat difficult over the cold, windy weekend. Volunteers handed off maps to passers-by unable to find a big enough slice of sidewalk to unfold them. They had to hold tight to keep them from blowing away. But those who did seemed mesmerized and grateful.
David Avezov, wearing a hat that merged the logos of the Yankees and the New York Police and Fire Departments, was dodging crowds with his wife, two brothers, a sister-in-law and two infants in tow. The Avezovs live in Edison, N.J., and this was his first visit to the site since Sept. 11. Map in hand, Mr. Avezov plotted a route to Carlisle Street, where they could avoid the crowds around the platform.
As a teenager, Mr. Avezov used to come to the twin towers plaza to have lunch with an uncle who at the time worked on the 86th floor of one of the towers. "Coming here brings some kind of closure," he said.
Another pilgrim, Rick Werp of Huntsville, Ala., said he hadn't been to the city in 40 years. At the last minute, he decided to bring his daughter, 12, to visit ground zero and to watch the Times Square ball drop on New Year's Eve. "When she comes back here 40 years from now, there's going to be something else there," he said, "and she will have seen the historical moment."
Police Officer Ronald Morse, trying to contain the crowds from spilling into Broadway traffic, was enthusiastic about the project. "It's a wonderful service," he said. The tourism aspect, he admitted, is a double-edged sword for him. "There are still body parts down there," he said. "People have to show respect. The map is a big help."
Ms. Kurgan's supply ran out in about an hour. As she was leaving she asked a man still clutching his folded-up copy, "Did you use that map yet?"
"Not yet," he replied. "I've lost the people I was with!"

GRAPHIC: Photos: SHOWING THE WAY -- Laura Kurgan, an architect (second from left), helped produce a guide to ground zero in the form of a folding map (below), designed and distributed by volunteers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); VOLUNTEERS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (61%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



52 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: High Hurdles for Deep Mine 

BYLINE:  By HENRI E. CAUVIN 

DATELINE: CHILILABOMBWE, Zambia 

 BODY:
Construction work on what is thought to be one of the world's richest copper deposits, outside this rusting town near the Congo border, was supposed to commence on New Year's Day, signifying a turn toward better times in Zambia's struggling mining industry.
 Instead, the immense project will not get under way for at least another year, and the feverish optimism it engendered here and across Zambia's Copperbelt region has evaporated. 
 Konkola Copper Mines, a subsidiary of the mining giant Anglo American, planned to spend more than $700 million on the Konkola Deep Mining Project, as it is called, to get at the ore. It would be the most expensive such undertaking in Zambian history as well as one of the richest, with some 220 million metric tons of high-grade ore thought to be recoverable. 
The project would triple the output of the Konkola mining complex here, to six million metric tons of ore a year, which would yield about 200,000 metric tons of refined copper annually. With the company's older mines in the area coming to the end of their productive lives, Konkola Deep would become the company's principal mine. With its rich ore and highly automated operations, it promises great improvements in profit margins. 
Konkola managers here said they still expected the project to win approval from the company's board. But they are understandably circumspect after an awful year in which production and revenue fell well short of projections and the company lost $41.1 million on operations in the first half. The company had hoped to produce 240,000 metric tons of refined copper from all its mines in 2001, but it now expects the final figures for the year to come in at just under 200,000.
Konkola's chief operating officer, Robin G. Mills, said the company had simply been too optimistic about how quickly it could turn its operations around after buying them from the Zambian government early last year. Mr. Mills became chief executive on Jan. 1. 
 The changing political climate is another factor for companies in Zambia. The prospects for the country's struggling mining-dependent economy have grown even more uncertain since the disputed presidential election of Dec. 27, which was followed by clashes between protesters and police officers. 
Mr. Mills said the company had set the bar high. "We are miners," he said in an interview. "We set ourselves tough targets, and this was a tough target, and it remains a tough target."
The biggest blow was the fall in the price of copper. Despite a rally in November, the price remains under $1,500 a metric ton (about 68 cents a pound); it was above $1,850 a metric ton when Konkola bought the mines and briefly exceeded $2,000 a metric ton last year.
The company also suffered a horrific landslide in April at the Nchanga open pit mine in Chingola, near here, the worst accident in the mine's half-century history. Ten miners were killed, and work was halted for weeks; full production has still not been restored at the mine, which had been performing well, and it may not be for months to come.
Already saddled with the huge costs of refurbishing crumbling structures at the mines, Konkola and the minority partners in the consortium that bought the mines have watched these unforeseen events eat into their revenue and set back their efforts to break out of the red.
"There's no doubt that we've made huge progress on the mines and the place," Mr. Mills said. "What has not occurred has been the expected turn into profitability."
Like other new owners in the Copperbelt, the company also faces community relations challenges. Zambia nationalized the mines in the 1970's, then drew off revenue to subsidize public services while the mines themselves ran down. During state ownership, mining towns like Chililabombwe could count on well-maintained roads and street lights and some of the country's best schools and hospitals. Since privatization, many of those amenities have fallen away, and much of what the new private owners still pay for, like malaria control, is very clearly tied to protecting their own operations. 
Nearly two years after the Konkola mine complex changed hands, the company's responsibilities to the community remain a subject of intense debate, with some critics in Zambia and abroad faulting the company and its principal shareholder, Anglo American, over the way they negotiated the purchase and the way they have run the mines since then.
"One of the main problems is the disgracefully high level of air pollution," said Patricia Feeney, a senior policy adviser at Oxfam in Britain who has been studying the impact of privatization in Zambia. Environmentalists have drafted a complaint to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, to the unconcealed frustration of the company's managers. The company and the environmentalists are in talks over the issues raised in the draft of the complaint, which has not yet been filed.
"We inherited a hugely degraded set of assets," Mr. Miller said, "and the experts have advised on what should be done. It's our commitment to do that just as fast as man and money can allow."
The company is also drafting replies to critical public comments on an environmental management plan it released recently, and Ms. Feeney said she had hopes that the company would come around on some issues. "I think it's fair to say that they are perhaps more sympathetic to the concerns we have been raising," she said.
Safety at the mines is another concern. Beyond the landslide, which is still being investigated, eight other workers have died at the company's mines this year. Officials said that cutting corners to save money at the expense of safety had become routine at the mines under state ownership and that changing the culture had been hard. "People have been doing things that were absolutely harrowing and getting away with it," Mr. Mills said, "but you don't get away with it forever."
Union officials said the company had made commendable efforts to improve safety but still had work to do, especially in training workers to use new equipment and the techniques the company is introducing.
Plans for the deep mine project lie on drawing boards at the company headquarters in Chingola and at the work site here in Chililabombwe, awaiting a decision by the company's board to proceed. As one of the wettest mines in the world, the Konkola mine has presented considerable engineering challenges. Pushing hundreds of yards farther down, to a depth of nearly a mile, to get at the new ore will be especially tricky and expensive. 
But the promised payoff is compelling. "This kind of ore body, the quality of the ore and the grade, is not found in many places in the world," said Raj Kulkarni, the project's principal engineer. 
Still, the officials here know that the decisive factor will not be their hard work or ingenuity, but rather the price of copper. Does this year's slump amount to a fundamental shift in the market or just the down side of another cycle? "I'm sure," Mr. Mills said, "that is what our principals are debating."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 12, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in World Business on Jan. 3 about delays at a mine in Zambia being developed by Konkola Copper Mines, a unit of Anglo American, misidentified the jurisdiction in which a complaint drafted by environmentalists about the company's operations would potentially be filed. It would be with the government of Britain, where Anglo American is chartered, not with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
A round-table discussion of the stock market in the special Outlook issue of Business Day on Jan. 2 misstated the business of the Principal Financial Group, whose stock was recommended by a participant, Charles I. Clough Jr. The company manages retirement savings and sells life and health insurance. It does not sell property and casualty insurance.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Zambian miners at a Chililabombwe mine where Konkola Copper Mines has delayed an effort to recover ore nearly a mile deep.; Robin G. Mills is the chief executive of Konkola Copper Mines, a subsidiary of Anglo American. (Photographs by Penny Dale for The New York Times) Map of Zambia highlighting Chililabombwe: The Copperbelt area is thought to have some of the richest deposits. (pg. W7)Photos: ABBY JOSEPH COHEN -- Goldman, Sachs & Company; BYRON R. WIEN -- Morgan Stanley Dean Witter; CHARLES I. CLOUGH JR. -- Clough Capital Partners (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times) Chart: "Predictions for 2002"The panelists expect that major stock market indexes will rise in the new year, but at a far slower rate than the average annual gains of more than 20 percent of the late 1990's. Dow industrialsYear-end levels: 10,021.50CHARLES I. CLOUGH JR.: 11,300 up 13%BYRON R. WIEN: 11,000 up 10%ABBY JOSEPH COHEN: 11,300 to 12,400 up 13-24% S.&P. 500Year-end levels: 1,148.08CHARLES I. CLOUGH JR.: 1,250 up 9%BYRON R. WIEN: 1,200 up 5%ABBY JOSEPH COHEN: 1,300 to 1,425 up 13-24% Nasdaq compositeYear-end levels: 1,950.40CHARLES I. CLOUGH JR.: 2,300 up 18%BYRON R. WIEN: 2,200 up 13%ABBY JOSEPH COHEN: No prediction

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COPPER MINING (91%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNDERGROUND MINING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); COPPER SMELTING & REFINING (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (79%); COPPER INDUSTRY (78%); COPPER MARKETS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); APPROVALS (65%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); ELECTIONS (61%) COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; MINES AND MINING; FINANCESTerms not available from NYTimes.

ORGANIZATION: KONKOLA COPPER MINES; ANGLO AMERICAN PLC 

INDUSTRY:  SIC1041 GOLD ORES; 

PERSON: CAUVIN, HENRI E 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZAMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) CHILILABOMBWE (ZAMBIA); ZAMBIA; 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 %WIEN -- Investors have taken the very significant decline since March of 2000 with remarkable complacency. The reason for it was that they were playing with the house money. They had made an enormous amount of money in their investments in the latter part of the 1990's, and they saw those profits melt away, but they didn't see their initial stake disappear. And they also had been inculcated with the feeling that equities were the asset of choice because over any rolling 20-year period they always outperform bonds.What could change that, in my opinion, is if they go through a long period of single-digit returns. Then they may become less enthusiastic about equities because I think they're more positive about them as a result of thinking that the 15- to 20-percent returns are around the corner again and this has just been a bad period. CLOUGH -- I think employment trends play a much more significant role here. People obviously can deal with capital loss if employment and income are sort of still there. If somebody's lost his 401(k) or is dealing with some capital loss, house money or not, if you compound that with an income effect, then I think you've got a problem. So to me employment is a much more important factor in consumer attitudes and consumer spending. Q. Ten or 15 years ago relatively few people thought stocks were the asset of choice for the long run. A couple of years ago it had become the consensus. What's your guess on 10, 15, 20 years from now? Will that still be the consensus view? COHEN -- I think that the message that many individuals have been receiving since early 2000 is that it's a good idea to be balanced -- it's a good idea to be balanced in terms of asset mix. WIEN -- I think over the next decade or so, next 20 years, four things will happen. The first is that accountants will become tougher. The second is that dividends will become much more important. The third is that investors' expectations will become much more realistic. The fourth is that equities will still be the asset of choice. CLOUGH -- I don't know where we'll be 10 or 15 years from now, but I think right now the attitude is to move more toward a balanced kind of investment strategy, and that will probably last for a bit. I don't think we'll ever get to a point where bonds will be universally considered an asset of choice, but I don't see an equity culture coming back for quite a while.January 5, 2002



53 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Peg Nearing End In Argentina 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Argentina's decade-long defense of fixed parity between its peso and the United States dollar appeared to collapse yesterday, as the country's new president, Eduardo Duhalde, signaled that Argentina would soon officially devalue the peso and as the central bank stopped requiring the nation's banks to honor the one-for-one exchange rate.
 By ending the dollar peg and devaluing the peso, President Duhalde hopes to make Argentine goods more competitive abroad and end a three-year recession. But he has not said how the government will proceed -- by fixing a new lower exchange rate, by tying the peso to a basket of currencies or by letting it float freely. Analysts do not expect more specifics for several days. 
 Meantime, Argentine citizens and businesses have debts to pay -- the great majority of which are owed in dollars, not in pesos. For borrowers, the central bank's action yesterday effectively devalued the peso by as much as 40 percent.
By lifting a temporary rule that had required banks to accept pesos in payment of some dollar debts at the one-to-one rate, the central bank left borrowers facing a choice of defaulting on loans or finding dollars on their own to make payments. Currency exchanges remained closed because of the financial emergency, so the only source of dollars for many Argentines was the black market, where dealers were asking 1.4 pesos or more for each dollar.
Creditors wondered how many borrowers would default and how much their assets in Argentina would be worth. Major United States banks had about $21 billion in loans outstanding to the Argentine government and local borrowers at the end of September, according to data gathered for the Federal Reserve and other bank regulators. Some $13 billion of the total is owed to the banks' Argentine affiliates.
The most exposed of the United States banks was FleetFinancial, with $7.3 billion outstanding at the end of the third quarter, regulatory filings show; others with significant loans in Argentina include J. P. Morgan Chase and Bank of America.
With Mr. Duhalde also signaling yesterday that he will slow or stop payments on Argentina's $132 billion in debts, the country's already deeply discounted bonds fell further in value, with the most widely traded bond, maturing in 2008, sinking below 28 cents on the dollar.
But the stock market rallied sharply, as investors used pesos to buy stocks in companies that earn revenue in other currencies. The Merval index gained 9.6 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (92%); DEVALUATION (91%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); TRENDS (75%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); STOCK INDEXES (65%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CREDIT 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: DUHALDE, EDUARDO (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



54 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: One Currency, but Not One Economy 

BYLINE:  By Robert M. Dunn Jr.; Robert M. Dunn Jr. is a professor of economics at George Washington University.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With euro bills and coins now circulating across much of Europe, the European Monetary Union is fully in place. The post-World War II European leaders' dream of an economically and politically unified continent is one large step closer to realization, and membership in the monetary union could easily grow to 20 or more countries from the current 12 as the larger European Union, of which it is an offshoot, expands to the east.
 A fully operational European Monetary Union does not come, however, with a guarantee of success. There is one enormous problem: This union creates a single monetary policy for a group of quite different national economies that often experience divergent business-cycle patterns. 
 During most of the last three years, while the European Central Bank managed monetary policy for the 12 member countries even without common coins and paper money, Germany's economy was decidedly soft -- a situation that lower interest rates could be expected to ease. The Netherlands, Ireland and a few other small countries, however, were booming; for them, lower interest rates would have encouraged inflation. The Governing Council of the European Central Bank, which plays the role that the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee, under Alan Greenspan, plays in the United States, kept interest rates low in 1999 but raised them in 2000 and early 2001. (A modest and overdue easing has recently begun.) The central bank's policy reportedly pleased the Germans and displeased the Dutch and Irish in 1999; vice versa in 2000 and 2001. 
As long as business-cycle conditions differ significantly among European Monetary Union countries, there is no way for the central bank's policies to avoid creating serious problems for some members. There have been widespread rumors of controversy within the bank's Governing Council, which includes the governors of all the member nations' individual central banks. But since that board, unlike the Open Market Committee of the Fed, does not publish minutes of its meetings or records of its votes, there is no way to know just how displeased various members may have been.
In the United States, the Federal Reserve System sometimes has similar problems in designing a monetary policy for the country's 12 districts. In 1986 and 1987, for example, most of the American economy was booming but the Dallas district was in a severe recession due to collapsing oil and gas prices. The Fed kept interest rates fairly high, and the local recession in the oil-producing states got worse instead of better. More typically, however, this country behaves as a single national economy and shares cyclical shocks across its regions.
The patterns of economic ups and downs remain far more diverse in the European Monetary Union countries, and it is not clear that this will change soon. The designers of the monetary union thought that the imposition of a single monetary policy, combined with free trade among the members, would cause cyclical conditions to converge quickly, producing a unified group of economies that would closely resemble the United States economy. While this may eventually occur, so far evidence of such convergence remains rather scarce.
A 1997 agreement also limits the power of the individual nations in the European Monetary Union to use government spending or tax cuts to ease national downturns. They can be fined if they run budget deficits of more than 3 percent of their gross domestic products. No fines have been levied yet, but the threat is there.
Even if the economies of the original European Monetary Union members become more similar in their cyclical behavior, it will take far longer for the convergence to include the new member nations expected to come in within the next 10 or 15 years. The chances for consensus on the Governing Council, however thin now, will become far more distant with more members representing divergent national economies. And the larger nations, like Germany, France and Italy, might well resent the power of representatives from much smaller nations to outvote them on monetary policy. 
All of this does not mean that the European Monetary Union is likely to fail. But clearly the arrival of the euro as the standard currency -- momentous as it is for the average European consumer -- does not guarantee the union's success.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Thomas Fuchs) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (92%); EURO (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COINS & COINAGE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RECESSION (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); TRENDS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%) EUROPEAN MONETARY UNION 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (52%) DUNN, ROBERT M JR (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); IRELAND (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



55 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Fast Track to Nowhere 

BYLINE:  By Robert E. Lighthizer; Robert E. Lighthizer, a trade lawyer, was a deputy trade representative in the Reagan administration.

 BODY:
The narrow House vote last month to extend trade promotion authority to the president may be a hollow victory for proponents of free trade. When the blush of success wears off, they may well realize that this battle, won on a 215-214 vote, has significantly weakened the chances of Republicans -- traditionally the champions of free trade -- to maintain control of the House of Representatives. And only to enact a measure that is of little practical value.
 The Bush administration and the House leadership badly wanted the president to have the authority that this measure would give him: power to negotiate trade agreements that Congress must vote to approve or disapprove without amending them. To win the vote, the Republican leaders used various enticements, but in the end it came down to old-fashioned arm twisting, a sudden surge of three votes by wavering Republicans and a strike of the gavel before opponents had time to react. 
 Given repeated polls showing that Americans believe, rightly or wrongly, that trade agreements cost jobs, this measure is likely to be a major election issue in 2002. And with the Republican majority in the House razor-thin, this vote could have a major impact.
Robin Hayes and Cass Ballenger, for example, are both Republicans from highly competitive districts in North Carolina. Their districts have many voters who work in textiles -- an industry in which much production has shifted to plants and manufacturers outside the United States. Both vowed to vote no and changed their minds under White House pressure. Their votes are sure to be used against them by Democratic opponents.
Republicans whose seats may become less secure because of redistricting -- including several in New York, North Carolina, Iowa, Oklahoma and Georgia -- could find their votes in favor of trade promotion authority extremely damaging. And in states like Kentucky, Florida and Pennsylvania that have been hard-hit by trade-related job losses, Republican incumbents may find that a vote in favor of fast-track trade authority does not mix well with a slowing domestic economy.
No fewer than 28 Republicans who opposed fast-track in 1998 switched their votes last month. Thirty Republicans who received less than 55 percent of the vote in their 2000 contests voted in favor. Three Republican opponents of fast-track simply sat out the vote, a position sure to annoy constituents on what is seen as a critical measure.
And the fight is not over. The Senate will almost certainly make changes to the trade bill, and a new version drafted in a conference committee is likely to go before the House in the midst of the Congressional election campaign. Not only will this be another excruciating vote for House Republicans, but the measure could easily lose its one-vote majority the next time around.
Republicans should be asking themselves whether passing fast-track this winter, in this way, was worth the risk of losing the House.
There is good reason to doubt that trade promotion authority, which is simply a procedural tool, is even necessary. It is far more significant in the Senate than in the House, since House leaders, unlike their Senate counterparts, already enjoy enormous power to limit amendments and compel votes under normal floor procedures. And given the overwhelming support for free trade measures in the Senate, there is little need there for special procedures.
The conventional wisdom about the importance of fast-track trade negotiating was shown to be flawed last year, when Congress not only passed a significant and controversial trade bill liberalizing textile tariffs, but also enacted permanent normal trade relations with China -- both in an election year and without fast-track.
Even to the extent one considers fast-track essential, Republicans would not have paid such a high political price in December if they had not alienated Democrats in the past, throwing up obstacles when it was Bill Clinton who wanted this authority.
Even if the consequences of last month's vote do not alter the results of the elections in November, the trade consensus that has predominated in Congress for much of the last five decades continues to erode. Indeed, we may be seeing that consensus go from fragile to totally broken before our very eyes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); REDISTRICTING (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

PERSON: LIGHTHIZER, ROBERT E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



56 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Rises but Is Still in a Slump 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
Manufacturing activity rose in December for the second consecutive month, reflecting increases in production and new orders, an industry report showed today, signaling that the worst of the 17-month factory slump may be over.
 The manufacturing index of the Institute for Supply Management, formerly known as the National Association of Purchasing Management, increased to 48.2 last month from 44.5 in November. A month after the September terrorist attacks, the index fell to 39.8, the lowest since February 1991. Readings below 50 signal contraction, and the index has been below that level since July 2000. The index has not increased for two or more months in a row since last February to April. 
 The data indicates "that during the first half of the year, we are going to see manufacturing regain some momentum," said Norbert Ore, chairman of the institute's manufacturing report. "This is very positive for the overall economy."
Economists had expected a reading of 46 in the factory index. The institute, based in Tempe, Ariz., surveys more than 400 companies in 20 industries, including clothing, printing, transportation, furniture and plastics. Manufacturing accounts for about one-sixth of the economy.
The manufacturing index averaged 43.9 a month last year, the lowest annual reading since an average of 38.5 in 1982, when the economy was in recession, and the third worst since the index began in 1948.
Shrinking economies in the United States, Japan and Germany have reduced global manufacturing. An index of European manufacturing showed contraction in December for a ninth consecutive month. The Reuters Purchasing Managers' Index for the 12 nations that use the euro rose to 44.1 from 43.6 in November.
While a reading below 50 shows contraction, the increase suggests manufacturing in Europe may recover in coming months.
In Britain, which has not joined the euro, manufacturing shrank at the fastest pace in three years. At the same time, stocks of finished goods fell the most in a decade and an index of orders rose to the highest in five months.
In the supply managers' report, the new orders index, which accounts for about a third of the full index, rose to 54.9 from 48.8 in November. The new orders index is the highest since April 2000. The production index, a gauge of work being performed, rose to 50.6 in December from 47.1. The production index is the highest since September.
The institute's inventories index fell to 37.7 from 37.9, indicating a slowdown in inventory liquidation. The employment index rose to 40.5 from 35.7.
The index of order backlogs rose to 39.5 from 38.5. The new export orders index fell to 48.0 from 49.3.
Of the 375 manufacturers questioned, 59 percent said they expected business to improve from July to December this year. One in three said they predicted business would pick up in the first half of this year, while 19 percent said they were "optimistic" about business for all of 2002. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); NEW ORDERS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); INVENTORIES (79%); RECESSION (78%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); LIQUIDATIONS (68%); EXPORT TRADE (64%); TERRORISM (56%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%); PLASTICS (52%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REUTERS PURCHASING MANAGERS INDEX 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION; INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



57 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: World Trade Panel Rules Against U.S. in Cuban Rum Case 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
Appeals judges of the World Trade Organization ruled today that a United States law blocking routine trademark registration for a major Cuban rum brand partly violated a W.T.O. pact on protection of intellectual property.
 But, adding confusion to an already complicated case, they also overturned an earlier panel finding against another aspect of the law, which is the source of a dispute between two of the world's largest makers of drinks, Bacardi Ltd. of Bermuda and Pernod Ricard of France. 
 "It is going to be fiendishly difficult to sort this out," one trade diplomat following the case said. "I can't see how either side can claim real victory." 
The case was brought to the W.T.O. by the European Union on behalf of France.
The dispute is widely known as the Havana Club case because it centers on claims by both companies to have the right to market rum under the Havana Club name -- one of the best-known rum brands -- in the vast United States market.
The case is also highly politically charged because of its links with the four-decade-long United States trade embargo on Cuba and the determination of the influential United States Cuban exile community to prevent foreign companies dealing with Havana from bringing products originating in Cuba into the United States.
The European Union presented to the first panel 14 complaints contending various violations of a part of the law, known as Section 211, but the three-member board upheld only one.
Both sides had declared a degree of victory. The European Union insisted that the point it did win -- against barring registration of trademarks of Cuban companies taken over after the 1959 revolution unless original owners agreed -- was essential to the whole case; United States officials said it was a minor point. Both decided to appeal. 
In a statement issued in Brussels, the European Union said the W.T.O. appeals body had backed its claim that Section 211 violated aspects of the W.T.O. agreement in intellectual property rights.
The decision was also satisfactory, the Europeans said, because it reversed the first W.T.O. panel's finding that trade names were not covered by the discipline of the intellectual property agreement.
There was no immediate comment on the appeals body ruling from the United States mission in Geneva.
However, the ruling apparently left Pernod-Ricard, which markets Havana Club rum in 80 countries under a joint venture with a Cuban state company, no nearer to clarifying Section 211 to let it take the product into the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (91%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (91%); TRADEMARKS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TRADEMARK LAW (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); JUDGES (79%); APPEALS COURTS (79%); LITIGATION (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); JOINT VENTURES (61%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RUM; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

COMPANY: BACARDI LTD (91%); PERNOD RICARD SA (85%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; BACARDI LTD; PERNOD RICARD; EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: RI (PAR) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (85%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (56%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); CUBA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%) CUBA; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



58 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Drivers Feeling Their Oats; 
Despite Fears, Park Carriages Have Plenty of Riders

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR

 BODY:
Along Central Park South around the winter holidays there is an economic indicator found not in tourism data but on the streets: full buckets of oats. The fuller the buckets of oats, the more the horses are eating, and the horses eat the most when business is booming for Central Park carriage drivers.
 At a time when business is bad for almost everyone in New York, particularly in the tourist industry, the full buckets have been arriving along this avenue each morning by the dozens. 
 That is good news for Ian McGreever, 33, and his brother, Colm, 32, who have been taking New Yorkers and tourists alike on horse-drawn carriage rides through Central Park for more than a decade.
"The oats are high energy," said Colm McGreever, explaining why full buckets mean good news. "You don't want to give a horse too much if you are not doing too much business, cause then all you have is a hyped-up horse on a tightrope." 
The terrorist attack Sept. 11 had reverberations that reached everywhere in the city, including Central Park. In the first week after the attacks, the McGreevers, both from County Tipperary, Ireland, say that the street, the park and the hotels and restaurants were all ghostly empty.
But these days, a stroll along Central Park South a few minutes before 10 a.m. reveals that carriage rides are making a strong comeback. 
The carriages line the northern curbs of the street at Fifth Avenue, Avenue of the Americas and Seventh Avenue, full with waiting passengers even before 10, when the city's Department of Parks and Recreation allows the buggies to enter Central Park.
"It is not as good as last year," Ian McGreever says with a big smile. "But it is much better than we thought it would be." 
The brothers and other carriage drivers in Central Park say that in a normal holiday season they can complete an average of 10 to 14 rides in an 8-hour day that includes an afternoon break. But the sharp drop in international tourists left many drivers, many of whom are immigrants from Ireland, convinced that they would be lucky to get two or three a day. On a recent morning, the drivers were completing two or three trips through the park in an hour (even though the rides are supposed to be at least 30 minutes). Some drivers were completing 16 trips a day.
The McGreevers attribute the recent uptick to a strange confluence of events, among them the unusually balmy weather and customers attracted by an advertising campaign aimed at tourists. 
In a thick Irish accent, Ian McGreever points out that the holidays are usually the busiest time of year, when his brother and he make about one-fifth of their annual income.
After staying away from Central Park and watching television like most Americans in the week after the attack, the McGreevers say they returned to a situation that was more than bleak. "We were all standing and there were noo people," Colm McGreever said, donning a pink cap and a black jumpsuit. "We know the doorman at the Plaza Hotel real well, and we were just looking at each other across the street, confused."
The brothers had no illusion that this was going to be the best year ever. After all, the economy was already turning sour before Sept. 11. Their best winter holiday season was in 1999. But they had hopes for a good year, or at least they did before Sept. 11.
The bills were mounting: $800 a month to house the horses at a stable on West 49th Street between 10th and 11th Avenues. Hundreds more for feed. Medical bills. The cost of maintaining a backup horse at a farm in Monticello, N.Y., in the Catskills, 100 miles northwest of Manhattan. Licenses and fees from the Department of Consumer Affairs and the Department of Transportation, and the "Horse Drawn Cab Operator's Course" that they have to take at the Department of Health.
Further fueling their concern, the brothers say, is that January and February are two of the worst months for visitors to Central Park, and thus for the carriage drivers.
On top of that, city rules prevent carriage riders from lowering prices to attract customers or raising prices to increase revenues. The price: $34 for the first half hour; $10 more for each additional 15 minutes. Drivers say that with tip they get $40 on average; clocking them suggests they finish the 30-minute trip in about 20 minutes.
Business or no business, the brothers arrive at the West 49th Street carriage house from their homes in Maspeth, Queens, at 8:30 a.m. They clean their horses, which are fed at night by carriage house attendants, and make sure the animals are well enough to do their jobs. The brothers keep a spare horse on a farm in upstate New York because they do not want to lose a day's worth of work, nor do they want to use an injured horse, since a new one can cost $600 to $3,000. (A new carriage, made by the Amish of northern Indiana, costs about $8,000, drivers say.)
The balmy autumn and winter weather is not just good for the tourists, the brothers say. It is also perfect for the horses. When it is hot in the summer, the brothers say, the horses tire quickly. When the temperature is below 20 degrees, city officials do not permit them to work.
Ian McGreever, wearing a green jacket that runs up his neck and a blue New York Police Department hat, came to the United States in 1984 from his family home in rural Tipperary. He was looking for a new life in New York. But at first, he says, he picked the wrong profession.
"I was a very bad carpenter for two years, which is unusual for an Irishman, so I had to find something else to do," he said.
A friend introduced him to another man who used to drive horse-drawn carriages, and he fell in love with the idea. He now has a Morgan, Roger, named after a horse that his mother had back home in Ireland when he was a child. Colm McGreever, who has a Standardbred named Johnny, followed his brother into the business in 1991. They share their backup horses, and give Roger and Johnny four months off on the farm in Monticello. 
The year Colm McGreever began was the one Ian called the worst year in the business. It was tough not so much because of the recession, but more because of record crime in the city, including some grisly rapes, murders, assaults and muggings in and around Central Park. That it was the worst year for carriage drivers illustrates an important point about the economics of the business: it is driven more by national and international consumer perceptions about New York and confidence about the city than by larger economic trends.
Then, in the beginning of November, Colm McGreever says, new Yorkers and people taking day trips from Pennsylvania and Massachusetts began patronizing the carriages. A few weeks later, some international tourists began arriving from Britain, many taking advantage of cheap airfares and discount packages at the Plaza. 
There was another dip in business, he says, after the November crash of Flight 587 in Belle Harbor, Queens. But it picked back up about a week later, and has been rising since. 
So Christmas was celebrated with gifts again this year in the McGreever family. In a great year, a good driver can make up to $70,000. This year, the McGreevers estimated that they would close the year making $45,000 to $55,000 each.
Along with the balmy weather and the New York tourism promotions that followed the World Trade Center attack, Colm McGreever thanks Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani: not the post-Sept. 11 one, but the pre-Sept. 11 one, the crime buster who cleaned up New York's image for tourists. 
"The advertisements on the television with Giuliani and Pataki were really well received," he said, speaking of the post-Sept. 11 ad campaign. "But Giuliani really gets the credit for making the city safe again. If he hadn't, we would have hardly any of these people."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ian McGreever, in the driver's seat, left Central Park South with some paying customers about to receive a tour of Central Park. The carriage drivers' business has rebounded strongly after a severe drop directly following the Sept. 11 attack. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); TOURISM (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); TERRORISM (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); IMMIGRATION (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRELAND (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



59 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Things that every economist takes for granted could help a lot of other people avoid some costly mistakes.

BYLINE:  By Virginia Postrel 

 BODY:
THE American Economic Association begins its annual meetings tomorrow in Atlanta. While most people seem to think of economics as a field that studies the stock market and government policy, the three-day agenda demonstrates a much wider range of scholarly questions.
 The research to be presented includes "The Economics of Copyright Piracy," "Bleak Expectations: The Role of Pessimism in Addiction," "Counterfeit Goods and Income Inequality" and "Is Teen Motherhood Rational?" 
 One panel will examine how and why different sorts of contracts govern different business structures, from owner-operator trucks in the United States to maritime trade in 14th-century Venetian Crete. Economic historians will explore the "economic performance of civilizations," from East Asia to the Middle East. And those are just some of the sessions scheduled for 8 on the first morning. 
Clearly, there is more to economics than interest rates and tax policy, a point this column often tries to illustrate.
But many of the field's most useful insights won't make it onto the association's panels. The conference, after all, is devoted to new scholarly research: tricky empirical questions and unsolved theoretical puzzles. Economists don't get together to tell one another what they already know.
"The economic way of thinking," as the late Paul Heyne titled his popular introductory textbook, includes the analytical tools that economists take for granted among themselves and try to teach their students. Knowing these basic concepts could keep a lot of people from making economic mistakes.
Consider a recent statement by Stephen Rubin, publisher of the Doubleday Broadway group at the Random House division of Bertelsmann. Interviewed for an article about whether book prices are too high, he told a reporter for The New York Times: "I am just convinced that there is no difference between $22 and $23. Let's face it, price is not a factor if it is a book that you really want."
In economic terms, Mr. Rubin was saying that he believes that the demand for books is "highly inelastic," maybe even zero. In plain English, that means that people won't respond to price cuts. "Price is not a factor." Publishers will sell the same number of books, regardless of the price.
Experience suggests this claim isn't true. Books, like most products, do sell better at lower prices.
The reason is a familiar one to economic thinking. Although each particular title is unique, there are a lot of substitutes -- another basic economic concept -- for books. Instead of buying a book, a customer might go to a movie, buy magazines, converse with friends, attend lectures, watch television or go hiking. Or, deterred by the high price, the potential book buyer might borrow a copy from the library or from a friend. The more substitutes there are for a good, the more price-sensitive customers are likely to be.
Of course, Mr. Rubin is undoubtedly right about some customers. My parents are going to buy my next book, whether it's priced at $25 or $30. They'd probably pay $50 or $100. But if the price is too high, even proud parents are going to cut back on the number of books they buy as gifts. And the number of such devoted fans is rather limited.
People who love their products tend to underestimate how many tepid or wavering customers there are at a given price. They lose sales by thinking everyone will be as enthusiastic about the product as they are themselves and that potential customers will therefore be oblivious to a high price.
Hence the value of another economic concept: thinking on the margin. The question isn't how much the most enthusiastic customer is willing to pay. To that person, the difference between $22 and $23 may not matter at all.
But there are other people who would buy a book at $22 who wouldn't pay $23, or who would pay $19 but not $20. Whatever the price, there will always be incremental customers who would buy at that price but not a penny higher. That's why deciding how much to charge is the same as deciding how many units to sell. (These calculations are, of course, best estimates, subject to uncertainty about exactly how the market will respond.)
Getting the revenue side of the equation right is tricky enough, but many business executives also have trouble weighing costs. In economic terms, every cost must be calculated relative to a particular decision.
Consider the cost of printing an additional copy of a book. Managers often fall prey to the mistake of adding up every expense associated with the book, including overhead like rent and editors' salaries, and then dividing by the number of copies. (This mistake is by no means unique to publishing.)
But the rent will be the same, regardless of whether the copy is printed. So will the editor's salary. So will the costs of proofreading and typesetting, which have already been incurred.
These costs are important if the publisher is deciding whether to stay in business or perhaps whether to publish a certain title or how many titles to publish. But they have no bearing on the question of whether printing another copy of a given, already created book is a profitable thing to do.
The only costs that matter to this decision are those that wouldn't be incurred unless the publisher added another copy to the press run -- the costs of printing and distribution. This is what economists mean by "marginal cost."
If those marginal costs are less than the revenue the publisher can expect to get from that last copy, then increasing the run makes sense.
Including overhead costs in the decision guarantees that too few copies will be printed.
That not only lowers profits. It annoys notoriously cranky authors. So let's make a New Year's resolution to start thinking like economists -- at least on the margin.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article on Dec. 16 about the rising prices of books omitted necessary words in a comment from Stephen Rubin, publisher of the Doubleday Broadway group at the Random House division of Bertelsmann. The error was repeated in the Economic Scene column on Thursday. Mr. Rubin's quotation, with the omitted passage shown in brackets, was: "I am just convinced that there is no difference between $22 and $23. Let's face it , if you want a book in translation from a Czech writer, you are going to buy the book -- price is not a factor if it is a book that you really want."

GRAPHIC: Photo: When it comes to books, does price make a difference? A customer looks over the selections at a Barnes & Noble store in New York. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); HISTORY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); COUNTERFEITING (71%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (71%); COPYRIGHT (71%); TEXTBOOKS (70%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOK TRADE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (91%) RANDOM HOUSE 

PERSON: POSTREL, VIRGINIA; RUBIN, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EASTERN ASIA (78%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



60 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1891 words

HEADLINE: It's All Aboard, if They'll Fit, As Sept. 11 Jolts Mass Transit 

BYLINE:  By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
A New Jersey Transit train swept into the station, looking more like the subway than a commuter train. The seats were full. The vestibules were full. Even the aisles were full, so crowded that conductors could not move down them to collect tickets.
 It was nothing out of the ordinary. Just another weekday morning in Newark, 8:26 a.m. And once again Simone McGowan, 34, a registered nurse, was throwing herself into the maw. 
 "I've been commuting into the city since I was 16," she said, joining the wide crowd squeezing through the narrow door. "But I don't know how much longer I can take this." 
She is not the only one wondering. On many morning trains heading into Manhattan, the number of passengers has increased 44 percent over the last three months -- the kind of growth that officials thought would take a decade.
And if New Jersey Transit looks like the subway, the PATH system on many mornings can look and feel even worse. With its busiest station, at the World Trade Center, out for at least two years, and ridership still surprisingly high, four of the other five Manhattan stations -- at Christopher, Ninth, 14th and 33rd Streets -- are experiencing passenger loads roughly double what they were before Sept. 11.
"All of those stations are bursting at the seams right now," said Steve Coleman, a spokesman for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. "There's nowhere for people to go."
The statement is one that could be superimposed on dozens of transportation hubs around the city, and it describes a harsh, new reality: even as many things seem to have recovered remarkably since Sept. 11, the precariously balanced network of highways and rails, long overstrained before the attacks, is still suffering terribly and will continue to do so for much longer than most commuters had feared, transportation officials say.
Though the subway recovered fairly quickly after the attack, it is still snarled weekly by security-related shutdowns and delays that officials say will probably not go away soon. The same uncertainty reigns on the roads, where tunnels and bridges can be closed on a moment's notice.
"There's a new normal, and we can't go back," said John Kaehny, executive director of Transportation Alternatives, a pedestrian advocacy group that is part of a coalition of officials, advocates and business leaders trying to map out the future of transportation around the city.
At least for the foreseeable future, many of the problems will be the result of an unexpected conundrum -- commuters trying to switch from cars to mass transit, as officials have always urged. But riders are often finding the system too overburdened to handle them, especially as they make their way to Midtown, where thousands of jobs have moved from Lower Manhattan. 
Traffic restrictions after the attack -- both security checkpoints and the morning ban on single-occupant vehicles at several crossings into the city -- have forced tens of thousands of drivers out of their cars and onto commuter trains and buses, several transit agencies say.
"We're pretty sure that many inveterate motorists have decided to give up their wheels for ours," said Dan Brucker, a spokesman for the Metro-North Railroad.
Both Metro-North and the Long Island Rail Road say their ridership into the city has remained level, or just below where it was before Sept. 11. But given that officials had expected a precipitous drop with the loss of so many jobs in Lower Manhattan, the numbers suggest that the railroads have actually picked up new riders.
Roads and bridges have been overcrowded for years, so the switch to transit is a phenomenon that urban planners had long hoped for and one that has already made morning car commuting into the city noticeably easier. But the switch was much larger than transit officials expected, and it happened much too quickly.
By no means is the entire mass transit system overburdened, but now many choke points -- both those that existed before the attack and others created by it -- are dangerously strained, creating conditions so intolerable that officials and business leaders fear they will drive businesses and people away from the New York area.
Undoubtedly the hardest hit is New Jersey Transit. Its trains make their way to New York's Pennsylvania Station through a single tunnel beneath the Hudson, one that the agency shares with Amtrak. With two train lines, the tunnel has long operated at capacity. After the terrorist attack, for a sum that New Jersey officials would not disclose, Amtrak ceded a small amount of rush-hour time to New Jersey Transit -- meaning four more inbound trains during the morning rush and four more outbound during the evening.
But even with those extra trains, the number of people standing every morning, pressed up against the windows or their neighbors, has grown to more than 23,000.
Those conditions mean that a longstanding plan to relieve serious crowding is now in serious jeopardy. The agency had planned to open the Secaucus Transfer Station next fall, allowing riders from Bergen County to transfer to trains going directly to Manhattan.
But the switch would mean an extra 16,000 passengers boarding Manhattan-bound trains, a scene no one now even wants to imagine, especially as New Jersey Transit considers a fare increase of about 10 percent to help close multimillion-dollar budget deficits.
The agency would love to encourage more of its riders to switch to buses. But New Jersey Transit commuter buses already carry about two-thirds of all the agency's passengers and, as with the trains, the system is full. No more gates are available at the Port Authority for the agency's buses, and Jeffrey A. Warsh, the executive director of New Jersey Transit, said no more buses could go through the Lincoln Tunnel at the height of the morning rush.
Before Sept. 11, 14,000 people were already standing on buses; now there are more than 16,000.
"It's amazing what people have to endure," Mr. Warsh said. "New riders are going to come out and say, 'Oh, my God. I can't deal with that. I can't get a seat. I can't even get on the train.' "
Part of the problem is that thousands of jobs have moved to Midtown. The transit lines pouring people into the area have become like a funnel trying to direct too much water. New Jersey Transit officials have estimated that of the financial jobs that survived the attack and moved from Lower Manhattan, 60 percent relocated to Midtown.
The agency's projections show that even with the opening of a temporary PATH station at the World Trade Center site in about two years, the station would initially siphon away only about 2,000 of the 15,000 or so extra morning riders that New Jersey Transit has picked up.
If that projection is accurate, and more passengers will now be bound for Midtown or other parts of Manhattan, it also means trouble for the Port Authority, which runs the PATH. Although the line's ridership has dropped since the attack -- to 205,000 passengers a day, compared with 257,000 before -- it has not dropped as much as officials thought it would, with two of the system's 13 stations closed.
The tiny Christopher Street station once handled an average of 3,700 passengers a day; now it handles 8,000. The crowds at Ninth Street and 14th Street have slightly more than doubled, and -- suggesting the job shift to Midtown -- the number using the 33rd Street station has increased to 45,000 from 28,700.
That kind of extra crowding on the PATH has largely not occurred on the New York City subway system after the attacks, because ridership was already slowing and the subway was able to restore service to all but four stations in Lower Manhattan. But with train routes mostly back to normal again, the subway must now deal with a new problem in a much less secure city: safety.
In September, the number of subway delays caused by police investigations of suspicious packages or white powders jumped to 458, more than double the total from the month before the terrorist attack. By October, police delays more than quadrupled, to 2,648, making them by far the leading cause of late subway trains, as reports of suspicious packages and white powders flooded in.
Those disruptions have started to ease, transit officials say. There has not been another incident approaching the one on the morning of Oct. 22, when an investigation of a white powder at 34th Street and the Avenue of the Americas delayed 234 trains on five lines.
"Things seem to be heading back in the right direction," said Al O'Leary, the chief spokesman for New York City Transit.
But, in November, the leading cause of subway delays was still listed as "suspicious substances." Subway officials caution that riders must change their expectations about the balance between security and trains running on time.
Iris Weinshall, the city's transportation commissioner, said that on the roads around the city, drivers have changed their expectations, and their behavior, more quickly than planners thought. One change, revolutionary in itself, is simply that drivers now do not expect to be able to drive whenever they want.
Two reasons are the continuing security checkpoints and unexpected road closures that can still make driving a harrowing experience. But the ban on single-occupant vehicles crossing into Lower Manhattan or Midtown from 6 to 10 a.m. has had a profound effect, resulting in a 15 percent drop in traffic on those crossings in the morning.
That result, which has greatly reduced gridlock around the region, could mean that the ban will stay in place well into this year.
"The drumbeat is going to be there to lift the S.O.V. ban, but what's going to happen if we lift it?" asked Ms. Weinshall, who added that her agency had commissioned an ambitious study of the effects of the restrictions on the city's economy and roads. 
Many transportation experts say that if the ban remains, what will undoubtedly happen is a continued funneling of people onto mass transit -- and mounting worries about how the system can handle it.
For now, one of the only pressure valves can be found on the open water, where ferry ridership has surged to 124,000 passengers a day from 97,000 before Sept. 11, with nine new routes added in the last three months and new landings on the way.
Transit officials -- confronted with the huge capital investments and lead time necessary to improve rail service -- are also seriously looking at proposals to create what is known as "bus rapid transit." A kind of subway on the highways, this would be accomplished by rigidly separated bus lanes within and even into the city, where buses could travel much faster and load more the way subways do, at above-ground stations with turnstiles.
"There's a lot more ferment than there has ever been on many of these issues," said Mr. Kaehny, of Transportation Alternatives. "People are being forced to think outside of the box."
Many transportation experts call that kind of thinking imperative.
"People are willing to put up with those conditions for a week or a month or if they knew how long it was going to be," said Jeff Zupan, a senior transportation fellow with the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit group that advises governments on development.
"But if they don't know how long it's going to go, they're going to start saying, 'Why do I have to take this? Why do I have to live here?' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: In the evening rush, the PATH station at 33rd Street and Broadway can be filled with New Jerseyans trying to squeeze through a train's doors. (James Estrin/The New York Times); On morning trains into Manhattan, the number of passengers has increased since Sept. 11, making for a crowd at Pennsylvania Station in Newark. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B5) Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Stretching the System"Without the World Trade Center station, the PATH system has fewer total passengers. But the stations that remain are handling far more passengers than before Sept. 11. BeforeTotal passenger trips on a Thursday before Sept. 11: 260,52333rd St. Before: 28,208 AfterTotal passenger trips on Thursday, Dec. 20: 191,84233rd St. After: 44,674 (Source: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey)(pg. B5) Map of the PATH System. (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); TRAINS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); HIJACKING (73%); AIRLINES (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%); NURSES & NURSING (56%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; HIJACKING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); RAILROADS; SUBWAYS 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY TRANS-HUDSON CORP; NEW JERSEY TRANSIT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%)

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



61 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Rollout of Notes and Coins Helps Lift Value of Euro
With most signs pointing toward a remarkably smooth rollout of euro notes and coins across 12 European nations, investors bid up the value of the currency while people on the streets clamored to unload their old money.
 Analysts described the rise as a "relief rally" driven by the fact that the complicated process of putting the euro into circulation had unfolded without serious problems. Page A1. 

Congress Steps Up Enron Inquiry
Senate Democrats said that they planned to subpoena documents from Enron executives and to examine the company's high-level connections to the Bush administration as Congress steps up its inquiry into the company's collapse. Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, the chairman of the Senate Government Affairs Committee, said his main concern was the interests of shareholders who might have been deceived by the company's statements about its financial health. C3.

Lawmakers Aid Mining Company
With little debate, lawmakers agreed before they adjourned to relieve Homestake Mining of South Dakota of any legal liability it might have for damage to the environment. A20.

Texas Begins Power Deregulation
Texas began a power deregulation plan this week with officials promising that there would be no reprise of California's chaos. A18.

Grades Don't Rise for Web Service
Online customer service continues to earn mediocre marks from consumers and researchers, according to a survey to be released today by Jupiter Media Metrix. C4.

Late Rally Bolsters Stock Market
Stocks rose on a late-day rally on the first trading day of 2002. The Nasdaq composite index rose 28.85 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,979.25. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 51.9 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,073.40, and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 6.59 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,154.67. C6.

Tyco Shares Fall on Research Report
Shares of Tyco International fell 2.8 percent after a research firm questioned whether Tyco is the subject of a government investigation. SEC Insight had asked the Securities and Exchange Commission in November to disclose its recent correspondence with Tyco. In a newsletter, SEC Insight said the commission had turned down the request on the grounds that disclosing the information might interfere with law enforcement activities. Tyco said it was not being investigated by the S.E.C. A spokeswoman said she was "not aware" of any civil or criminal investigations aside from one grand jury investigation in Connecticut that the company has already disclosed. C2.

Technology Export Limits Eased
The White House loosened the restrictions on exporting high-performance computers and microprocessors. C4.

Manufacturing Rose in December
Manufacturing activity rose in December for the second consecutive month, reflecting increases in production and new orders. C2.

Air-Rail Links in the United States
Here and there, air-rail links in the United States are beginning to look a lot like Europe's. Joe Sharkey: Business Travel. C5.

Economics for Everyday Use
Knowing the basic concepts and tools that economists take for granted among themselves and try to teach their students could keep a lot of people from making mistakes. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,073.40 up 51.90Nasdaq composite -- 1,979.25 up 28.8510-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.16% up 0.14The euro -- $0.9036 up 0.0123The dollar -- 132.10 yen up 0.48 Graph: "TODAY" shows Construction Spending figures from May-October.November figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.2% Graph tracks Tyco International share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (91%); EURO (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COINS & COINAGE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); GRAND JURY (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); NEW ORDERS (68%); FACTORY ORDERS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); MINES & MINING (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (65%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (65%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (52%)

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (52%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (52%) SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



62 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Man in the News; 
Peronist for the Present; Eduardo Alberto Duhalde

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
Long before the economy here imploded, Eduardo Duhalde was preaching against what he called "exhausted" free-market economic ideas. 
 Mr. Duhalde's ascension as Argentina's fifth president in two weeks signifies that the country "leaves behind the free-market policies of the past decade and begins moving toward a model that is more protectionist and more inward-looking," said Martin Redrado, a leading economic consultant here. "That means a government more involved in the economy and more present in terms of regulations." 
 Mr. Duhalde is proposing a return to the populist policies championed decades ago by his political idol, Gen. Juan Domingo Peron. His embrace of the past comes at a moment when his weary country is receptive to political solutions that are at least familiar.
But at a time when Argentina needs help from international lenders to fight its way out of a $134-billion debt crisis, there are severe limits to how far Mr. Duhalde can go to reject global market economics and avoid unpopular measures to stave off collapse.
After Congress chose him as president late Tuesday night, Mr. Duhalde talked of an end to the policy that has made the Argentine peso and the American dollar virtually interchangeable since 1991 by linking them at a 1-to-1 rate. Today there were additional hints that a bruising devaluation was coming, as the central bank revoked regulations that required banks to accept payment in pesos for debts incurred in dollars. World Business, Page W1. 
Over a 30-year career, Mr. Duhalde, 60, has demonstrated that he is no stranger to patronage, operates well in smoky backrooms and is schooled in the top-down politics that has made the Peronist Party Argentina's most formidable electoral machine.
Eduardo Alberto Duhalde was born on Oct. 5, 1941, in Lomas de Zamora, a Buenos Aires suburb where he still lives. After studying law, he began his public life in 1971 as a town councilman there and then served as mayor before being elected to the lower house of Congress in 1987.
More recently, as governor of the province of Buenos Aires, which surrounds the capital and is home to more than a quarter of the country's 36 million people, Mr. Duhalde had a mixed record. During eight years in office, he proved adept at keeping normally antagonistic social groups under the Peronist tent and also won praise for confronting police brutality and corruption.
To win political support, though, Mr. Duhalde also spent big and ran up large debts, which led to accusations of corruption against his government. As a result, the province was left virtually bankrupt when he left office in 1999, forcing his successor, Carlos Ruckauf, to begin paying provincial employees and suppliers last year with bonds that are not yet redeemable.
At least some of Mr. Duhalde's trusted associates from his days in the provinces appear to be ready to rejoin him in the central government. A prominent Peronist leader said today that Mr. Duhalde would appoint Jorge Remes Lenicov, who was his provincial chief of finances, as the new economy minister, and there are reports that Mr. Ruckauf will become the foreign minister.
But after the instability the country has lived through in the last month, Mr. Duhalde, a chess player and father of five, is welcomed as a known quantity, with a long track record and strengths and weaknesses that are no secret. Though Argentines are clearly demanding change, they also want to avoid any more unpleasant surprises, analysts say.
"If we are dancing a tango, this is the part where we take a couple of steps back," said Felipe Noguera, a leading pollster and consultant here. Mr. Duhalde, he explained, "is not necessarily the man to lay the foundation for long-term prosperity, but he can pacify Argentina and give it a sense of stability, which does seem to make him a man for this moment."
Mr. Duhalde has already won praise and moved to differentiate himself from Adolfo Rodriguez Saa, the interim president who fell after a week in office, by promising to lead a broad-based "government of national salvation" that will include opposition parties in his cabinet. And instead of offending rivals by crowing about the Peronist return to power, as Mr. Rodriguez Saa did, today he offered humility, sobriety and even a mea culpa.
"We Peronists are part of the problem, just like all the others who have governed this country, civilian and military," Mr. Duhalde told a group of well-wishers this afternoon, shortly after officially donning the sash of office in a brief ceremony at the presidential palace here. But now, he added, "the situation is such that we cannot afford to make mistakes."
Mr. Duhalde was initially an ally of President Carlos Saul Menem, who plucked him from the lower house of Congress and made him his running mate in 1989. He served as vice president for two years, and even wrote a book called "The Productive Revolution" with Mr. Menem. But their relations began to fray after Mr. Duhalde was elected governor of the province of Buenos Aires in 1991.
Many in the Peronist Party saw Mr. Duhalde as their logical candidate in the next presidential election, because Mr. Menem was unable by law to succeed himself. But Mr. Menem was able to overturn that prohibition. Mr. Duhalde, however, finally won the Peronist nomination in the 1999 election. Mr. Menem offered him only token support, which led to a chilly relationship that persists to this day.
Defeated with only 38 percent of the vote, the worst showing by a Peronist presidential candidate in party history, Mr. Duhalde's political career appeared to be finished, or so said the pundits. But he mounted a stunning comeback in October's legislative elections, managing with the help of Mr. Ruckauf, his ally and successor as governor, to be elected senator from the Buenos Aires province by more than 700,000 votes.
Now he has been vindicated again, and on an even larger stage. 
Until recently, Mr. Duhalde was "a leader not held in high regard by the Buenos Aires press or the local establishment, which regarded him as a man of the provinces, surrounded by low-quality people," noted Joaquin Morales Sola, a political columnist for the daily newspaper La Nacion. But "the fragmentation of Argentine society and Peronism" is now so severe, he added, "that Duhalde is now seen as the only leader with the qualities to discipline society and undertake realistic policies."

GRAPHIC: Photo (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (75%); MAYORS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); FOREIGN LENDING (68%); DEVALUATION (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (63%); CORRUPTION (60%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; DUHALDE, EDUARDO (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (93%) ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



63 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: N.J. Transit Is Criticized For Planning Fare Increase 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT HANLEY

DATELINE: NEWARK, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
New Jersey Transit's proposal to raise fares on its buses, trains and the Newark subway system over six years was sharply criticized at public hearings tonight here and in five other cities around the state.
 Commuters, environmental groups and advocates for mass transit denounced nearly every aspect of the proposal and said higher fares would drive riders onto the roads, increasing highway congestion. 
 "A fare increase is a tax increase," said William Wright, secretary of the New Jersey Association of Railroad Passengers, a commuter group based in Freehold. "History tells us that higher fares will lead to the spiral of fewer riders, higher fares and the ultimate destruction of New Jersey Transit." 
Under the proposal, fares would be increased an average of 10 percent on April 1. In addition, five annual increases tied to the rate of inflation could be imposed.
The proposed increase is intended to raise $44 million for the fiscal year that starts July 1 and help offset a deficit estimated at $169 million.
The agency's board is scheduled to vote on the proposed increase on Monday, one day before Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco leaves office. If the board approves new fares then, which is considered likely, Mr. DiFrancesco will have time to approve them and spare his successor a politically unpalatable chore. 
Many of the 125 people at the Newark hearing criticized a provision allowing New Jersey Transit to order the inflationary increases without public hearings. One commuter, Gary Johnson of Edison, said the five annual inflationary increases could amount to 3 percentage points a year, for a total of 25 percent. 
In Freehold, commuters complained about poor service and crowded trains and said higher fares would force them to consider alternatives to mass transit. "If that happens, you'll have one more car on the parkway," said Ken Allan, a bank employee from Brick Township. 
As an alternative to the fare increase, Mr. Wright's organization, as well as the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club and the Tri-State Transportation Campaign, which promotes mass transit, called for a 10-cent increase in the state's 10.5-cent gasoline tax and asked that the revenue be dedicated to New Jersey Transit. 
At a news conference before the hearings, Jeffrey A. Warsh, New Jersey Transit's executive director, noted that the agency had no power to increase gas taxes. He said he hoped that Governor-elect James E. McGreevey and the State Legislature would increase the agency's annual state subsidy, now $260 million, by $125 million to plug the deficit. 
At a news conference this afternoon, Mr. McGreevey declined to take a position on the fare proposal or on any other new transportation financing. 
Besides the projected $169 million deficit for the fiscal year starting July 1, the agency expects a $3.1 billion deficit in both the operating and the capital budgets for the five fiscal years after that.
Some of that shortfall involves projected costs for a major new rail hub in Secaucus; although work has begun, its opening was thrown into doubt after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Other expenses include a new concourse for New Jersey rail passengers in Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan, a new train station at Newark International Airport and 30 transit police officers hired in the wake of the attacks, Mr. Warsh said.
Besides increasing fares, the proposal would:
*Eliminate the 25 percent discount on weekday round-trip excursion fares on trains.
*Create a uniform fare -- $3.30 one way -- between Newark's two train stations and Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan. The current fares are $2.50 between Newark's Penn Station and Manhattan and $3 between Newark's Broad Street Station and Manhattan. 
*Reduce the ticket discount for passengers 62 and older to 50 percent from the current 55 percent. 
*Raise the surcharge for buying tickets on trains to $5 from $3. 
*Eliminate refunds for unused one-way tickets.
*Combine one-zone and two-zone bus routes into a new single zone with a one-way fare of $1.20 and a monthly pass costing $49. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); APPROVALS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FUEL TAX (76%); BUDGETS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); INFLATION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); GASOLINE (60%); GOVERNORS (58%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



64 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: A SMOOTH DEBUT LIFTS EURO'S VALUE IN MONEY MARKETS 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
After years of preparation and some predictions of chaos, Europeans in 12 nations have begun using a common currency with no significant problems, a surprising amount of enthusiasm and even a slight rise in its value today.
 In a collective expression of relief by world money markets, the euro jumped 1.4 percent against the dollar in New York trading and about 2 percent against the Japanese yen. 
 Analysts described the jump as a "relief rally" driven by the currency's remarkably smooth introduction into circulation on Tuesday and the first full day of business today. Across the continent euros were generally available despite some spot shortages, some balky cash registers and a few long lines at some banks and supermarkets. 
The euro's bounce was in some respects surprising, since bankers, businesses and currency traders have been working in euros for three years. The arrival of euro notes and coins in cash registers and A.T.M.'s has little or no impact on its value.
Ever since Jan. 1, 1999, 11 European countries locked the value of their francs, marks and pesetas to that of the euro, and surrendered their powers to set interest rates and administer monetary policy to a new European Central Bank.
At the time, French leaders expressed the hope that the euro would strengthen Europe politically by enhancing trade without the complexities of currency conversions, and by becoming a counterweight to the dollar.
But the euro, which bought $1.17 at its inception, quickly lost ground, reaching a low of nearly 82 cents in the fall of 2000. It settled in New York today at 90.36 cents today, up from 89.13 cents.
Analysts said the apparently smooth arrival of the euro, refuting months of speculation about the potential for chaos during the changeover, might have been responsible for the lift today.
Larry Kantor, the global head of foreign exchange strategy at J. P. Morgan, said, "One of the things was some kind of psychological boost from the introduction of the euro bills and coins."
Many analysts cautioned that today's rally could prove very short. Many predict that the new single currency could once again slide against the dollar because European growth is likely to be stagnant for the next several months. Some economist have predicted that over the next several months, the euro's value could drift down to 85 cents.
In the first day that most stores were open in the new year, business proceeded smoothly in supermarkets and shops. Lines were a bit slower at stores as cashiers were forced to wrestle with euros as well as the old denominations.
About 80 percent of the 200,000 A.T.M.'s in the region were dispensing euros today, with nearly all cash machines converted in Germany, Austria and the Netherlands.
Many Europeans found themselves fascinated as they held their new money.
"I felt quite moved to keep the new euro money in my hands after expecting this moment for three years," said Sebastian G. Riedmayr, a physician in his early 30's who lives in Munich. "I am sure this is an important psychological point in pushing toward a European political union.
Eugenio Domingo Solans, the European Central Bank official directly responsible for the changeover, said that demand for the new money had been very strong and that cash withdrawals in some countries were four times above normal levels.
Despite that, Mr. Solans said today, the changeover has so far gone "smoothly and even better than we had expected."
Indeed, the very popularity of the new money led to problems. Many cash machines ran short in Germany, and banks were scrambling to replenish them after having raced madly to load them on New Year's Eve.
Here in Frankfurt, people mobbed several downtown bank branches seeking to convert large stocks of German marks to euros.
At a downtown branch of Deutsche Bank 24, the crowds were so large that flustered bank employees blocked off the doors and let customers enter in groups of five.
Elsewhere around Europe, the rollout of euro coins and bills proceeded without major problems.
Even in France, where bank workers had vowed to go on strike today, the changeover continued as smoothly as anywhere else. Nine out of 10 French A.T.M.'s were already dispensing euros by Tuesday night, and most of the bank tellers were on duty today.
"For the moment, knock on wood, everything is going extremely well," said Laurent Fabius, the French finance minister. BNP Paribas, France's biggest bank, reached a tentative agreement with its unions last week.
Societe Generale, also one of the biggest French banks, said that only one-quarter of its workers had taken part in the strike and that most of its bank counters were open.
For many people, the mere arrival of a tangible common currency had seemed like an impossibility for years. European leaders first started dreaming about a single currency more than 40 years ago, and a core group of countries agreed in principle on the idea back in 1971. 
But the idea was derailed by an assortment of global economic crises, beginning with the oil price shocks of 1973 and 1974. The project languished until the fall of the Berlin Wall, when French leaders pushed Germany's chancellor at the time, Helmut Kohl, to commit to a timetable for adopting the single currency in exchange for French support on reuniting east and west Germany.
Nations within the European Union agreed on the basic plan at a historic summit meeting in Maastricht, the Netherlands, in 1991. The Maastricht Treaty laid out a 10-year plan that began with a European exchange-rate control mechanism, proceeded to the adoption of a "virtual currency" in 1999 -- essentially an electronic currency for banks, businesses and brokers, and finally to a currency for cash boxes and coin purses in 2002.
But the path from Maastricht to today was filled with obstacles.
French and German leaders feuded repeatedly over what each country had to achieve to qualify for the currency, over any possible sanctions when one nation's debt or deficits went off course, and over the ability of political leaders to influence decisions of an independent European Central Bank.
Even after 11 countries adopted the euro in 1999 -- a 12th nation, Greece, came into the fold later -- millions of Europeans thought that nothing had changed because the currency did not physically exist. Prices for the most part in stores were still posted in pesetas, francs, marks, lira, schillings, escudos, drachmas and punts.
If the euro's cash debut does in fact proceed without major problems, it could have a important impact on public attitudes in the three E.U. countries that have refused to adopt the common currency -- Britain, Sweden and Denmark.
Recent opinion polls in both Sweden and Denmark suggest that a slight majority of both populations now supports adopting the euro. In Sweden, Prime Minister Goran Persson suggested last week that the country might hold a referendum on the question as early as this fall. Denmark held a referendum last year, but a majority of voters came out against it and a follow-up referendum is unlikely any time soon. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (93%); EURO (92%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (89%); COINS & COINAGE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (75%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); INTEREST RATES (51%) CURRENCY 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (68%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (78%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (58%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



65 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
SYKES TO CLOSE 3 SERVICE CENTERS AND DISMISS 230 PEOPLE

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 Sykes Enterprises, an operator of customer service centers, said yesterday that it would close two centers in the United States and one in Europe and lay off 230 employees. Sykes, which operates service centers for computer companies like Microsoft and Apple Computer, blamed the slow economy for the cuts. 
Sykes employs about 15,000 people in 41 centers worldwide. It will close its Greeley, Colo., center and one center in Bismarck, N.D. A second Bismarck center will remain open. One of the company's five European centers will also be closed, but company officials declined to disclose its location. The cuts are expected to cost the company $15 million to $16.5 million. Employees have been notified and most have received two weeks' pay in a severance package, the chief financial officer, Michael Kipphut, said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (73%); SEVERANCE PAY (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

COMPANY: SYKES ENTERPRISES INC (84%); APPLE INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: SYKES ENTERPRISES 

TICKER: SYKE (NASDAQ) (84%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561422 TELEMARKETING BUREAUS & OTHER CONTACT CENTERS (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BISMARCK, ND, USA (91%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



66 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Hardware: November Chip Sales Show Gain 

BYLINE:  By Chris Gaither (NYT) (Compiled by Alan Krauss) 

 BODY:
 Sales of computer chips in November improved slightly for the second consecutive month, as the industry's sharp decline continued to show signs of having hit bottom. The Semiconductor Industry Association, a trade group in San Jose, Calif., said global chip sales were $10.6 billion, a 42 percent decline from a year earlier but up 1.6 percent from October, when sales were $10.44 billion. 
Month-to-month growth of 5.3 percent in Europe offset flat sales in the Americas and a 1 percent decline in Japan. George Scalise, president of the association, said the industry was on track to grow 4.7 percent in the fourth quarter, as predicted. But analysts said chip makers might struggle through more dreary times in the beginning of 2002, as a weak economy continues to hamper demand. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index gained 4.5 percent, to 545.44. Chris Gaither (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); ELECTRONICS (91%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SALES; COMPUTER CHIPS 

COMPANY: NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%) SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSN 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%)

PERSON: GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (87%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (87%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



67 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: THE SKI REPORT; 
Season May Still Have Bumpy Patches Ahead

BYLINE:  By BILL PENNINGTON 

 BODY:
September is usually a fairly busy month in the reservations department of North American ski areas. Not surprisingly, from Mammoth Mountain in California to Sunday River in Maine, the telephones stopped ringing on the afternoon of Sept. 11. They did not resume ringing for several weeks.
 As scary as that was, ski area operators knew they were not going to be helped by two subsequent developments: a weakening economy and record warm temperatures just after Thanksgiving in the Northeast. 
 The consensus was that people would be unwilling to fly in the wake of the terrorist attacks and the consequence would be that many Western areas, normally helped by thousands of Eastern visitors, would suffer the most.
But then November turned to December and the East was largely snowless.
Amid all this uneasiness, and with early reservations generally down 10 to 20 percent, snow began to fall in the West and did not stop for days. When it did stop snowing, some people who were on the fence about a trip West seemed to be getting over their squeamishness with reports like this one from Lake Tahoe's Heavenly Ski Resort: seven-foot snow base, all 29 lifts open.
In the East, meanwhile, colder temperatures arrived later than usual but perhaps not too late given today's technologically advanced snow-making systems.
Resorts throughout the nation have just completed their busy holiday periods and there does not appear to have been a significant downturn in business at most areas. The number of reservations -- easier to audit than lift-ticket purchases -- was consistent with a year ago. But that may not tell the story for the rest of the ski season. What happens in the next three months without the lure of a traditional holiday trip?
"If all you're looking at is Christmas then you're getting a misleading picture of the larger story," said Adam Aron, the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of the Vail Resorts, owners of Vail, Breckenridge, Keystone and Beaver Creek in Colorado. "When I look at our bookings in January, February and March, I am reminded that Sept. 11 really did occur."
Aron said yesterday that his company's bookings across the whole ski season for guests flying from other parts of the country were off 21 percent.
"It's going on throughout the travel industry," Aron said. "We have fabulous snow and maybe we'll get lucky from the word-of-mouth comments of those who were here for Christmas. Bookings have gotten stronger week to week but it's not back to normal."
There have been no bold predictions from anyone in the industry about the next three months, especially since this season is being compared with the record 57.3 million skier and snowboarder visits of last season.
"At the end of the day, what has the real impact is the same thing that always matters most in our industry -- the weather," said Michael Berry, president of the National Ski Areas Association. "With good snow totals, we saw the West went through a little comeback."
It has been a slower start in the East, but an aggressive recovery by the snow-making crews let the areas of upstate New York and northern New England open late last month. And the turnout last week was reasonably strong.
"We have been sold out for the holiday week," David Dillon, president of the Vermont Ski Areas Association, said. "It may not be a record-breaking season but we have developed a reputation for dependable snow-making."
Some smaller areas have other worries. With less snow-making and more limited water supplies, they are playing a guessing game with the weather. It takes a large volume of water to make ample amounts of snow and there has been a drought throughout the East this year. That may explain why some in the industry think that Nordic activities have become more popular this season.
Still, most snow-condition reports were fast improving last week. Sugarbush opened 80 trails, Stowe nearly 50 and Killington more than 100 trails. Base depths were in the three-foot range. And they certainly have plenty of snow out West.
So while the immediate future is unsettled, and many mountains have put off capital projects, at least something as symbolically significant as the post-Christmas week was not a washout for skiers.
"It's an important activity in terms of the fabric of their lives," Berry said. "It's what they enjoy, and it has a place in their psyche, and that's a powerful dynamic."
Finally, there is another unintended effect of Sept. 11 that is worth mentioning. In recent years, slope etiquette had become something of a misnomer. It is a casual observation, but some people in recent weeks have noticed a gentler, more tolerant visitor on the slopes.
"Guest-services folks have told me that they've noticed people being nicer and more patient," Kim Jackson, Killington's news bureau director, said last week. "I think people are glad to be doing something they love to do again. They're just happy to be here." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING FACILITIES (91%); SKIING (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); RESORTS (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SNOWBOARDING (73%); LAKES (73%); TERRORISM (72%); THANKSGIVING (71%); TICKET SALES (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%); EXECUTIVES (50%) SKIING 

COMPANY: VAIL RESORTS INC (58%)

TICKER: MTN (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); NAICS713920 SKIING FACILITIES (58%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%)

PERSON: PENNINGTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



68 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Hoping It's No California, Texas Deregulates Energy 

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
Less than a year after the nation's most-populous state, California, endured blackouts and political and economic turmoil when it deregulated the power industry, the second-most-populous state, Texas, this week began its own deregulation plan with officials promising that there would be no reprise of California's chaos.
 But consumer advocates, while generally agreeing that the Texas plan included better safeguards than California's, expressed skepticism that residential customers would benefit from long-term reductions as energy providers competed for business. These advocates also warned that Texas, like California, failed to provide adequate protection to ensure that the state did not suffer from electricity shortages as demand increased. 
 For Texas, deregulation comes not long after the Enron Corporation, the Houston energy giant that championed deregulated energy markets, collapsed into bankruptcy. Meanwhile, the chairman of the state agency that will oversee the deregulated electricity market, has come under fire for his ties to Enron. 
The official start of deregulation in Texas was New Year's Day, but today was the first business day of operation and, as yet, few of the 4.7 million eligible households had chosen to switch providers away from the longstanding utilities. State officials predicted that the transition would be gradual, particularly for residential customers, many of whom are still unaware that change is afoot. Nor have electricity retailers rushed into the residential market; as yet, 41 new retailers have registered, but most are seeking commercial and industrial clients.
Terry Hadley, spokesman for the Texas Public Utility Commission, the agency overseeing the electricity marketplace, said electricity retailers were "sharpening their pencils to see what kind of offers they can make." Several companies are already marketing to residential customers. and Mr. Hadley predicted that such appeals would intensify in coming months.
Still uncertain is whether Texas customers will embrace deregulation, particularly after the problems in California. The rules here establish an immediate retail price reduction of 11 percent to 17 percent, a drop partly attributable to the low price of natural gas, which is often used to fuel electric generation plants. This savings is built into the "price to beat," the state-mandated price per kilowatt hour that the old utilities will be allowed to charge under deregulation to keep their customers. New retailers will be allowed to offer lower prices as a way to entice customers to switch.
Texas officials have taken pains to reassure consumers -- and journalists -- that California's problems were unique.
In California, the state deregulated the wholesale power market while keeping retail prices capped. This caused the state's two biggest public utilities to lose billions of dollars when wholesale prices spiked and the retail price caps prevented them from passing the costs along to consumers. One reason the prices jumped was the price of natural gas, then at a record high.
California officials, including Gov. Gray Davis, also accused several energy companies, including Enron, of manipulating prices and making the state's problems worse, a charge the companies denied.
California's problems were also partly attributable to a lack of supply; the state had not built a major power plant in roughly a decade.
The state endured rolling blackouts and other problems before federal regulators ordered restraints on electricity prices last summer. In September, the California Public Utilities Commission voted to shift away from deregulation.
While about two dozen states, including most of those in the Northeast, have begun deregulation, others, like Nevada, New Mexico and Oklahoma have postponed plans in the wake of California's problems. Texas officials, on the other hand, express confidence in their plan.
Unlike California, Texas deregulated the wholesale electrical market in 1995, providing a time buffer to work out any kinks before introducing retail deregulation this year. And also unlike California, Texas has seen about 30 power plants built in the state in the last six years. Officials say the state's electrical supply exceeds demand by 23 percent.
Nor does the state's plan mandate the sort of retail price caps that crippled the California utilities.
"We have more than enough capacity and supply of electricity," Mr. Hadley said. "And the mechanics are in place to make adjustments for any dramatic spike in fuel costs."
Consumer advocates are skeptical. Carol Biedrzycki, executive director of Texas Ratepayers Organization to Save Energy, said the state should have required electricity providers to maintain a "reserve margin" of electrical capacity of roughly 15 percent above demand. Ms. Biedrzycki said she believed that state officials had inflated power-generating capacity and could face problems of increasing demand in a few years. 
"In order to keep the prices stable, we have to have a reserve margin," she said.
The Texas Public Utility Commission has been in the spotlight recently because of questions of whether its chairman, Max Yzaguirre, a former Enron executive appointed by Gov. Rick Perry, misrepresented his connections to the company on state disclosure forms. Last month, as Enron was in the midst of bankruptcy and laying off more than 4,000 employees, Mr. Yzaguirre revised his disclosure forms to expand the list of Enron-related companies to which he had been connected. 
Initially, he had listed his position with Enron's affiliate in Mexico. But his revised listing showed his membership on the board of the Enron North America Corporation and other related companies. Mr. Yzaguirre has attributed the omission to a simple oversight, but a spokesman for a leading Democratic candidate for governor, Tony Sanchez, questioned whether Mr. Yzaguirre had a conflict of interest. One of the new retailers seeking to enter the market, the New Power Company, is partly owned by Enron.
Meanwhile, Mr. Hadley, the spokesman for the commission, said Enron's bankruptcy should not have an impact on deregulation in Texas. Some commercial customers had signed up with two Enron-related electricity retailers, he said, but state regulators are making certain that those customers can be switched to other providers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (98%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (92%); ENERGY REGULATION (91%); POWER FAILURES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (88%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (74%); WHOLESALE PRICES (74%); POWER PLANTS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (67%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; CONSUMER PROTECTION; SHORTAGES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC UTILITY COMMISSION OF TEXAS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: YARDLEY, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%) TEXAS; CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



69 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Redmond Journal; 
Microsoft's Hometown Sees Cause for Optimism

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: REDMOND, Wash., Jan. 2 

 BODY:
Tina Terada-Santos and Jerry Santos have plenty of reasons to be glad to work at the Microsoft Corporation, chief among them that it was on their very first day of orientation -- Sept. 5, 2000 -- that they met, and fell in love. They were married 11 months later. 
 While the software behemoth's campus here was the setting for their own love story, it is also proving to be a good place for them to hold employment in this turbulent economy. Microsoft's stock was the best performer in 2001 among the 30 companies that make up the Dow Jones industrial average, rising 53 percent to $66.25, after a dismal year in 2000 in which it lost more than 60 percent of its value. The company has huge amounts of cash on hand, new products like the Xbox game system and the Windows XP operating system are selling well, and the company appears to be on the verge of settling a major part of its antitrust battle with the federal government and several states. 
 "Microsoft just feels like the best place to be, more so than ever before," said Ms. Terada-Santos, 35, a program manager in the company's customer and partner loyalty group. 
There are certainly elements of optimism here in Microsoft's hometown, and several company employees who say they might once have been tempted to leave for a high-tech start-up said they were grateful to hold what appeared to be very steady employment with the industry giant, even if it no longer seemed to be minting multimillionaires by the month. The rebound in stock prices helped Microsoft employees, many of whom receive stock as an major part of their compensation.
But there is hardly any widespread sense of jubilation, not with the regional economy still mired in difficulties, or with Boeing undergoing major layoffs and many Internet companies struggling, or with Washington State facing one of the highest unemployment rates in the nation. And even the Santoses are taking "a very cautious approach" to their personal finances, said Mr. Santos, 32, a technical writer in the company's "dot-net" division, which is part of its strategy to shift much of its software from packaged products to services available over the Internet. 
The couple are putting off a renovation to the house they moved into after their wedding, and delaying buying a new car. "We're not fearful of losing our jobs, but we just don't want to take any big chances with our finances," Ms. Terada-Santos said. Microsoft has not experienced widespread layoffs. 
For others in the high-tech industry, the broader question was whether any rising tide at Microsoft might lift other boats. Some felt it would. 
"As Microsoft gets better, the market will get better," said Jeff Grant, 27, a Web site administrator here who has been a contract employee at several local companies over the last five years, who is to be laid off from his job next month. Despite the prospect of becoming a human figure in the unemployment statistics here, Mr. Grant was optimistic that he could find another job. 
"Once Microsoft stock went bad, a lot of other companies seemed to go down too," Mr. Grant said. "But I think it would follow that if Microsoft is headed up, eventually the whole tech sector will rise up." 
Sam Iredale, 29, a software test engineer, said he also saw reasons for optimism, after a time in which investors grew skittish over investing in the high-tech economy. "I think things went to different extremes," he said. "For a while, it seems they'd put money into just about anything that was a dot-com. They didn't discriminate. A lot of things were clearly overvalued. But now a lot of companies are clearly undervalued, and I think that investors are figuring out that not every tech company is out here on a wing and a prayer, so things are looking up." 
But others who are not facing immediate layoffs said they were having a hard time detecting any major positive shifts in the economy. 
"It's simply very tough," said Mike Nuccio, 41, a sales manager based in Redmond for Isomedia, which provides a range of Internet services. 
Mr. Nuccio sells some compact-disk products, and he said his company faced constant pressure from customers to cut prices. His lament was similar to that of Fran Traxler, the assistant manager at Diva Decor, a store here that sells home-decoration products. 
"If you don't have a sign out front saying you're having a big sale, then forget it," Ms. Traxler said. "People are really looking for bargains, and they're not doing a lot of huge home-renovation projects anyway."
Ms. Traxler said that she was already seeing the effects of the Boeing layoffs -- which are expected to claim 20,000 jobs or more in the Seattle area -- and that if there was any upturn at Microsoft, it was not offsetting the other bad economic news in any obvious way. "I do have a fair number of people who come in the store and look around," she said, "but then they come up to the counter and say, ah, I just lost my job. Are you taking applications?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerry Santos and Tina Terada-Santos, who met at Microsoft, are taking a cautious approach to their finances. (Wes Pope for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (85%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); WRITERS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); TRENDS (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (60%); STARTUPS (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (94%); BOEING CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) REDMOND (WASH)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



70 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Airlines Shy Away From Loan Guarantees by U.S. 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD 

 BODY:
The nation's airlines, which pleaded for a federal bailout package to help them survive the impact of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, are shying away for now from applying for government loan guarantees after seeing the stringent requirements placed on the first recipient, America West Airlines,
 Yesterday, Northwest Airlines said it would not submit an application soon to the federal Air Transportation Stabilization Board, which on Friday gave tentative approval to America West's application after exacting an option to buy up to one-third of the carrier's equity. 
 Executives said that Northwest had been gathering the data it would have needed to apply for a loan guarantee, but given the America West package, the airline has slowed its efforts. "We are still in the studying mode," said Bill Mellon, a Northwest spokesman. 
US Airways, which has frequently been mentioned as a likely candidate for a bailout because of its financial woes, said on Monday that it had no plans to file an application for loan guarantees. 
Other carriers declined to comment on their plans, but some industry analysts said executives were reacting uncomfortably to the America West package.
"Most airlines are looking at this as a rough guide, and they don't like what they saw," said Raymond Neidl, aviation analyst with ABN Amro in New York.
America West, the nation's eighth-largest carrier, faced a likely Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing if it failed to secure new financing. The airline, which is based in Phoenix, amended its proposal three times before winning provisional approval. Besides offering the government a big ownership stake, America West said it would cancel raises and bonuses for employees and agreed to hold down labor costs until the deal ends in 2007. 
Investors, like America West executives, welcomed the deal. America West shares have climbed 59 percent since it was announced, closing yesterday at $3.93 each.
Mr. Neidl said many carriers were concluding that they might be better off seeking conventional financing -- even at higher rates than they could obtain with a government-backed loan -- rather than submit to the government board's terms. 
Some may prefer to see whether economic conditions deteriorate during the first quarter, traditionally the weakest for the industry, which might strengthen their case, he added. Or else airlines may wait to see whether a widely predicted recovery arrives in the second quarter, meaning they could skirt the need for government-guaranteed loans.
"People are not going to go down that road until absolutely necessary," said Kevin C. Mitchell, president of the Business Travel Coalition, which represents corporations and business travelers. Even if impatient shareholders ultimately demand that a company apply for help, as may happen with US Airways, Mr. Mitchell said many carriers were fearful about the prospect of a government rejection. 
"You don't want to do this unless you are on the rocks," he said.
Airlines have until June 28 to apply for the loan guarantees, part of a $15 billion emergency assistance package approved by Congress in September. The package included $5 billion in cash payments to make airlines whole for their losses when the air travel system was shut down after the terror attacks, and up to $10 billion in guaranteed loans.
Betsy Holahan, a spokeswoman for the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, said the package for America West was still being completed and that an "active dialogue" continued between the government and the airline. Each application received, she added, will be considered on an individual basis.
So far, only one other carrier, Vanguard Airlines, a low-fare airline based in Kansas City, Mo., has sought assistance, applying for a loan guarantee package of $60 million. 
Analysts said the Vanguard case could provide a further window into the government's thinking on the guarantees. The board could view Vanguard, which serves 15 cities, as too small to warrant help, deciding instead to reserve the remainder of the package to help major carriers.
Among the companies monitoring the board's response to Vanguard's application is the Mesa Air Group, which is based in Phoenix. Jonathan C. Orenstein, the airline's chief executive, said it might seek a loan guarantee, even though it was financially sound.
"We don't need the money, but in this day and age, more cash is better than less cash," said Mr. Orenstein, whose company operates commuter flights under the America West and US Airways brands and flies as Mesa Airlines in New Mexico and Colorado.
Mr. Orenstein said that he was not bothered by the possibility that the government could end up owning a chunk of his company. "The government's playing an activist role in a sick but essential industry is not necessarily a bad thing," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); HIJACKING (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); BONUS PAY (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (64%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; TERRORISM; HIJACKING; FINANCES; CREDIT; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); AMERICA WEST AIRLINES INC (73%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD (83%) AMERICA WEST AIRLINES; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; US AIRWAYS; AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); ABO (ASX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: MAYNARD, MICHELINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



71 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Gains in Chip Industry Fuel Hope in Korea 

BYLINE:  By DON KIRK 

 BODY:
As many industrialized nations wonder how low the global economic slump will take them, there are signs emerging that South Korea may have found the bottom and turned up again.
 The chip business, a fountain of gloom last year, is a source of hope now. Hynix Semiconductor, the world's No. 3 maker of commodity dynamic random access memory chips, known as DRAM's, said yesterday that it had raised prices about 30 percent, its third increase in a month. 
 There were also indications that Hynix, deep in debt and struggling to revamp, is making progress in talks to sell some operations to an American rival, Micron Technologies, the No. 2 DRAM maker, to raise cash.
The leader in the field, Samsung Electronics, also reported that prices were heading higher, and analysts said Micron and a major German manufacturer, Infineon Technologies, could expect better terms in new sales contracts with customers.
Analysts said the fact that Hynix no longer had to cut its prices to win orders was a sign that consumer demand was firming for the computers and electronic goods that use the chips.
Chip makers had a terrible year in 2001, with DRAM prices falling more than half. Most DRAM chips are sold on contracts, but some trade in a spot market, where prices rose about 8 percent on Monday.
The positive signs touched off a sharp rally in the stock market on the first trading day of the new year. The Korean stock price index jumped 4.5 percent, to close at 724.95, with Hynix hitting the daily limit of a 15 percent gain and Samsung gaining 10 percent. 
Weak prices for semiconductors and other electronic products, South Korea's largest exports, left the country about 5 percent short of its goal of a $10 billion trade surplus for 2001, the commerce ministry announced on Tuesday.
The first decline in motor vehicle exports since the war in the Persian Gulf was also a factor -- South Korea shipped 1,783,486 vehicles last year, down 9.5 percent from 2000. But in that industry, too, the mood has recently turned optimistic, as General Motors completes negotiations to take over the bankrupt Daewoo Motor Company.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Good news from chip makers ignited a rally yesterday in South Korea's market, where 2002 was celebrated by a drummer in traditional dress. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CHIPS (92%); MEMORY CHIPS (91%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); TRENDS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); SPOT MARKET (76%); EXPORT PRICES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPUTER CHIPS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: SK HYNIX INC (92%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (56%); INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES AG (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HYNIX SEMICONDUCTOR; MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC; SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO; INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES AG 

TICKER: HY9H (FRA) (92%); 000660 (KSE) (92%); SMSN (LSE) (56%); 005930 (KSE) (56%); IFX (FRA) (56%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: KIRK, DON 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (51%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



72 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Who Are You, Mr. Mayor? 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
We're dealing with a little culture shock here. The new mayor of New York has $4 billion, a Boston accent and a bizarre sense of whom to root for -- he's a Red Sox fan. I have no choice but to worry about him. He can't possibly know what he's in for.
 When it comes to terrorism, we'll all be united. That's not the problem. It's the madness within this great and wild city that will most likely get to Michael Bloomberg. This ain't Boston. New York is as hard as granite, and as unforgiving. 
 On a typical day the new mayor will have to do battle with belligerent municipal labor leaders whose members got the back of the hand instead of well-deserved raises from Rudy Giuliani. (Mr. Giuliani has just exited the stage to standing ovations, and is currently being fitted for a halo.) Then he can submit to the impertinent questioning of the City Hall reporters and know-it-all columnists who follow all mayors with the same sense of good will that is generally displayed by sharks trailing a wounded whale. The rest of the day can be taken up with, say, the ravings of Al Sharpton and a mass demonstration or two.
Welcome to New York. If he's tough and sane, Mike Bloomberg might manage to succeed. But it's absolutely fair to wonder about the sanity of a man with $4 billion who voluntarily subjects himself to the routine torments inflicted on the mayor of New York.
The groaning got under way almost immediately. Mr. Bloomberg delivered his inaugural address Tuesday in freezing temperatures on the steps of City Hall. The backdrop was an enormous American flag (think "Patton"). The crowd was numb from the cold, and Mr. Bloomberg's oration was not warming anybody up. If the new mayor was hoping his listeners would rally to his theme of shared sacrifice, he was disappointed. When he promised to reduce staffing in the mayor's office by 20 percent, and challenged other elected officials to do the same, the reaction of a large segment of the audience could best be described as a collective rolling of the eyes.
A number of elected officials would later complain, quietly, that the mayor's call for 20 percent cuts was unrealistic.
The sense I get after just two days of the Bloomberg era is that there are an awful lot of people in this town who are anxious to take the measure of the new mayor, and they've been emboldened by the fact that his public personality is not dynamic and his inaugural speech was not a particularly good one.
I suggest they proceed with caution. For one thing, New York has not recovered from the physical and psychological trauma of Sept. 11. The economy has not yet rebounded, and there are staggering budget deficits to overcome. The mayor is absolutely right about the need for cooperation and shared sacrifice.
Second, an awful lot of people (this reporter among them) underestimated Michael Bloomberg during his run for mayor. It might not be a bad idea to put the latest round of quick judgments on hold until a fuller picture of the man as mayor emerges. 
Third, he's done some good things during the transition and in the first several hours of his mayoralty. Mr. Bloomberg has been relentlessly optimistic about the city's prospects (Mr. Giuliani was, too) and that is crucial in times of fear and uncertainty. And he's shown a willingness to listen. He's been open, welcoming even, to the enormous variety of voices that make up the city. That is a blessed contrast to the hostile, chronically confrontational style of his predecessor. 
Perhaps most important, Mr. Bloomberg seems committed to Mr. Giuliani's signature issue, the fight against crime -- an indication that the new mayor recognizes that public safety is the essential cornerstone of a flourishing city.
Beyond this we don't know much. Mr. Bloomberg says he's against raising taxes and he favors mayoral control of the school system. But we don't know how he plans to balance the budget, or how he would improve the schools. The details are still to come. 
So we'll wait and see.
Thomas Kessner opened his biography of Fiorello La Guardia with a quote from Turgenev's "Fathers and Sons":
"What aim do you wish to achieve, where are you going, what is in your soul? In a word, who are you? What are you?"
New Yorkers are asking the same of their new mayor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); TERRORISM (71%); WRITERS (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%); MENTAL ILLNESS (50%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); RUDY GIULIANI (73%); AL SHARPTON (50%) HERBERT, BOB; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



73 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
What a City. A Capital Of Contrasts.

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK

 BODY:
YOU'VE got to love New York. You do, you really do, and if you are tempted otherwise, revisit the inauguration of Michael R. Bloomberg, watch it through the prism of what it was, the most instructive exercise in the improbable since a sitting first lady from Chicago by way of Little Rock became the junior senator from the Empire State.
 It began when Al Leiter, the Mets pitcher, explained that he was officiating at the ceremony in front of longtime Yankees-mad City Hall because Mr. Bloomberg had made it clear "he's willing to reach out to constituencies that may feel they've been ignored." 
 Bette Midler sang a romantic version of the national anthem, valiantly staying on key despite a sour piano that would not. Four members of the clergy delivered invocations, including -- this in a city still recovering from an attack by Muslim terrorists -- Imam Izak-El Mu'eed Pasha. He followed the rabbi. Cardinal Edward M. Egan gave the benediction, partly in Spanish.
All blessed the city, Mr. Bloomberg, Rudolph W. Giuliani and, implicitly, the new social arrangements on ample display right there in front of City Hall.
To the right of the lectern sat Mr. Bloomberg; his daughters, Emma and Georgina; his mother, Charlotte; his former wife, Susan Brown; and, a few seats away, his friend, Diana Taylor, chief financial officer of the Long Island Power Authority.
Stage left featured current and former officials, and a beaming Judith Nathan sitting next to Mr. Giuliani, who devoted considerable effort in the last eight years trying to be an arbiter of taste and morality. Funny thing is, he may have succeeded, not in punishing wayward museums or closing sex shops, but in making people more tolerant or forcing them to recognize that they already were. It was just a few decades ago, remember, that Nelson A. Rockefeller's divorce thwarted his national political ambitions.
Just a few decades ago, too, it might have seemed unusual for the new mayor to take the oath of office from a woman, the first to head the state's highest court, Chief Judge Judith S. Kaye. Or for a normally gregarious Victor Gotbaum to hold the Bible silently and smile as his wife, Betsy Gotbaum, became public advocate. Or for retired appellate court judge William C. Thompson, father of the first black city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., to note that "for Mrs. Charlotte Bloomberg and myself, this is extreme nachas" -- Yiddish for proud pleasure or special joy, especially from a child's accomplishments. 
Talk of the improbable, consider the very election of Mr. Bloomberg, victorious in overwhelmingly Democratic New York City, with its reputation for liberalism and populism and love of public showmen like Fiorello H. La Guardia, John V. Lindsay, Edward I. Koch and Rudy Giuliani. The 108th mayor is a new Republican convert, a billionaire from Boston who spent $69 million of his own money to win office, and is to showmanship what Madonna is to subtlety.
Yet there he was on Tuesday, making his first speech as mayor that, in 14 economical minutes did more to define him than his fortune's worth of campaign television commercials.
THE Republican mayor sent a pointed message to the Republican president, telling him he expected him to keep his "explicit pledge" to funnel $20 billion to New York City. He promised budget cuts and no tax increases, strongly reiterated his intention to reform the school system, and respectfully but insistently separated himself from his acclaimed predecessor.
Mr. Bloomberg put Mr. Giuliani's ambitious plans for new baseball stadiums on hold, saying the city should have the world's best cultural and sports facilities "when we can afford them." He said: "We cannot afford to fight with each other. We must work together." And in place of Mr. Giuliani's proudly brash pledge in his inaugural speech in 1994 -- "It should be so and it will be so" -- Mr. Bloomberg spoke of forging a "new partnership" with everyone from the president to community board members.
Then he went to the exquisitely renovated Tweed Courthouse just north of City Hall, a 19th-century tribute to greed and corruption transformed into a 21st-century palace of elegance. The new mayor patiently stood on a receiving line for hours, greeting well-wishers.
None had more enthusiastic praise for this Republican communications magnate than black Democrats, the loyal heart of their party. "Such a conciliatory speech," said Representative Charles B. Rangel of Harlem. "Just what New York needed."
As we said, you really do have to love the place. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); RELIGION (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); TERRORISM (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); LIBERALISM (66%); JUDGES (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); APPEALS COURTS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (57%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



74 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2277 words

HEADLINE: Mayor's Concern and a Departure Cloud the Lincoln Center Project 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
Facing a crucial juncture prompted by its $1.2 billion redevelopment plan, Lincoln Center suffered two blows yesterday when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg suggested that the project would have to be delayed and the center's interim executive director told other center officials she was leaving to head a new performing arts center in Philadelphia.
 In response to a reporter's query, Mr. Bloomberg -- until recently a vice chairman of Lincoln Center -- raised strong questions about the city's ability to provide the center with the $240 million it had committed to the project under a 10-year timetable agreed to by the Giuliani administration. He also predicted that the plan would have difficulty raising private funds in an economic climate that has every cultural organization steeling itself for tough times. 
 "Some of these things are just going to get postponed," Mr. Bloomberg said of the expansions planned by many of the city's cultural institutions. "We should not cancel them. We should continue with the planning. But you're not going to be able to do things as fast as we can. That's true probably for the Lincoln Center redevelopment." 
Mr. Bloomberg's statement came as Lincoln Center confronted another episode in the most extensive turnover of top-level management in its 40-year history. In the last 13 months, the center has seen the departure of two presidents -- one after only eight months on the job -- as well as the chairman of the contentious redevelopment project. Now, several officials at the arts complex said, Janice Price, the interim executive director, will leave on Feb. 1 to become president of the Kimmel Center, the new home of the Philadephia Orchestra.
And an even more important departure looms; Beverly Sills, the 72-year-old former diva who has served as chairman of the center for almost eight years, has said she will retire when a new president is in place, though how soon after is unclear. 
Ms. Sills said she was unperturbed by Mr. Bloomberg's statement and the imminent departure of Ms. Price, one of her most loyal aides. "It's a 10-year plan and it's not going to come in one business cycle," she said of the city financing. "I think we will ask to make a presentation to him and brief him and I expect him to make a reasonable decision."
Ms. Sills also said she was confident that the city would honor Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's recent commitment to provide the first $24 million installment pledged to the project. "I don't feel beleaguered," Ms. Sills added. "I feel very well surrounded with extremely gifted people."
A new president is expected to be named shortly. Among those being considered for the job, which has had a salary of more than a half-million dollars a year, are Anthony P. Coles, a deputy mayor under Mr. Giuliani who serves on the board of Lincoln Center's redevelopment corporation. Prior to Gordon J. Davis's short tenure, Nathan Leventhal held the job for 17 years before stepping down in December 2000.
The latest turbulence at Lincoln Center arrives when many of the world's arts centers are grappling with similar upheavals because of the economy. The specifics of the redevelopment project are far from resolved, and some people at the center view this moment as an opportunity for the institution to rethink its artistic mission to become a temple of the classics that is also in touch with contemporary culture. 
Although it has achieved unparalleled success as a purveyor of the classical performing arts through formidable constituents like the Metropolitan Opera, the New York Philharmonic and the New York City Ballet, these critics urge more programming that can nurture experimental artists and achieve an even wider appeal.
"Lincoln Center is great -- it attracts the world's greatest performers -- but it could be infinitely greater," said Rita E. Hauser, who serves on the boards of the New York Philharmonic and Lincoln Center Inc., the umbrella organization that manages the complex.
Ms. Hauser suggested for example that rather than renovating Avery Fisher Hall, the Philharmonic's home, as part of the redevelopment plan, it might be better to simply "tear it down and start over." Then, she said, the hall could be replaced with not only a large auditorium but also smaller halls to present new music and build younger audiences.
Other Lincoln Center executives say the institution is good at what it does and should not try to be something it isn't. "It's what happens on the stage that matters," said Martin E. Segal, one of two chairmen emeriti at the center. "Does the place have a lot of problems? No."
If you want to see modern dance, for example, Mr. Segal suggested, go to other theaters, like the Brooklyn Academy of Music to see Mark Morris, or the Joyce Theater to see Eliot Feld. Should the Philharmonic perform more modern works even though people walk out when it does?, Mr. Segal asked rhetorically. "Who's going to pick up the tab for the deficit?" he said.
Like all fortresses of high culture, Lincoln Center must contend with the continuing challenge of how to take artistic risks and still fill seats, luring new audiences without losing traditional ones that are hard to hold on to as it is. Although the Philharmonic, for example, has often boasted of its high attendance, the orchestra fails to sell hundreds of seats at 6 of every 10 of its performances, according to figures in the project's master plan. 
Lincoln Center is a behemoth. Its 12 constituent groups employ about 8,000 workers in eight buildings with 19 performance halls that hold more than 3,000 performances a year. They have a combined operating budget of $450 million a year and attract 4.7 million visitors annually. More than 400,000 students and teachers participate in the center's educational programs.
Inevitably, arts executives acknowledge, size breeds conservatism. This becomes even more of a concern for Lincoln Center as the institution contemplates becoming larger and handsomer under its redevelopment plan, which calls for everything from new lobbies for Lincoln Center Theater to a tree-lined lawn in Damrosch Park. 
Other than the Lincoln Center Festival in the summertime, some critics say, the center generally plays it safe, paying too little attention to work that would draw minorities, less affluent groups and young people. 
The Philharmonic, for example, chose as its new conductor last year Lorin Maazel, 71, an accomplished traditionalist. The New York City Ballet, once the imaginative springboard for the legendary partnership of George Balanchine and Lincoln Kirstein, is still championed by some reviewers, but also chastised by others for being less than adventurous under Peter Martins.
"There's not the kind of excitement and creative energy that I felt with a Balanchine," said Harvey Lichtenstein, the chairman emeritus of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, which tends to present more experimental work. "It's a fairly conservative place."
Even the relatively new Jazz at Lincoln Center -- the center's boldest commitment to new programming -- has been faulted by some enthusiasts for hewing too close to tradition. As an indication of how averse Lincoln Center has been to change, a 1986 report by the center's committee on the future advised against establishing jazz as a new constituent.
"Straying too far from the classical performing arts represented by its constituents would probably be a disservice to audiences," the report said. "It is not clear that Lincoln Center has a 'comparative advantage' in offering a broader array of performing arts or more experimental art forms, and the evidence suggests that innovations in this direction have generally not won the acclaim of the core audience."
Things have changed since; most obviously, Jazz at Lincoln Center has been a constituent since 1996 and will be getting a new home in the AOL Time Warner building in Columbus Circle. The New York City Opera has made a point of presenting new works or new interpretations of older productions. 
The Film Society of Lincoln Center offers series on Spanish cinema and has presented programs of Iranian films. Richard Pena, the society's program director, recalled receiving a call from a teacher asking whether her students needed to wear ties to attend a film. "In a way, people have that image of Lincoln Center, that you have to dress up," Mr. Pena said. "That's partly why we decided to serve popcorn."
Until Bruce Gordon, president of retail markets for Verizon Communications, was appointed to its 50-member board last month, the center had only one black director, Richard D. Parsons, recently named chief executive of AOL Time Warner.
Since Sept. 11 ticket sales have been down overall about 10 percent. Complicating matters are the turf battles that almost killed the redevelopment plan and drove out its chairman, Marshall Rose. Much of the project is an effort to gain back space that was sacrificed more than 40 years ago after budget cuts ordered by the center's chairman, John D. Rockefeller III.
When ground was broken in 1959 by President Dwight D. Eisenhower on a West Side urban-renewal site envisioned by Robert Moses, it seemed inspired: clustering several stellar arts institutions in one location, creating the most powerful cultural destination in the country. And to a large extent, it worked. 
Audiences still love going to Lincoln Center to attend such offerings as the new production of Richard Strauss's "Frau Ohne Schatten" at the Met; the Haydn and Schoenberg series presented by the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center and Great Performers at Alice Tully Hall; and "Contact," the Tony Award-winning musical at Lincoln Center Theater. Aspiring dancers dream of attending the School of American Ballet, and young actors and musicians clamor to get into the Juilliard School.
In a 1984 report, Mr. Segal, then Lincoln Center's chairman, wrote, "The challenge is to make the whole even greater than the sum of its parts." Some argue, the opposite has proved true. Lincoln Center's strength, many arts professionals say, is the success achieved by its constituents operating apart from one another -- each with its own programs, administration and boards, which include more than 400 directors. "We're our own little duchies, our own independent nations," said Bernard Gersten, the executive producer of Lincoln Center Theater.
"That sense of independence, it seems to me, has been key to our existence," he added. "No one has ever said, 'You're doing it wrong.' "
The constituents also compete with one another for donors, audiences and, to some extent, artists. And when they meet to decide joint issues the fur can fly, most vividly over issues like the redevelopment plan, which requires unanimity among the 11 participating constituents. (Jazz at Lincoln Center and the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts are not part of the plan because they have their own new homes.)
At one point the powerful Metropolitan Opera temporarily withdrew from the project, and the New York City Opera is likely to leave Lincoln Center altogether.
Documents obtained by The New York Times detailing the vote tallies on various proposals show the extent of the dissension. The New York City Ballet voted yes for a new entrance to Avery Fisher Hall on Columbus Avenue, but only if it were redesigned. The New York Philharmonic said yes to a smaller pool to surround the Henry Moore statue but only as a possibility. Out of 33 proposals, the Metropolitan Opera said no to 13. (The constituent group that registered the next highest amount of outright objections was the New York City Ballet with three.) 
All of which, some say, points to a leadership vacuum. The center, this argument goes, needs a force like a Moses or a Rockefeller to yank the constituents in line. "There is no central overall final control, that's the problem," Ms. Hauser said. "It's a governance issue."
But many constituents think otherwise. "Lincoln Center depends on the constituents more than the constituents depend on Lincoln Center," said Joseph Volpe, general manager of the Metropolitan Opera. 
The bulk of the fund-raising, among other duties, has fallen to Ms. Sills, in part because she is so good at it. As a result, while she might like to be phasing out her role at the center right now -- and several news reports have speculated about her imminent departure -- Ms. Sills said she cannot imagine stepping down anytime soon. "I don't see myself being able to leave before June," she said. "At the moment I am doing both jobs which is a killer. I've never stayed too long at a job and eventually I will retire." 
Mr. Segal suggested that raising money privately would not be so difficult, given that foundations have more money now than they did five years ago. "It's daunting till you imagine the realities of it," he said. "Then it's not daunting at all."
High-profile flare-ups notwithstanding, constituents say day-to-day life at the center is not the soap opera it may seem. "I don't get the sense that we're all walking around at sword's point -- quite the contrary," said Joanne Koch, executive vice president of the Film Society.
To some degree, constituents say, there is safety and strength in their numbers. "Certain benefits have accrued just by being shoulder to shoulder," said Mr. Gersten of Lincoln Center Theater, "even though we don't interact a lot."
And, he added, one cannot discount the unmistakable magic of curtain time. "At 7:30, each night, with people streaming into the plaza," Mr. Gersten said, "there is the sense that the assemblage of those forces in pursuit of the different disciplines is part of the New York experience."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "IN THE WORKS: Planning an Improved Lincoln Center"A look at the developments proposed under the $1.2 billion plan to renovate Lincoln Center and their approximate costs. LOCATION (USED BY): Alice Tully Hall (Lincoln Center Inc., Chamber Music Society, Juilliard and Film Society)ESTIMATED COST: $ 69,215,625WHAT THE MONEY WOULD BE USED FOR: Outer lobby expansion, flexible seating and new donor center. LOCATION (USED BY): Avery Fisher Hall (Lincoln Center Inc., Philharmonic)ESTIMATED COST: 325,875,000WHAT THE MONEY WOULD BE USED FOR: Upgraded acoustics, added rehearsal facilities; contemplating gut renovation or construction of a new hall. LOCATION (USED BY): Lincoln Center TheaterESTIMATED COST: 58,087,500WHAT THE MONEY WOULD BE USED FOR: Expanded lobbies of the two theaters: the Vivian Beaumont and Mitzi E. Newhouse; refurbished mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems; possible roof addition. LOCATION (USED BY): The Juilliard SchoolESTIMATED COST: 42,237,500WHAT THE MONEY WOULD BE USED FOR: Added classroom, library and rehearsal space; upgraded theatrical, technical, mechanical and electrical systems; new dormitories. LOCATION (USED BY): Samuel B. and David Rose Building (All constituents except the Met and City Opera)ESTIMATED COST: 25,631,250WHAT THE MONEY WOULD BE USED FOR: Improvements to Walter Reade Theater; construction of new screening room and theater for the Film Society. LOCATION (USED BY): Metropolitan Opera HouseESTIMATED COST: 178,775,000WHAT THE MONEY WOULD BE USED FOR: Expanded lobby and patron space; added performer support and storage space. LOCATION (USED BY): New York State Theater (City Ballet and City Opera)ESTIMATED COST: 84,875,000 to 87,312,500WHAT THE MONEY WOULD BE USED FOR: Options for joint tenancy of ballet and opera include increased stage depth, stage support areas, expanded orchestra pit, additional rehearsal and office space and alterations for acoustics. If City Ballet becomes sole constituent, plan calls for a renovated building or expansion. LOCATION (USED BY): City OperaESTIMATED COST: 240,000,000WHAT THE MONEY WOULD BE USED FOR: New theater offsite with ample backstage areas and range of support spaces and audience amenities. LOCATION (USED BY): Common Infrastructure and Public SpacesESTIMATED COST: 170,610,250WHAT THE MONEY WOULD BE USED FOR: Upgraded main mechanical plant and improvements to surrounding public places. (Source: Lincoln Center Constituent Development Project Inc.)(pg. B8) Diagram of a proposed renovated Lincoln Center. (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); BALLET (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); BUDGETS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CULTURE; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%) LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC); KIMMEL CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); PRICE, JANICE; SILLS, BEVERLY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



75 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Mining Company Is Given Protection 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
A mining company in South Dakota has tapped a rich vein of influence on Capitol Hill, turning to the Senate Democratic leader to obtain valuable help for a project in his state.
 With little debate, lawmakers agreed to relieve the company, Homestake Mining, of any legal liability that it might have for damage done to the environment in digging gold from the Black Hills over the last 125 years. 
 The company, which has excellent political connections and high-powered lobbyists, had been planning to close the mine this month. Scientists said it would be a good site for an underground physics laboratory. But Homestake, now owned by Barrick Gold of Toronto, insisted that it first had to be protected against lawsuits. 
Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, was the chief sponsor of the bill under which the federal government will assume liability for any environmental damage. Representative John Thune, Republican of South Dakota, also claims credit for the legislation. President Bush has recruited Mr. Thune to run against South Dakota's other senator, Tim Johnson, a Democrat, as part of the Republicans' effort to regain control of the Senate.
The Homestake legislation was one of the "miscellaneous provisions" tacked onto the 2002 appropriations bill for the Defense Department. The House and the Senate approved the bill on Dec. 20, hours before adjourning for the year, and Mr. Bush is widely expected to sign it in a few days.
Mr. Daschle said the lab would be an economic boon to the small town of Lead (pronounced leed) and would create opportunities for scientific research on subatomic particles known as neutrinos that could yield insights into the nature of matter and the evolution of the universe.
Critics call the bill a sweetheart deal for the company and the state. Environmental groups and some members of Congress have expressed concern about the precedent that would be set if the government took over the liability. 
Supporters of the science project said they needed three types of assistance from the government, federal assumption of liability, $281 million to convert the mine to a lab and several hundred million dollars to operate the lab.
Scientists and federal officials said the total cost to the government over 10 years could reach $500 million to $1 billion. That includes the cost of buying a neutrino detector and other equipment and conducting experiments. A spokesman for Mr. Daschle, Jay Carson, said the cost of the bill covering liability protection had been estimated at $50 million.
Officials at the National Science Foundation said they were apprehensive that, under the legislation, they might also have to contribute to the cost of cleaning up the site.
Mr. Carson said the senator rejected the criticism. "The legislation assures that the public interest will be protected," Mr. Carson said. "The project is contingent on grants from the National Science Foundation. An independent entity would inspect the site, and the Environmental Protection Agency can veto the project if it would endanger public health or the environment."
Homestake says the mine has been in operation since 1876, 13 years before South Dakota became a state. The company describes it as the world's oldest continuously operated gold mine. 
The chairman of Homestake, Jack E. Thompson, said 1,250 tons of gold had been extracted since the company was formed by George Hearst, father of William Randolph Hearst, and his partners.
Scientists said the Homestake mine, 8,000 feet underground, would be valuable for research because it was shielded from cosmic rays and other radiation that interfere with experiments. About 200 people would work at the lab.
In recommending construction of a lab, John Bahcall, an astrophysicist at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., said it could become "a gold mine for science discoveries about physics, astronomy, biology and geology."
But Representative Sherwood Boehlert, the New York Republican who is chairman of the House Science Committee, said the legislation was "a sweetheart deal for the Canadian company that owns Homestake and for the state of South Dakota." 
"This bill," Mr. Boehlert said, "could saddle taxpayers with costly and unprecedented environmental responsibilities. The federal government will be financially responsible for activities it did not undertake at a piece of property it does not control."
Jay Tutchton, a lawyer in the Denver office of Earthjustice, a law firm that specializes in the environment, said: "The legislation is a huge gift to Homestake. It makes some sense as a local economic stimulus. But there are probably cheaper ways to stimulate the local economy."
Mr. Tutchton estimated that "Homestake is getting off the hook for $30 million to $40 million of potential liability, based on the experience of adjacent mines that were closed and became Superfund sites." 
The mine tunnels, he said, can leak highly acidic water harmful to human health and to fish and other aquatic life. The mine includes two deep shafts, more than 500 miles of underground tunnels and machinery above ground that operates elevators that carry workers into the mine and remove the ore.
Under the Superfund law, owners and operators of mines and toxic dumps can be held liable for the costs of cleaning up the properties long after they have been sold or shut.
Daschle aides insisted that federal officials would have control over the project and could block it if environmental damage was found to be too extensive.
Patton Boggs, a law firm here, lobbied for the legislation on behalf of Homestake. Peter D. Robertson, a partner at the firm who was chief of staff at the Environmental Protection Agency under President Bill Clinton, said, "Our firm drafted the first several versions of the legislation."
Under the bill passed by Congress, the government will "assume any and all liability relating to the mine and laboratory, including liability for damages, reclamation, the costs of response to any hazardous substance" and closing the mine.
The bill says Homestake will not be liable to any person or to the government for "damages to natural resources or the environment" arising from use of the mine or the lab, regardless of when the damages occurred or were found. 
Under the bill, the government promises to defend and indemnify, or reimburse, Homestake for any liability. But the government waives its sovereign immunity so that it could be sued by Homestake or the State of South Dakota.
Mr. Thompson said the company was not fully satisfied and might ask Congress for even greater protection against suits.
Democrats have generally opposed legislation to limit the damages that consumers can recover in civil suits. Dick Armey, the House Republican leader, said he found it paradoxical that Mr. Daschle had opposed limits on suits by future victims of terrorism but now supported such limits when they would help Homestake.
"You have Senator Daschle feigning moral outrage over limitations on liability in antiterrorism insurance," Mr. Armey said. "Yet he comes right back on behalf of a special interest in his own state and says, 'I want liability limitations.' "
A spokesman for the foundation, Curt Suplee, said many other projects, reviewed and approved by the agency, had been waiting for years to receive their funds. Scientists working on those projects would be puzzled if the Homestake project "jumped ahead" of them, Mr. Suplee said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The government could become responsible for environmental damage by a company's gold operation. A worker points to a line of gold slurry. (Photograph by Greg Latza/PeopleScapes) Map of South Dakota highlighting Lead: A closed gold mine could be a boon in the region near Lead, S.D. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOLD MINING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (75%); PHYSICS (75%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); LITIGATION (74%); MINE CLOSINGS (73%); APPROVALS (65%); CLOSINGS (55%) GOLD; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; PHYSICS 

ORGANIZATION: HOMESTAKE MINING CO; BARRICK GOLD CORP 

INDUSTRY:  SIC1041 GOLD ORES; 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (89%); JOHN THUNE (88%); TIM JOHNSON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%) DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); PEAR, ROBERT; THUNE, JOHN (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES; LEAD (SD)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



76 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Doubts Raised On Abolishing School Board 

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH

 BODY:
Just a day after Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg proclaimed mayoral control of the New York City school system an important goal of his fledgling administration, a high-ranking Democratic legislator said yesterday that the State Assembly would almost certainly not allow the abolition of the Board of Education.
 The warning by Steven Sanders, the Manhattan Democrat who heads the Assembly Education Committee, was a sign that political reality may quickly set in for Mr. Bloomberg, a novice politician who cited in his inaugural address the need to "set aside partisan differences" and not "fight with each other." 
 Rudolph W. Giuliani lobbied for mayoral control of the school system throughout his eight-year tenure in City Hall. But the Democratic-controlled Assembly, with whom he had a rocky relationship, ignored his pleas. Last week, Mr. Giuliani said his failure to bring about the change was his only regret as mayor. 
In an interview, Mr. Sanders said that abolishing the seven-member board and giving City Hall complete control over education policy would stifle public input. Although he did not say as much, getting rid of the board would also weaken the influence of state and local lawmakers, who lobby the seven board members to support projects or expenses that benefit their constituents.
Mr. Sanders is serving on a panel appointed by Sheldon Silver, the Democratic Assembly speaker, to study the issue of mayoral control, and he is a close ally of Mr. Silver. While the panel has met only once, Mr. Sanders said yesterday that abolishing the Board of Education would probably not be among its recommendations. The Legislature, with the governor, has to approve any changes in the structure of school systems.
"It would be highly unlikely that at the end of the day," Mr. Sanders said, "there would be a recommendation embraced either by the task force or by the members of the Assembly that would entail abolition of the school board."
During his campaign, Mr. Bloomberg called for abolishing the board and letting the mayor appoint the schools chancellor, who would report directly to City Hall. He was less specific in his inaugural address, saying only, "The public through the mayor must control the school system."
Yesterday, however, Mr. Bloomberg's press secretary, Edward Skyler, said he still believed that abolishing the board was the best way to make that happen. But Mr. Skyler added: "He is looking forward to working with New York's elected officials, such as Assemblyman Sanders and Speaker Silver, to improve the quality of education for the children of New York City."
The mayor could, in fact, have increased power over education policy even if the Board of Education continued to exist. One possibility, proposed by the city teachers' union, would expand the board but allow the mayor to appoint most of the members. Currently, the mayor appoints two members and the borough presidents choose the other five.
But Mr. Silver, whose support will be crucial for any school management changes, said yesterday that an expanded board, most of whose members were appointed by the mayor, would only allow the mayor to continue shrugging off responsibility for the school system's failings. At the same time, Mr. Silver stressed that he would keep an open mind while the panel examined various proposals. "I'm not prepared to make a statement until we have had a full examination," Mr. Silver said.
Another idea under discussion, Mr. Silver said, is to give the Board of Education independent taxing authority, so that it will not be financially dependent on City Hall and Albany. But other panel members said they doubted that proposal would fly, because of the precarious economy.
The issue of mayoral control is gaining attention at a crucial time for the school system: the contract of Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy expires in July, as do the terms of all seven board members. If the Legislature acted in the next few months, it could significantly affect the immediate future of the school system.
Mr. Sanders said yesterday that the panel would meet at least three more times and perhaps submit recommendations to the Legislature by the end of February. Spokesmen for Gov. George E. Pataki and Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, said yesterday that they fully supported mayoral control and were merely waiting for the Assembly to come around. Both men are Republicans, like Mr. Bloomberg.
"The only problem in Albany has been with the Assembly and the speaker," said John McArdle, a spokesman for Mr. Bruno.
In addition to Mr. Sanders and Mr. Silver, the panel studying school management includes Roger L. Green, Audrey I. Pheffer, Peter M. Rivera and John W. Lavelle, all Democratic Assembly members from New York City. It also includes Randi Weingarten, president of the teachers' union; Sally Hernandez-Pinero, who was a deputy mayor in the Dinkins administration; and Dennis Walcott, who stepped down as president of the New York Urban League to become Mr. Bloomberg's deputy mayor for policy.
The panel also includes several business leaders, including Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the New York City Partnership, which has long advocated abolishing the Board of Education. Ms. Wylde said yesterday that the panel's task was far more complex than deciding whether or not to give the mayor control of the schools. The members are discussing a number of questions, she said, including who should control collective bargaining and budgetary decisions and how parents can have more input into education policy. She pointed out that while Mr. Sanders said abolishing the board was unlikely, he had not ruled it out entirely.
"I think people's positions are not hardened at this point," Ms. Wylde said. "We are in a honeymoon era for Mayor Bloomberg, and I think the fact that he raised this issue in his inaugural message is going to make everybody rethink their position to try to give him the benefit of the doubt."
At the same time, Mr. Sanders said he believed that Mr. Bloomberg, unlike his predecessor, might be willing to compromise and allow a management change that was not as extreme as abolishing the board.
"My sense is that he would rather take a half a loaf or three-quarters of a loaf," Mr. Sanders said, "than to have no change at all and simply maintain a position on an issue that can probably never be changed." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LOBBYING (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); POLITICS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); TEACHER UNIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); RUDY GIULIANI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002 



77 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 4676 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

* "AMERICAN RADIANCE: THE RALPH ESMERIAN GIFT" AND "DARGER: THE HENRY DARGER COLLECTION," American Folk Art Museum, 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040 (through June 2 and June 23, respectively). This 40-year-old museum finally has a home of its own and is celebrating its new quarters by showcasing two important recent gifts. The 400 objects of traditional folk art from Ralph Esmerian include extraordinary caches of portraits and needlework as well as walking sticks, painted furniture, frakturs, ceramics and weather vanes. Rife with acknowledged masterpieces, they raise the museum's collection to a new level while giving folk art itself a new visibility on the city's artscape. The Henry Darger gift, which includes 27 large two-sided watercolors and seven bound volumes by this Chicago recluse, counters the comforts of traditional folk art with a strong dose of the outsider variety, art made for an insatiable community of one. Reflecting the expanding folk art field, the shows symbolize where the museum comes from and where it is going. Together they indicate that it intends to leave nothing behind. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, to 8 p.m. Admission: $9; $5, students and 62+ (Roberta Smith).

* "BRAZIL: BODY AND SOUL," Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500 (through Jan. 27). The rotunda is black and half filled by an immense altar. The French architect Jean Nouvel's installation is aptly over the top, considering that the show is about a culture gloriously, self-consciously excessive. A sampler of Brazilian culture, the show divides attention between the Baroque and the modern. Physicality, spectacle, eroticism and pleasure: the cliches of Brazilian culture are all leitmotifs in stunning objects mixing indigenous, African and European roots. These include the works of genius eccentrics like Aleijadinho, Brazil's Bernini, and Arthur Bispo do Rosario, a seaman, boxer, doorman, bodyguard, jailbird and mental patient who died in 1989 at 78. He sewed banners out of bedsheets and embroidered them with long incantatory lists of places and people, including a presentation mantle he made for himself to wear before God on Judgment Day. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $15; $12, students over 12 and 65+ (Michael Kimmelman).

"TELLING TALES II: RELIGIOUS IMAGES IN 19TH-CENTURY ACADEMIC ART," Dahesh Museum of Art, 601 Fifth Avenue, near 48th Street, (212) 759-0606 (through Jan. 26). The iconoclastic French Revolution posed a challenge to religious art, one that was robustly met by French academic artists, this show is out to demonstrate. But the work, which spans the times of social change and upheaval from the restoration of the French monarchy in 1814 until the end of the century, is a far cry from the old masters whose glories it attempted to emulate. Still, as a bible of French academic styles, the show is worth a walk-through. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Free (Grace Glueck).

* "ETERNAL EGYPT: MASTERWORKS OF ANCIENT ART FROM THE BRITISH MUSEUM," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through Feb. 24). An extensive renovation at the British Museum makes possible an American tour for works from its legendary Egyptian collection, many allowed out of the building for the first time. Included are treasures that are almost always on display in London, like one of the museum's proud red granite lions from the 18th dynasty. Other high points include the great Buddha-like stone carving of Amenhotep III and seven papyruses from the Book of the Dead. Presented in fairly strict chronology, the works trace Egyptian art along its entire 3,000-year trajectory from the Old Kingdom to the Roman conquest in 30 B.C. The goal is to show that the art was not tied to Old Kingdom precedents but subject to stylistic development, formal innovation and changes in emotional tenor. With the superb quality of the British works and the august proportions of Brooklyn's galleries, the demonstration proceeds with exceptional beauty and clarity. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (to 11 p.m. the first Saturday of each month). Admission: $6; $3, students and 62+ (Smith).

* "NEW WORLDS: GERMAN AND AUSTRIAN ART, 1890-1940," Neue Galerie New York, Museum for German and Austrian Art, 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200 (through Feb. 18). This superb addition to the Museum Mile, ensconced in an impeccably renovated mansion, brings some welcome balance to a city in which European modernism usually has a French accent. The opening show's survey of art and design from the Viennese Secession to the Bauhaus includes six paintings by Gustav Klimt, a wall of watercolors and gouaches by Egon Schiele and a room ablaze with the undiluted colors of German Expressionist paintings. Unusually fine, often rare examples of furniture, silver, jewelry and tableware by Otto Wagner, Josef Hoffmann, Wilhelm Wagenfeld and Mies van der Rohe are installed with particular sensitivity. The building's interior has been altered and sometimes merely tweaked to complement its new mission, most spectacularly the echt Viennese coffeehouse. It is all just about perfect. Hours: Fridays, Saturdays and Mondays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; $7, students and 65+; under 12 not admitted (Smith).

* "OVER THE LINE: THE ART AND LIFE OF JACOB LAWRENCE," Whitney Museum of American Art, Madison Avenue at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 (through Feb. 3). Lawrence was a modernist artist, an American artist and an African-American artist, and all three aspects of his career are discernible in this retrospective. The complete "Migration of the Negro" is here, and its 60 paintings -- small enough together to fit in a suitcase -- are the centerpiece. Later art touches on political traumas and personal crises, but at the end come samples of the optimistic "Builder" series that he worked on for 30 years. With their images of skyscrapers going up and of men and women, black and white, working away side by side, they are just the thing for New York City right now. (A recently unveiled mosaic by Lawrence is on view in the Times Square subway station. A complete set of silk-screen prints of his "John Brown Series" is at the Queens Museum of Art through Jan. 27.) Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $10; $8, students and 62+ (Holland Cotter).

"RUSSEL WRIGHT: CREATING AMERICAN LIFESTYLE," Smithsonian Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum, 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400 (through March 10). Remembered today largely for his tableware, Russel Wright (1906-74) was the most popular designer in the nation in the mid-20th century. China, furniture, fabrics, glass and giftware were his province, cleverly marketed by him and his wife, Mary. They advanced the cause of a modern, simplified American design that deeply influenced middle-class taste. The centerpiece of the show, a combination of brilliant utility and high-gloss kitsch, is a 40-foot-long table with many of Wright's ceramic lines orchestrated along its length. In smaller rooms are installations of his other creations: aluminum and wood pieces, furniture, fabrics and glassware along with a multimedia presentation of his architectural masterpiece, the stone, wood and glass house he designed for his 80-acre estate at Garrison, N.Y. This show should be on the to-see list of anyone interested in the creation and marketing of American manufactured design. Wright himself might not have found inappropriate its accompaniment of twittering tapes of cocktail party noises. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays to 9 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Admission: $8; $3, students and 62+ (Glueck).

Galleries: Uptown

HELEN FRANKENTHALER, "Lighthouse Series," Knoedler, 19 East 70th Street, (212) 794-0550 (through Jan. 12). Ms. Frankenthaler seems to be channeling the spirit of Turner in her washy, medium-size acrylic-on-paper works. In colors from incandescent red to foggy gray, this legendary Color Field painter created pictures that hover between luminous seascape and pure abstraction. Some works give way to free painterly gesturalism; most hew to a horizontal order. All are more decorous than adventurous (Ken Johnson).

* "INHERITING CUBISM," Hollis Taggart, 48 East 73rd Street, (212) 628-4000 (through Jan. 12). Cubism inspired interesting efforts by American painters, as this fine selection of about 40 American paintings from 1909 to 1936 demonstrates. The show is studded with gems, including a tiny, hyperactive watercolor of New York Harbor by John Marin, a townscape glowing red and green like a stained-glass window by Oscar Bleumner, a riff on sailboats by Charles Demuth that is like shattered glass and a small, angular, vigorously painted and richly colored still life by Arshile Gorky (Johnson).

* ROY LICHTENSTEIN, "Brush Strokes, Four Decades," Mitchell-Innes & Nash, 1018 Madison Avenue, near 78th Street, (212) 744-7400 (through Jan. 12). Lichtenstein's touch in his early Pop days has come to look not anonymous and machine-manufactured but particular, quirky, even strangely vulnerable, which is to say human, with its imperfect, slightly vulgar handmade imitations of mechanically reproduced objects, advertisements and other cheap commercial images. Here his "brush stroke" paintings, most from the 1980's and 90's, are freeze-dried versions of the Abstract Expressionist cliche, the hot-blooded brush stroke. They have a snap, crackle and pop that goes far beyond the one-line joke. Some of these multilayered pictures come as close as Lichtenstein ever did to letting it all hang out (Kimmelman).

BARBARA TAKENAGA, Graham, 1014 Madison Avenue, at 78th Street, (212) 535-5767 (through Jan. 12). Ms. Takenaga's compact, densely patterned paintings are optically riveting and transcendentally suggestive. Working on wood panels with small brushes, she creates fields of extremely fine spirals and dots that tend to concentrate and become more luminous toward the center. There is a swarming, spacey feeling, as if one were traveling at the speed of light through some distant galaxy or into the depths of some inner psychic center of mystical illumination (Johnson).

HIRO YOKOSE, Winston Wachter Mayer, 39 East 78th Street, (212) 327-2526 (through Jan. 12). Mr. Yokose's misty, luminous seascapes spoof a certain style of hyperromantic quasi-19th-century romance, yet his dreamy visions of pellucid waves rolling gently onto peaceful beaches under big, Turneresque skies -- sensuously painted in waxy glazes -- are not without a genuine yearning for some Edenic never-never land (Johnson).

Galleries: 57th Street

"HOLIDAY REALITIES," Katharina Rich Perlow, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 644-7171 (through Jan. 29) This 25-artist grab bag of a show needs editing but has some good things in it, like one of the Chicago Imagist Roger Brown's mysterious comic-book style landscapes; an odd sort of "Peaceable Kingdom" painting by Gail Boyajian; a slightly soft-focus view of the Brooklyn Bridge by Steven Katz; an almost surrealistic still life in jewel-like colors by Jennifer Cross; and by Ellen Kozak a small painting of green water that verges on pure, sensuous abstraction (Johnson).

* NEIL WELLIVER, "Early Figurative Paintings," Alexandre, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 755-2828 (through Jan. 26). The women in Mr. Welliver's large nude-in-the-landscape paintings from the late 1960's and early 70's are powerfully sexy. Partly immersed in the waters of forest pools, they have voluptuous bodies, lovely faces and wide-eyed come-hither expressions. At the same time, the paintings focus on the optical perception of light, watery reflections and bright green foliage and on the generous, gesturally activated application of paint itself. The tension between fantasy and formalism is an exquisite tease (Johnson).

Galleries: Chelsea

STELLA DE BOO, LiebmanMagnan, 552 West 24th Street, (212) 255-3225 (through Jan. 12). The delicately made, cartoonish paintings of this Dutch New Yorker have a quality of girlish innocence. But the imagery -- handbags, sexy shoes, bare legs, body hair and female genitalia -- evokes a grown-up layering of Freudian fears and desires (Johnson).

STEVE GIANAKOS, "Whatever Tickles Your Fancy," Fredericks Freiser, 504 West 22nd Street, (212) 633-6555 (through Jan. 19). Mr. Gianakos combines wacky Pop-style comedy and erotically transgressive surrealism. In these works from the last three decades, collages that look as if they were exhumed from some moldy basement depict women with animal heads, faces floating in soup bowls and breasts, buttocks and legs from different sources, disjunctively joined. A singular nonsexual canvas from 1982 depicts three boys laughing at a big jug-eared fellow: it's called "Village Idiot" (Johnson).

ALEX HANK, "Crime," Generous Miracles, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 352-2858 (through Jan. 19). In his first New York solo venture, this young Mexican artist offers a Neo-Pop critique of contemporary mass media. Large canvases bear slightly blurred, photographic copies of covers of popular magazines like Vanity Fair and Vogue. On the floor a large marquee-style sign spells out "Crime" in bright lights. The message is obvious but delivered with a satisfying punch (Johnson).

SCOTT HEWICKER, "Days Without End," Rare, 435 West 14th Street, (212) 645-5591 (through Jan. 12). Mr. Hewicker, a San Franciscan, paints faux-primitive, visionary landscapes. Poured, dripped, smeared and brushed areas of paint are altered to become mountains, oceans, clouds and trees populated by tiny cats, butterflies, flowers, mushrooms and old ships. The best, like "Legend Days Are Over," have an engaging abstract complexity while exuding zany cosmic consciousness (Johnson).

"HUMANOID," Frederieke Taylor, 535 West 22nd Street, (646) 230-0992 (through Jan. 19). This entertaining selection of weird and funny transformations of the human figure includes Andy Yoder's bulbous phallic knob with a braided rug surface, Ray Rapp's biomorphic video sculpture, Jerry Mischak's mysterious vertical object mummified in duct tape, a painting by Amanda Church that looks like abstracted ice cream, a funky pagan goddess painted by Nancy Rielle, Nancy Davidson's photograph of sexualized weather balloons and lovely lumpy ceramics by Charles Long (Johnson).

LARS NORGARD, DCA, 525 West 22nd Street, 212) 255-5511 (through Jan. 19). This Danish artist paints Surrealistic cartoons in loose black lines over white washes with brushy abstract underpainting. They are not much as paintings, but images like that of a big egg in trousers shot full of arrows in the seat and with a chicken's head poking out of the fly are appealingly goofy (Johnson).

KARIM NOURELDIN, "Unknown Zone," Lucas Schoormans, 508 West 26th Street, (212) 243-3159 (through Jan. 19). A wrap-around abstract mural painted by a young Swiss artist has the bright, ultra-modern flare of 60's-style Color Field and hard-edged geometric painting. Playfully interacting with the architecture of the gallery, zones of pure yellow expand and contract while pink, orange and brown racing stripes break into a polygonal shape that turns corners, dives through a doorway and fills a short wall with a coolly jazzy energy (Johnson).

TIM THYZEL, "Tiled," Cynthia Broan, 423 West 14th Street, (212) 633-6525 (through Jan. 19). For a second you might think you've entered a kitchen and bath showroom. Then you notice that the forms Mr. Thyzel constructs using mostly white tiles are dysfunctionally eccentric. Elemental configurations -- cubes, stacks, altars, cruciform shapes -- have soap dishes, shower heads and chrome handles attached as purely decorative accents. It's like a collision between Brancusi and Duchamp (Johnson).

MARJORIE WELISH AND PETER DOWNSBROUGH, "Within/Without," Baumgartner, 418 West 15th Street, (212) 633-2276 (through Jan. 23). Two Euclidians toy with conventions of Modernism to dryly intellectual effect. Ms. Welish, painting within the boundaries of the traditional canvas, sets up dialogues between grid systems in primary colors and black and white. Mr. Downsbrough, a Minimalist Conceptualist, draws outside pictorial borders. Straight black lines and rectangles on the walls and floors and words like "and," "as" and "or" call attention to gestalts of architectural space (Johnson).

Galleries: SoHo

* TACITA DEAN, "The Russian Ending," Peter Blum, 99 Wooster Street, (212) 343-0441 (through Feb. 9). Russian movie audiences are said to prefer tragic endings, which accounts for the title of this English filmmaker's series of evocative black-and-white photogravures: richly printed, enlarged copies of old postcards depicting strangely sad or violent subjects like a derelict car, a dead whale and several kinds of explosions. The artist has added finely scripted directions as if the images were final movie scenes. Another series of found, flea-market photographs translated into color photogravures gives the touching impression of an epic family saga (Johnson).

MIA WESTERLUND ROOSEN, Lennon Weinberg, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 941-0012 (through Jan. 12). Comical and surreal, Ms. Westerlund's sprawling arrangement of big concrete tubes, serpentine lines, accumulated discs and scattered rough balls looks as if it had been made of clay by a giant child. "Fagin," a funky monument by the artist, a veteran Postminimalist, resembles an electrical fixture lifted from a mysteriously erotic dream (Johnson).

"WINTER ORCHIDARIUM," Nancy Hoffman, 429 West Broadway, near Spring Street, (212) 966-6676 (through Jan. 16). Highlights of an exhibition devoted to one of the world's sexiest flowers include jewel-like, postage-stamp-size portraits of orchids by Ray Halili; expansive watercolors like Tiffany windows by Joseph Raffael; a tiny, exquisitely refined graphite drawing by Bill Richards; three-dimensional varieties made of richly colored glass by Debora Moore; iconic images painted by Michael Gregory; and postmodernist homages to the orchid paintings of Martin Johnson Heade by David Bierk (Johnson).

LYNNE YAMAMOTO, "Resplendent," P.P.O.W., 476 Broome Street, (212) 941-8642 (through Jan. 19). This young artist, born in Hawaii, presents a delicately theatrical, symbolically complex meditation on war, death and beauty. Each of nine massive, clear-glass bell jars shaped like bombs is engraved with a cherry blossom sign that once decorated a World War II Japanese war plane. On the walls, pink cut-paper cherry blossoms pinned like butterflies seem to drift down to pile up near the floor. At the center of most blossoms is the face of a Japanese soldier who was killed in the war (Johnson).

Other Galleries

CHRISTOF BUCHEL, Maccarone, 45 Canal Street, Chinatown, (212) 431-4977 (through Jan. 13). This two-story crawl-through environment is the New York debut of a young Swiss artist and inaugurates a cutting-edge way-downtown gallery. The show is extreme art in the extreme, an unrelieved sequence of small openings and tight squeezes that is as detailed as one of Kurt Schwitters's tiny collages, but more interactive. It also adds up to a kind of American road trip, including a homeless person's crib, a stunted classroom, a survivalist's lair and a messy motel room hideout where the whole thing may have been plotted. Count on getting your clothes dirty, but also on seeing what may be an art-world legend in formation (Smith).

VERNER PANTON, R 20th Century, 82 Franklin Street, TriBeCa, (212) 343-7979 (through Jan. 15). The name of this influential Danish designer may be unfamiliar, but his Op-Pop fabrics, bright foam and plastic furniture, architectonic lamps and trippy environments are part of the collective unconscious, especially the one with roots in the 1960's and 70's. The famous 1967 S-curve Panton chair, the first mass-produced seating made of single material, has pride of place (Smith).

Last Chance

"A CENTURY OF DESIGN, PART 4: 1975-2000," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 81st Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Sunday). The tangle of design trends in the last quarter-century is seen in the tables, chairs, lamps, architectural projects, fabrics, dining implements, windup lantern, lemon squeezer and wristwatch that furnish this internationally minded show. Some of the work is very playful, notably a wildly confused but lovable table by the Italian designer Ettore Sottsass. From this show you could get the idea that the last quarter of the 20th century was not the weightiest era in design history. And you would not be wrong. Hours and admission: See above (Glueck).

* "ALBERTO GIACOMETTI," Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9480 (through Tuesday). Giacometti as the Sartre of sculpture might lead you to imagine him the right subject for troubled times. But that would be the wrong reason to see this exhibition. The right reason is that, like all perceptive and eloquent art, his tells you why it is good to be alive. It investigates the pleasure of thinking and looking long and hard, which is never as simple as it sounds. The work is more varied than you may think: sometimes black humored, playful, sensual, even devoutly tender. It includes a clunky garden sculpture, a splendid oddity, and plasters and painted bronzes that demonstrate the material virtuosity and subtle coloration of an artist too often presumed to be pretty much just dark and heavy. Spread chronologically across two floors, compressed then open, like the art they contain, the show has as its unnecessary excuse the centenary of Giacometti's birth. We don't learn much that isn't already known, but it is a thorough, serious, very elegant exhibition, and there is nothing the matter with being reacquainted from time to time with what great art looks like. Hours: Thursdays through Tuesdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Fridays, to 8:15 p.m. Admission: $12; students and 65+, $8.50 (Kimmelman).

* "MONKS AND MERCHANTS: SILK ROAD TREASURES FROM NORTHWEST CHINA, FOURTH THROUGH SEVENTH CENTURY," Asia Society and Museum, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742 (through Sunday). After an extensive renovation that doubled its gallery space, the Asia Society has reopened with a new name. "Monks and Merchants," perfect in size and beautifully wrought, is the main event and explores the florescence of Chinese Buddhism with objects on loan from China itself. At a time when the eyes of the world are on Asia, this institution is indispensable. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, to 9 p.m. Admission: $7; $5, students and 65+ (Cotter).

"MAN RAY IN AMERICA: "Paintings, Drawings, Sculpture and Photographs of the New York/Ridgefield (1912-21) and Hollywood (1940-50) Years," Francis M. Naumann Fine Art, 22 East 80th Street, (212) 472-6800 (through tomorrow). Regarded primarily as a photographer, Man Ray (1890-1976) craved at least equal recognition as a painter. Though born in the United States, he spent much of his life in Paris and is therefore thought of primarily as European. This ambitious show seeks to undermine assumptions of both his primacy as a photographer and his Europeanism, by playing up the paintings, drawings and watercolors (some photographs, too) that he did in the United States in his early years and during World War II, when he fled Paris for a 10-year stay in Hollywood. Some vivid landscapes that he painted in Brooklyn, where he lived with his family, and at an artists' colony in Ridgefield, N.J., are on view, along with later works made under the influence of Marcel Duchamp and Cubism. Adventurous and innovative, he worked up experimental art forms and techniques, for one thing combining ready-made objects in witty ways, like his "Sculpture by Itself I" and "Sculpture by Itself II," two mechanomorphic figures made of found machine parts, each posing a quirky question of gender. The variety of his Hollywood decade is carefully chronicled here, too, including one of his rare totally abstract paintings. Yet although the show impresses with its rich variety, Man Ray's European work, particularly his photographs, still represent him at his most outrageously original (Glueck).

* "TRADITIONAL JAPANESE DESIGN: FIVE TASTES," Japan Society Gallery, 333 East 47th Street, (212) 832-1155 (through Sunday). This inspired exhibition parses nearly 150 objects of everyday use according to distinct, if not entirely separate, sensibilities; in the process it reveals the complex role that aesthetics has always played in Japan's social, economic and intellectual life. Spanning periods from the prehistoric Jomon to the late-19th-century Edo, the beautifully installed show includes tools, clothing, weapons, shop signs, sake bottles, tea bowls, a range of lacquer and much else. The simple household objects of artisans and farmers are contrasted with a more contrived simplicity of the masters of the tea ceremony. The ostentatious kimonos of noblewomen are followed by the discreetly luxurious robes of Edo merchants' wives, whose extravagances were restricted by sumptuary laws. Despite considerable diversity in craft, material and visual ideals, the exhibition is united by a profound reverence for the beauty of the natural world and the conviction that it should not be marred by manmade objects. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $5 (Smith).

* "VITAL FORMS: AMERICAN ART AND DESIGN IN THE ATOMIC AGE, 1940-1960," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through Sunday). The use of organic forms in the visual arts exploded after World War II, drawn from the human figure and its components along with plant, teardrop, amoeboid, cellular and molecular shapes. This ambitious display of more than 250 fine-art and design objects tracks the use of these "vital" forms in mediums from highbrow painting to popular consumer products. The organizers argue that the artists were expressing humanism and humane values at a time of worldwide cataclysm, but not enough is made of the role that Surrealism and its dream imagery played. Still, the exhibition does a good job in demonstrating that by the mid-1950's the hard-edged machine aesthetic of the prewar years had given way to a visual language centered more on natural forms, helped along by more flexible materials. There's some enlightening and enjoyable looking here, but in the show's broad coverage some of the work -- particularly the paintings -- gets a little lost. Hours and admission: See above (Glueck).

* "CANDACE WHEELER: THE ART AND ENTERPRISE OF AMERICAN DESIGN, 1875-1900," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 81st Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Sunday). All but forgotten as a textile designer of sophisticated taste and a dynamic do-gooder who promoted the idea of art and design as paying careers for women, Wheeler (1827-1923) has now been rehabilitated by the Met with her first major retrospective. It includes more than 100 objects: textiles and wallpaper designed by Wheeler and her colleagues in Associated Artists, the all-woman company she started in 1883; photographs and other examples of luxurious interiors on which she collaborated in an earlier partnership with Louis Comfort Tiffany. Besides its appealing marriage of design with fine art, the show pays tribute to a real American role model of woman as entrepreneur. Hours and admission: See above (Glueck).

GRAPHIC: Photos: A room installation with the work of the Danish designer Verner Panton, part of his show at the R 20th Century gallery in TriBeCa. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Carafes designed in 1946 by Russel Wright, at Cooper-Hewitt. (Anita Calero/Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum)(pg. E41) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (98%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); RELIGION (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%) BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (88%); DENMARK (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



78 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 5; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 3189 words

HEADLINE: THE MATERIAL WORLD/Ceramics at the Met; 
Over Time And Space, The Power Of the Pot

BYLINE:  By ROBERTA SMITH 

 BODY:
GETTING to know -- really know -- the contents of a big museum like the Metropolitan Museum of Art is a process, and a pleasure, that can last a lifetime. Figuring out how to do this is part of the experience. The easiest way, of course, is to follow the museum's lead and take things as they come, which is largely according to culture, country, period and style, with Western art occupying the prime real estate. But other approaches are possible, ones that work with but also against the museum's organizational logic.
 Recently I started mulling over ways to downplay periods, styles, national borders and art history's big names and to sidestep the well-worn paths of European painting and sculpture. I was after something more basic, a kind of visual cross-referencing system. 
The idea of homing in on the physical stuff of art suggested itself and later sprang into focus during a visit to the Met's Egyptian galleries, before a large painted pottery jar from the reign of the Pharaoh Akhenaten. Originally used for wine or beer, this amazing object is decorated with abstract black-on-blue waves, red-blue checkerboard and schematic blue leaves that alternate with bands of plain red and dotted blue strawberrylike ovals. 
The jar is more than two feet tall, but to my chagrin, I couldn't recall seeing it before. I began to imagine rearranging the Met's vast holdings into big cross-cultural categories based on materials alone -- ceramics, for example, or ivory or jade. Such a radical reordering would show how different materials have moved across time and through different cultures, their possibilities expanding or contracting according to different needs and levels of sophistication.
Pots are the perfect place to start. The Met has the premier collection of ceramics in the United States and one of the best and most comprehensive in the world. It numbers just under 24,000 objects, and you can spend decades poring over its Asian, Islamic, pre-Columbian and Greek ceramics -- and lucky for us, generations of Met curators have done just that. In addition, there are countless pockets of ceramics in the museum's period rooms, the Robert Lehman Collection, the new Byzantine galleries and, of course, in the various decorative arts galleries. It soon became obvious that ceramics was too much to handle at once, and that even ceramic vessels were an unwieldy category. So I opted for pottery -- earthenware and stoneware vessels -- leaving figures, tiles and porcelains for another time.
That left plenty to deal with, from ancient storage jars and Greek kraters, through Islamic lusterware and Renaissance plates, to Art Nouveau vases and beyond. The challenge was to chart a path with a maximum of coverage and chronological accuracy and a minimum of backtracking. Ceramics have been an all-cultures, all-the-time phenomenon for thousands of years. 
The result is a partial timeline in the form of a whirlwind tour that can be taken at different speeds. You may want to try the route described here at a brisk, once-over-lightly pace to grasp its scope, and then move along the same trajectories more slowly, maybe even in segments, looking at the objects mentioned or at whatever catches your interest.
Ultimately, one benefit of a tour like this is the restorative give-and-take between concentrated looking and carefree walking; you may be surprised at how much you can see if you are looking at just one kind of thing. There's also the Venice effect: the museum can feel as crowded as the Piazza San Marco on a summer day, yet if you duck into a side street, as it were -- where ceramics often dwell -- complete quiet sometimes prevails. Finally, an important byproduct of concentrating on a single medium is, paradoxically, a more holistic understanding of the museum's multilimbed sprawl -- its layout, history and glories, as well as some of its gaps and oversights. Always an amazing place to roam, a big museum like the Met is even better when roamed with a mission.

The Fundamentals
No one really knows when it was discovered that certain kinds of earth were cohesive and capable of being molded and then baked to form portable objects suitable for cooking and for holding water. In the 1968 book "World Ceramics," the editor, Robert J. Charleston, describes the medium as "the longest-lived handicraft of which we have continuous knowledge." Bakable clay was a discovery of incalculable importance, whose applications continue to expand. (Witness the ceramic shields on certain space vehicles.) 
The continuity of the medium stems also from the slow but steady development of different clay bodies, of slips and glazes, of the potter's wheel (used by the Egyptians as early as 1500 B.C.), of stamping and molding techniques. It encompasses social habits, myths and religious beliefs, and the economies of both local industry and foreign trade, as well as the impulse to decorate and depict the world. And baked clay was also a huge step for art. Its possibilities for sculpture, drawing, painting, texture and relief may make it the most aesthetically efficient of all art forms. That pots are often round seems more than symbolic: the best are worlds unto themselves. 
In plotting my tour, I followed my eye and relied on the museum's extensive labels and helpful text. It's an empirical, formalist approach, out of favor in many quarters but based on the assumption that what engages the mind must first excite the eye. I was interested in seeing what could be seen, especially recurring decorative motifs, shapes and techniques.
Some repeat by coincidence, like the tight crosshatched grids found in different cultures, and others by influence, like the splashed and three-color glazes, called sancai, of Tang-dynasty China, which are echoed in Islamic, English and American ceramics. At the Met sancai reaches an apotheosis of outrageousness in a nearly five-foot-tall swan-footed vase, one of a pair made in 1883 by Wedgwood.

Beginning the Tour
It is best to start with a swing through the Met's Egyptian galleries. This isn't exactly a foregone conclusion: there are examples of relatively ancient pottery -- 4,000 to 6,000 years old -- at several other points in the museum, as we shall see. But it makes geographical and narrative sense. The Egyptian collections are just to the right of the museum's main entrance, in an enormous, nearly self-contained wing, and they open with a kind of ceramic overture: a long wall densely arrayed with pre-dynastic pots (4800-3200 B.C.), alive with the sense of clay's possibilities.
The display begins with the jars and bowls, made of red clay burned black around the rims, from the Badarian culture. Especially noteworthy are the crosshatched designs, including crocodiles, of the Amratians and the buff-colored slipware of the Gerzean culture, some of it decorated with spiral patterns, other pieces with goddesses standing in multi-oared barges. Below these are several pots whose mottled clays were intended to imitate stone pots, which predate ceramic ones. 
Nearly all the small study galleries in the Egyptian collection contain pots and shards worth studying. Keep an eye out for the red-and-blue jar described above in the corner of Gallery 17, and for a similar white version in the adjacent gallery (17a) from Tutankhamen's tomb. Gallery 15 holds a cluster of smaller jars with similar decorations, minus the red.

The Greek Challenge
A travel advisory: Keep in mind that the Met's galleries of Greek art amount to a museum-within-a-museum, one of several at the Met, and it can devastate your schedule. The entire history of two-dimensional art seems to have been rehearsed on the surfaces of Attic pottery between 800 and 400 B.C. Geometric form and pattern were put through their paces, and what we consider modern drawing was explored, including caricature and cartooning. Fifth- and fourth-century B.C. vase painters all but plotted one-point perspective.
After leaving the Egyptian Galleries, cross the Great Hall and take the first right just inside the Robert and Renee Belfer Court; start with a little Cycladic box in crudely textured terra cotta. Then make the exhilarating round of the west and east portions of the court, past the Minoan ceramics, where patterns based on nature -- waves, plants, nautiluses -- prevail. An especially striking Minoan three-handled vase, animated by interlocking S-curves that circle its girth like fast-moving seas, was once owned by the German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann.
But nature soon gives way to culture. By the second corner of this gallery, in the vitrines devoted to Helladic (Mycenaean) and Geometric style ceramics, fluidly drawn images -- mostly silhouettes -- of shield-bearing warriors, chariots and horses are being marshaled into careful rows on increasingly monumental kraters. On the second loop, in the vitrines of Etruscan, Euboean, Boeotian and Corinthian pots, nature often returns, but in the form of stylized lions and oxen. 
Amid such depictions the relaxed, almost painterly blankness of the seventh- and sixth-century B.C. Lydian vases, located in the last vitrine, stands out. On a big jug (oinochoe) terra cotta shows through casually brushed-on black slip; a two-handled drinking cup (skyphos) has an interior of wavy, brushed-on patterns unlike anything else here. 

Pre-Columbian Treasures
The next stop is the western edge of the Michael C. Rockefeller Wing of the Arts of Africa, Oceania and the Americas. There you'll find two large spaces ringed with vitrines of Pre-Columbian ceramics, beginning with examples of Olmec pottery from 1200-900 B.C., which are among the plainest and most beautifully shaped in the museum. But as in the Greek galleries, drawing wins out, reaching one zenith in a large cylindrical vase with a white surface and incised red lines that depict an imperious seated lord. Other high points are the ceramics of Andean peoples like the Wari, Moche and Chavin.
In adjacent galleries are a few African ceramics, most prominently three large 20th-century Senufo storage jars. The small display of American Indian objects includes no ceramics, although it is interesting how often the geometric designs of Mimbres and Navajo potters come to mind while looking at early Greek, Cypriot and Iranian ceramics.
Things become more complicated on the Met's second floor, where several ceramic timelines and ancient cultures are represented. A definite must-see are several bowls and a large storage jar that occupy two free-standing vitrines in the Ancient Near Eastern galleries, near the Assyrian reliefs. Made in Iran during the fifth or fourth millennium B.C., they are labeled as pottery masterworks, and they do not disappoint.
Hand-built in either red or buff clay, they have a consummate thinness and are sparely decorated with geometric designs and schematic animals: a sprightly goat with big arching horns on the storage jar, a string of tiny flamingoes on a sturdy footed bowl. Moving up a short flight of stairs toward the Islamic galleries, there are many different ceramic treasures to consider, but it is even more worthwhile to duck through the Assyrian galleries to visit the stupendous new Cypriot galleries, which run parallel to those of Ancient Near Eastern art.
The ceramic vessels in the Norbert Schimmel Gallery of prehistoric Cypriot art predate by at least 500 years, and sometimes much more, nearly everything in the Belfer Court downstairs, and they hold a few surprises. Among them are what are the 14th-century B.C. ancestors of the fluid hieroglyphic drawing style on eighth-century B.C. Attic charioteer kraters, especially the ingenious drawings of the chariots' teams of horses. Their shared legs and eyes line up in ways that evoke Picasso's renderings of Olga and Dora Maar.
Also here is a cache of white kraters from 1450 to 1200 B.C. Hand-built and decorated with bands of crosshatching, grids and diamonds, they are veritable bouquets of subtle asymmetries and wavering lines.

Islamic Grandeur
It's no surprise that Claude Levi-Strauss called ceramics "a jealous art." In the Islamic galleries, you start to suspect, even before the wall texts confirm the thought, that ninth-century potters in Nishapur and Samarkand were looking at Chinese ceramics. Yes, contemporary Tang dynasty vessels were making their way west along Asian trade routes and stirring up all kinds of creative competition.
Unable to mimic the white clay body of Chinese ceramics, Islamic potters developed the next best thing: an opaque white glaze. After that, they developed opaque colored glazes that made a whole new kind of decoration possible.

The Asian Effect
Additional waves of Chinese influence came with the import of Song whitewares and then Ming blue-and-white wares (a particularly important influence on 16th-century Iznik ceramics of Ottoman Turkey, although keep in mind that the cobalt that made blue-and-white possible came to China from Persia). These brought about further achievement, with the potters of different Islamic cultures always adding their own inventions. Most famous is that of lusterware, which brought a metallic sheen to a rainbow of colors, starting with gold, orange and yellow.
Note the imposingly large 13th-century Kashan bowl just to the left of the entrance that features four bands of contrasting calligraphy and two musicians at its center. Farther along are two especially beautiful lusterware examples: a plate whose fat little circles of dotted lines suggest a kind of bush, and a shallow bowl decorated with a grid of herringbone patterns and circles-in-squares that could almost, but not quite, have been made in 1950's America.
These galleries contain endless riches: Syrian lusterware from around 1200 patterned in blue, brown and white, and 17th-century Safavid lusterware covered with nearly monochromatic patterns of red and blue flowers. Don't miss the cul-de-sac gallery of ceramics from the Met's excavation at Nishapur, with numerous examples of the splash technique; the colored glazes often cascade, like fountains, across incised sgrafitto that suggest arches and colonnades.
On most art-historical timelines, the Chinese ceramics should be visited before the Islamic, but in this context, that requires energy to burn. Anyway, there's something to be said for walking past the Qing and Ming porcelains on the Great Hall balcony with all the achievements of Islam dancing in your head. The Islamic pieces don't pale a bit.
Head for the concentration of nonporcelains in the extensive Chinese ceramic displays. They're outnumbered by the porcelains, but to my taste, offer a greater percentage of wonders.
For convenience, jump into the history already in progress with the vitrines along the north side of the balcony: they begin with Sixth Dynasty celadons and include a Western Han covered jar whose swirling painted colors glow like well-preserved fresco. 
This stretch concludes with several Tang pieces, including a beautiful covered jar in a three-color glaze (sancai), whose elegant proportions feel both round and tall, and a blue-and-brown splashware vase that has the bravura of an Abstract Expressionist painting.
At the top of the stairs to the main Chinese galleries, there is a display of big, round Neolithic storage jars whose bold geometric designs relate enough to the Minoan pots downstairs to confirm Jung's theory about the collective unconscious. Nearby, you can peruse the Korean ceramics. Toward the end of this long gallery are additional Han and Tang pieces that deserve attention.
Around the next corner await the Japanese galleries and a pair of Jomon-period jars whose fanciful rims break out in sculptural curves and portholes. The Japanese achievement in ceramics is scanted by the current installation of these galleries, but they are one of the few places in the museum where what I would call modern ceramics are on fairly permanent display, including, at the moment, the work of the influential Shoji Hamada.

New World Surprise
At the very back of the Japanese galleries you can have an Alice-in-Wonderland moment. Go through the plain double doors and, voila, you're in the American Wing, not too far from its main display of ceramics. But maybe it's not such a big jump, given the presence of a pitcher and washbowl from the 1880's with a splashed, three-color glaze and a Tang-like Pennsylvania German redware jug in black and brown over green.
It is disconcerting to see that George Ohr, also known as the "mad potter of Biloxi" and one of America's great 19th-century artists, is represented by only a single, if spectacular, example of his thin-walled, eccentrically formed pots in the vitrine of Art Pottery. The nearby Henry R. Luce Center for the Study of American Art has four more Ohrs on its crowded shelves, as well as additional redware. On the way, visit "Women China Decorators," a show of 19th- and early-20th-century art pottery, whose strongest talent is Adelaide Alsop Robineau. 

A Continental Drift
Passing from the American Wing into the European sculpture and decorative arts galleries on the ground floor puts you back on a reasonable chronological track, among medieval ceramics whose Islamic demeanor reflects the Moorish presence in Spain. The first gallery has a generous display of 15th-century Spanish lusterware, apothecary jars and plates. (Such works are also on view in the Islamic galleries.)
Just across the gallery, a two-handled 15th-century Tuscan apothecary jar, strikingly decorated with black-on-white animal and oak leaf motifs, represents another Islamic technique: tin-glazed earthenware that became variously known in Europe as majolica (Italy), faience (France) or delftware (England).
There is much to be seen in subsequent galleries, including a large tin-glaze two-handled jar from 15th-century Florence decorated with a marvelously drawn stag highlighted with pale turquoise. But the main event of the final leg of the tour is the almost unseemly profusion with which luster, tin glazing and painting mix in the displays of Italian Renaissance majolica in the galleries at and just inside the entrance to the Lehman Collection. Patterns descended from mosques and Greek vases join forces, and Renaissance painting in all its aspects -- religious, secular, Classical -- is given a run for its money. The artists or workshops that produced these wonders are named when possible; the towns where the pieces were made are credited precisely, as in "lustered in Gubbio."
Finally, try to take in the turn-of-the-20th-century ceramics just beyond the Petrie European Sculpture Court. These include two irregularly rotund, flambe-glaze stoneware vases by the French Art Nouveau ceramicist Pierre-Adrien Dalpayrat; two exceptionally lustrous examples of modern lusterware by Zsolnay, the Hungarian manufacturer; and that commanding, if somewhat dreadful, Wedgwood swan vase.

The Material World
This article is the first of a series about tracking a material or type of object in a New York City museum collection through different periods and cultures. Articles in the series will be available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/arts

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, a Florentine tin-glazed majolica jar from the 1400's. Center, a ninth-century Iraqi lusterware plate. Far left, an eighth- or ninth-century Mayan vessel. Bottom, a Mycenaean krater, circa 1400-1375 B.C. (Top, Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; all others, the Metropolitan Museum of Art)(pg. E48); Above, from left, a long-neckedbottle from Tutankhamen's tomb, a small faience bottle and a large clay jar, all from the 18th dynasty in Egypt. Right, two Lydian terracotta drinking cups and a jugexcavated at Sardis. Far right, Wedgwood's 1883 swan vase. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. E39)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); HISTORY (78%); PAINTING (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ART HISTORY (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); RELIGION (61%) MUSEUMS; CERAMICS AND POTTERY; ART; SURVEYS AND SERIES; COLLECTORS AND COLLECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (93%) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) 

PERSON: SMITH, ROBERTA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) EGYPT (90%); UNITED STATES (88%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



79 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: Advice to Bloomberg 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "What New Yorkers Want From Their Next Mayor" (Op-Ed, Dec. 30): 
 Wendy Wasserstein and Alfonse M. D'Amato hint at valuable advice: Rebuild and sustain the city's spirit found in neighborhoods. 
Organizations like settlement houses, community centers and libraries build the social bonds and connections that nourish a sense of neighborhood. Programs in these organizations helped city residents cope after Sept. 11, and will help people find jobs and deal with the budget and service cuts. 
Child care, mental health care, literacy, senior centers, Meals on Wheels, home care, after-school programs, and employment and training for the unemployed help people succeed despite life's downturns. Maintaining the city's investment will save money spent on expensive alternatives.

EMILY MENLO MARKS
Executive Director
United Neighborhood Houses
New York, Jan. 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITIES (88%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (87%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (86%); BUDGETS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); MEALS ON WHEELS (67%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%) MARKS, EMILY MENLO; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



80 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Blame in Argentina 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 By blaming the United States and the International Monetary Fund for Argentina's problems, Paul Krugman (column, Jan. 1) is telling every political hack, protectionist-minded business person and anti-capitalist intellectual here just what they want to hear: they are "victims," as he puts it, of an international conspiracy. 
 Yes, the I.M.F. made some major blunders. 
Its biggest, however, wasn't failing to provide the "political cover" for the government to undertake an unpopular devaluation, but buying into promises, never fulfilled, of the reforms that would have made it possible to sustain the dollar peg, or perhaps even dollarize.
For the last 70 years, with the exception of a hiccup in the early 1990's, Argentina's economic policy has been a mess. But the problem is, and always has been, political and social, not the exchange rate. A devaluation probably would not have resolved this crisis any more than past devaluations -- and there have been many -- resolved past crises.

DAN KRISHOCK
Buenos Aires, Jan. 2, 2002

The writer is managing editor of The Buenos Aires Herald.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVALUATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CONSPIRACY (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (68%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (73%) KRISHOCK, DAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



81 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Staying Off Welfare for Good 

BYLINE:  By Bruce Reed; Bruce Reed, president of the Democratic Leadership Council, was director of the Domestic Policy Council in the Clinton administration.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Now that we've officially entered our first recession in a decade, both supporters and opponents of the 1996 welfare reform law are asking the same question: Will tough love still work in tough times?
 The good news still far outweighs the bad. Thanks to a relentless national effort to reward and require work in the 1990's, single mothers are more likely to be working and less likely to be poor than ever before. A nine-year decline in teen births has reduced the number of young mothers, a group at high risk for going on welfare. Despite the recession, most people who left welfare for work are still working, and most who have lost jobs still have welfare to fall back on. 
 Still, some aspects of the current downturn give cause for concern. The travel and tourism industry hired thousands of people who had been on welfare, and this was the economic sector hit hardest by the Sept. 11 attack. New York, where the economic impact of the terror attacks was greatest, also has the most new immigrants -- and new immigrants do not qualify for federal assistance.
Those of us who fought for welfare reform have a special responsibility to help the reformed system weather the recession. The Bush administration and Congress should revisit this issue and take steps now to make sure hard times don't slow the steady march from welfare to independence.
Welfare reform should not have cut legal immigrants off from benefits. Although some benefits have been restored in recent years -- including Supplemental Security Income, food stamps and Medicaid for elderly and disabled immigrants who have lived here longer than five years -- millions of legal immigrants are without any social safety net. Those who arrived in this country after August 1996 cannot get federal benefits based on low income at all, no matter how hard the times.
The difficulties of the immigrants' situation have also given the Bush administration leverage in its antiterror investigations. The Justice Department recently announced a program to make citizenship and its benefits easier to attain for immigrant informers who help track down potential terrorists. But a recent immigrant who just lost her job as a hotel maid shouldn't have to know a terrorist in order to get food stamps. The law should be changed to restore benefits for all legal immigrants.
Congress and the states should also make new and part-time workers eligible for unemployment benefits. You won't hear most welfare recipients complain about time limits: People who leave welfare never want to go back. But for some of the newly jobless, welfare might be the only option. According to the Urban Institute, four out of five people who have moved from welfare to work haven't worked enough hours or months to qualify for unemployment. More than half a million Americans would benefit if the unemployment system were modernized to include new and part-time workers, as the Senate Democratic stimulus package sought to do.
The federal government should also reward states that maintain their own spending for welfare-to-work programs. In 1996, the major objection to turning welfare into block grants to states, rather than continuing to base it on actual caseloads, was that states would be left holding the bag in a recession. But now the federal block grant for welfare is one of the few bright spots in most state budgets. With caseloads down 60 percent, the federal government is paying states more than twice what it would have if the system had not changed. This makes it possible for states to maintain or even increase welfare spending during this recession.
But the sudden drop in state tax revenues is squeezing other state initiatives to help the working poor. Congress should make states a one-time offer: a year of federal subsidies for any state that agrees not to cut its health care, child care and job placement budgets in 2002.
States should also devote money from their block grant surpluses to providing transitional public jobs for those who still need a foothold in the work force. The old adage that the best social program is a job becomes even more apparent in bad times.
With care, we can help people get through the current slump. But only work, not welfare, can keep them out of a slump that lasts a lifetime. As Congress begins debate sometime this year on the future of the welfare law, the current downturn shouldn't cause Americans to lose sight of why we reformed welfare in the first place.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Peter Hoey) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (91%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); TERRORISM (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (88%); COUNTERTERRORISM (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); LODGING (73%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); MEDICAID (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (71%); DISMISSALS (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (61%); HOTEL STAFF (60%); TOURISM (54%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



82 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Central Bank Of Europe Leaves Rates Unchanged 

BYLINE:  By The International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Jan. 

 BODY:
Policy makers at the European Central Bank decided today to leave monetary policy unchanged even though the economic outlook for the first half of the year remains bleak. The prospects remain dim despite the mostly smooth and successful introduction of new euro coins and bills to replace national currencies in 12 countries this week.
 Wim Duisenberg, the president of the central bank, in his first public appearance since the rollout of euro cash, predicted that growth in the 12-nation euro zone would be stagnant for the next few months. "We expect the first quarter to be pretty much the same as the last two quarters of last year," Mr. Duisenberg said after the policy-making meeting. 
 Gross domestic product in the euro zone grew just 0.1 percent in the third quarter of 2001 and is estimated to have been flat or to have contracted slightly in the fourth quarter.
Analysts saw in Mr. Duisenberg's remarks a suggestion that while short-term interest rates were left unchanged by the bank today, a cut of half a percentage point might be coming within weeks.
The bank sees better results in the second half of 2002, but "there are risks," Mr. Duisenberg observed. The fragile state of the global economy, and of the United States in particular, could derail a recovery in Europe, he said.
Much of the bank's news conference today was given over to proclaiming the euro a hit. "We can already pronounce this unprecedented move a tremendous success," Mr. Duisenberg said. The transition, he said, was "one of the major, if not the major step forward in the history of European integration."
Rodrigo Rato, the Spanish finance minister, told reporters that the apparent public enthusiasm for the euro notes and coins this week gave him hope that Europeans would have patience and an appetite for the more fundamental economic changes that many analysts think the euro will bring.
The ascent of an independent pan-European reserve bank "is certainly one of the most important structural reforms in the European economy," Mr. Rato said.
The European Central Bank has been more hawkish about inflation in recent years than the Federal Reserve, leading to criticisms that it has been too slow to cut rates in response to slowing global economic conditions. But with economic conditions varying much more among euro zone countries than they do among American states, bank officials say they must take care not to overheat some, like Ireland or Portugal, with rate cuts meant to perk up Germany or France. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); CURRENCIES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TRENDS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (67%); GLOBALIZATION (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%) EUROPEAN UNION; GERMANY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (64%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



83 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Climb Sharply; Building Is Up 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
The number of the nation's workers filing new claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly surged during the last full week of 2001, the Labor Department reported today.
 Jobless claims increased by 36,000 during the week that ended Saturday to 447,000, the highest level in a month, the Labor Department said. Claims the prior week were 411,000, more than the 392,000 reported earlier. 
 The first recession in a decade has crimped demand for labor, and the return of cold weather to much of the nation may have slowed construction. The government is likely to report Friday that the jobless rate rose to 5.8 percent last month, its highest level in six and a half years. 
Warm weather in November gave a boost to construction spending, figures from the Commerce Department suggested. Spending on building rose 0.8 percent during the month, to an annual rate of $865.1 billion, matching the October increase. The November rise, led by government projects like schools, highways and sewers, will contribute to gross domestic product in the final quarter. 
The four-week moving average of claims, a less-volatile indicator, dropped to 409,750 last week, the lowest since the end of August and before the terrorist attacks Sept. 11 further weakened the economy.
Analysts had expected initial jobless claims to total 392,000 last week, based on the median of 17 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, is among those who follow the report, which economists consider to be among the most current gauges of demand for labor.
The numbers come one day before the government's report on December employment. The economy probably lost 150,000 jobs last month, based on the median of 45 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. That would be the smallest cut in payrolls since August.
The jobless rate, which tends to increase long after the economy recovers, probably rose from 5.7 percent, a six-year high.
United States companies in December announced plans to eliminate 161,584 positions, according to a tally maintained by Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc., a job placement company in Chicago. That is down 11 percent from November and is the lowest since August, another sign the pace of payroll reductions is slowing.
Still, few companies are hiring. The number of workers who continued to collect benefits rose to 3.72 million during the week that ended Dec. 22 from 3.67 million the prior week.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers build homes near Houston, as unseasonably warm weather has bolstered construction nationwide. (Bloomberg News) Chart: "Construction Spending"Total construction spending in billions of dollars at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. Montly ChangeNov.: +0.8%Oct.: +0.8Sept.: -0.5 Graph tracks total spending from June 2000-November 2001.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart: "Jobless Claims"Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. Graph tracks number of claims highlighting 4 week moving average from July-December.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); TERRORISM (66%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); CHRISTMAS (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (63%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



84 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Profile Of a Killer 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I think I know who sent out the anthrax last fall.
 He is an American insider, a man working in the military bio-weapons field. He's a skilled microbiologist who did not aim to kill anybody or even to disrupt the postal system. Rather, he wanted to sow terror. Like many in the bio-warfare field, he felt that the government was not sufficiently attuned to the risks of anthrax, so he seized upon the opportunity presented by Sept. 11 to get more attention and funding for bio-terror programs like those that have been his career. 
 How do I know all this? Well, I don't exactly. But talk to the people in the spooky world of bio-terror awhile, sop up the gossip and theories, and as you put the clues together -- as bio-terror experts and F.B.I. officials are now doing -- a hazy picture seems to come into focus. It's not a certainty but an educated guess, circulating among many who know their business.
"I think there are on the order of 100 people who could have done it, who have the access to the spores and the technical expertise to have done it," says one man with long experience in the shadows of the United States bio-defense program. "I've got to admit that I could be a suspect. I've been interviewed by the F.B.I."
The emerging image of the killer that many of the experts see (but not all; anthrax experts agree about as much as economists do) is precisely the opposite of the perpetrator whom we initially imagined. Our first impulse when catastrophes happen is to look for foreigners to round up, as we did after the Oklahoma City bombing and after the crash of Flight 800. The Bush administration tried hard to find evidence to pin the anthrax attacks on Iraq.
In fact, many experts believe that the killer is tied to the American bio-weapons program because the anthrax he sent out is genetically identical to the anthrax kept by the United States Army. A microbiologist named Paul Keim is helping the authorities compare the genetic fingerprint of the mailed anthrax, and every indication is that it derives at least indirectly from the mother lode of the military strain, kept at Fort Detrick, Md.
The mailed anthrax is also astonishingly pure and equivalent (in spore size and concentration) to the best the American Army ever achieved. Making anthrax in a dry powdered form of this quality is difficult, and beginning in 1959 took 900 workers in the "hot" area of Fort Detrick years of effort (and two accidental deaths, including that of an unlucky electrician who changed light bulbs at the wrong time). Thus it seems that the murderer had access not only to the American military germs but also to some knowledge of the American military method of preparing it in its dry form.
Why do specialists agree that the murderer was not trying to kill anybody? Because he taped the envelopes tightly, and as of September nobody expected that the spores could leak through envelopes. Moreover, each of the letters that has been recovered announced that the substance was anthrax and advised the recipient to take antibiotics.
"I don't think that he was trying to kill anybody," said Barbara Hatch Rosenberg, a microbiologist who has studied the attacks for the Federation of American Scientists. "I think the motive was to create public fear, to raise the profile of biological warfare."
The F.B.I. may already have talked to the killer. There are not that many people with the access to germs, the knowledge and an anthrax vaccine booster shot in the last year. But the murderer showed a knowledge of forensics (apparently not licking a stamp or envelope, for example, to avoid leaving DNA), and it may be very difficult to move from suspicions to sufficient proof for an arrest.
Washington has been pressing Russia, Pakistan and other countries, quite rightly, to improve their control of germs, chemicals and nuclear weapons. But one of the lessons of the anthrax investigation is that the first thing we need to do to feel safer is put our own house in order. It is appalling that we cannot even determine which labs have exchanged anthrax with Fort Detrick.
Terrorism and laxity, it seems, afflict not only foreigners with different complexions and religions, but -- in exceptional cases -- perhaps also those with white lab coats and military haircuts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (92%); ANTHRAX (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (89%); EVIDENCE (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MURDER (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); DNA (67%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (62%); CLONING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



85 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: Career Management Company Fights Complaints 

BYLINE:  By KATY McLAUGHLIN

 BODY:
When Michael Gonzales, an aerospace engineer in Arlington, Tex., lost his job in October 1999, he turned to Bernard Haldane Associates, a business that describes itself as the nation's oldest and largest career-management company, with 93 offices in Britain, Canada and the United States.
 Mr. Gonzales said he paid Bernard Haldane, which is based in New York, an upfront fee of $4,815, a decision he says he now regrets. He said Haldane promised to deliver "hidden market" job leads, but instead provided a mostly useless "data dump" of company information, much of which could have been obtained free on the Internet. 
 Mr. Gonazales has since found a job on his own, but he is battling for a full refund from Haldane. He is among hundreds of dissatisfied Haldane customers, some paying as much as $20,000, who have complained about the company's practices to 11 state attorneys general, including those in California, New York and Texas. One state, Kansas, is investigating nearly 100 consumer complaints against the company. 
In response, Haldane said some complaints were to be expected given its history of serving more than 600,000 customers over 53 years. It also said Mr. Gonzales received what he was promised, and that it never guaranteed career advancement. 
"What we do is give our clients tools so they can have a successful job search," said Jerold Weinger, Haldane's chairman and chief executive.
Haldane has faced similar complaints in the past. In 1982, after the attorney general in New York accused the firm of making "false, misleading and deceptive" statements, Haldane agreed, without admitting guilt, to make refunds to clients. In 1983, California obtained an injunction against the company, preventing it from making misleading statements to potential clients.
And in 1992, the district attorney of Contra Costa County, Calif., reached a settlement with the company under which it agreed, again without admitting wrongdoing, to refund $60,000 to 63 clients.
"They give the impression that the big check leads to the big job," said Bill Mitchell, president of the Southern California Better Business Bureau. After receiving many complaints about the company, Mr. Mitchell in 1998 wrote an article in his online newsletter about the complaints.
While headhunters, executive recruiters, employment agencies and outplacement companies earn commissions and fees from employers, retail outplacement concerns like Haldane are paid directly by the client. According to Tom Rodenhauser, an independent consultant for the recruiting industry, the ready availability of job listings and databases on the Internet has eliminated much of the exclusive value that companies like Haldane used to be able to offer clients. Critics argue that Haldane compensates for its outmoded business model by misrepresenting what it can do for clients.
Mr. Weinger said his firm does not promise to make calls or provide contacts, set up interviews, create networks, match clients with recruiters or guarantee job placement for any of its clients. "It would be ridiculous for us to set up interviews," he said. "That would be another person getting in the way between our client and the prospective employer."
He said Haldane offered clients guidance in redesigning a resume and access, via a password, to an Internet service that consolidates job-search engines and databases. It also assigns each client to a career adviser, usually a former executive, he says, though not a "career counselor," a designation that, in most states, requires licensing by the state. 
For access to these services for three years, Haldane clients pay from $4,000 to $20,000. Mr. Weinger, the chief executive, said they are charged roughly 10 percent of their most recent salaries.
Pamela Pagliochini, a career counselor whose company Vocatus, based in Manhattan, offers career development and management services at $110 a session, said she considered $20,000 a staggering sum to charge.
"I think upfront fees are unethical," Ms. Pagliochini said, "because if it's not working for you, you should be able to stop." 
Haldane, which has expanded greatly under Mr. Weinger's leadership since 1989, operates by a system of licensing, meaning that various businesses pay royalty fees to Haldane for the use of its name and program. 
Mr. Gonzales, the aerospace engineer, said he first learned about the firm in a newspaper advertisement reading "Job Hunting." Such advertisements appear weekly in many national newspapers, including The New York Times. He sent his resume to the firm, believing it was a recruiter, which called him for an interview. Before meeting with Robert Lewis, a Haldane vice president for client services, Mr. Gonzales gave information about his job history and his savings and other assets.
In his complaint to the Texas attorney general, Mr. Gonzales stated that in two meetings, Mr. Lewis "described how after years in the business, Haldane amassed a robust and proprietary network of contacts to which I would have access." Convinced Haldane would be the conduit to unpublished jobs, Mr. Gonzales paid by check and signed a contract.
People familiar with the firm say those taking legal action against it face high hurdles because clients sign a contract that does not bind Haldane to specific tasks or results. Clients also regularly sign off on a waiver that states they have not been orally promised anything that contradicts the paper contract.
Mr. Gonzales said the promises made to him were mostly oral, a claim echoed by hundreds of other former Haldane customers across the country and in Canada. Asked why he signed the documents, he said, "I was vulnerable and convinced by the sales pitch. I didn't scrutinize the paperwork." Other clients claim they were told to view the wording in the documents as nothing more than legalese from the company's lawyers.
Ian McClure, Haldane's executive vice president, wrote to the Texas attorney general in response to the complaint, "I am having a difficult time determining where Mr. Gonzales misunderstood our program." He stated that the written contract was very clear that Haldane made no guarantees of providing career advancement.
Bernard Haldane Associates was founded in 1947 by Bernard Haldane, revered by many as the father of outplacement. Dr. Haldane, who holds a Ph.D. in management and human resources, sold his interest in the firm in 1974 and now, at age 91, continues to lecture on career-management issues at the University of Washington. He said that while his contact with the company was limited to a meeting perhaps every two years, he thinks it provides a useful service. 
"In all the reports I have seen intermittently over the years, everybody says they have gained a great deal from being a client," he said.
Disgruntled clients tell a different tale. Teresa King of Indianapolis, for example, said she paid $4,005 to Haldane in March because she was "promised an inside track and a database of clients they match you up with." While she has cut off contact with the firm and posted an account of her experience on a Web site, she says she has not complained directly to the company.
Jay Jungalwala of Hudson, Mass., did. Mr. Jungalwala was looking for a position as an executive vice president and pledged $17,000 in April because, he said, Haldane gave him the impression it had personal relationships with chief executives in his field, which was related to Internet technology. Upon unearthing unfavorable opinions about Haldane, Mr. Jungalwala said, he demanded and received a refund before his contract was fully executed.
Tom Sparber, a former Haldane vice president who worked for a year in a Haldane office in New Jersey owned by B. L. Marketing before leaving last May, said he was encouraged to make vague references to potential clients about a beneficial relationship Haldane had with an outside company called Sterling Hightower. This company, these potential customers were assured, would put their resumes in front of thousands of executive recruiters across the nation. In an interview, Mr. Weinger acknowledged that this supposed third-party firm was in fact owned by the Haldane licensee in Tucson, Ariz., Sarah Hightower-Hill. Ms. Hightower-Hill said the company provides resumes to executive recruiters who request them, but she declined to identify the recruiters or to say how many used her service.
In Kansas, Assistant Attorney General Dave Harder said the highly unusual number of complaints there raised a red flag. His office has tried to mediate by seeking refunds for dissatisfied customers, which he said Haldane had refused to provide.He said he was in the process of taking sworn statements to determine whether Haldane has breached state statutes protecting consumers against deceptive practices.
Asked about the nearly 100 complaints in Kansas, Mr. Weinger, Haldane's chief executive, said he did not believe the number was that high. Positive feedback from clients far outweighs the negative, he said, adding that he was aware of very few unhappy customers.
Haldane provided the phone numbers of three customers, one of whom responded to the request for an interview. 
"I am satisfied," said Larry Jalowiec of Quakertown, Pa., whose former employer financed the service as part of an outplacement package. "Haldane helped me by bucking me up whenever my job search got frustrating."
As for Mr. Gonzales, he found a job on his own by answering a want ad in the newspaper. Haldane has offered him a partial refund in exchange for signing a confidentiality agreement that would prohibit him from telling his story, a settlement he has refused.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Gonzales, an engineer from Arlington, Tex., has a conflict with Bernard Haldane Associates. Mr. Gonzales holds his son Alex. (Mark Perlstein for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); INJUNCTIONS (50%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: BERNARD HALDANE ASSOCIATES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BERNARD HALDANE ASSOCIATES INC (BHAL) 

PERSON: GONZALES, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



86 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Newark Arena Is on Agenda in the Assembly's Final Days 

BYLINE:  By LAURA MANSNERUS 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
On the second-to-last day of the legislative session, the New Jersey Assembly today chipped away at a schedule of more than 100 bills, while Speaker Jack Collins promised to revive the long-disputed proposal for a new sports arena in Newark. 
 It was not clear whether the arena proposal could be brought to a vote in both chambers on Monday, the legislature's last day. The new version of the proposal is laden with other projects in South Jersey, Mr. Collins's home territory, that are not in the bill approved last summer by the Senate. 
 Democratic leaders continued to insist that they would no longer support the $355 million arena in light of the budget gap that they are inheriting from a Republican governor and legislature.
The last days of the lame-duck legislature have turned into a flurry of pleas for pet projects, countered by pleas by Governor-elect James E. McGreevey to stem state spending.
Today, the Assembly did approve a package of bills establishing terrorism as a new criminal offense and a bill expanding access to public records; New Jersey now has the most restrictive public-records law in the nation. Final passage of both measures would require votes by the Senate on Monday. 
Most of the spending bills were put off until Monday, among them a measure to change the state's corporate tax formula. Even its advocates concede that the proposed new method of calculating the tax, to base it entirely on sales revenue, will cut taxes for large corporations with headquarters in New Jersey and will cost the treasury at least $12 million in the first year. Estimates of the cost over the five-year phase-in period are as high as hundreds of millions of dollars. But over time, advocates say, the measure will make New Jersey as attractive for businesses as a growing number of other states that use similar "single sales" formulas.
The voting session today slowed as Assembly members took time out for tributes to the 17 members who are leaving. 
Mr. Collins's measure on the Newark arena would include $46 million in additional spending on economic development grants to South Jersey. Among the projects are $20,000 for a conference center in Pennsauken, outside Camden, and a $3 million sculling course on the Cooper River; $20 million to build athletic fields at Rowan University, and $3 million for improvements to local zoos. 
Mr. Collins has insisted on some South Jersey projects for months, but the Republican-dominated Assembly Appropriations Committee rejected an earlier version of the arena bill. 
Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco had recently stayed out of the wrangling over the arena project, which in addition to giving the New Jersey Nets and Devils a new home in Newark would transform their current home, the Continental Airlines Arena in the Meadowlands, into a "sports entertainment" complex.
Tom Wilson, the acting governor's press secretary, said Mr. DiFrancesco "really hasn't spent a lot of time thinking about this since the middle of September, when we made our last push on it" and was not likely to consider it in the next few days. "He's got 50 bills on his desk," Mr. Wilson said. 
If the speaker brings the measure to a vote on Monday, it will still have to be approved as amended by the Senate. 
Also on Monday, Mr. DiFrancesco is to address the legislature. He leaves office at noon Tuesday, and at 3 p.m. the State of the State address will be delivered by John O. Bennett, who as the Senate Republican leader will be acting governor for several days.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The New Jersey Legislature is dealing with more than a hundred bills in the last two days of this session. One involves a new Newark sports arena. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TAX LAW (77%); WINTER SPORTS (77%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (76%); BUDGETS (74%); AIRLINES (73%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); COMPANY REVENUES (64%); TAX RELIEF (64%); OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (60%); TERRORISM (52%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; MEADOWLANDS SPORTS COMPLEX (EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ); LAW AND LEGISLATION; BASKETBALL; STADIUMS AND ARENAS; HOCKEY, ICE 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (59%); NEW JERSEY NETS (59%) NEW JERSEY NETS; NEW JERSEY DEVILS 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

PERSON: MANSNERUS, LAURA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



87 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Parents Oppose Return Date For a School At Ground Zero 

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
Teachers and parents from one of the downtown schools closed by the World Trade Center attack are fighting a plan to reopen the building next month, saying that returning so soon would be traumatic and disruptive.
 The Board of Education said last month that the school, Public School 89 on Warren Street, would reopen on Feb. 4. Two other elementary schools near the disaster site, P.S. 234 and P.S. 150, both on Greenwich Street, are to reopen the same day. 
 Two other schools near the trade center site that were shuttered since the attack, the High School for Economics and Finance and the High School for Leadership and Public Service, are to reopen on Jan. 30.
But while Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy has declared the school buildings safe -- and some parents are eagerly awaiting the return -- the teachers and the parent association at P.S. 89 are anxious. The school has already relocated twice since September -- first to a wing of P.S. 3 in Greenwich Village, and then, in October, to a building on the Lower East Side, where they have shared space with a small alternative school. P.S. 89's enrollment has dropped to 218, from 415 on Sept. 11.
At first, parents angrily resisted the move to the Lower East Side school, saying it was inconvenient. At the time, many said they wanted only to return to the P.S. 89 building as soon as possible. But yesterday, Sharon Sprague, co-chairwoman of the PTA, said parents, students and teachers had adjusted well to the Lower East Side building and had many concerns about returning to the Warren Street location.
"There's a lot that needs to be addressed," Ms. Sprague said, adding that parents were especially worried about passing trucks loaded with debris and the unobstructed views of the disaster site from some classroom windows, which could further traumatize the many students.
Catie Marshall, a spokeswoman for Chancellor Levy, said the return date was not negotiable.
"There is no good reason to wait, because the schools are ready now," Ms. Marshall said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (79%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (79%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); HIJACKING (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (74%); TERRORISM (73%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



88 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: AID GROUPS; 
Aid Groups Say Warlords Steal As Needy Wait

BYLINE:  By C. J. CHIVERS with ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: JALALABAD, Afghanistan, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
An effort to feed Afghan refugees returning from Pakistan descended into violence here today as food ran short and local soldiers beat back a hungry crowd that had swarmed around a Red Crescent Society compound. As the crowd dispersed, relief officials said they had run low on food because shipments had been stolen by local warlords.
 The confrontation, which at one point almost turned into a riot, began this morning when several hundred refugees converged on the compound and demanded the bags of rice stored inside. 
 But the society had fewer than 300 sacks of rice, and its staff decided not to distribute them out of fear that there would be fights between families who had received food and those that had not. The crowd shouted in protest and soldiers, using branches stripped from nearby trees, began driving the refugees away from the compound's concrete walls. 
In Washington, the struggle to provide famine relief to Afghans provoked a battle of words. The Bush administration said today that widespread hunger had been averted in Afghanistan, but officials from relief agencies said the White House was speaking too soon, offering a success story from a war-torn country where solid proof is hard to find.
Andrew S. Natsios, the administrator of the United States' Agency for International Development, said that with American support the United Nations World Food Program appeared to "have averted a widespread famine in Afghanistan." Relief groups countered that the country was too unstable, its rural areas too remote, for an early celebration.
Outside the Red Crescent compound in Jalalabad, soldiers at times struck children, women and old men indiscriminately. Some soldiers hit women who sat on the ground and begged. At least one struck a boy so hard that the branch broke across the boy's back. The crowd responded by throwing stones.
"There are too many people who come here for food," said Abdul Basir Basirat, the Red Crescent Society supervisor in Jalalabad. "All of them need rice and other things. What should I do?"
As Mr. Basirat spoke from inside his office the crowd wailed and pushed on the compound gate. The crowd surged, the gate held, the crowd relaxed, then surged again. Soldiers could be seen swinging sticks from the top of the walls down into the crowd, striking those who pressed too close.
Mr. Basirat said that the same soldiers who were trying to control the crowd were actually linked to the source of the problem.
The troops are members of the Eastern Shura, the group of anti-Taliban warlords in the region who worked with the United States military to hunt down Taliban and Al Qaeda forces in cave complexes nearby. Since the Taliban fled Jalalabad in November, these warlords have controlled the city and the surrounding Nangarhar Province. They are a largely undisciplined force.
Relief officials said that several days ago six trucks loaded with rice arrived from Pakistan, enough food to feed everyone now requesting assistance. But the Eastern Shura seized four of the trucks to feed its armies or the relatives of soldiers who died in the war. The seizures left little rice for the refugees.
"The local commanders took all of the rice," Mr. Basirat said. "We were allowed only two trucks. All of the rest went to their houses, or to the families of the martyrs."
The thefts were confirmed by Atiqullah Mohmand, the Jalalabad program director for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. "That is true," he said. "Right now, we don't have a proper system of government in this province. The mujahedeen put force on us and take the food. They are looting."
Mr. Mohmand said that since late November relief organizations have also tried three times to distribute wheat, and each time local soldiers stole most of the food. He declined to name the commanders responsible. 
"Nobody wants to mention a clear name, because it might put them in danger," he said.
The senior commander in the region, Hajji Hazat Ali, brushed aside questions about the thefts, suggesting that some of the rice was missing because the Red Crescent society was corrupt.
"Some people who are working for the non-government organizations are all thieves," he said. "They try to divide some food they receive between themselves and some of the local commanders. We are trying to capture these people."
But he did not seem to be trying very hard to catch the thieves or recover the rice, sacks of which could be found today in the city being used to feed his own soldiers at each of the checkpoints he maintains.
The United Nations said that as many as 300 families a day are arriving in Jalalabad from Pakistan. The new arrivals have been joining as many as 5,000 displaced Afghans who were counted in a Red Crescent survey in early December. 
"There are children who have become very thin because of the cold and not enough food," said Muktar, a society employee. "Some of them are dead already, and others will die soon."
For months, a muscular propaganda campaign directed by the White House has been focused on showing that the American air campaign has helped, not harmed, the Afghan people. This week, the White House information center is highlighting its relief efforts, reflecting how avoiding famine in Afghanistan has been a critical national security goal.
While no one disputed that the relief effort has been successful, several relief officials expressed concern that the United States was exaggerating that success and could possibly imperil future relief operations by drawing too rosy a picture. Mr. Natsios was careful to say that food will be needed for at least another year but he also said only some people in fringe areas may still need emergency relief to avoid famine.
Nigun Ogun of Save The Children, a relief group that has worked in Afghanistan since 1994, was skeptical. "I don't think we averted a famine," he said. "I would say that the problem has been averted for two months -- no more."
Officials at the World Food Program disagreed and said they knew they had turned a corner in December when they were running their trucks on all six routes into Afghanistan, bringing 4,000 tons of wheat into the country every day.
"It's not that simple to say when we averted famine, but we have," said Abby Spring, of the aid program. "Yes, people are still in tough shape but it is a tribute to the international community that this much was accomplished."
As the crowd left the Red Crescent compound today, Mr. Basirat said he hoped to register as many new arrivals as possible and circulate identification cards to them so the society could distribute its remaining sacks of rice within the next few days.
The refugees were not satisfied. One white-haired man wandered near the compound, clutching a petition and begging for food. He spoke English, and said he had been a teacher, but now was destitute.
"There are many different problems about this food distribution," said the man, Zaid Gulab, 50. "Many people do not have any information about how to get food here today. I am hungry. I do not know how to get any. I cannot find out because the soldiers are there with guns and sticks."
Mr. Mohmand, of the United Nations, said conditions today were reminiscent of those in the early 1990's, when guerrilla commanders ran the province, abusing civilians and taking whatever they wanted. Popular anger with their conduct helped bring the Taliban to power.
"The people who are now in the positions of authority in our province, they are exactly the same persons who were here before," Mr. Mohmand said. "They are following the same system as before. It is not good. There is no killing right now, but the thieves are very active."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Residents of Jalalabad waiting for food at the Red Crescent Society's offices yesterday were held back by soldiers. Officials say that because of theft they do not have enough bags of rice. (Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (90%); FAMINE (90%); REFUGEES (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALIBAN (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); RIOTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); CHILDREN (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); AL-QAEDA (60%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JALALABAD, AFGHANISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



89 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Argentina's Quest for Salvation 

 BODY:
Sworn in on Wednesday, Argentina's fifth president in two weeks called his a "government of national salvation." The label might seem to emanate from the same overwrought, tragic streak that bequeathed the tango and the saga of Evita to the world. But President Eduardo Duhalde was not exaggerating. Argentina's crisis is dire, and threatens the viability of its democracy. Mr. Duhalde must govern accordingly, presiding over an administration that works with all the major parties to create a consensus on how to proceed. 
 Most leaders within Mr. Duhalde's Peronist Party engaged in unseemly political infighting after President Fernando de la Rua of the Radical Party resigned on Dec. 21, in the face of mounting riots across the country. The Peronists, who control the Congress, acted as if they had suddenly won a landslide election but still needed to designate their candidate. The previous interim president, Adolfo Rodriguez Saa, was forced to resign from office after only a week, once it became clear that he lacked the support of major Peronist leaders. 
 Mr. Duhalde, a former vice president of Argentina and former governor of the province of Buenos Aires, wisely recognized that what Argentina needs now is a national unity government. He obtained the backing of the main opposition parties in exchange for a pledge that they would be involved in his government and that he would not run in the 2003 election. Exercising its constitutional prerogative, Congress elected him to fill out Mr. de la Rua's four-year term, and abandoned its earlier plan to hold new elections in March. 
A populist who often criticized President Carlos Menem's free-market reforms in the 1990's, Mr. Duhalde supported President Rodriguez Saa's unavoidable announcement last week that Argentina would default on payments of its crushing $132 billion foreign debt, the largest such default ever by a sovereign debtor. He is now expected to end Argentina's decade-old policy of pegging its peso to the United States dollar at a one-to-one rate of exchange. This monetary straitjacket helped tame inflation in the 1990's, but also allowed the country to go on its disastrous borrowing binge. 
Most economists believe that such a devaluation, though politically difficult, is needed to make the country's exports more competitive. The government must also restore confidence in the financial system to a point where it can lift unpopular limits on bank withdrawals. 
The International Monetary Fund and other foreign creditors share the blame for Argentina's woes. They were arguably too indulgent for too long, even after it became apparent that Argentina was too indebted and its currency was overvalued. The I.M.F. then held Argentina to an unsustainable austerity program amid a recession, and abruptly cut off promised loans late last year, contributing to the financial panic. 
It would be a tragic mistake, however, for Mr. Duhalde to fuel Argentines' sense that theirs is a rich nation forced into poverty by outside forces. Blaming the free market or globalization for the country's ills, and adopting an overly protectionist course for South America's second-largest economy, would only make matters worse. Argentina must instead acknowledge and address its past failures to reform its public finances, and become a more competitive exporter. President Duhalde needs to keep his promises and avoid governing narrowly as a Peronist. In return, the international community ought to give his unity government all the assistance possible. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); RECESSION (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); US DOLLAR (70%); DEVALUATION (66%); EXPORT TRADE (62%); GOVERNORS (54%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) ARGENTINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



90 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Black Scholars Mending a Rift With Harvard 

BYLINE:  By KATE ZERNIKE

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Jan. 3 

 BODY:
After more than a week of racially charged tensions, Lawrence H. Summers, the president of Harvard University, met and mended fences today with Cornel West, a senior black professor, apparently ending a dispute that had threatened to cost the university its team of celebrated African-American scholars.
 The meeting occurred a day after Mr. Summers issued a statement expressing his commitment to diversity at Harvard and to the strength of the Afro-American Studies department. That statement in turn was a response to the anger of several members of the department who had threatened to move to Princeton University after what they said were several snubs by Mr. Summers over the last few months and the absence of a strong statement of his commitment to affirmative action. 
 The professors particularly felt that Mr. Summers had insulted Professor West in a private meeting by raising questions about his pursuit of scholarship, grade inflation in his classes and his making a rap CD. 
William Julius Wilson, a university professor of social policy, said: "The new president is clearly reaching out, and I think that these problems are going to be resolved. He admits there has been a problem of communication, and to his credit he is trying to correct a previous mistake and misjudgment and thereby affirm a strong commitment to issues relating to diversity and affirmative action. That's encouraging."
The conflict had created a storm on the issue of race for Mr. Summers, who has been president of Harvard, the nation's oldest university, for six months. On Jan. 1, the Rev. Jesse Jackson held a news conference here to accuse the university of equivocating on affirmative action. 
The Rev. Al Sharpton also threatened to sue Mr. Summers over accusations, which the president flatly denied, that he had criticized Professor West for supporting Mr. Sharpton's bid for president. 
As soon as the conflict with the black professors seemed to subside, however, Mr. Summers faced another similarly charged tangle, as Latin American studies professors said they had been rebuffed in requests for more attention from the president and the establishment of a full-fledged Latino studies center.
By today, some members of the Afro-American Studies department were cringing at how what was essentially a bidding war with Princeton over star professors had become an internationally reported account of racial tension. 
Marilyn Marks, a spokeswoman for Princeton, said, "We're pleased that fences appear to have been mended at Harvard, and we're still eager to build on our strong program in African-American studies, as we have been doing for several years."
Late today, Mr. Summers resolved the last issue with the Afro-American Studies department, when he met with Dr. West and cleared the air, though he made no explicit apology.
Dr. West, who had led the threat of an exodus, declined to say whether he would stay. People close to the department said they did not expect him or anyone else to leave.
Mr. Summers, too, seemed eager to set the dispute behind him.
"I regret any misunderstandings there, and I hope they will be cleared up," he said in an interview in his office. "I've had good conversations with members of the African-American Studies department expressing my strong desire that they stay at Harvard and our continued commitment to making this an attractive intellectual environment for African-American studies."
The members of the Afro-American Studies department distanced themselves from the issues raised by the Latino studies professors, saying that they knew nothing about the complaints and that there was no coordinated campaign. 
But one discord seemed to feed on the other. Administration members noted that there had been no letters or phone calls expressing concerns about a Latino studies center that would focus on the experience of Hispanic people in the United States until newspapers printed articles about the black professors' threat to go to Princeton.
Administration officials said they were considering the Latino center as they considered all proposals for new programs or centers. But they said approving it would require reversing a longstanding policy to avoid creating narrowly constructed ethnic programs.
Prof. John Coatsworth, a specialist in Latin American studies who has been seeking a Latino center, said today he thought that Mr. Summers was trying to make amends, but that he faced a serious challenge.
"I think no leader of a major American cultural institution can afford to have his commitment to diversity in question," Professor Coatsworth said.
Members of the Afro-American Studies department said Mr. Summers had previously left the impression that the department had been relegated to second-class status. That was particularly striking compared with the relationship they enjoyed with Mr. Summers's predecessor, Neil L. Rudenstine.
Mr. Rudenstine created the department by luring Henry Louis Gates from Duke University. Dr. Gates in turn recruited what he called the "dream team." Mr. Rudenstine gave the department special presidential money and granted Dr. Wilson and Dr. West university professorships, which are the highest stars in the academic realm and allow their holders to circulate among the university's schools.
Some Harvard faculty members had accused the Afro-American Studies department of crying racism to disguise a power play, but Professor Gates, the department's chairman, challenged that, noting that his professors were not pressing demands for more money. 
"As a person who has been recruiting some of the finest scholars in America to Harvard over the past decade," he said, "I can safely say that people of the stature of Cornel West do not move for financial reasons. 
"The compensation at his level will only be comparable elsewhere. Only someone who doesn't understand how the academy functions would make such a ridiculous statement. It vulgarizes what's a matter of principle."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 14, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Jan. 4 about recent tensions between Lawrence H. Summers, the president of Harvard, and several professors of Afro-American studies misstated the period in which their department was created. It was in 1969 -- not during the presidency of Neil L. Rudenstine, who served from 1991 to 2001.
A front-page article on Jan. 4 about recent tensions between Lawrence H. Summers, the president of Harvard, and several professors of Afro-American studies misstated the period in which their department was created. It was in 1969 -- not during the presidency of Neil L. Rudenstine, who served from 1991 to 2001.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence H. Summers (Associated Press)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); GRADE INFLATION (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); RAP MUSIC (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (91%); JESSE JACKSON (57%); AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



91 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: A Fortunate Son's Death, And a Missing $5 Million 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT HANLEY and DANA CANEDY 

 BODY:
Growing up in the gilded suburb of Short Hills, N.J., Michael B. Schwartz was as skilled with a soccer ball as he was at charming the girls. A star on the Millburn High School soccer team, he was wildly popular with his classmates, and if anyone could make good on his dream of becoming a filmmaker, it was Michael.
 But somewhere along the way, Mr. Schwartz's dreams ran off the track. His film career never took off, and at the age of 36, he found himself in the business of filling automated teller machines with cash, a job that earned him a decent living but nowhere near the affluence he had known as a boy. 
 According to friends and family, the temptation of handling so much money might have been irresistible. In early December, Mr. Schwartz mysteriously disappeared from his Jersey City apartment. So did $5 million he had taken from the California bank he did business with, the authorities said. 
On Christmas Day, part of the mystery was solved when Mr. Schwartz was found dead in a rented room in West Palm Beach, Fla. Officials said they believed that he had choked on his own vomit after a two-week drinking binge.
The money, however, remains missing. And as investigators search for packets of $20 bills, Mr. Schwartz's family, friends and neighbors are left wondering why a gentle man who fancied himself a poet and a musician came to such a puzzling end.
"He always struck me as a fine, successful businessman," said Norman Merker, who owns a drugstore across the street from Mr. Schwartz's apartment in Jersey City. "It's a complete shock. I never would have expected it."
F.B.I. agents and officials at the California bank, Humboldt Bancorp, of Eureka, say they are now trying to figure out how the money was pilfered from the A.T.M.'s, and over how long a period of time. Bill Evanina, a spokesman at the F.B.I. office in Newark, described the crime as a rare form of white-collar bank theft.
"We believe this is the first time an authorized servicer has been siphoning money from the machines on such a large scale," Mr. Evanina said yesterday. "We're trying to ascertain if he was solo in this criminal endeavor or if he had a co-conspirator who may currently possess the money."
A warrant for Mr. Schwartz's arrest was issued on Dec. 12, about a week after Humboldt Bancorp informed the F.B.I. of what the bank's chief financial officer, Pat Rusnak, described yesterday as an "irregular pattern of activities" at some of the A.T.M.'s for which the bank had provided money.
Mr. Rusnak said that Mr. Schwartz and Humboldt entered an agreement in December 2000 under which the bank provided money to a company that Mr. Schwartz owned, Schwaz Armored L.L.C., to stock 138 A.T.M.'s that Mr. Schwartz owned in northern New Jersey and in New York City. Most of the machines were in small neighborhood groceries and pharmacies.
Mr. Rusnak called the bank's arrangement with Mr. Schwartz an unusual one because Mr. Schwartz owned the A.T.M.'s and stocked them with money. Customarily, he said, A.T.M.'s are not owned by the same company that fills them with cash.
Mr. Rusnak said bank authorities believe that the $5 million, which Humboldt provided to Mr. Schwartz through wire transfers, was probably stolen over time by one of two ways: either the money the bank provided for the A.T.M.'s was never placed in the machines or it was placed in them and later taken out of the drawer where it had been loaded.
The F.B.I. has found a white 1998 Ford Econoline van owned by Schwaz Armored L.L.C. in a garage at the West Palm Beach apartment Mr. Schwartz moved into about two weeks before his death, Mr. Evanina said. As of yesterday evening, F.B.I. agents were awaiting a warrant to search the vehicle, he said.
Mr. Schwartz found the apartment through a rent-finder who dates a man who lives there and who was looking for a roommate, according to the West Palm Beach police. Detectives said that the man, Chris Lacroix, found Mr. Schwartz's body on Christmas Day and told them that he knew Mr. Schwartz only as Jeff Alexander. According to the police, Mr. Lacroix said Mr. Schwartz had paid him $1,800 in cash for three months' rent.
During his two weeks in the apartment, Mr. Schwartz routinely drank wine and up to a case of beer a day, the police said Mr. Lacroix told them. Detectives said he told them that he found Mr. Schwartz dead on a den sofa, next to a coffee table with beer cans and a wine bottle on it. Yesterday, Mr. Lacroix angrily ordered a reporter away from his front door. 
The police in West Palm Beach say they have ruled out foul play in Mr. Schwartz's death. A finding of the cause awaits completion of toxicological tests, they said.
Those who knew Mr. Schwartz during his days in Short Hills say he was handsome and athletic and seemed destined for greatness. But although he studied at New York University's film program, his artistic ambitions never came to anything. He had Siamese cats, Bonnie and Clyde, which he took to Florida.
When his father died about a decade ago, Mr. Schwartz inherited enough money to start the A.T.M. business, his family said. He apparently earned enough to buy a BMW and a condominium in Jersey City, but he was not a born businessman, friends and family said. 
Mr. Schwartz's mother, Linda Schnoll, a real estate agent, lives with his stepfather, Jack Schnoll, in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. Reached at their home yesterday, the Schnolls, who are sitting shiva, declined to speak to a reporter.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael B. Schwartz, who officials say may have stolen $5 million. (Federal Bureau of Investigation) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (90%); SOCCER (90%); ROBBERY (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (87%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (78%); BANK ROBBERY (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); CHRISTMAS (68%); ARRESTS (66%); ARREST WARRANTS (61%); EXECUTIVES (50%) ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES 

COMPANY: UMPQUA HOLDINGS CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%)

TICKER: UMPQ (NASDAQ) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%)

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT; CANEDY, DANA; SCHWARTZ, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUREKA, CA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW JERSEY; WEST PALM BEACH (FLA); JERSEY CITY (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



92 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Walgreen Profit Up 17%, Aided by Pharmacies 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
The Walgreen Company reported a 17 percent quarterly earnings gain today, helped by soaring pharmaceutical sales, and it said it would add 475 stores this year. 
 Net profit was $185.9 million, or 18 cents a share, up from $158.4 million, or 15 cents a share, for the period a year earlier. 
 Sales in the period, which ended Nov. 30 and was the first quarter of Walgreen's fiscal year, rose 17 percent, to $6.56 billion from $5.61 billion, from the quarter a year earlier. 
Walgreen's income exceeded by 1 cent the estimate of analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial/First Call, and the company's stock rose $1.33, or 4 percent, to $34.41 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Prescription sales, which accounted for just 15 percent of sales in 1980, continued their rise as a result of the aging of the population and pharmaceutical advances. Prescriptions accounted for 60 percent of Walgreen's sales in the quarter, up 22 percent from a year earlier.
In an indication that growth has continued into this quarter, the company, based in Deerfield, Ill., announced separately that December sales totaled $2.8 billion, up 14 percent from the previous December.
"The nature of our business -- selling basic goods that everyone needs -- gives us the chance to perform well despite the current recession and tough retail environment," said the chairman, Dan Jorndt. "It also means we will continue as planned with our expansion program."
Walgreen said its 475 new stores in fiscal 2002 would entail 14,000 new jobs, $1.3 billion in capital spending and two new distribution centers.
An analyst, Derek Leckow of Barrington Research Associates, based in Chicago, said the results showed that Walgreen's continuing expansion was paying off in higher sales and increased market share.
"We think that's a good strategy," Mr. Leckow said, "given that some of their competitors -- primarily CVS and Rite Aid -- are facing capital constraints and issues related to the pharmacist shortage. It seems to me that Walgreen is doing a better job recruiting and getting its pharmacies better staffed." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PHARMACIES (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); PHARMACISTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AGING TRENDS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); JOB CREATION (69%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (67%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) 

COMPANY: WALGREEN CO (98%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); BARRINGTON RESEARCH ASSOCIATES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WALGREEN CO (WAG) 

TICKER: WAG (NYSE) (98%); WAG (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (98%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (98%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%) SIC5912 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



93 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Software: Forecast Hurts Software Maker 

BYLINE:  By Laurie J. Flynn (NYT) (Compiled by Alan Krauss)

 BODY:
 Shares of Peregrine Systems, a 20-year-old enterprise software company, fell $5.24, or 36.1 percent, to $9.27 yesterday on news that it would post a loss for its latest quarter rather than the profit analysts had expected. Peregrine, based in San Diego, said it anticipated a loss of 7 cents to 8 cents a share on revenue of $175 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2002, which ended Dec. 31. 
Analysts had projected a profit of a dime a share. The pro forma loss excludes approximately $75 million in acquisition costs. Executives attributed the loss to poor economic conditions in Europe and delays in purchasing decisions by customers. It said business activity was up in North America. Final results are due Jan. 24. Laurie J. Flynn (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the daily closing price of Peregrine Systems shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

ORGANIZATION: PEREGRINE SYSTEMS INC (PRGN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



94 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
PROVIDIAN TO LAY OFF 800 WORKERS; WARNS OF MORE CUTS

BYLINE:  AP

 BODY:
 Providian Financial said yesterday that it would lay off 800 workers in California and Kentucky, and it warned of more layoffs as it struggled to recover from mounting loan losses. 
The layoffs, affecting 6 percent of the work force, follow 550 job cuts made after the company decided in November to close a Nevada office. The latest cuts involve employees in four California cities, San Francisco, Oakland, Pleasanton and Sacramento, as well as Louisville, Ky., a spokesman said. Providian, a San Francisco-based issuer of credit cards, expects to take a charge of $10 million to $15 million to pay for the layoffs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); LABOR FORCE (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (51%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: CHASE CARD SERVICES INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: PROVIDIAN FINANCIAL CORP (PVN) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (85%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (85%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



95 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Consumer Confidence Falls 

BYLINE:  By Leslie Eaton (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 Consumers in New York City turned gloomier in December, even as their counterparts upstate and across the nation grew cheerier, according to a monthly survey of consumer confidence, an important economic indicator. The index for the New York City metropolitan area fell by almost six points in December, to 79.6; meanwhile, the upstate index rose by almost three points, to 78.8. But both levels are much lower than the national confidence index, which rose almost five points last month, to 88.8. The study was conducted by the Siena College Research Institute, in conjunction with the University of Michigan. Leslie Eaton (NYT)



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); TRENDS (88%); CITIES (86%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (85%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%) SIENA COLLEGE 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



96 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: 'Battle of Normandy' May Go to Denver Mine 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON

DATELINE: TORONTO, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Newmont Mining, which is based in Denver, appeared set today to win the contest to take over Normandy Mining of Australia with a bid of $2.2 billion. The deal would make Newmont the world's biggest gold producer.
 AngloGold of South Africa, which had been vying for Normandy, bowed out of the bidding today after Newmont sweetened its bid. Anglo Gold said it had "no basis upon which it could justify an increase" in its last offer, made on Dec. 26. At current prices, Newmont's bid is worth about 6 cents a share more than AngloGold's; both are combinations of stock and cash. 
 A small chance remains that shifts in stock prices will close the gap between the two bids and make AngloGold's competitive again. "The game is going to be called by shareholders in the marketplace," Robert M. Godsell, chairman and chief executive of AngloGold, said in a telephone interview from Johannesburg.
But Ronald Coll, an analyst at Thomson Kernaghan in Toronto, summed up the view of many analysts and fund managers when he said, "I believe this is the end of it." Normandy's board reaffirmed its support for Newmont's bid today.
The three-way Newmont proposal also includes an uncontested offer for Franco-Nevada Mining, a Toronto-based company that derives most of its income from mining royalties. Franco-Nevada is Normandy's biggest single shareholder.
The four-month Battle of Normandy, as the takeover struggle came to be known, is seen as a landmark event in the gold mining industry, signaling an acceleration in the pace of mergers and acquisitions. The industry appears headed for domination by a few global players with efficient mines and wide appeal to institutional investors.
Pierre Lassonde, who is president of Franco-Nevada and will have the same title at the enlarged Newmont, said in a telephone interview: "For the first time in 20 years, you're going to have four or five producers who will control 35 to 40 percent of the industry. These producers can work together to shut down uneconomic production."
Mr. Godsell of AngloGold said that in the past equity investors viewed North America, South Africa and Australia as distinct spheres, but that the outcome of the Normandy battle showed that "we're all being put into one pot and being compared." He said the challenge for gold producers now was not so much to keep growing in size, but to demonstrate that they can operate profitably even at low gold prices.
Michael Fowler, an analyst at Harris Partners in Toronto, said the emerging leaders would probably include Newmont, AngloGold, Barrick Gold of Canada and possibly one more company. Potential takeover targets, he said, include Placer Dome of Vancouver, Gold Fields of South Africa and Lihir Gold, which operates a large mine in Papua New Guinea.
Mr. Coll said that having failed to win Normandy, AngloGold, which is 53 percent owned by Anglo American of London, "has an unfulfilled urge to merge with a non-South African company."
According to Mr. Godsell, more consolidation is also likely regionally, especially in Nevada and western Australia, where competing mines are close together and could achieve economies of scale if combined. AngloGold and Barrick are talking about cooperating in Tanzania; analysts say Barrick and Newmont have interests in Nevada and northern Ontario that are ripe for rationalization.
The enlarged Newmont will have 22 mines on five continents, annual production of 8.2 million ounces and a market value of more than $8 billion. AngloGold produces 7.2 million ounces a year; Barrick Gold, including Homestake Mining of Walnut Creek, Calif., which it bought recently, produces about 5.7 million ounces.
With a strong balance sheet and much of its revenue locked in through an active hedging program, Barrick has been the clear favorite of gold investors. Newmont has pledged to offer investors an obvious alternative to Barrick by unwinding Normandy's hedge book, making it fully exposed to changes in gold prices. It said today that it would sell some "noncore, non-Australian" assets, raising $250 million to $300 million; it gave no details.
Newmont's latest offer is 50 Australian dollars ($25.75) -- 10 Australian dollars more than before -- plus 3.85 of its shares for each 100 shares of Normandy; it put the total value at 1.93 Australian dollars a share.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert J. Champion de Crespigny, right, chief executive of Normandy Mining, with Bruce D. Hansen, chief financial officer, Newmont Mining. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLD MINING (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); WORLD WAR II (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); MERGERS (78%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; METALS, MINERALS AND MINING 

COMPANY: ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LTD (92%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (59%); NEWCREST MINING LTD (58%); FRANCO-NEVADA CORP (58%); NEWMONT MINING CORP OF CANADA LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEWMONT MINING CORP (NEM); NORMANDY MINING LTD (NMDMF) 

TICKER: AU (NYSE) (92%); AGG (ASX) (92%); AGD (LSE) (92%); NEM (NYSE) (59%); NM (TSX) (58%); NCM (ASX) (58%); FNV (TSX) (58%); FNV (NYSE) (58%); NMC (TSX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (92%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (92%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (58%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (58%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%) SIC1041 GOLD ORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); COLORADO, USA (90%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (91%); CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



97 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: Slack Results for Hedge Funds 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Hedge funds, which make bets on swings in stocks, bonds, currencies and commodity prices, rose about 4 percent on average last year, about the same as what investors made holding three-month United States Treasury bills. 
 Gains in 2001 fell short of the 10.6 percent average advance in 2000, according to the Allenbridge Group, a London-based research firm. 
They also were about a fifth of what investors tend to expect from the loosely regulated funds, which are marketed to institutions and the wealthy. Performance in the $500 billion hedge fund business lagged as stock markets tumbled. 
 "Hedge funds didn't make a lot of money in 2001," said Jacob Schmidt, head of Allenbridge's hedge fund research unit, which tracks 2,100 funds. "We had extremely difficult markets in terms of volatility for stocks, bonds and currencies." 
The Weavering Capital Fund Ltd. lost more than 90 percent last year, mainly because it expected interest rates to fall less than they did, while the Argent Classic Convertible Arbitrage Fund gained 85 percent by investing in the debt of companies with lower credit ratings. The Quadriga GCT Futures fund rose 45 percent after betting stocks would fall. 
The Standard & Poor's 500 index lost 13 percent while the Nasdaq composite index and Europe's Dow Jones Stoxx 50 index each lost about 20 percent last year. Stock mutual funds in America and Europe had their biggest losses since 1974.
Three-month bills, regarded as the least risky fixed-income security, returned 4.4 percent last year, according to Merrill Lynch & Company indexes. That is also what Fidelity Cash Reserves, the biggest money market fund, earned for investors in 2001, according to iMoneynet, a research firm in Westborough, Mass. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (77%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); DOW JONES & CO INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: WEAVERING CAPTIAL FUND 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



98 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: Airline to Close 5 Offices 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
The UAL Corporation's United Airlines unit said today that it would close five reservations offices and lay off 899 employees because of a soft economy, fewer flights and lower sales after the Sept. 11 attacks. 
 Four of the offices are in California and the fifth is in Illinois, the airline said. They will be closed effective Feb. 28. Some of the workers may be eligible to relocate to other offices of the airline. 
 United has reduced flight and seat capacity about 23 percent since Sept. 11. The airline said today that it had laid off 19,000 of the 100,000 workers it had before the attacks. UAL plans to anounce a recovery plan later this month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); TERRORISM (87%); RELOCATIONS (85%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (85%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (95%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UAL CORP (UAL) 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (95%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (95%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (95%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



99 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Incentives Prop Up Sales but May Haunt Carmakers Later 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Auto sales, propelled by low-cost financing, finished the year slightly below a record set in 2000, according to data released today. But expectations for 2002 are pessimistic because of the economy as well as the dent that the incentives have probably made in demand.
 Carmakers ended 2001 with sales of about 17.1 million vehicles, down slightly from the record 17.3 million in sales a year earlier. Few analysts expected such a strong performance last summer, when industry sales were lagging, and the Sept. 11 attacks all but halted showroom traffic. 
 But buyers came back in droves when the automakers, led by General Motors, introduced interest-free financing on many of their vehicles. Without the loan deals, industry officials estimate, the industry's selling pace for the fourth quarter would have been a tepid 15 million vehicles, on a seasonally adjusted annual basis.
Instead, the deals led to double-digit sales increases during the fall. But they came at a cost, for both the companies' pocketbooks, and, therefore, for their 2001 results and their 2002 sales.
Each loan cost the auto companies about $2,300 in lost interest payments. Moreover, analysts and executives estimate that about 500,000 sales were cannibalized from 2002, as people bought vehicles sooner than they had planned.
Forecasters say that if the economy recovers quickly, sales of about 15.9 million cars and trucks are expected this year. If it remains sluggish, they say, those expectations fall to about 15 million vehicles, a level not seen since 1996. "That's a million units gone -- vaporized," said James Hall, an auto industry analyst with AutoPacific Inc. in Southfield, Mich. 
Some auto executives predict that sales will be higher, even if their own economists do not agree. G.M. is forecasting industry sales of 15 million to 15.5 million, but that sober projection is rejected by William J. Lovejoy, G.M.'s group vice president for North American sales, service and marketing.
"I'm optimistic," he said today. "I think it will be stronger."
Mr. Lovejoy was glowing as G.M. claimed its first increase in overall market share since 1988, even though G.M., Ford and Chrysler all reported sales declines for 2001.
According to Ward's Automotive Reports, G.M. wound up with 28.34 percent of car and light-truck sales, a tiny increase of about 0.03 percent. That was still well below the 30 percent share that has long been the company's target.
G.M.'s market share peaked in 1960 at 60 percent, and the company -- trying to take advantage of financial problems at Ford and Chrysler -- has focused lately on regaining share, even at the expense of profits.
G.M., which led the industry into the fall's round of loan incentives and persisted even as its rivals cried foul over the cost, introduced a new incentive program today to replace its interest-free loan plan, which expired on Wednesday. 
Under the new program, G.M. is offering rebates of $2,002 on most models. Unlike the loan program, which was available only to the best credit risks, the new plan offers discounts to people leasing vehicles or paying cash. The rebates can also be coupled with discounted loans.
The plan is intended to maintain G.M.'s sales momentum, Mr. Lovejoy said. 
There were signs in December that the interest-free loans were losing their initial appeal. G.M., Ford and Chrysler reported only single-digit sales increases last month, compared with jumps of 30 percent and more in October and November, when the loans were still a novelty.
Officials at Ford and Chrysler, which will continue to offer interest-free financing plans into this month, said they would study the new G.M. program. James G. O'Connor, president of the Ford division, termed the plan "rich." Even so, the $2,002 rebates are less than the average cost of G.M.'s interest-free loans and smaller than the $2,500 discounts the company had already been offering on some vehicles.
The new deals are also far smaller than the rebates of up to $5,000 a car that auto companies have routinely promoted over the years during inventory clearance promotions at the end of the season.
Along with its market share increase, G.M. is claiming the crown as the industry's leader in truck sales. G.M. was slow to spot buyers' shift to pickups, sport utilities and minivans in the 1990's, but it has recently begun offering a new S.U.V. series that has helped propel the industry's truck sales past those of cars in 2001, for the first time. 
In December, 68 percent of G.M.'s sales were of light trucks, according to Mr. Lovejoy; for the year, the figure was about 58 percent of sales.
Ford's F-series pickup remained the industry's best-selling vehicle for the 25th consecutive year. Ford said it had sold more than 911,000 F-series trucks, the first time since 1972 that a single vehicle nameplate topped the 900,000 mark. Chevrolet's big sedans -- the Bel Air, Caprice and Impala -- were the last to achieve sales volume that high. Back then, G.M. counted the three as a single nameplate for sales purposes.
But the truck sales boom could not propel Detroit's Big Three companies to overall sales increases for the year. G.M.'s sales fell 1.1 percent, Ford's were off 5.5 percent, and Chrysler's sales dropped 10 percent.
The year was different for a number of foreign-based auto companies. Several of them set United States sales records in 2001 without having to offer widespread discounting. 
Audi, a division of Volkswagen; Volvo, owned by Ford; and BMW all set sales records, as did Toyota, with sales up 7.9 percent. 
Though analysts expect that Toyota could eventually surpass Chrysler to become the third-biggest company in the American market, Toyota ended 2001 about 400,000 vehicles behind Chrysler, with sales of 1.7 million cars and trucks. Toyota's Lexus brand remained the best-selling one in the luxury category for the second consecutive year.
But the Toyota Camry lost the best-selling-car title to the Honda Accord, which last held that crown a decade ago. Honda, which sold just over 411,000 Accords, said its American sales for the year had risen 4.2 percent, to just over 1.2 million.
Nissan, in the midst of a corporate overhaul under the guidance of Carlos Ghosn, the Renault executive dispatched to run the Japanese carmaker, said its sales for the year had dropped 6.5 percent, though sales proved to be stronger in December, thanks in part to the company's refurbished Altima sedan.
South Korean automakers, which focus on lower-priced vehicles, posted their best year ever in the United States. Hyundai, Kia, part of Hyundai, and Daewoo sold a collective 618,000 vehicles, the first time the three had topped the 600,000 mark.

GRAPHIC: Photo: After the terrorist attacks in September hurt sales, General Motors used interest-free loans for many vehicles to entice prospective buyers to visit dealerships. Similar deals from other automakers quickly followed. (Associated Press)(pg. C2) Chart: "Holding Steady"General Motors' share of light vehicle sales, which include cars and light trucks, edged up very slightly in 2001 from 2000. But the market share for both Ford and Chrysler slipped by more than one percentage point over 2000. GENERAL MOTORS: 28.3%FORD: 22.9%CHRYSLER*: 13.3% *Does not include Daimler Graph tracks percentage market share of light vehicles sold in United States from 1990-2001.(Source: Ward's AutoInfoBank)(pg. C1) Chart: "U.S. Vehicle Sales in December"ANNUAL SELLING RATEFor cars and light trucks sold in the U.S., seasonally adjusted. Graph tracks number of cars and Light trucks: minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickups sold, measured in millions, from June 2000 to December 2001. INDUSTRY SALESFor vehicles sold in the U.S. 2001Cars: 574,445Light trucks: 735,731Total: 1,310,176 2000Cars: 610,774Light trucks: 629,556Total: 1,240,330 CHANGE*Cars: -6.0%Light trucks: +16.9Total: +5.6 CAR SALESCompanies listed were the leading sellers in the U.S. market in 2000. G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 130,668CHANGE*: -19.2%MARKET SHARE: 22.8% Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 83,045CHANGE*: -19.7MARKET SHARE: 14.5 ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 75,343CHANGE*: -1.1MARKET SHARE: 13.1 Daimler-ChryslerSNUMBER$ SOLD: 52,704CHANGE*: -1.3MARKET SHARE: 9.2 HondaNUMBER SOLD: 64,181CHANGE*: -2.8MARKET SHARE: 11.2 NissanNUMBER SOLD: 37,400CHANGE*: +21.3MARKET SHARE: 6.5 TOP-SELLING VEHICLESThe top-selling vehicles in the U.S. and change from a year earlier. Ford F-SeriesNUMBER SOLD: 84,278CHANGE: +35.2% Chevrolet SilveradoNUMBER SOLD: 65,528CHANGE: +20.5 Toyota CamryNUMBER SOLD: 33,106CHANGE: -10.1 Ford ExplorerNUMBER SOLD: 30,887CHANGE: +11.5 Dodge RamNUMBER SOLD: 30,253CHANGE: +9.3 Honda AccordNUMBER SOLD: 30,069CHANGE: -11.4 Honda CivicNUMBER SOLD: 21,660CHANGE: +5.7 Jeep Gr. CherokeeNUMBER SOLD: 21,096CHANGE: +2.5 GMC SierraNUMBER SOLD: 18,929CHANGE: +25.7 Dodge CaravanNUMBER SOLD: 18,466CHANGE: +29.5 Chevrolet TahoeNUMBER SOLD: 17,872CHANGE: +18.2 Ford TaurusNUMBER SOLD: 16,901CHANGE: -33.5 LIGHT TRUCK SALESCompanies listed were the leading sellers in the U.S. market in 2000. Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 194,007CHANGE*: +15.5%MARKET SHARE: 26.4% G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 227,245CHANGE*: +30.7MARKET SHARE: 30.9 Daimler-ChryslerSNUMBER$ SOLD: 145,374CHANGE*: +8.0MARKET SHARE: 19.8 ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 68,859CHANGE*: +19.2MARKET SHARE: 9.4 NissanNUMBER SOLD: 23,793CHANGE*: -4.4MARKET SHARE: 3.2 HondaNUMBER SOLD: 30,701CHANGE*: +39.7MARKET SHARE: 4.2 *Based on average daily sales, including fleet sales, adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month. +Includes Volvo and Rover sales.SIncludes$ Mercedes-Benz sales.(Source: Ward's AutoInfoBank)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MARKET SHARE (88%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TERRORISM (70%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



100 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: America The Polarized 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
When Congress returns to Washington, the battles will resume -- and each party will accuse the other of partisanship. Why can't they just get along?
 Because fundamental issues are at stake, and the parties are as far apart on those issues as they have ever been. 
 A recent article in Slate led me to Keith Poole and Howard Rosenthal, political scientists who use data on Congressional voting to create "maps" of politicians' ideological positions. They find that a representative's votes can be predicted quite accurately by his position in two dimensions, one corresponding to race issues, the other a left vs. right economic scale reflecting issues such as marginal tax rates and the generosity of benefits to the poor. 
And they also find -- not too surprisingly -- that the center did not hold. Ralph Nader may sneer at "Republicrats," but Democrats and Republicans have diverged sharply since the 1980's, and are now further apart on economic issues than they have been since the early 20th century.
Whose position changed? Tom Daschle doesn't seem markedly more liberal than, say, the late Tip O'Neill. On the other hand, Tom DeLay, who will soon be House majority leader, is clearly to the right of previous Republican leaders. In short, casual observation suggests that American politics has become polarized because Republicans have shifted to the right, and Democrats haven't followed them. And sure enough, the Poole-Rosenthal numbers that show a divergence between the parties also show that this divergence reflects a Republican move toward more conservative economic policies, while Democrats have more or less stayed put. As people like James Jeffords and Lincoln Chafee have found, it has become very hard to be what we used to call a moderate Republican. 
But why did the Republicans move to the right?
It could be a matter of sheer intellectual conviction. Republicans have realized that low taxes and small government are good for everyone, and Democrats just don't get it. But ideas tend to take root when the soil has been fertilized by social and economic trends. Dr. Poole suggests that the most likely source of political polarization is economic polarization: the sharply widening inequality of income and wealth. 
I know from experience that even mentioning income distribution leads to angry accusations of "class warfare," but anyway here's what the (truly) nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office recently found: Adjusting for inflation, the income of families in the middle of the U.S. income distribution rose from $41,400 in 1979 to $45,100 in 1997, a 9 percent increase. Meanwhile the income of families in the top 1 percent rose from $420,200 to $1.016 million, a 140 percent increase. Or to put it another way, the income of families in the top 1 percent was 10 times that of typical families in 1979, and 23 times and rising in 1997.
It would be surprising indeed if this tectonic shift in the economic landscape weren't reflected in politics. 
You might have expected the concentration of income at the top to provoke populist demands to soak the rich. But as I've said, both casual observation and the Poole-Rosenthal numbers tell us that the Democrats haven't moved left, the Republicans have moved right. Indeed, the Republicans have moved so far to the right that ordinary voters have trouble taking it in; as I pointed out in an earlier column, focus groups literally refused to believe accurate descriptions of the stimulus bill that House Republican leaders passed on a party-line vote back in October.
Why has the response to rising inequality been a drive to reduce taxes on the rich? Good question. It's not a simple matter of rich people voting themselves a better deal: there just aren't enough of them. To understand political trends in the United States we probably need to think about campaign finance, lobbying, and the general power of money to shape political debate.
In any case, the moral of this story is that the political struggles in Washington right now are not petty squabbles. The right is on the offensive; the left -- occupying the position formerly known as the center -- wants to hold the line. Many commentators still delude themselves with the comforting notion that all this partisanship is a temporary aberration. Sorry, guys: this is the way it's going to be, for the foreseeable future. Get used to it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TRENDS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%); TOM DASCHLE (67%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



101 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Long Reach of War in Afghanistan 

BYLINE:  By SARITHA RAI

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Zameer Pasha, a 42-year-old Muslim, owns a small store in the heart of a Muslim neighborhood here. The store, Pan Plaza, sells American brands of soft drinks, ice cream and cigarettes, along with some locally made products, like cookies and chewing tobacco.
 It is thousands of miles away from Kabul, and Mr. Pasha has no known relatives in Afghanistan. 
 Still, as American-backed troops advanced there and as Afghans celebrated the toppling of the Taliban last month, Mr. Pasha reveled in every bit of the news -- news that meant a local Muslim boycott of American-made goods would soon end and it would be business as usual for him.
"It is a relief that people are thirsting for Coke and Pepsi again," Mr. Pasha said recently, even as he prayed that another war would not break out closer to home, between the nuclear-armed rivals India and Pakistan.
Mr. Pasha's store and hundreds of other businesses across the country had been caught in an unexpected business upheaval when Muslim leaders in India called for a boycott of American products after the aerial strikes on Afghanistan began in October. Buying and selling such products constitutes support of the United States and, indirectly, its bombing of civilians in Afghanistan, the leaders said.
Sales in Mr. Pasha's shop plummeted. His profit from the bulk of the business, the sale of soft drinks -- mostly Coke and Pepsi -- had been about 200 rupees ($4.25) a day; it fell by half.
Though the boycott was supposed to be voluntary, the pressure was intense. And Mr. Pasha was torn between devotion to his community and having to earn a living. If he had to give up stocking soft drinks, he, his wife and their three children would have faced rough times. He would probably not have been able to pay the 1,000 rupees ($21.27) monthly rent on his store or keep his business profitable solely by selling locally made odds and ends. 
Mr. Pasha spent anxious nights after locals from his community came to his door several times exhorting him to stop selling American products. The list of boycotted goods included everything from soaps to toothpaste, branded jeans to cigarettes, even cars and credit cards. The Muslim leaders were asking that shoppers substitute Indian products for American brands.
At the height of the war, sales of American products fell in hundreds of small stores in cities with sizable Muslim populations, like Bangalore and Mumbai. The slump was pronounced in shops selling Coke and Pepsi, the most visible American brands in India, controlling the bulk of the country's $1.1 billion soft drink market.
Coke's Indian subsidiary employs nearly 6,000 people and sells the drink from thousands of coolers across the country. The boycott had very little impact on Coke's soft drink sales, said Nantoo Banerjee, director of communications for Coca-Cola India. But, he added: "Tens of thousands of people in India live on products such as ours. Boycotts such as these threaten local jobs and affect the local economy."
Though only 12 percent of the population in Hindu-dominated India is Muslim, that equals around 120 million potential customers in the world's second-most-populous country. And the longer the war lasted, the more businesses were likely to be hit.
But the tide of the war and the local sentiment soon turned. As the boycott pinched, some Muslims started asking questions. "Why should we lose business over something going on between America and Afghanistan so far away?" asked Salim Khan, a Muslim who manages a restaurant called Rock Garden on the bustling Infantry Road in downtown Bangalore.
In Mr. Khan's restaurant, which serves Chinese and Indian food, the effects of the boycott were minimal. Not so for Mr. Pasha's store. The boycott had started just before Ramadan, the high season for soft-drink sales. Muslims typically break their ritual fast with a feast of lamb biryani downed with bottles of Coke or Pepsi.
Mr. Pasha's business suffered further because it is just around the corner from a mosque. Every Friday after the prayers, he could hear the moulvis -- priests who lead the prayers -- call on the faithful to shun American brands.
At home, too, Mr. Pasha was under siege. His 14-year-old son, Zamit, who regularly attends Friday Prayers, had not only stopped drinking Coke and Pepsi but had persuaded two younger siblings to do the same. "Every week, empty soft drinks crates used to be returned from my home but not anymore," Mr. Pasha said at the height of the boycott.
In another Bangalore neighborhood, another Muslim businessman, Syed Afzal, had been quick to bow to the order laid out by the ulemas, or Muslim scholars. Mr. Afzal owns Cool Point, a company that distributed 6,000 bottles of mostly American brands of soft drinks a day to small stores in his neighborhood. He said he had canceled his PepsiCo distributorship at the end of October and had stopped taking in Coke as well.
Mr. Afzal, who employs 20 people, all Muslims, said his workers also took a voluntary 50 percent cut in their daily wages. "They said they would take 50 rupees instead of 100 ($2.12), a sacrifice for the sake of the innocent civilians in Afghanistan," Mr. Afzal said.
When his community leaders directed him to buy Indian, Mr. Afzal began a search for a domestic soft drink that could make up for the business lost because of the boycott of the multinational favorites. The daunting task was made even tougher by the fact that the biggest Indian soft drink brand, Thums Up, had been bought by Coca-Cola a few years earlier.
As his search for that elusive Indian soft drink replacement became intense, news trickled in that the Taliban had been defeated by the United States' vigorous air strikes.
A relieved Mr. Afzal revived his Coke and Pepsi distributorships. Other retailers who had sworn never to stock Pepsi and Coke also softened as Afghans celebrated the defeat of the Taliban with singing and dancing on the streets.
Mr. Afzal ruminated on the excesses of the Taliban regime. "They wronged their own people -- our religion is not so rigid," he said.
Since business has returned to normal, Mr. Afzal is abandoning his search for a popular Indian replacement.
Still, "it's been over 50 years since independence and we don't have a soft drink that can outsell the American ones," he rued. Then he smiled. "Maybe when we have an Indian brand as big as Pepsi or Coke, we could revive this ban."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zameer Pasha, left, said local Muslims are once again buying American products like Coke and Pepsi, mainstays of his store in Bangalore, India, now that the Taliban regime in Afghanistan has fallen. (Namas Bhojani for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOYCOTTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (89%); TALIBAN (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BOMBINGS (71%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (59%) INDIA; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (56%) KARNATAKA, INDIA (87%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



102 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Argentina Is Preparing For Currency Devaluation
With a substantial devaluation of their currency now certain, Argentines braced for the worst as President Eduardo Duhalde and his newly appointed cabinet discussed ways to cushion the blow and avoid a repetition of the riots and protests that toppled his predecessor.
 Economists and political leaders predict that the government will lower the exchange rate of the peso, which has been valued at one to one with the dollar for the last decade, by 30 percent to 40 percent. A formal announcement is expected as early as today. Page A4. 

Newmont Raises Bid for Normandy
Newmont Mining of Denver sweetened its bid for Normandy Mining of Australia to $2.2 billion and appeared set to win the contest for the company after AngloGold of South Africa bowed out. World Business, Section W.

Wasserstein Makes Moves at Lazard
Bruce Wasserstein, the new chief executive at Lazard, the largest privately held investment bank, named four deputy chairmen. He also plans to distribute equity to the firm's 140 partners worldwide in an attempt to halt defections. The firm's existing partners will share about 36 percent of the company's equity, and there will be a separate pool, equal to about 24 percent of the company, that will be reserved for future partners. Mr. Wasserstein said he would also add employees in the United States and Europe, including a dozen partners in New York over the next six months. C3.

Little Savings Seen in Drug Cards
Federal investigators said that drug discount cards of the type proposed by President Bush had not significantly cut costs for elderly consumers buying brand-name medicines in metropolitan areas. A16.

Europeans Warmly Accept the Euro
At supermarkets and stores across Europe, the transition to euro notes and coins has been almost seamless. The European Commission estimates that 60 million people now have at least some euro notes and about 200 million have a supply of the new coins. A8.

Rates Left Unchanged in Europe
Policy makers at the European Central Bank left interest rates unchanged even though the economic outlook for the first half of the year remains bleak. World Business, Section W.

Comcast Copes With Web Trouble
Comcast said that it had "for the most part" solved problems that caused Internet and e-mail failures for about 7,000 customers in New Jersey, though some customers say the company has played down the extent of the problems. The problems occurred as Comcast switched Internet customers onto its own network from a network operated by Excite@Home, which declared bankruptcy. Shares of Comcast fell 30 cents, to $35.61. C2.

Career Company Faces Complaints
Hundreds of customers of Bernard Haldane Associates, which describes itself as the nation's oldest and largest career-management company, have complained about its practices to 11 state attorneys general. C3.

Jobless Claims Rise Unexpectedly
The number of the nation's workers filing new claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly surged during the last full week of 2001, the Labor Department reported. C5.

Disney to Close 50 More Stores
Walt Disney plans to close 50 more stores as it continues to revamp its retail unit, which has held down earnings in recent years. The company's chairman, Michael D. Eisner, said Disney was poised for growth when the economy turned around. C3.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,172.14 up 98.74Nasdaq composite -- 2,044.27 up 65.0210-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.10% down 0.06The euro -- $0.8996 down 0.0040The dollar -- 131.72 yen down 0.38 Graph: "TODAY" shows unemployment figures from June-November.UnemploymentDecember figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +5.8% Graph tracks the daily closing price of Comcast shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVALUATION (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EURO (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); COINS & COINAGE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); RIOTS (72%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (57%); BERNARD HALDANE ASSOCIATES INC (50%)

TICKER: NEM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (57%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BRUCE WASSERSTEIN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



103 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Vision For Ground Zero: Memorial and More 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the head of the commission charged with rebuilding Lower Manhattan said yesterday that the World Trade Center site was unlikely to be transformed mainly into a memorial to the victims of the terrorist attack -- an idea former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani promoted just last week.
 Instead, Mr. Bloomberg, in his third day as mayor, and John C. Whitehead, the chairman of the Lower Manhattan Redevelopment Corporation, said they both supported using the 16-acre site for office space, a memorial to the victims and other uses, perhaps including retail space. 
 At a news conference at City Hall yesterday, after a meeting between the mayor and 8 of the 11 members of the redevelopment corporation's board, Mr. Whitehead also cautioned that he did not envision the development of any giant office towers at the site. 
"I think there is a developing consensus -- among everybody I've talked to -- that it is not either practical or appropriate to build another 100-story building," Mr. Whitehead said. 
The announcements seemed to be another effort by the new mayor to set distinctions between his ideas for the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan and his predecessor's. 
In his farewell address last week at St. Paul's Chapel, steps from the trade center site, Mayor Giuliani said that "we shouldn't think about this site out there, right beyond us, right here, as a site for economic development."
Rather, he said, a "soaring, monumental, beautiful" memorial should be pursued first. "And then if we do that part right, then the economic development will just happen," he added. Office space could be built "in a lot of different places," Mr. Giuliani said.
Mr. Whitehead has embraced the idea of giving first priority to the design of a memorial. But yesterday, he said that "the size of the plot is not nearly as important as what appears on the plot." 
And when pressed to put emotions aside and consider whether the city needed some development there, given the size of the site and the value of real estate in Manhattan, Mr. Whitehead answered, "Yes, I think we do." 
"It must be the appropriate size," he said. "We'll be trying to determine that after consultation with everyone, including the families of the victims, of course."
In addition, he said, some of the office space will have to be rebuilt, even though Wall Street and the economy in general are currently in a recession. 
"We will need, before long, more office space," to replace some of the the 10 million square feet of space lost in the trade center attacks, Mr. Whitehead said. 
Mr. Bloomberg, too, noted that Mr. Giuliani had floated the idea of using the trade center site primarily for a memorial. But he said the redevelopment corporation "was appointed to look at all of the different possibilities."
"That's certainly one of the possibilities," he said. But he added that the board also represented "a number of interested parties," including people who live in the neighborhoods around the site and who have stores, businesses or jobs there. Their interests, too, must be taken into account in consideration of the site's future, he said.
Mr. Whitehead offered few other details of the 80-minute meeting with the mayor, or of any decisions reached by the redevelopment corporation since its formation more than a month ago. 
The group has yet to select an executive director to guide its daily operations. Mr. Whitehead said the redevelopment board would announce "in the next few days" the appointment of at least a half-dozen advisory panels. 
Separate groups of advisers will represent the interests of the families of victims, downtown residents, commuters to the downtown business district, the big Wall Street firms, developers, retail shopkeepers, and arts and cultural organizations, he said. 
Any priorities set by the board are also likely to reflect the desires of Gov. George E. Pataki, who appointed seven of its members. The other four were selected by Mr. Giuliani.
Mr. Bloomberg shrugged off the suggestion yesterday that his interests might not be represented on the board. Mr. Pataki and Mr. Giuliani "did run by me all of their appointees," he said, and he did not have any objections. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITIES (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TERRORISM (77%); HIJACKING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS 

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN REDEVELOPMENT CORP 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); RUDY GIULIANI (89%) WYATT, EDWARD; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); WHITEHEAD, JOHN C 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



104 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3224 words

HEADLINE: City Faces Challenge to Close Widest Budget Gap Since 70's 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON and MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
Suddenly, it's over. New York City's days of simultaneously cutting taxes, spending more and still managing to have billions of dollars left over at the end of each year have come to an abrupt halt, a victim of the recession, the fizzling of the Wall Street boom and the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. 
 The city is facing a budget gap of $3 billion to $5 billion in the fiscal year beginning this July -- roughly a tenth of its total budget. It is the largest next-year gap the city has had to close since the late 1970's, when it was still dealing with the fallout of the fiscal crisis. 
 It is a daunting challenge, one that is made all the more difficult by a hard truth of budgeting: the city typically faces pressure to spend the most when it has the least, because as the economy sours, more people turn to the city for help. In fact, after a long decline, the welfare rolls and unemployment had already started to edge up again in the final months of 2001. 
But for all the difficulties, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg can take at least a bit of solace: budget monitors and analysts say that the fiscal problems are far from insurmountable this year.
The city is still in fundamentally better shape than it was during the fiscal crisis of the 1970's and it is at almost no risk of defaulting on its obligations to debtors, budget monitors say. As long as the recession does not drag into next year, the city should be able to get through this coming budget year without extreme sacrifices, current and former city budget officials said.
City government jobs will be left unfilled. There will most likely be cuts again in spending for libraries, cultural institutions and city parks, among other areas. In labor talks, the city will be under pressure to limit raises it offers to police officers and teachers, who make up 53 percent of the city's work force. New city government programs and major construction projects will probably be delayed and other recently expanded city initiatives rolled back, budget monitors predicted.
But a review of city finances shows that it should be possible to close the gap without severely curtailing basic city services, laying off large numbers of city employees or imposing tax increases as large as those of the early 1990's.
"I'm not trying to say at all that this is going to be a walk in the park," said Robert A. Kurtter, a senior vice president at Moody's Investors Service. "There are tough decisions that are going to have to be made, but I think the city has a long record of making those decisions and of getting to balance."
Much of the flexibility comes as a result of hundreds of millions of dollars -- perhaps more than $1 billion -- worth of budget maneuvers that could create one-time savings for the city to help it get through this difficult year. Several of these so-called one-shots require approval from Congress or Albany, which is far from guaranteed. But many of them, including the use of debt reserve funds and the sale of city property, are expected to surface in several weeks, when Mr. Bloomberg issues his first budget plan for the 2003 fiscal year, which starts this July.
The city, in the final months of the Giuliani administration, also took some important steps to ease the coming austerity by making sure that the current fiscal year ends on June 30 without a deficit and perhaps even a sizable surplus.
And perhaps most promising, while the city's economy today is far worse than it has been since at least the early 1990's, the drop since the Sept. 11 attack has not been as precipitous as some had feared. As a result, while tax revenues will still be down for the fiscal year, they will not have dropped nearly as much as some had predicted.
Whatever relief this all provides, the era in which the city taxpayers delivered so much money that a mayor could cut taxes, increase spending at twice the rate of inflation and still finish the year with record budget surpluses is, at least for now, a piece of history. The ultimate test here, economists and fiscal monitors said, will not merely be balancing the 2003 fiscal year budget. It will be balancing the 2004 fiscal year budget, if the economy does not turn around by then, as all of the budget tricks may have already been pulled out of the bag.

Awesome Reckonings
New York City is a $40-billion-a-year enterprise, a government of such reach and responsibility that each year it spends more money than most states and some small nations. Its 40,000-member Police Department is the largest municipal force in the country, as is its school system, which educates more than a million students. The city government over all employs a quarter of a million people, equaling the population of Louisville, Ky.
All this means that when the reckoning comes -- as it has least at once for each of the mayors who have served the city over the last 35 years -- the budget deficit that has to be avoided is similarly awesome.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, on his last day in office, estimated the 2003 fiscal year budget gap at $2.9 billion. Alan G. Hevesi, the former city comptroller, says it ranges from $3.9 billion to $4.3 billion. State Comptroller H. Carl McCall, citing potential risks in the city's long-term plan, says it could be as high as $4.1 billion. Mr. Bloomberg said this week that he anticipated a $4 billion gap. Whatever it turns out to be, that is not good news; even at the lowest guess, the gap is nearly 10 percent of city taxpayer-financed revenues.
In its simplest terms, the projected budget deficit means the city is expecting to spend more money than it anticipates it will take in.
The World Trade Center disaster, of course, is a major factor. The nation has been in a recession since March, but for most of the past year the city's economy was still doing notably better than the rest of the country's.
The attack drove the city into a deeper recession than the nation. The New York Stock Exchange was closed for four days. Flights were suspended, and when they resumed, many passengers stayed earthbound, hurting the airline industry, local businesses connected to it, and tourism. As large downtown businesses remained closed or relocated, the small businesses that served them suffered painfully.
The city lost 94,700 jobs in October and November alone, leading budget monitors to predict that despite large job gains in the beginning of 2001, the city would end the year with roughly 3.7 million jobs, the same total it had when the year started. And during 2002, economists expect employment in the city to be nearly flat or, in the worst case, to drop by 114,000 jobs.
The danger is not merely of Wall Street jobs' moving to New Jersey and Connecticut, but of city businesses' laying off workers and even closing their doors for good. The confluence of the recession and the losses from terrorism, among other matters, means that the city is bracing for a sharp decline in expected tax revenues -- about $1.3 billion less this fiscal year.
Tax revenues are expected to pick up again slightly in the 2003 fiscal year, beginning in July, but are not anticipated to reach the soaring growth rates of the late 1990's.
To many budget monitors, the city's fiscal trouble started long before the attacks. These budget watchdog groups say that the just-departed Mayor Giuliani deserves a fair share of the blame.
When Mr. Giuliani arrived in office in 1994, also a time when the city was in an economic bind, he quickly established a reputation as a fiscal conservative by cutting back many city services, from street cleaning to the maintenance of city parks. As a result, during his first three years, the city's full-time work force dropped by about 20,000 to about 235,000, with particularly large dips among social service agencies.
But as his tenure at City Hall continued, he loosened the budget belt more than just a bit. City spending over the last five full budget years increased by an average of 5.3 percent per year, or more than twice the rate of inflation. During that time, the city payroll surged, returning to early 1990 levels. The city work force now includes far more police officers and teachers and fewer social workers. There also are tens of thousands more part-time workers today and more private contractors doing work once performed by city employees.
Mr. Giuliani succeeded in increasing the work force and expanding city services while simultaneously cutting taxes because of the skyrocketing tax revenues that generated giant surpluses in the mid-to-late 1990's. His administration used the huge surpluses to balance the budget in the following fiscal years.
Budget monitors had warned him for many years that relying on those surpluses to pay basic bills was a flawed strategy. It would not be unlike stockbrokers, or dot-com workers, who leased expensive apartments with their chunky bonuses and then had trouble paying the exorbitant rents as Wall Street slumped. 
"For the city, it was a big fiscal mistake," said Charles Brecher, research director at the Citizens Budget Commission. "The problem, of course, is once it exhausts the surplus, the people it hired are still on the payroll."
Other steps taken during the Giuliani years increased the pressure. After years of unexpectedly large returns from city pension fund investments, thanks to the rise in the stock market, the city took advantage of those gains by cutting its payments -- amounting to $800 million over two years -- to the pension fund system. Mr. Hevesi warned two years ago that this windfall should be saved in case the stock market dropped, which would require higher pension contributions, or that the money might be saved for a general buffer against a cooling economy. His warnings turned out to be true.
Finally, during the last eight years, the city took on much more debt to pay for all the new courthouses, schools and other government buildings and expanded or new cultural institutions that Mr. Giuliani made commitments during his tenure to build. Those promises now mean higher annual payments to pay off this increased debt.
Adam L. Barsky, who was Mr. Giuliani's last budget director, defended their spending plans, saying that the city government never spent more than it could afford, and at the same time cut taxes by billions of dollars.
"We are leaving the next mayor with a surplus in the current year's budget and a road map" for closing future gaps, he said.

Not Shy About Warnings
One result of the city's fiscal crisis of the 1970's was the creation of a number of boards to monitor the budget. Altogether, the budget is now monitored by the state's Financial Control Board, the state comptroller's office, the city comptroller's office and groups like the Independent Budget Office and the Citizens Budget Commission. 
None are shy about warning of coming deficits. In fact, Mr. Hevesi in late 1998 predicted a deficit totaling as much as $2.3 billion in the 2000 fiscal year, which instead ended with the largest surplus in city history, $3.2 billion. The Giuliani administration, not surprisingly, took particular umbrage at their predictions, disparaging the warnings as the work of back-seat drivers at best and political enemies or opportunists at worst.
The record surplus occurred in part because the Wall Street boom surpassed everyone's expectations, and in part because the Giuliani administration was intentionally conservative in projecting tax revenues. But by sounding alarms, these watchdog groups may have paved the way for the kind of actions that helped to close that budget gap.
This year, though, the monitors are warning that the situation really is serious. The big gaps are not two years down the line. Last month the city passed a package of spending reductions and newly found revenue sources to close a $1.3 billion gap in the current year's budget.
"This one is serious," said Mr. McCall, the state comptroller, who noted that the city is confronting a structural imbalance -- its spending is outstripping its revenues -- during a national recession at a time when the local economy is reeling from terrorist attacks.
And compared with others of recent years, the gap is large. 
An analysis by the Citizens Budget Commission in early December put the 2003 shortfall at 10 percent to 16 percent of all city-financed spending. That is not as bad as the fiscal crisis of 1975, when Abraham D. Beame was mayor and the city had to borrow the equivalent of 19 percent of its spending.
But the analysis found that it is worse than in other recent fiscal crises. During Mayor Edward I. Koch's first term, he had to close budget shortfalls of roughly 10 percent of city spending. The gaps that Mayor David N. Dinkins had to close were not that large, but came during a recession when tax revenues were plummeting even as social spending obligations were growing. And Mayor Giuliani had to close a gap of more than 8 percent in the first full year following his inauguration. 
The budget commission concludes that "the problem confronting Mayor Bloomberg is greater than any since the mid-1970's fiscal crisis under Mayor Beame."
Other analysts, however, paint a brighter picture. They note that the city is healthier today than in past years, as even the most dire predictions of job losses expected during the current recession are modest compared with losses in earlier slumps. Crime is still way down. New York today is still considered to be a more attractive place to work and live, said Mr. Kurtter, who rates bonds for cities and states nationwide.
Federal disaster recovery aid will certainly help the city, both in the short and long term, with one city estimate suggesting that over the next decade it could generate 136,000 jobs and nearly $900 million in city tax revenues. But that estimate assumes the city will get a total of $20 billion in aid, a figure that is not yet assured. So the ultimate impact and pace of the benefit will depend on how quickly Lower Manhattan is rebuilt and how much and how quickly federal aid arrives.
Low bond interest rates, experts say, will certainly help the city save on major construction projects.

Many Possible Solutions
So, how can a deficit of this magnitude be overcome?
The city has already taken some major steps to increase revenues: it decided to withdraw a $200 million tax cut package that seemed unlikely to win approval in Albany, and then decided not to extend a cut in the personal income tax surcharge adopted in 2000 and costing about $350 million a year. 
Following are other ways to free up millions, some of which are already planned in the 2003 budget. 
*The leftover surplus at the end of June could range from $126 million to as much as $1 billion, city budget officials say, depending on how badly tax revenues slide and other factors. 
*About $100 million or more could be realized through refinancing some of the city's $40 billion outstanding debt. But that would require loosening federal restrictions on municipal debt and easing some of the rules imposed by the city comptroller's office.
*A sale of the city's Off-Track Betting Corporation parlors could fetch $250 million, but would require legislative approval, which is not certain. And city labor unions are fiercely opposed to the sale.
*As much as $200 million could be freed up through an early retirement incentive and a severance package for city employees -- which work only if the positions remain unfilled. Part of this package needs approval by the state and the labor unions. A probable selective hiring freeze could save another $150 million.
*There are other, relatively painless potential savings -- taking about $30 million from the city jails, which have about 25 percent fewer inmates than five years ago, or having the Sanitation Department pick up recyclables every other week instead of once a week, saving roughly $15 million. 
*One of the proposed one-shot deals involves the entity that bailed the city out of the fiscal crisis of the 1970's: the Municipal Assistance Corporation, which was created to issue debt for the city when the bond markets shut it out. In 2003, the city wants to take $250 million from the corporation's reserve fund.
*Easing federal requirements for how the city pays for welfare programs, and increasing the share of Medicaid costs borne by the state and federal governments, could save the city hundreds of millions of dollars. Both proposals have been submitted to the state and federal governments, but are far from assured. 
*An amnesty program, followed by an aggressive tax collection drive, could yield tens of millions that the city is owed from past years but has remained uncollected.

'All of the Above'
To Mr. Barsky, the options listed above are all on the table and probably necessary. "The answer to this question is 'all of the above,' " he said.
Mayor Bloomberg has consistently ruled out raising taxes, saying during his inaugural address: "We cannot drive people and business out of New York. We cannot raise taxes. We will find another way." But before the year is out, some tax measures are almost sure to be discussed.
For example, if the city property tax rate, which has remained constant for a decade, were increased an average of $100 per household per year, it would generate about $500 million in extra city revenues.
While ratings agencies and budget monitors typically frown on one-shot deals to close budget shortfalls, several said in interviews that they would be more willing to tolerate them this year, given the circumstances, than they would in normal years. Still, they cautioned that in taking such actions, the city should carefully consider the future costs.
"If they have a menu of gimmicks, and with each one an associated cost, they will have to make the choices that maximize the benefit in closing the gap but minimize the cost in the coming years," said Dr. Marcia Van Wagner, the chief economist for the Citizens Budget Commission. 
Mr. Barsky predicted that several moves would drive down the shortfall to roughly $1.5 billion. 
It is that number, give or take a bit, that the difficult spending cuts will have to make up for. Parks, libraries and cultural institutions, as well as social service programs like day care and services for the elderly, are often among the first to go. Efforts to reduce classroom sizes and invest in low-cost housing would also most likely be deferred. 
Maintenance projects to repair the city's roads and bridges could be put off, but that often leads to increased costs later. And capital projects -- to build courthouses, cultural institutions and other public facilities -- could be postponed. For each billion dollars in capital spending that is put off, the city can save $60 million to $100 million in debt service annually, city officials said.
But getting through June 2003 is one thing. Getting through the year after that, if the economy does not improve, is quite another.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York predicts that the regional recession will end in the final quarter of this year, but that the economy will remain extremely weak. If that is the case, and hundreds of millions of dollars in one-time deals are no longer available to close the budget gap, the city will face particular stress. 
"If the recession lasts into 2003," Mr. Kurtter of Moody's said, "that's when the fiscal fabric of the city really starts to tear."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Ups and Downs in Budget and Work Force"The city's budget and work force have fluctuated since the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's, dipping at first sharply during the administration of Mayor Abraham D. Beame and then gradually rising during the tenures of Mayors Edward I. Koch and David N. Dinkins. During the Giuliani administration, both spending and the work force were cut at first, but as the economy boomed they surged again. City SpendingAdjusted for inflation Graph tracking the city spending since 1975. City EmployeesIncluding those paid by the state through special grants and programs Graph tracking the number of city employees since 1975. Budget GapsGaps faced by mayors in the first new fiscal year after inauguration* In inflation adjusted dollars, as of each December KOCH1983: $1.4 billion1987: 0.7 billion DINKINS1991: 0.5 billion GIULIANI1995: 2.0 billion1999: 1.3 billion BLOOMBERG2003: 2.9 billion to 4.1 billion Percentage of city funded revenues KOCH1983: 7.7%1987: 3.0% DINKINS1991: 2.0% GIULIANI1995: 8.1%1999: 5.2% BLOOMBERG2003: 10.8% to 15% *Since 1981, the city has balanced its budget every year. But each year, it projects a budget deficit that must be closed. The gap projections are adjusted to remove the impact of proposed but not enacted tax cuts. (Sources: Office of the State Deputy Comptroller for New York City; New York City Office of Management and Budget)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); TAX INCREASES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (73%); TAX LAW (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (72%); TERRORISM (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (64%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (61%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



105 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Agencies Say Relocation of Survivors' Aid Center Comes as a Surprise 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA STEWART 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced yesterday afternoon that the comprehensive social services center set up on Pier 94 for people left jobless, homeless, bereaved or injured by the attack on the World Trade Center would shut down today, and that a similar center would open in a city-owned downtown building on Monday.
 He said that many of the leaders of organizations that have been offering economic, legal and emotional help at the Pier 94 center were "ecstatic" about the move. 
 But representatives of the various agencies said yesterday that they had not been told about the closing or the move. They said they would have appreciated more notice. 
The new center will be situated at 51 Chambers Street, a 13,000-square-foot space that used to be an Emigrant Savings Bank branch. Like the Pier 94 center, it will be a social services version of one-stop shopping, said Jonathan D. Greenspun, commissioner of the Community Assistance Unit. Most of the 15 or so agencies at Pier 94 -- which included the Red Cross, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Safe Horizons, the Salvation Army and a chaplains' center -- will have stations there, he said.
Mr. Greenspun said that agency representatives were told at a meeting Wednesday evening about the closing. But officials of the Red Cross, Safe Horizons and the Salvation Army said that references to the closing were vague. The Red Cross learned of the moving date only yesterday afternoon, said Nancy Rutherford, an agency spokeswoman.
And Becky Michaels of Safe Horizons said: "There's been an ever-liquid end date. But it hadn't ever been concrete."
Mr. Greenspun said that the relocation of the center was necessary to accommodate a trade show scheduled to open at Pier 94 in 10 days.
Employees who arrived at Pier 94 yesterday expecting a typical day encountered workers packing equipment that the agencies had been using. The Rev. Bill Minson found that the curtains surrounding the chaplains' station had been removed. "We had to ask them to please put them up again and leave them until the end of the day," he said.
Employees said they had long known that Pier 94 was a temporary site and had heard rumors of various moving dates, but that the timing had come as a surprise.
"I'm in shock," said a volunteer at the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. "Where are we going to go now? We've been here all these months, through all these emotional times and now -- poof! I think we deserved some ceremony in closing this."
Agency officials and employees also said they were worried that certain advantages of the Pier 94 center might be lost in the move. In particular, they were concerned that there might not be space for some agencies at the new location. The proximity of the various agencies was one of the best features of the Pier 94 center, said Maj. George Polarek, a Salvation Army commander. "We got to know each other," he said. "We could walk clients to another agency and stay with them through the entire process."
Also important to many agency workers was the preservation of the remembrance wall at Pier 94, covered with hundreds of letters, drawings and posters of the missing. Mr. Greenspun said that the photos, posters and letters would be taken off the wall and eventually exhibited at the Museum of the City of New York.
He also said that most agencies would be given space at the Chambers Street building but that some of the specialized services, like hot meals and DNA sampling to help identify victims, might not be available. Signs will be posted at the Pier 94 site about the new downtown center and information will be posted on World Trade Center Web sites, Mr. Greenspun said. 
Mr. Minson, the chaplain, said that in the long run, the move would probably be a good thing. But it would have been better, he said, to give employees, volunteers and family members more time to say goodbye to a center that has been the focus of so much grief.
"We experienced a lot of emotions here," he said. "We've given a lot of comfort and felt a lot of stress."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Photos of the missing from the Sept. 11 attack adorn the exterior of Pier 94 on the Hudson. The assistance center inside is to shut down today and reopen in a city-owned downtown building on Monday. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (91%); RELOCATIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (75%); TERRORISM (73%); ANIMAL WELFARE (73%); AIRLINES (63%); BANK BRANCHES (54%); TRADE SHOWS (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PIER 94 (NYC); RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

COMPANY: EMIGRANT SAVINGS BANK (56%)

ORGANIZATION: THE SALVATION ARMY (82%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%) STEWART, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



106 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Disney Plans More Cutbacks As Chief Forecasts Rebound 

BYLINE:  Reuters

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
The chairman of the Walt Disney Company, Michael D. Eisner, acknowledged today that he, like many shareholders, was disappointed with Disney's stock price, but said it was poised for growth when the economy turned around.
 In his annual letter to shareholders, Mr. Eisner vowed to shave costs further. He forecast that when Disney's fiscal year ends in September, its money-losing Internet operations will show a profit. 
 "We are now officially in a recession, and people have less disposable income for travel," Mr. Eisner wrote. "However, when the economy does come back, and as confidence in America's safety continues to grow, there is every reason to believe that the performance at our parks will be stronger than ever."
Mr. Eisner said Disney would close 50 more Disney Stores as it continues to revamp its retail unit. Disney aims to drop the number of stores to 300 to 400 in North America from more than 600 in fiscal 1997.
But analysts said the big questions for Disney in 2002 were whether and when Walt Disney World in Florida and Disneyland and California Adventure in Southern California would bounce back from the tourism slump after the Sept. 11 attacks and the recession.
Second to theme park attendance is the timing of a rebound at Disney's ABC television network, which has suffered from a severe advertising slump and a steep ratings decline because it currently lacks the kind of hit it had in 2000 with the game show "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire." This year, the popularity of "Millionaire" faded.
A Prudential analyst, Kathy Styponias, said Disney "is doing as much as it can on the cost side" of the theme park business, and it should be poised for a rebound "as consumers feel more comfortable with flying and traveling."
She added, "With ABC, the company is facing different issues. The ability to turn that around is a long process."
She said Disney needed to use Hollywood's TV development talent outside ABC's own programming executives, if necessary, to find a winning program.
Disney's major cost-cutting efforts in 2001 included reductions of some 4,000 positions -- many at the theme parks -- primarily through voluntary resignations.
The cutbacks, however, failed to overcome the triple blow of a recession, an ad slump and the Sept. 11 attacks. Disney earnings in fiscal 2001, ended Sept. 30, plummeted to $120 million, before accounting changes, versus $920 million in 2000.
After accounting adjustments, Disney reported a net loss of $158 million in fiscal 2001, and its stock sank, too.
Disney rose 67 cents today, to $22.12. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (86%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); FILM (66%); ACCOUNTING (60%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (55%); TOURISM (52%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); DISNEY STORE INC (56%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY/ABC CABLE NETWORKS 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); SIC5947 GIFT, NOVELTY, & SOUVENIR SHOPS (56%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (55%) SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION; 

PERSON: EISNER, MICHAEL D 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



107 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: At the Election Year Starting Line 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Worried about President Bush's wartime popularity, Democrats are beginning a concerted election year drive to criticize his stewardship of the economy and portray themselves as the party of job growth and fiscal responsibility.
 Senator Tom Daschle, the majority leader, will start the offensive in a speech here on Friday, trying to frame the debate over the budget and recession three weeks before Mr. Bush's State of the Union address. 
 Mr. Daschle, of South Dakota, is to set out a seven-point Democratic program for growth, including a tax credit for businesses that add workers and a package of unemployment insurance and health benefits for displaced workers. He will sharply criticize the $1.35 trillion tax cut enacted last year as the centerpiece of Mr. Bush's legislative program. 
The House minority leader, Representative Richard A. Gephardt, is to amplify the themes in his own speech just before the State of the Union address. And the Democratic National Committee is deploying lawmakers and local elected officials across the country this month to talk about the recession and the federal budget.
Mr. Bush, keenly aware that his father lost his re-election bid because he was viewed as detached from domestic concerns, is not planning to cede the debate. He is to travel to California and Oregon on Saturday to sell his proposals for tax cuts and unemployment aid under the banner of "economic security.'
The Democratic drive occurs at the start of an election-year struggle for control of both houses of Congress, and Republicans and Democrats alike say the economy will be a dominant concern. Efforts to pass an economic stimulus package collapsed last month in partisan finger-pointing. Leaders of both parties said they would revisit the issue when Congress reconvenes this month.
On Friday, the government is to release employment figures for December that are likely to show a substantial increase in unemployment for the third month in a row.
In the text of his speech, Mr. Daschle faults Mr. Bush's tax cut for consuming the budget surplus, saying, "At a time when we need to fight both a war and a recession, when our nation has urgent needs on all fronts, the tax cut has taken away our flexibility and left us with only two choices, both of them bad." 
The choices, the speech says, are to "shortchange critical needs such as strengthening homeland security" or "raid the Social Security surplus."
Although Democrats consider bread-and-butter issues as one of their strengths, polls show that many voters fault the Sept. 11 attacks and not Mr. Bush for the disappearance of budget surpluses. The polls also indicate that Democrats have lost the edge that they gained in the Clinton years as the party most trusted to start the economy moving.
"Some of the pre-Clinton perceptions are coming back," said Al From, head of the Democratic Leadership Council, a centrist group.
Grappling with Mr. Bush's high approval ratings, Democrats are also seeking other lines of attack. They have revived arguments that the Republicans favor special interests. Several Democratic senators announced an inquiry this week into the collapse of Enron, the giant energy company with close ties to the Bush administration. Democratic strategists are trying to use the troubles that led to Enron's bankruptcy as a metaphor for mismanagement that they can apply to the tax cut.
"Sure you can argue no one foresaw Sept. 11," said Mark Mellman, a pollster for the Democratic Congressional leadership. "But it's also true that Democrats said there are events you can't foresee, that you have to plan for them. That's the very definition of mismanagement at a fundamental level when you don't plan for the future."
Yet the Democrats face deep splits over going beyond criticism of Mr. Bush and pushing to delay or roll back part of the 10-year tax cut. Without such a move, it will prove difficult for Democrats to pay for their priorities like education, benefits for prescription drugs or increased domestic security.
The Democrats' problem is that Republicans could once again paint them as a party of big taxers. Republicans are virtually daring the Democrats to try to undo the tax cut.
"If they think it was so bad, why don't they call for its repeal?" asked Representative Thomas M. Davis III, the Virginia Republican who heads his party's campaign effort in the House. "They don't have the guts to do it."
Mr. Daschle has repeatedly said an effort to roll back the tax cut would be pointless, because Mr. Bush and House Republicans would oppose it. His aides acknowledge that Mr. Daschle would also face difficulties because 12 Senate Democrats voted for the final tax-cut plan, and half of them face elections this year.
In the House, there is more sentiment among Democrats for taking on the tax cut to frame the budget debate as a choice of tax cuts for the wealthiest versus investments in popular programs.
Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, has introduced legislation intended to save $100 billion over 10 years by repealing a new reduction in the top marginal tax rate and restoring it to 39.6 percent. Mr. Frank argues that Democratic senators could justify a change in position.
"The answer is, We voted for it before Sept. 11," he said. "Now we have to spend hundreds of billions over the period of this tax cut on defense to pay for this war and for protecting the water supply and the public health system. Sept. 11 changed things." 
The maneuvering begins an election year that is widely expected to be deeply partisan despite the unity over the war. Republicans need to win one more seat to regain control of the Senate. Democrats are six seats short of controlling the House.
Both parties are polling on perceptions of the economy.
"If the playing field in November is going to be favorable to Democrats, it will only be because we've gotten the economic issue right," Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic pollster, said.
Democrats are trying to draw attention to the disappearance of surpluses, once estimated to grow as high as $5.6 trillion over the decade.
"The Republicans," Terry McAuliffe, the Democratic Party chairman, said, "have taken a budget that had surpluses as far as the eye can see and now have turned them into deficits as far as the eye can see."
Mr. McAuliffe said Democrats would be striking the theme in news conferences and appearances, but not in television advertisements. Still, he did not preclude turning to the airwaves after Mr. Bush's budget comes out next month.
Republican strategists counter that Americans attribute the disappearing surplus to the post-Sept. 11 need to prosecute the war and spend more on security. And they are advising the party to do everything it can to emphasize that idea.
A Republican pollster, Bill McInturff, said he was telling clients: "You'd better say right now: We had a horrible terrorist attack. It hurt the economy, and we have to spend billions of dollars to keep the public safe.
"We need to say this with equal force and weight day after day after day."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle, left, and the House minority leader, Richard A. Gephardt, discussing economic stimulus last month. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%); TERRORISM (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TOM DASCHLE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



108 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: The Enron Post-Mortem 

 BODY:
The most spectacular corporate demise ever cannot remain a befuddling mystery. In order to restore confidence in American capitalism and in the integrity of its financial markets, the public needs to understand what brought Enron down so suddenly last year. How could the Houston-based energy company, ranked seventh on the Fortune 500 list of America's largest companies, and often touted as one of its most innovative, fail so unexpectedly, wiping out $60 billion in shareholder value? 
 Congress is appropriately holding a number of hearings to seek answers to that question. Enron's financial bankruptcy, triggered in part by revelations of faulty financial reporting, was a shocking national calamity. Its post-mortem, which will take the form of a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation and private lawsuits as well as the Congressional hearings, is likely to reveal serious deficiencies in how the public interest is protected on an array of regulatory fronts. It may lead to new federal regulations of pension plans, accounting procedures and energy markets. 
 On Capitol Hill, calls for an inquiry have come from both sides of the aisle, though Democrats clearly have an added incentive to pursue the matter. No company has more generously backed President Bush throughout his political career than Enron. Its chairman, Kenneth Lay, was among the influential advisers to Vice President Dick Cheney's secretive energy task force last spring. Even before Enron's implosion, the General Accounting Office, acting at the behest of some Democratic legislators, sought documents from Mr. Cheney about the task force's meetings and its participants' agenda. The vice president's office was uncooperative. 
At his Crawford ranch on Monday President Bush supported Congress's right to look into Enron's collapse. To address concerns about Enron's ability to take regulatory shortcuts because of its political influence, Mr. Bush should direct everyone in his employ, including the vice president, to be forthcoming with Congress about any dealings they had with the energy company.
Democrats, for their part, should resist the temptation to use the Enron saga for cheap political gain. Talk of a "cancer on the presidency" and of a "Bush Whitewater" is unwarranted at this point, and threatens to trivialize and unduly politicize an inquiry vital to the health of the American economy.
It was before President Bush ever took office that Congress granted Enron exemptions for much of its complex trading activity, in everything from energy futures to broadband capacity, from oversight by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and other regulators. Senator Joseph Lieberman's hearings later this month will rightly explore whether such oversight could have prevented Enron's deceptive transactions with mysterious off-balance-sheet partnerships run by its own officers.
The fate of Enron employees' retirement accounts provides a second broad subject of inquiry. Criminal charges may still be in store for top Enron executives, who sold nearly $1 billion worth of their company stock, possibly knowing it was improperly inflated, before it plummeted. Thousands of employees were not so lucky, and lost their lifetime savings. Close to 60 percent of all employee 401(k) money was tied up in Enron stock. Congress should consider a proposal by Senator Jon Corzine to cap the percentage of employees' retirement accounts that can be held in company stock. 
The third issue that Congress and the S.E.C. need to address is the lack of public confidence in financial reporting. Beyond Enron's questionable behavior, the most alarming failure of all may have been that of its outside auditor, Arthur Andersen, to flag the company's dubious accounting practices. 
Enron is only the latest and most dramatic instance of an accounting firm's failing to protect the public from largely fictional financial reporting by a major company. The accounting industry insists it can regulate itself, but the evidence points to the contrary. Firms have placed themselves in an untenable conflict of interest by providing the same companies they audit on behalf of the public with an array of consulting services. Congress ought to pass legislation to bar such conflicts. 
Unsuspecting Enron employees were the most direct victims of the company's lack of forthrightness, but overall investor confidence in the integrity of the marketplace took a serious hit with Enron's demise. There are plenty of reasons for Congress to try to find out why it happened and how it can be prevented from ever happening again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FUTURES (88%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); LITIGATION (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ACCOUNTING (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (57%); BROADBAND (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); DICK CHENEY (57%); JOE LIEBERMAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



109 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

India and Pakistan Avoid Meeting on Confrontation
The leaders of India and Pakistan will attend a South Asian summit meeting in Nepal in the next few days, but they have scheduled no face-to-face meetings. In recent days, India's leaders have begun talking openly about the possibility of war if Pakistan does not halt what India considers sponsorship of terrorism against India. Both countries have nuclear weapons and have mobilized forces along their border. A3

Soldiers on the Indian side of the border have turned thousands of acres of farmland into minefields. A3

On his way to Nepal, President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan stopped in Beijing for talks on the standoff. A3

Israel Pulls Back in West Bank
Israel eased a military blockade on parts of the West Bank as the American peace envoy, Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, returned to try to bring the sides close enough to resume negotiations on a cease-fire. A10

World Briefing A6

NATION CHALLENGED A14-15

Taliban's Slow Surrender Raises U.S. Suspicions
Taliban fighters near Baghran continued to surrender weapons and vehicles to American-backed forces, but the slow pace raised concern that senior leaders might slip away. A1

Taliban Envoy in Custody
Pakistani officials said they had arrested the former Taliban ambassador, and that Pakistani and American officials were questioning him about the whereabouts of Osama bin Laden and Mullah Muhammad Omar. A14

Hunger, Theft and Beatings
An effort to feed Afghan refugees descended into violence as food ran short and Afghan guards beat back a hungry crowd. Relief officials said stocks were low because shipments had been stolen by warlords. A1

Prisoners May Be Held in U.S.
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld suggested that Afghanistan detainees could be housed in jails on military bases in the United States. A15

Renewed Warning on Terror
The F.B.I. extended its terrorist threat warning, notifying police agencies nationwide to remain on high alert through March 11. A14

Airline and Agent in Dispute
American Airlines and lawyers for a Secret Service agent of Arab descent disagreed over the circumstances that led the agent's being barred from a flight on Christmas Day. The lawyers said the agent was the victim of bias; the pilot's report said the agent was loud and abusive. A15

NATIONAL A16-19

Democrats Take Offensive On the Economy and Bush
Democrats, worried about President Bush's wartime popularity, are beginning a concerted election year drive to criticize his fiscal stewardship, with Senator Tom Daschle, the majority leader, to deliver the first salvo in a speech today. A18

Drug Discount Plan Doubted
The General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, said drug discount cards of the type proposed by President Bush had not significantly cut costs for elderly consumers buying brand-name medicines in metropolitan areas. A16

Snowstorm Buries South
The biggest snowstorm to hit the South in a decade caused 10 deaths and hundreds of traffic accidents, business closings and airline flight cancellations. Nearly 70,000 people lost electrical power. A16

G.O.P. Massachusetts Ticket
Acting Gov. Jane M. Swift, a Republican, selected Patrick C. Guerriero, a 33-year-old former mayor and legislator who is openly gay, to be her candidate for lieutenant governor in the election this year. A16

Ex-Klansman Ruled Competent
An Alabama judge ruled that Bobby Frank Cherry is mentally competent to stand trial on murder charges in the 1963 Birmingham church bombing that killed four black girls. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Justice Dept. Ends Inquiry Of New Jersey Senator
The United States attorney in Manhattan, Mary Jo White, said she was closing the four-year investigation into the finances of Senator Robert G. Torricelli, a Democrat, and would not seek criminal charges. She said she was giving information developed by investigators to the Senate Ethics Committee, which will open a preliminary inquiry. Mr. Torricelli has maintained that he did nothing wrong. A1

Vision for Trade Center Site
Mayor Bloomberg and the head of the commission charged with rebuilding Lower Manhattan said ground zero was unlikely to be transformed mainly into a memorial to the victims, an idea promoted by former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. B1

Plan for Damaged Subway Line
Transit officials said the subway line severely damaged near the World Trade Center on Sept. 11 would be rebuilt and reopened as early as November, more than a year earlier than originally planned. B1

Clintons' Dog Killed by Car
Former President Bill Clinton's Labrador, Buddy, was run down near the family home in Chappaqua, N.Y. B1

Neediest Cases B7

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Breakthrough in Cloning
Two rival biotechnology companies say they cloned pigs that lack a specific gene, a feat that may pave the way to transplanting pig organs into people without causing rejection. A1

WEEKEND E1-38; E39-48

EDUCATION

Controversies at Harvard
A dispute between President Lawrence H. Summers and African-American scholars eased as another arose, involving discontent among professors of Latino studies. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

17.1 Million Vehicles Sold
Auto sales, propelled by low-cost financing, ended the year slightly below the record set in 2000, but expectations for 2002 are lower because of the economy and a dent in demand probably made by the incentives. C1

Technology Stocks Lead Rally
The Nasdaq rose 65.02 points, or 3.3 percent, to 2,044.27; the Dow rose 98.74 points, to 10,172.14; and the S.& P. 500 gained 10.60, to 1,165.27. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

OBITUARIES C10-11

Benjamin Welles
A foreign correspondent for The New York Times and author of a painfully revealing biography of his father, Sumner Welles, he was 85. C10

SPORTS D1-7

Miami Wins Rose Bowl
The Miami Hurricanes defeated the Nebraska Cornhuskers, 37-14, to become the undisputed N.C.A.A. football champions. D1

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: The Enron post-mortem; Argentina's quest for salvation; Judge Eugene Nickerson.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E47
TV Listings E37
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); AIRLINES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (84%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); ARRESTS (70%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (66%); POLICE FORCES (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (51%); CHRISTMAS (50%); RELIGION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); TOM DASCHLE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (71%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (56%) INDIA (98%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEPAL (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); ASIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); CHINA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002 



110 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO FALLS. Stronger-than-expected U.S. reports indicating the economy may have seen the worst of its recession sent the dollar higher against the euro. The dollar rose to 89.51 cents per euro from 89.96 on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since July 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (87%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CURRENCY 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



111 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 98 words

HEADLINE: The Price of a Commute 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "N.J. Transit Is Criticized for Planning Fare Increase" (news article, Jan. 3): 
 As a daily commuter on New Jersey Transit, I don't particularly want to pay more money for a monthly ticket. But I favor the fare increase. 
 Like any business, New Jersey Transit needs to make money to survive.
Those of us who depend on this (usually) reliable service to get to our jobs are lucky to receive an income in this turbulent economy. So we should not complain about paying a slightly higher fare. There are thousands worse off than we are.

CRAIG WYNNE
Suffern, N.Y., Jan. 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY TRANSIT 

PERSON: WYNNE, CRAIG 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



112 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Charity Overwhelmed in Bid To Meet Attack Victims' Bills 

BYLINE:  By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
The Salvation Army, which raised more than $60 million to help victims of the Sept. 11 attacks, came up with a simple idea for providing immediate, practical help to families affected by the disaster: It offered to pay their household bills -- any bill, from car insurance to gas meters.
 It had no idea what this generous gesture would entail. 
 Bills flew in from thousands of families. The agency's technology for processing and writing checks was immediately overwhelmed. And now, in fresh proof of how the scale of Sept. 11 can overwhelm even the best-established and most-admired charities, thousands of families have discovered that their bills never got paid. 
One widow's car insurance was canceled; hundreds of families got late notices and had to scramble to preserve essential services or prevent a smudge on their credit history. "We've got all kinds of horror stories," said Carie Lemack, president of Families of Sept. 11, a victim advocacy group. "One man got an eviction notice when his rent wasn't paid."
Alfred J. Peck Jr., the director of social services for the Salvation Army in New York, said: "This is very embarrassing. We feel badly about it, and we're doing everything we can to get our system to work."
The numbers suggest the force of the storm that has hit the agency. Since the attacks, it has received more than 30,000 bills from roughly 8,000 families.
The Salvation Army had originally intended its program primarily to help people who had lost their homes or jobs in the attacks, and it did not publicly announce any limits on the size or type of bills it would accept. Mr. Peck did not provide any details about the range of requests, but the avalanche of paperwork soon swamped his agency. 
Its limited personnel and its quaint check-writing equipment -- a few cables feeding data to some slow dot-matrix printers -- could produce only 100 checks a day. It needed to turn out more than 1,500 checks a day, Mr. Peck said. The bill payments fell more than four weeks behind, and fresh bills arrive every day.
Even now, with faster equipment finally installed and the backlog pared to about three weeks, the Salvation Army's office in New York is still getting 75 to 100 calls a day -- "angry calls," Mr. Peck said -- from families anxiously checking on whether their overdue bills for crucial services have been paid. In fact, the agency has had to spend some of the money it raised for Sept. 11 relief to upgrade its equipment and increase its staff for handling the bills.
"It's understandable," Mr. Peck said of people's distress about the situation. "If somebody's bills aren't being paid, they're going to be upset."
Scrambling to limit the damage, the agency has sent urgent letters to utilities, major credit-card companies and other large vendors, explaining the problem and assuring them that the bills will be paid. "The major mortgage companies and rental agencies are O.K. with this; they're forgiving late fees, because they recognize that it's the Army and they're going to get their money," Mr. Peck said.
Officials with the Salvation Army, who at first estimated that they might spend about $5 million on their bill-paying effort, now concede that they do not know what the total payments will amount to.
People submitting bills are now told that there is a backlog, Mr. Peck said, although families that submitted bills earlier were not given this warning because "we weren't aware of the extent of the problem ourselves." And the agency kept accepting fresh bills to pay, despite its growing backlog, because it believed it could fix the problem quickly and continue to help the affected families, Mr. Peck said.
A second shift of volunteers was put in place to process bills, and up to a dozen people were assigned to field telephone calls from worried families. Faster laser printers were bought. A computer consultant was brought in to bypass the old check-writing system and knit the improved system to the database of family information the agency had already collected. But a few flaws delayed the process further.
"But, to our knowledge, we've prevented any service cutoffs," Mr. Peck said. Major utilities in the New York area confirm that they have begun getting checks from the Salvation Army in payment of outstanding bills, but they say they cannot confirm that someone did not fall through the cracks, as one utility spokeswoman said.
Laurie Quinn, whose brother, Ken Tietjen, was a Port Authority police officer who died in the attacks, accompanied another Port Authority family to the New Jersey service center at Liberty State Park about three weeks ago and left a few small bills with the Salvation Army, she said. "We were told that the family would be called in a few days, but we still haven't heard anything," she said. Nor was the family warned about a possible delay in payment, she added.
The largest vendors -- big mortgage companies, rental agencies, utilities and credit-card companies -- have been very cooperative, Mr. Peck said. But smaller vendors, pinched by a sluggish economy and relying on prompt payment, have been less patient. "We're putting them up at the head of the line," Mr. Peck said. "Or in some cases, we're just paying it on our personal credit cards and seeking reimbursement ourselves."
Not even the affected families seem to doubt the agency's good intentions. Ms. Quinn said that the agency staff members "always treat you with such kindness and respect; they tried to make it all as painless as possible."
In its wider response to the terrorist attacks, the agency has served millions of meals to rescue workers and provided counseling and help to displaced families who lived near ground zero or who have lost jobs in the aftermath of the attacks. Gordon J. Campbell, the chief executive of Safe Horizon, the agency that has operated the Family Assistance Center in New York, defended the Salvation Army's overall efforts.
"We're confident that they will find a way to resolve this situation so that the needs of their clients are met as quickly as possible," he said.
With the agency's other efforts garnering praise around the country, its bill-paying quagmire has been "embarrassing, to say the least," Mr. Peck said.
Although he is not yet sure how much the repair work will cost, Mr. Peck said the Salvation Army had spent some of the donations it had received to upgrade the check-processing system. It is an expense he considers money well spent, even if it is not exactly how donors might have imagined their gifts would be spent. 
"It will cut the turnaround to 72 hours once we catch up, which we hope will take just a few more weeks," he said. "We hope people will be patient."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tim Ditmer, left, an accountant at the Salvation Army on West 14th Street, waits as the system that prints the agency's checks goes down for a few minutes. (Photographs by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); FAMILY (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); CHARITIES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (77%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (73%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (72%); EVICTION (67%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: THE SALVATION ARMY (94%) SALVATION ARMY 

PERSON: PECK, ALFRED J JR; HENRIQUES, DIANA B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



113 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: The New School Spirit 

BYLINE:  By Donald Kennedy; Donald Kennedy is president emeritus of Stanford University and editor in chief of Science magazine.

DATELINE: STANFORD, Calif. 

 BODY:
The departure of Tyrone Willingham, the much admired football coach at Stanford, for Notre Dame has set off some interesting faculty conversations here. Some of my colleagues, who respect the way in which he has brought moderate success to a notably "clean" program, are philosophical. After all, it has happened before: Dennis Green had some good seasons here, took his last team to a bowl game, and then left us for the Minnesota Vikings.
 The members of this community take some consolation and pride in the fact that Stanford, unlike the vast majority of major colleges and National Football League teams, has had two African-American head football coaches. After all, some of my colleagues say, maybe it's even right that these successful coaches are sought after by bigger and wealthier football programs that have yet to integrate their top coaching staffs. 
 Yet not all my fellow faculty members are so understanding about this loss because Mr. Willingham brought some of the university's academic and service ideals into the locker room. In many quarters here, he was thought of more as a professor of football than as a coach. So a sense of rejection can be heard in comments like "Notre Dame must have paid him a lot more than we could." 
Sour-grapes commentary is predictable and not very constructive. A related reaction, though, invites more careful inspection. It is the response of those who ask: "What ever happened to loyalty?"
The sphere in which Mr. Willingham conducts his career includes precious little incentive for the development of institutional loyalty. Notre Dame unhesitatingly dumped its coach Bob Davie, whose career win/loss record was about as good as Mr. Willingham's at Stanford. Stanford has been able to develop and retain "dynasty" coaches in nonrevenue sports like swimming and tennis, in baseball, and even -- knock on wood -- in basketball. But its history of firing unsuccessful football coaches is about like everybody else's and gives little reason for anyone to feel secure. Big-time college football is a tough marketplace, and anyone who believes it has room for institutional loyalty is living in cloud-cuckoo land.
Nor is that kind of loyalty deeply embedded in the rest of the academic culture. When the heavily courted football coach looks around the rest of the campus to evaluate how loyalty is practiced by its faculty stars -- the Willinghams of economics or molecular biology -- he sees a culture not so very different from that of the football stadium. In 1998, Columbia made a stunning offer to the Harvard economist Robert Barro. The salary, according to a New York Times report, was nearly $300,000 plus various other benefits -- high enough to attract the astonished attention of dozens of envious high-profile academic economists. But Mr. Barro soon reversed field and stayed at Harvard, presumably for a sweetened offer.
The institutions that practice academic raiding -- and Stanford is one of them -- have real needs, and naturally they attempt to meet them. And the faculty members who move are subject to a widening set of loyalties that run well beyond the institution. The biologist who moves from University A to B for better facilities in which to pursue innovative research is being loyal to her craft. A political scientist who moves from B to C because C has a large foundation grant to explore the comparative origins of state failure is being loyal to his discipline. As for Tyrone Willingham, he will bring strong values and an African-American presence to a highly visible and influential program. He's loyal to his craft, too.
In short, there are all kinds of loyalties, and the institutional kind no longer trumps the others. Competition in the academic sector, as elsewhere in contemporary American culture, follows what economists call a "tournament" model -- one in which small advantages lead to winner-take-all successes. Why should athletic programs be exceptions to this model? What happened to loyalty is that it has been broken up into a lot of pieces in a highly complex world. But I confess I rather liked the old world in which loyalty was easier to keep track of. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); BASEBALL (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); BIOCHEMISTRY (65%); BIOLOGY (50%) FOOTBALL; COACHES AND MANAGERS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (93%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (59%); MINNESOTA VIKINGS (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%) UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME; STANFORD UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: KENNEDY, DONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



114 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Zero-Emission Quota on Cars Is Postponed for Two Years 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
The Pataki administration today postponed for two years, until 2004, a requirement that automakers devote a small percentage of New York sales to electric cars that do not produce air pollution. At the same time, the administration adopted a plan to encourage car companies over the next few years to sell large numbers of low-smog vehicles.
 Automakers had lobbied heavily to delay the electric car, or zero-emission vehicle mandate, saying the vehicles were not yet technologically or financially viable. Administration officials contended that, legally, they had no choice but to go along. 
 New York's new regulation and a similar one being adopted by Massachusetts represent a compromise from a draft last summer that was bitterly denounced by environmental groups. That version included a four-year postponement of the electric car mandate and a system of trade-offs that critics said would badly undercut the requirement.
Today, environmentalists said that the shorter period of postponement, combined with interim measures designed to spur sales of low-emission cars like gasoline-electric hybrids, represented a significant victory. They also hailed a new element of the New York plan that would impose pollution limits on trucks and buses that use heavy-duty diesel engines.
"We think our plan gets more clean cars on the road, quicker," said Erin M. Crotty, the state's environmental conservation commissioner.
Elizabeth C. Miller, chief executive officer of the American Lung Association of New York State, said, "This regulation marks the dawn of a healthier era for New Yorkers."
The moves by New York and Massachusetts could leave California as the only state requiring no tailpipe emissions from 2003 model cars, vans and light trucks. The status of a similar regulation in Vermont, the only other state that had been on California's timetable, is uncertain. While most 2003 models will hit the market in August or September of this year, any model introduced in 2002 is considered a 2003 model.
For a decade, California has driven the development of low-emission cars and trucks with a series of ever-stricter standards. Federal law allows California to set rules that are tougher than federal restrictions. The law generally gives other states only two choices, with some limited exceptions. They can do nothing and live with the federal standards, or they can adopt California's; that way, automakers do not have to build one version of a car for Illinois, for instance, and another for Indiana and yet another for Ohio.
In 1999, Gov. George E. Pataki announced that New York would join the latest phase of the California rules, with a zero-emission vehicle requirement starting this year on 2 percent of all sales for each automaker, a number that would increase gradually each year. Massachusetts and Vermont quickly followed. Auto industry experts and environmentalists said having the Northeast states join the program was crucial to creating the economies of scale that would make electric car production viable, because those states, together with California, account for about 20 percent of the national auto market.
Last month, California modified its rules, in part to close a loophole that might have let carmakers comply with the electric car mandate by building vehicles that were little more than large golf carts. California's zero-mission mandate still begins this year.
New York State officials said that the Northeast states had to go along with the changes California made or abandon the program. But legally, they said, they could not change the rules so close to the introduction of electric cars. Environmentalists said the state was probably right.
But Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, chairman of the Environmental Conservation Committee, said the state probably could have gone ahead with requiring electric cars this year."They've been wanting to make these changes for a year and they floated a bad proposal last summer, prior to California doing anything," he said."They're just using the California action as cover."
New York's new regulation allows each automaker to choose between the California plan, starting with the 2005 model year, or an "alternative compliance plan" for production of low-emission vehicles like hybrids, starting this year, with a later introduction of electric cars.
Ms. Crotty said that when the earlier version was written, "We were not at the end of the process."
"The next step was to talk to the environmentalists, and the next step happened," she said. "They made the product better." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (92%); EMISSIONS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); SMOG (77%); AIR POLLUTION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LUNG ASSOCIATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



115 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Argentine Leader Seeks Broad Powers in Economic Crisis 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
After urging Argentines to stop buying foreign goods and begin "protecting what is ours," the country's new president, Eduardo Duhalde, sent Congress a "public emergency law" today that would give him sweeping powers to deal with the economic crisis that has immobilized the country for the last month.
 The legislation would end a decade-long policy of setting the value of the Argentine peso at one American dollar and using the two currencies almost interchangeably. 
 But the proposal does not specify how much of a devaluation Mr. Duhalde will decree. The resulting uncertainty led to shortages today of food and especially medicine as products vanished from shelves and bank depositors tried, usually in vain, to get their hands on dollars. 
Mr. Duhalde hopes that the two houses of Congress, which his Peronist party dominates, will debate his proposal on Saturday and approve it no later than Sunday. 
That would allow the country to resume business on Monday with a new set of rules for the financial system in place, instead of prolonging the suspicion and paralysis that have sapped the economy this week.
The new president first indicated that he would devalue the peso in his inaugural address on Tuesday night, and he has done so again in every public declaration since then. But the lack of details and the wait for Congress to change the law are making Argentines nervous.
Government officials say Mr. Duhalde intends to replace the one-peso-to-the-dollar system with a dual exchange rate. 
Exporters and importers would operate at a fixed rate of about 1.35 pesos to the dollar, at least at first, while for most other Argentines a more expensive floating rate would be determined by the currency markets.
In an effort to cushion the impact of the devaluation on middle-class consumers and owners of small businesses, two groups that have been hard hit by a four-year recession, the package also includes a provision that would require all bank debts of $100,000 or less to be repaid only in pesos. 
Though most Argentines earn salaries in pesos, about 80 percent of the country's debt, from mortgages to car loans, is denominated in dollars.
The big losers are likely to be banks and foreign-owned telephone, gas and electricity companies. The draft legislation calls for banks to be compensated for their losses by a special tax on exports of oil and gas, but it is not clear how long that process would take or how the compensation would be calculated. Utilities, though, would have to begin accepting payment in pesos.
Aware that today was likely to be the last day that one peso would officially be worth one dollar, thousands of people rushed to pay their bills, including many that were due much later in the month. 
Public anger grew as bank after bank either refused outright to accept pesos and demanded dollars or claimed that they could not carry out any transactions because their computer systems were not functioning.
"It's disgraceful the way they are openly defying the law," Carlos David Oviedo Espinosa, a middle-aged salesman who was trying to pay an installment on a car loan, said as he stood in line outside an Italian-owned bank this morning. "They're up to a lot of dirty tricks, and no one is doing anything to stop them."
In a televised speech to business and labor leaders this afternoon, Mr. Duhalde also showed little sympathy for the banks' situation. To a round of loud applause, he said his government intended to put an end to "an alliance that has damaged the country for decades, the alliance of political power with financial might instead of the productive sector."
But with public anxiety rising, problems have also begun appearing in other parts of the economy. In grocery stores and supermarkets, prices were marked up and shelves were going bare as distributors held back products until the new policies went into effect and consumers tried to stock up on basic goods like cooking oil.
The most serious shortages are of drugs. Patients needing insulin and other expensive or imported medicines have been unable to get their prescriptions filled, and at Argentina's request, the government of neighboring Brazil today began sending emergency supplies of the drugs that have become hardest to find.
"There is no chain of distribution, and medicine hasn't been delivered since Wednesday," Gimena Ibanez, a clerk at a pharmacy here, said this afternoon. A colleague, Ana di Salvo, added: "We're telling people not to despair, that we will continue to be able to get their medicine, and at the same price. I hope it's true."
In his speech, Mr. Duhalde called on store owners and distributors to be patriotic and not raise prices or hoard products. But if that appeal fails, the government "has multiple policy instruments to stabilize the economy in the face of markups" and will not hesitate to use them, warned his chief of staff, Jorge Capitanich.
Jose Ignacio de Mendiguren, head of the newly created Ministry of Production, said the government was considering price controls, because some producers were taking advantage of the devaluation to raise prices even though their costs had not increased. But that step is seen as likely to produce other complications and a loss of public confidence.
"Price controls have not produced good results in the past," the daily La Nacion warned today. "The big question mark is whether Argentina is going to pay an enormous cost to exit one scheme that ceased working only to return to another that in the past led to catastrophic hyperinflation."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paramilitary police officers guarded the Argentine Supreme Court building yesterday in case of rioting over the country's economic turmoil.; Passers-by looked into a closed money exchange in Buenos Aires. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); RECESSION (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%); TRENDS (65%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: DUHALDE, EDUARDO (PRES); ROHTER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (91%) ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



116 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Nasdaq Increases 5.6% In First Days of New Year
The Nasdaq composite index has climbed 5.6 percent in the first three days of trading this year, as investors buy on the belief that technology purchases will fuel the economic recovery. The Nasdaq composite index rose 15.11 points yesterday, or 0.7 percent, to 2,059.38. Since their lows of Sept. 21, technology stocks have gained more than 44 percent.
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 87.60 points, or 0.9 percent, at 10,259.74, providing a gain of 1.2 percent for the week. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 7.24 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,172.51, and was up less than 1 percent for the week. Page C4. 

Dynegy Gains Gas Pipeline After All
A risky investment in Enron has paid off for Dynegy. As part of a planned acquisition of Enron, Dynegy invested $1.5 billion in Enron early in November for preferred shares in the subsidiary that owns the pipeline and the option to take control of it. The merger plan collapsed soon after, and Enron filed for bankruptcy protection last month. But late Thursday Enron agreed to transfer ownership of the Northern Natural Gas pipeline, which can deliver 4.3 billion cubic feet of gas daily -- about 8 percent of total United States output -- and runs about 16,600 miles from Texas to the Canadian border and supplies gas to utilities and companies in several states. C2.

Toyota to Build a Factory in Mexico
Toyota announced plans to build a plant outside Tijuana in Baja California. The factory will make truck beds for pickup trucks built at New United Motor Manufacturing Inc., its plant in Fremont, Calif., that is a joint venture with General Motors. C3.

Argentina Wants to Devalue Peso
Argentina's new president has asked Congress for sweeping powers, including ending a decade-long policy of setting the value of the Argentine peso at one American dollar and using the two currencies almost interchangeably. But the proposal does not specify how much of a devaluation he will decree. A3.

President George W. Bush's decision to allow Argentina to default signals a new approach to national bankruptcy, one that sends a message to developing countries and their financial backers to work out problems without relying on large handouts. A3.

A Rare Challenge to Developers
Known for unfettered development, Thailand may be turning a corner in the case of a $500 million natural gas pipeline spanning from the fields in the South China Sea to Malaysia. The project was held up for more than a year by objections from an expert panel that reviews the social and environmental effects. After the project was approved last month, a member of the panel, Walwipha Burusratanaphand, accused the government of pushing it through against the group's recommendation. C3.

Phone Companies Want Refunds
Thirteen mobile-phone companies that bid a year ago for NextWave's spectrum licenses want the $3.2 billion made in down payments to the federal government returned. C2.

DaimlerChrysler Will Meet Forecast
DaimlerChrysler said it would probably attain the lower end of its profit forecasts for 2001, making about 1.2 billion euros, or $1.1 billion, in operating income. C2.

Safety Concerns About Drink Carts
Aviation and federal officials are expressing concern that the cart for food and beverage service could be turned into a weapon. A6.

Bank Workers Strike in India
More than 500,000 bank employees went on strike in India to protest the transfer of 24 employees at Standard Chartered P.L.C. The 24 workers had refused voluntary retirement packages. C3.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,259.74 UP 87.60Nasdaq composite -- 2,059.38 UP 15.1110-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.12% UP 0.02The euro -- $0.8951 DOWN 0.0045The dollar -- 130.91 yen DOWN 0.81 Graph tracks the Nasdaq composite index since January 2001.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Market)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); MERGERS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (71%); PREFERRED STOCK (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); APPROVALS (68%); DEVALUATION (67%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (60%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: DYNEGY INC (92%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (82%); NEW UNITED MOTOR MANUFACTURING INC (65%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: DYN (NYSE) (92%); TYT (LSE) (82%); TM (NYSE) (82%); 7203 (TSE) (82%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (92%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (65%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%) ARGENTINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); THAILAND (65%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



117 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Investigators Say Elevator Union Members Were Paid Millions for No-Show Jobs 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Federal law enforcement officials say they are investigating a network of no-show jobs in which members of the elevator constructors union bilked New York City's building industry out of millions of dollars. 
 As part of the scheme, investigators say, members of the union often received more than $3,000 a week by holding a regular job as well as one or two no-show jobs. 
 Two workers who asked union officials to investigate the no-show jobs, complaining that it stole work from unemployed union members, said they were attacked after a union meeting, with one of them being kicked in the teeth.
In papers filed in federal court in Brooklyn, F.B.I. investigators detailed an elaborate scheme in which Matthew Joseph Downey, a member of the union, received more than $1.5 million over three years from workers holding the no-show jobs. In November, Mr. Downey was indicted on charges of obstructing justice and urging two union members to lie to a grand jury investigating no-show jobs. 
Joseph M. Bowen, an F.B.I. special agent, described in a series of criminal complaints how union members received payments for no-show work at major construction projects, including 10 Rockefeller Plaza and a Marriott Hotel on Third Avenue. 
Before overtime, union members often earn $1,400 a week operating the temporary elevators at a single construction site. They can often earn twice that by also holding a no-show job and working overtime. The court papers suggest that the scheme has inflated construction costs citywide by millions of dollars in recent years.
Mr. Downey's lawyer, Stephen Scaring, denied any wrongdoing by his client, saying that prosecutors were trying to pressure Mr. Downey to provide evidence against others. Mr. Scaring said he expected there would be additional indictments soon, although officials with the F.B.I. and the United States attorney in Brooklyn declined to comment on any future actions.
John G. Green, president of Local 1 of the International Union of Elevator Constructors, insisted that his union and its members were clean.
"There are no no-show jobs," he said. "We're 107 years in existence and we never had any problem whatsoever about this kind of operation that they're making accusations about."
Mr. Green said his union was cooperating with federal investigators and provided all the documents requested on hours worked and other matters.
"If they have proof about all these things, then they should by all means show it to me," Mr. Green said. "There is no such thing as somebody not showing up and getting paid."
In September 1999, the United States attorney in Brooklyn filed a criminal complaint against Mr. Green's son-in-law, Terence Carr, charging him with holding at least seven no-show jobs in 1997 and 1998. 
Prosecutors said that for one day alone -- April 27, 1998 -- Mr. Carr had been paid for 30 hours of work: for 10 hours, including 2 overtime hours, at 10 Hanover Square; for 12 hours, including 4 overtime hours, at Riverside South; and for 8 hours at Battery Park City.
"There was no such thing as they're babbling about the son-in-law," Mr. Green said. "He never received any checks improperly from anybody."
Seeking to build their case, federal prosecutors withdrew that complaint against Mr. Carr and three other union members accused of holding no-show jobs, reserving the right to indict them later.
The local's 2,000 members install new elevators and run temporary ones that carry workers and building materials to upper floors at construction sites. Under union contracts, only members of Local 1 can operate the temporary elevators.
But one worker, who testified before the federal grand jury in Brooklyn and spoke on condition of anonymity, said that because of no-show jobs, workers from other construction trades often have to run the elevators themselves. 
One prominent construction executive who insisted on anonymity said some industry officials have looked the other way on no-show elevator jobs, believing that they were reserved for injured or sick workers who badly needed the income.
Two union members, Martin Hastings and Stephen Brennan, said two years ago that after a union meeting in Long Island City, two large men beat and bloodied Mr. Brennan, with one kicking him in the teeth. Mr. Hastings had angered some union officials by asking the union to investigate the widespread allegations of no-show jobs. 
At the meeting, Mr. Brennan had seconded a nomination for Mr. Hastings to run for business agent. Mr. Brennan has since left the elevator industry and the union, saying he feared for his safety.
In court papers, Agent Bowen said he had been investigating no-show jobs since December 1997, working with the Department of Labor and the Internal Revenue Service. 
"Local 1 members routinely get paid for hours at which they were not present at the job sites," Mr. Bowen said in a criminal complaint and affidavit filed in November. "The Department of Labor's analysis reveals dozens of instances of operators being paid for supposedly being at two different job sites at the exact same time."
In the criminal complaint against Mr. Downey, federal investigators said the no-show scheme involved at least 30 union members. The complaint suggests that Mr. Downey coordinated much of the scheme and had many participants deposit some of their no-show checks in an account he set up under the name "Mattlynn" at a Bank of New York branch on Long Island. 
The complaint stated, "In total, between 1996 and 1998, more than $1.5 million worth of third-party checks -- more than 1,400 -- of this type were deposited into the Mattlynn account." It added that the endorsements on all the checks appeared to have been written by the same person, but in 30 different names. The F.B.I.'s handwriting experts concluded that the handwriting matched examples of Mr. Downey's writing.
Agent Bowen said in court papers that two cooperating witnesses who acknowledged holding no-show jobs had deposited checks into Mr. Downey's Mattlynn account.
The criminal complaint accompanying the Downey indictment said one union member had secretly recorded a conversation with Mr. Downey. Mr. Downey is recorded as telling him: "If a guy says to you, 'Did you give Downey permission to cash your check?' 'Absolutely, he cashed my check.' 'Why?' 'Saved me from going to the bank.' "
Later, the complaint quoted Mr. Downey as saying that what "you should maintain all the time is that I was on every" job. "They can't disprove it."
Mr. Downey's lawyer, Mr. Scaring, said, "Mr. Downey denies all these accusations." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAWYERS (89%); OVERTIME (89%); INDICTMENTS (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); EVIDENCE (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



118 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-5

Israel Seizes Arms Ship; Says Weapons Are Arafat's
Israeli forces said they had seized a ship in the Red Sea carrying 50 tons of munitions for Yasir Arafat's Palestinian Authority. The announcement came as the Bush administration's envoy, Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, met with Mr. Arafat in hope of strengthening his declared cease-fire with Israel. Palestinian officials denied any link to the ship and dismissed the Israeli statement as propaganda. A1

The United States was involved in tracking the arms-laden ship but did not participate in its seizure, senior American officials said. They suggested that the arms might have been headed for Hezbollah, the anti-Israeli Lebanese Shiite group. A5

India and Pakistan Aides Confer
The foreign ministers of the nuclear-armed rivals, in Nepal for a South Asian summit meeting, were privately discussing terms under which the two governments could sit down for talks on resolving the Kashmir crisis, officials of both countries said. A5

Argentina's 'Emergency Law'
President Eduardo Duhalde urged Argentines to stop buying foreign goods and sent Congress a "public emergency law" that would give him sweeping new powers and end a decade-long policy of setting the value of the peso at one American dollar. A3

World Briefing A4

NATION CHALLENGED A6-7

Green Beret Is Killed; 1st Military Combat Death
An Army Special Forces soldier was killed in a brief firefight in eastern Afghanistan, the first death of an American serviceman by hostile fire since the war started nearly three months ago, officials said. A C.I.A. officer was wounded, but his injuries were said not to be life-threatening. Several miles from the firefight, American warplanes bombed a Qaeda camp in Khost Province for the second consecutive day. A1

Concern for Captive Taliban
Nearly 3,500 former Taliban fighters are being held in Shibarghan, Afghanistan, in a prison built for 800 under conditions that are raising alarm among international aid groups. A1

Peacekeeping Agreement
Afghanistan's interim government formally endorsed an agreement paving the way for a 4,500-strong, British-led multinational peacekeeping force in Kabul. A7

Televised Trial Sought
The federal judge presiding over the trial of Zacarias Moussaoui, who is charged in the Sept. 11 terror attacks, will consider a request from Court TV to broadcast the trial. The idea has the partial approval of Mr. Moussaoui's lawyers, but court administrators said the rules prohibit the televising of any federal criminal trial and suggested there was little for the judge to decide. A6

Cleared in Plot, but Not Free
A Saudi man detained on Sept. 11, Khalid al-Draibi, was sentenced to four months in prison and ordered deported for visa fraud, although he was cleared of involvement in the terror attacks that day. A6

NATIONAL A8-9, 12

Daschle Says Bush Tax Cut Devastated the Economy
Senator Tom Daschle, the capital's most prominent Democrat, accused President Bush and the Republicans of causing the "most dramatic fiscal deterioration in our nation's history" when they pushed through a big tax cut last year. But he did praise Mr. Bush for his wartime leadership. A1

Setting Limits on Searches
The Supreme Court agreed to try to define the boundary between a search to which a bus passenger has freely consented, and is therefore permissible despite the absence of a warrant or probable cause, and one that is inherently coercive and therefore unconstitutional. A12

Writer Out of Jail, for Now
Vanessa Leggett, a writer jailed more than five months for refusing to reveal confidential sources to a grand jury, was released from a federal detention center when the grand jury's term expired. But prosecutors indicated they might convene a new jury to compel her testimony, raising the prospect of her returning to jail. A8

Inquiry Into Saudi Princess
The Justice Department is investigating whether Buniah al-Saud, 41, who was arrested in Orlando last month on charges that she pushed her maid down a stairs, had held the live-in Indonesian worker in conditions of involuntary servitude. A8

Disagreement Over Footnotes
A columnist and a historian accused the author Stephen E. Ambrose of plagiarizing passages in his book "The Wild Blue" even though they were footnoted. Professor Ambrose's publisher rejected the accusation. A8

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Charity Overwhelmed in Bid To Pay Attack Victims' Bills
The Salvation Army, which raised more than $60 million to help victims of the Sept. 11 attacks, has fallen behind in paying thousands of families' household bills because its technology for processing checks was not able to cope with the volume. A1

New Commissioner's Plans
The new police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, will create a high-level position within the department to oversee the response to terror threats and will devise a policy to increase safety in homeless shelters. B1

Pilots' Actions Under Scrutiny
Investigators have found no existing flaw in the severed tail of the American Airlines jet that crashed in Queens in November moments after that tail fell off. Officials are now looking at whether the pilots put excessive forces on the tail by overcompensating for the effects of some turbulence shortly after takeoff. B1

Arts Club Records Seized
The police and agents of the New York City Department of Finance searched the National Arts Club on Gramercy Park South in an inquiry into possible grand larceny and tax evasion. They took 40 file boxes. B1

Religion Journal B4

Neediest Cases B6

EDUCATION

A Disciplinarian Quits
Joe Clark, who gained attention in the 1980's for his strict disciplinary methods as principal of a Paterson high school, said he would resign as director of a juvenile detention center in Newark in a dispute with a state agency over punitive measures. B5

ARTS & IDEAS B9-24

Grammy Nominations
U2 dominated the nominations with eight. The 44th annual awards are to be announced on Feb. 27. B9

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES B7

Alfred Henry Heineken
The Amsterdam brewer who built the family business into one of the world's biggest beer companies was 78. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Unemployment Still Edging Up
The jobless rate rose two-tenths of a percentage point in December, to 5.8 percent, a level it last reached in April 1995. The economy lost 124,000 jobs, the smallest decline since August. Economists said the numbers suggested that the job market might be stabilizing. C1

Drug Middlemen Criticized
Large corporations and major public employers say pharmacy benefit managers, the middlemen between drug manufacturers and those who pay for medicines, have not done enough to stem the rapid growth in national spending on prescription drugs, which nearly tripled in the last eight years from $50 billion in 1993 to $150 billion last year. C1

Additional AT&T Layoffs
AT&T said it would lay off 5,000 employees this year and take a charge of about $1 billion before taxes in the fourth quarter of 2001 to cover the layoffs' costs and the costs of having already dismissed 5,100. C1

Insurer's Shares Plunge
Shares of Conseco, an insurance and consumer lending concern, plummeted 16 percent after the resignation late Thursday of a top executive and a negative report by an analyst on the company's prospects. C1

A Strong Week for Stocks
The Nasdaq rose 15.11 points, to 2,059.38, up 72.12 points, or 3.6 percent, for the week. The Dow closed up 87.60 points, at 10,259.74, a gain of 1.2 percent for the week. The S.& P. 500 advanced 7.24 points, to 1,172.51, a gain of slightly less than 1 percent for the week. C4

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A10-11

Editorials: The challenge in Afghanistan; Mr. Torricelli's ethics problem; Brent Staples on special education.

Column: Frank Rich.

Bridge B23
TV Listings B24
Crossword B23
Weather B8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); TALIBAN (88%); TERRORISM (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); ARMIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); DEPORTATION (73%); HEZBOLLAH (73%); APPROVALS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); SENTENCING (66%); LITIGATION (66%); JUDGES (64%); ARMED FORCES (64%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHERGHAN, AFGHANISTAN (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) RED SEA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); KASHMIR (79%) ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ARGENTINA (92%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); NEPAL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



119 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Nation's Unemployment Rate Rises to 5.8% 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
The unemployment rate continued to creep upward last month, though fewer Americans lost their jobs than in any of the previous three months.
 The Labor Department reported yesterday that the economy lost 124,000 jobs in December, the smallest decline since August. The unemployment rate rose two-tenths of a percentage point, to 5.8 percent, a level it last reached in April 1995. 
 Economists said the numbers suggested the job market might be stabilizing after severe cutbacks caused by the terrorist attacks and the recession. They also said they saw other promising signs, like a rise in the number of hours worked per week in manufacturing, and a wave of hiring in education and health care. 
But most experts continued to paint a gloomy picture of the economy. "The overall report was quite weak," Lynn Reaser, chief economist for the Bank of America, said. Job losses are still high, and several forecasters expect the unemployment rate to climb as high as 6.5 percent in the first half of the year.
In Washington, the Bush administration showed little surprise at the job losses. "Unemployment has continued to rise, which is not unexpected," said Elaine L. Chao, the secretary of labor. "We are in for a couple more months of disappointing unemployment numbers."
Her department also released dreary figures on new applications for unemployment benefits on Thursday. Claims climbed 36,000, to 447,000 last week, and the previous week's increase in claims was revised sharply upward, to 26,000 from 7,000.
Some of the worst job losses in December occurred in the travel industry, where the hangover from Sept. 11 continues. Travel lost 32,000 jobs last month, for a five-month total of 273,000. Employment in retail sales also fell, by 77,000 on a seasonally adjusted basis, as a result of retailers' pessimism about holiday shopping.
Unemployment for black and Hispanic workers continued to climb. The jobless rate for blacks rose to 10.2 percent in December, twice the rate for whites. Maya Rockeymoore, a labor expert at the National Urban League, said that more blacks worked in the service industries that suffered after the terrorist attacks, especially hospitality and entertainment. "The unfortunate incidents of Sept. 11 actually had disproportionately negative impact on African-Americans," she said.
From a broad economic perspective, though, the numbers were better than William C. Dudley, the chief United States economist at Goldman, Sachs, expected. He said the rise in hours worked per week in manufacturing, to 40.7 from 40.3, suggested a turnaround in that sector. "That's a big change from what you've seen in recent months," he said. Hours worked in manufacturing last stood at 40.7 in August.
Half the increase in hours worked came from overtime. That could mean employers are working their existing employees harder as an interim measure before hiring more workers, said Diane Swonk, chief economist of Bank One in Chicago. "The overtime is what you want to see," she said. "It is income, and income is important."
Mr. Dudley said the rising hours worked could mean that a recovery had already begun. "What normally happens is businesses work their existing workers harder during the early stages of an expansion," he said.
Companies were also shifting from long-term to short-term employment changes in December, according to the report. The number of permanent job losers, up to 2,463,000 from 2,403,000, grew far less than the number of workers who said they were on a temporary layoff, up to 1,183,000 from 1,017,000.
Ms. Reaser said that manufacturing companies could indeed be seeing an improvement in production orders. She also said that large employment gains in two service-heavy industries, health care (31,000 jobs) and private education (28,000 jobs), boded well for a recovery.
Further reason for encouragement, Ms. Reaser said, came from a substantial increase in business activity in services, reported by the Institute for Supply Management. "Perhaps we're beginning to come to the tail end of the recession, at least in the nonmanufacturing side."
The strength of an expansion is far from assured, though. "We're expecting a muted rather than a powerful recovery," Mr. Dudley said. He added that consumer demand for goods and services probably could not rise much higher, especially after a car-buying spree in the fall and an anticipated drop in year-end performance-based bonuses.
Ms. Swonk worried that a recovery without a big boost in consumer spending might disappoint investors. "I'm afraid Wall Street might get upset when the consumer wanes in the first quarter, where really that's just a reflection of earlier gains," she said.
Ms. Swonk also said that consumer debt, often a worry on Wall Street, was under control during the holiday season. "They were paying back their credit cards as they were spending," she said. "A lot of people were using more checks, more cash."
Last month, consumer confidence rose to levels unseen since the summer. Bigger paychecks helped to keep spending strong. Hourly wages for nonfarm workers edged up to $14.65 from $14.56.
But Edward E. Leamer, a professor at the University of California in Los Angeles who heads the U.C.L.A.-Anderson Forecast, warned that the burden of debt could present serious long-term problems. "Consumers are going to have to adjust," he said. "We're going to have to adapt to a saving mode. If that happens rapidly, that's a recipe for a deep recession."
In the meantime, Professor Leamer said, the economy could safely lose hundreds of thousands more jobs during the next few months. "I don't think there's any news from the employment report for December, except that we are on track for one of the mildest recessions in this country's history."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas Love waited in line yesterday for a job interview at a California State Employment Development Department office in Los Angeles. The nation's unemployment rate rose to 5.8 percent last month. (Associated Press)(pg. C2) Graph tracking the unemployment rate, since January 2001 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C1) Chart: "The Labor Picture in December" Graph tracking the civilian unemployment rate since January 2001.Graph tracking the number of people employed since January 2001. DEMOGRAPHICSWhite: 5.1%Black: 10.2Hispanic*: 7.9Men 20 and over: 5.2Women 20 and over: 5.2Teenagers (16-19): 16.2 OUT OF WORK (millions)Total: 8.3Lost job: 4.5Left job: 0.9Returning to labor market: 2.4New to labor market: 0.5 TYPE OF WORK (millions)NonfarmNov.: 131.4Dec.: 131.3 GoodsNov.: 24.6Dec.: 24.4 ServicesNov.: 106.8Dec.: 106.8 AgricultureNov.: 3.2Dec.: 3.2 SHARE OF POPULATION (percent)Work forceNov.: 63.1Dec.: 63.0 Labor force (workers and unemployed)Nov.: 66.9Dec.: 66.8 All figures are seasonally adjusted. *Hispanics can be of any race. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); OVERTIME (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TERRORISM (75%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); RETAIL SALES (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); RETAILERS (68%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; WAGES AND SALARIES; OVERTIME; WORKING HOURS 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%) LABOR DEPARTMENT; GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: ELAINE CHAO (57%) DUDLEY, WILLIAM C; ALTMAN, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



120 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
How the Clip 'N Snip's Owner Changed Special Education

BYLINE:  By BRENT STAPLES 

 BODY:
The people of Florence, S.C., know Shannon Carter as the owner of Shannon's Clip 'N Snip, a barber shop where the locals get haircuts and conversation. The Clip 'N Snip has room for seven barber chairs, but Shannon is limiting the business to two for the moment and renting out space until the economy improves enough for the barbering business to expand.
 Shannon's public school teachers are no doubt surprised to see her running a business and working out a financial plan. During the 1980's she finished ninth grade failing virtually every subject, and was nearly illiterate. The schools told Emory and Elaine Carter that their daughter was terminally lazy and would "never see a day of college." In truth, Shannon was suffering from a common but undiagnosed learning disability that made it difficult for her to comprehend the little that she could read. Alienated and depressed, Shannon became suicidal. In desperation her parents placed her in a private school for disabled children, where she jumped several grade levels within a few years and graduated actually reading on grade level. 
 The Carters then sued the school system for private-school tuition and were upheld in the landmark Supreme Court case known as Florence County School District Four v. Shannon Carter. The law before this case limited parents of disabled children to schools approved by the state. But the court ruled in Shannon's case that the school system lost its right to plan a disabled child's education if it failed to provide an "appropriate public education" as required by the federal Individuals With Disabilities Education Act, known as the IDEA. 
Ask about Shannon Carter in New York or Los Angeles, and you see school board lawyers snarling or hanging their heads in dismay. The school boards see Carter cases as "a voucher program for the rich," in which affluent parents reserve spaces in private schools and then badger the school systems into paying burdensome tuition costs. Critics have a point when they note that small districts can be destabilized by the cost of one student's stay at an expensive residential school, and that urban districts with too few textbooks are sometimes forced to underwrite lavish private school tuition. But as Congress prepares to reauthorize the federal special education program, it should bear in mind that the Carters went to court only after the public schools failed at their most basic mission: teaching Shannon to read.
The task of teaching reading is undermined by the common but mistaken belief that children are somehow neurologically "wired" to read. This view led to the "whole language" fad of the 1970's, in which children were allowed to wander through books, improvising individual approaches to reading. The whole language technique works well with some children. But data from four decades of studies by the National Institutes of Health show that it is disastrous for the 4 in 10 children who have trouble learning to read. Nearly half these youngsters fall behind in the early grades, never catch up and eventually drop out.
In the most extreme cases, children seem to have abnormal activity in the parts of the brain that process phonemes -- the basic sounds that correspond to the letters of the alphabet. The simplest rules of language make no sense to them. Asked for a word that rhymes with "cat," for example, they simply draw a blank. The disorder strikes children of all backgrounds. It afflicts those who are read to as infants as well as those who grow up without a book in the house. 
The fortunate children are diagnosed early and assigned to smaller classes where teachers take special care to teach them the fundamentals of written language that others take for granted. The children are walked through the alphabet again and again, learning to connect the letters to the sounds, the sounds to the syllables, the syllables to words and so on. The good news from the N.I.H. findings is that 95 percent of learning-impaired children can become effective readers if taught by scientifically proven methods. The bad news is that less than a quarter of American teachers know how to teach reading to children who do not get it automatically. At the moment, nearly half of all children placed in special education are there for reading difficulties. Federal scientists commonly describe them as "casualties of bad instruction." 
Part of the blame lies with colleges that have resisted federal attempts to improve teacher education programs. Part of the blame lies with Congress, which has clung to the view that curriculum is a state and local matter in which the federal government should not meddle. Congress failed to even notice the reading research until just recently, when the Bush administration made reading a priority. 
Congress has focused almost solely on the fact that special education is expensive -- and that it takes away money from regular education. The debate will go nowhere until lawmakers begin to view special and regular education as part of a single system that is being hampered by an all too pervasive problem -- that schools are teaching reading in a way that fails to effectively reach millions of children. The basic lesson of the Carter case and the tens of thousands that have followed is that the country needs a national reading campaign, based on research. The longer we delay, the more families like Shannon Carter's will bolt the system, taking public dollars with them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL EDUCATION (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BARBER SHOPS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); US INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES EDUCATION ACT (88%); SCHOOL BOARDS (87%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (76%); EDUCATION LAW (76%); TEXTBOOKS (76%); MENTAL ILLNESS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); LITIGATION (71%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); APPROVALS (65%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (63%); SCIENCE NEWS (60%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SPECIAL EDUCATION (HANDICAPPED); LAW AND LEGISLATION; READING AND WRITING SKILLS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; EDITORIALS 

COMPANY: CASE LTD (67%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (67%)

PERSON: CARTER, SHANNON; STAPLES, BRENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORENCE, SC, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES; FLORENCE (SC)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



121 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
SERVICE MERCHANDISE, A RETAILER, TO CLOSE

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 The Service Merchandise Company, a 42-year-old retail chain that has operated under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection since March 1999, said yesterday that it would go out of business. 
Executives said the weak economy and slow sales after the Sept. 11 attacks hurt the 2001 results and prevented the company from completing its planned business reorganization and emergence from bankruptcy. Service Merchandise, with more than 200 stores in 32 states, reported losses of $180 million in 2000 and as of November had liabilities totaling $1.34 billion and assets of $1 billion. The company is based in Nashville.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (88%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (88%); COMPANY LOSSES (86%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; BANKRUPTCIES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

COMPANY: SERVICE MERCHANDISE CO INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE MERCHANDISE CO 

INDUSTRY: SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (96%) SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



122 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Times Plans Art Auction For Neediest Cases Fund 

BYLINE:  By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
Reacting to a decline in charitable donations after Sept. 11, The New York Times Company Foundation announced yesterday that it would have an art auction this month featuring the works of 14 well-known New York City artists and that the proceeds would go to The Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 The artists who have donated their work are Ross Bleckner, Louise Bourgeois, Larry Clark, Chuck Close, Gregory Crewdson, Jenny Holzer, William Kentridge, Sol LeWitt, Shirin Nashat, Nam June Paik, Doug and Cindy Sherman, Mike Starn and Christopher Wool. The Roy Lichtenstein Foundation has also contributed a painting by the late Pop artist. 
 The works will be displayed from Jan. 15 to Jan. 19 at the Luhring Augustine Gallery, at 531 West 24th Street in Chelsea. A silent auction will begin on Jan. 16 at a reception at the gallery featuring a speech by Kenneth T. Jackson, a professor of history at Columbia University and president of the New-York Historical Society.
Jack Rosenthal, the president of the Times Company Foundation, said that while the Sept. 11 attack had inspired an outpouring of contributions to charities related to the relief efforts, it had also caused a significant decline in giving to other charities, like the Neediest Cases Fund, which has been giving financial and other assistance to the poor for 90 years. Contributions to the Neediest Cases Fund are off about 8 percent from the campaign of 2000-1.
The auction will be advertised in The New York Times and on its Web site, nytimes.com.
Bids will be taken at the gallery through Jan. 19. The fund's seasonal campaign ends on Feb. 1.
Mr. Rosenthal said he suspected the auction might raise more than $150,000. "The decline of contributions unfortunately coincides with the increase in need," Mr. Rosenthal said, citing the current economic slump. "But what's equally important to the value of the works, whatever they raise, is the attention that it all gives to the cause."
Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%); WEB SITES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



123 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: Patriotism on the Cheap 

BYLINE:  By Frank Rich; E-mail: frankrich@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Rudy and Judi are in Boca. Bulls have been sighted on Wall Street. Churchgoing is back down, and "Portraits of Grief" has been retired as a daily hymnal. 
 The national New Year's resolution is Closure or Bust. 
 "9/11" is now free to be a brand, ready to do its American duty and move product. Ground zero, at last an official tourist attraction with its own viewing stand, has vendors and lines to rival those at Disneyland. (When Ashleigh Banfield stops by, visitors wave and smile at the TV camera just as they do uptown at the "Today" show.) Barnes & Noble offers competing coffee-table books handsomely packaging the carnage of yesteryear. On Gary Condit's Web site, a snapshot of the congressman's own visit to ground zero sells his re-election campaign. NBC, whose Christmas gift to the nation was its unilateral lifting of a half-century taboo against hard-liquor commercials, deflects criticism by continuing to outfit its corporate peacock logo in stars and stripes. 
Though President Bush has been a bulldog in counseling patience and declaring that the war isn't over, it's not clear how many Americans believe him. The further our distance from the World Trade Center -- in both time and geography -- the easier it is to forget. This is in part how it should be. It's inhuman, as well as impossible, to function on constant alert, to wake up every morning afraid to switch on the news lest we be ambushed by another unthinkable catastrophe. But must a return to normal mean a return to the same complacency and civic fatuity of Sept. 10? If so, that's a pitiful memorial to the 3,000 who were slaughtered on Sept. 11, regardless of whatever is or isn't eventually built on the site of ground zero. 
A week ago The New York Times ran a detailed history of the failures of the Clinton and George W. Bush administrations alike to combat terrorism, including the utter lack of follow-through on the recommendations of the 1997 Gore commission on airline security, which might have prevented some of the Sept. 11 hijackings. Yet the adjacent news article on the same front page revealed that this sorry history, far from teaching us a lesson, was already condemned to repeat itself. The Department of Transportation announced that its "new" standards for hiring airport security screeners would not require a high-school diploma, allowing thousands of the existing screeners to stay in place.
The department's motto seems to be: If it's broke, don't fix it. Never mind that even four months after the attacks, the state of passenger screening remains such that American Airlines let Richard Reid board one of its flights but turned away one of the president's Secret Service agents. Now we're asked to believe that high school dropouts are our best front line of defense against the cunning likes of Mohamed Atta, the recipient of two university degrees.
There has been a lot of talk about patriotism and sacrifice since Sept. 11, but talk is cheap. Real airline security is expensive, and you get what you pay for. Congress, exercising its favorite form of bipartisanship, that which serves its corporate donors, did hand the airlines a $15 billion bailout in September but it allotted nothing like that sum to putting teeth into the airline security bill passed with such fanfare in November. 
How fleeting is infamy, after all. Osama bin Laden didn't make it as Time's Man of the Year, the Taliban have been routed, been there, done that. We can take solace in the fact that there has been no major follow-up terrorist attack since Sept. 11 and so pursue cut-rate security at a leisurely pace -- all the while forgetting another part of pre-Sept. 11 history, namely that the typical interval between Al Qaeda actions is 12 to 24 months. Contrast the $8.3 billion that Congress has appropriated to domestic security with its latest "absolute insanity" (in the words of John McCain) -- a dubious $22 billion slab of corporate pork that it bestowed upon Boeing in the form of an Air Force contract to lease 100 new wide-body jets that might be cheaper to buy outright. You can see how much our national priorities have changed since the day the world changed. 
On the home front, sacrifice often seems no more pressing than in the capital. As Bill Maher has said, supporting the war effort by plastering flags on a gas-guzzling foreign car "is literally the least you can do." Yet the new patriotism that was said to be a product of America's New War often seems to be little more than vicarious patriotism reminiscent of the pre-Sept. 11 fetishism of the Greatest Generation. We all applaud our selfless men and women in uniform, whether at ground zero or in battle, but we are not inclined to make even a fractionally commensurate sacrifice of our own. We have no interest in reducing our dependence on the oil from the country that nurtured most of the hijackers, Saudi Arabia, or revisiting an upper-brackets-skewed $1.35 trillion, 10-year tax cut to find the serious money needed to fight future hijackers and bioterrorists effectively. 
Among media bloviators, wartime sacrifice is even more of an abstraction. Many of the same hawks who predicted American defeat three weeks into the war in Afghanistan, Democrats and Republicans alike, are now prematurely declaring that war over so that someone else's children can be sent at once into what they predict, with undiminished certitude, will be a slam-dunk battle in Iraq. "The next time you hear some self-styled patriot, on or off TV, telling you how easy it would be 'to take out Saddam,' " wrote the commentator Mark Shields of these armchair generals, "first ask him to give you the names and hometowns of two enlisted members of the armed services , then ask him if he is volunteering his son or daughter for that 'easy' mission." 
Just as patriotism isn't the jingoistic bluster that Mr. Shields punctures, neither is it the new form of political correctness that has broken out since Sept. 11. In the new p.c., anyone who says anything critical about the president or his administration is branded an anti-American akin to the Marin County Taliban. But if Donald Rumsfeld is good at his job, that's his talent, not a magic spell that automatically rubs off on John Ashcroft and Norman Mineta. If George W. Bush has been a strong practitioner of war, that doesn't elevate his pettier domestic policies, whether an Enron-friendly energy plan or an inequitable economic "stimulus," to the holy grail or brand his critics as evildoers akin to Saddam Hussein (as one conservative group did to Tom Daschle in a recent ad). 
The reason all these ersatz forms of patriotism have taken hold since Sept. 11 is easy to see. There's a vacuum of leadership in defining what real patriotism might be for the many Americans who are not in uniform but who came together on Sept. 11, eager to be part of a national mobilization even if they weren't packing off to war themselves. On the domestic front, Mr. Bush's most frequent call for sacrifice, woefully amplified by a Marriott-sponsored TV ad to which he lends his image, has been for Americans to take more vacations. We can only hope that the book he read over the holidays, Edmund Morris's "Theodore Rex," will give him a broader vision of what Teddy Roosevelt Republicanism can be at home. The Democrats are no better; they snipe at the president's domestic priorities and offer small-bore programs for the recession's growing victims without seriously suggesting that the better-off sacrifice any of the tax cut that Democrats helped put over the top in the first place. 
This is where we were, and it is why our new closure feels so empty. Rather than visit the new, tourist-friendly ground zero, a sharper antidote to complacency may be to travel uptown to a Sept. 11 exhibition at the New-York Historical Society, where a 25-minute impromptu video of the attack, aptly labeled "a Zapruder film for our time" by The Times's Sarah Boxer, runs continuously. The video is jagged and its images are not suitable for framing. It plays out as spontaneously as its cameraman, Evan Fairbanks, shot it. There are no logos, no crawls, no flag graphics, no network anchors to mediate between the viewer and the unfolding events -- in fact, no sound at all, either on the tape or from those watching it in stunned silence. 
Even jaded New Yorkers are shocked all over again by seeing hell naked, unexpurgated, stripped of all the branding and slick packaging that has accrued to it in the weeks since. Confronting that morning again, you suddenly remember the senselessness of the slaughter and the hope we had that change, not a return to business as usual, was what might give it meaning.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Chwast) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); AVIATION SECURITY (87%); HIJACKING (85%); TERRORISM (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CHRISTMAS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%); AIRPORTS (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%); COUNTERTERRORISM (61%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (52%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; AUTOMOBILES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ;TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US) 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (51%); FRANK RICH (50%) RICH, FRANK; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



124 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: India and Pakistan Pave Way for Talks 

BYLINE:  By CELIA W. DUGGER 

DATELINE: KATMANDU, Nepal, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
The foreign ministers of India and Pakistan, here for a regional summit meeting, are privately discussing terms under which the two nuclear rivals could sit down for talks about resolving the current crisis that has led to a perilous military buildup along their common border, officials from both countries said tonight. 
 The discussions, taking place under diplomatic pressure from world leaders to defuse a confrontation that threatens to turn into full-scale war, are aimed at finding a compromise that would assure India that Pakistan is genuinely cracking down on anti-India terrorism while allowing Pakistan, the smaller, more insecure country, to save face, the officials said. 
 India also wants a commitment from the United States to see to it that Pakistan follows through on cutting off support to Pakistan-based groups waging a holy war against India in Jammu and Kashmir, India's only majority Muslim state -- a commitment an Indian official said had not yet been given.
"If the Americans don't want this to escalate, they must take certain responsibilities," the official said. 
As Pakistan's military ruler, President Pervez Musharraf, arrived here today for the conference of South Asian heads of state, India continued to take a tough public line, saying there would be no negotiations until Pakistan had taken stronger measures to combat the extreme Islamic groups based in Pakistan that India accuses of carrying out a suicide attack on its Parliament on Dec. 13. 
Tonight, the seven South Asian leaders gathered at the royal palace for a dinner hosted by King Gyanendra, Nepal's constitutional monarch. Officials said India's prime minister, Atal Behari Vajpayee, and General Musharraf did not sit "within conversation distance" at a long dinner table, though some who were there said they shook hands. 
General Musharraf was late in arriving today for what was to have been the inaugural session of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, officials said, because his flight was delayed by bad weather en route from Beijing, where he paid his second visit to China's leaders in two weeks as tensions have mounted with India. 
Under the association's rules, all seven heads of state must be present to hold a session, so the start of the conference was delayed until Saturday morning. 
Indian officials said they would be carefully analyzing the tone of a speech by General Musharraf. "That's very crucial," one said, expressing concern that the Pakistani leader would say something provocative and contentious. 
It is not yet certain that India and Pakistan will find a way to revive talks that broke off abruptly last summer as the nations tried to thaw relations that were frozen after an incursion into the Indian-controlled side of Kashmir by Pakistan-based militants in 1999. But some officials said they were hopeful that talks could resume. 
Nirupama Rao, an Indian spokeswoman, denied that Jaswant Singh, India's foreign minister, had met with Pakistan's foreign minister, Abdul Sattar. But other Indian and Pakistani officials, who did not want to be identified because of the delicacy of the current situation, said the two ministers had had private discussions.
India has apparently decided to give Pakistan some time to shut down the Islamic militants operating openly from Pakistan into Kashmir. Pakistan said today that since Thursday night its security agents had detained more than 130 Islamic militants, including leaders of two groups India blames for a suicide attack on its Parliament, though it made public no names. 
Pakistani officials here insisted the crackdown on militants had absolutely nothing to do with India's demands and everything to do with Pakistan's own policies to jail individuals inciting others to commit terrorist acts or sectarian killings in Pakistan itself. 
"That really has no linkage with what the Indian government has been demanding," Maj. Gen. Rashid Qureshi, spokesman for General Musharraf, said tonight in a news briefing. "That's what the government of Pakistan has been doing on its own."
While India waits for a broader crackdown by Pakistan, it wants quick action 20 accused criminals and terrorists that India has demanded Pakistan hand over. "To show their sincerity, let them begin with those," said an Indian official. 
But Pakistan, which does not want to be seen to be bowing to its more powerful neighbor, is demanding evidence and suggesting that an impartial, third party investigator examine India's allegations, officials said. 
Speaking of General Musharraf, the State Department spokesman, Richard Boucher, said today, "Fundamentally, we think he has made the strategic decision to move against terrorism." On Thursday, he encouraged the Indians "to make available, as much as they can, evidence and information on the perpetrators of these actions."
India -- apparently responding to Pakistan's sensitivity -- released a two-page summary of evidence on Thursday about some of the more notorious cases that India says it has shared with Pakistan over the past eight years since a series of devastating bomb blasts in Bombay, including at the stock exchange, that killed more than 260 people. General Qureshi said tonight that he was not aware that any such proof had been provided to Pakistan. 
India's demand for the 20 people it has accused places Pakistan in an awkward position, not least because Pakistan has long insisted that some on the list do not live in Pakistan. 
These include the men India says hijacked an Indian jetliner from Katmandu to Kandahar two years ago, as well as Dawood Ibrahim, a Bombay gangster wanted for his alleged involvement in the bombings. 
While it is unclear how India and Pakistan will resolve the tricky issues around the list, officials here are very much focused on whether the leaders of India and Pakistan, now staying here in the same hotel, will find a way to talk to each other in the open. 
India, which sees itself as the aggrieved party after the Dec. 13 attack on Parliament, has been the reluctant partner, while Pakistan is pushing for negotiations. "I'm sure the Indian government knows that we're just waiting for a response," General Qureshi said.
Diplomatic pressure on the two sides, meanwhile, continued to mount with a visit to the region by the British prime minister, Tony Blair, who arrived today in the southern Indian city of Bangalore. He is expected to meet Mr. Vajpayee on Sunday before heading to Pakistan and to report on the results of his conversations to President Bush.
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, meanwhile, said today that he would make a decision early next week on whether to send an envoy to South Asia to try to pull India and Pakistan away from confrontation. "It's important to our international campaign against terrorism," Secretary Powell said in a BBC radio and television interview.
"We will try to be helpful," he said. "We will encourage them to talk to one another."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Musharraf, far left, and Prime Minister Vajpayee, far right, with other guests at the royal dinner. (Associated Press) Map of India highlighting Katmandu: Leaders of India and Pakistan are at a summit meeting in Katmandu.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ARMS RACE (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); TERRORISM (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); RELIGION (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (89%) VAJPAYEE, ATAL BEHARI (PRIME MIN); MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (PRES); DUGGER, CELIA W 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (52%) KASHMIR (93%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (67%) INDIA (99%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (94%); NEPAL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%) INDIA; PAKISTAN; KASHMIR AND JAMMU; NEPAL; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



125 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Democrat Assails Bush on Economy 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
Senator Tom Daschle, the capital's most prominent Democrat, accused President Bush and the Republicans today of causing the "most dramatic fiscal deterioration in our nation's history" when they pushed through a major tax cut last year.
 Mr. Daschle praised Mr. Bush repeatedly for his leadership in the war effort. But using pointed language in his speech to set out the Democrats' election-year stance on the economy, he said that domestic policy was "being written by a wing of the Republican Party that isn't interested in fiscal discipline." He added, "They have one unchanging, unyielding solution they offer for every problem: tax cuts that go disproportionately to the most affluent." 
 He said the $1.35 trillion, 10-year tax reduction that was the centerpiece of Mr. Bush's domestic program had led to dwindling surpluses, high long-term interest rates and an erosion of investor confidence. 
"So not only did the tax cut fail to prevent a recession, as its supporters said it would," Mr. Daschle said, "it probably made the recession worse." 
The speech by Mr. Daschle, the Senate majority leader from South Dakota, was the opening shot in what is likely to be a fierce election-year struggle over the weak economy. It came just weeks after partisan strife stalled economic stimulus legislation. And with Mr. Daschle considered a potential presidential contender, the address might also be a first salvo in the 2004 campaign.
Mr. Bush plans to travel to California and Oregon this weekend and use his Saturday radio address to promote his own economic stimulus measure -- a mix of large business tax cuts, benefits for the unemployed and an accelerated reduction in income taxes. 
In a sign of the importance placed on the debate, the White House brought out one of Mr. Bush's most influential advisers, Karen P. Hughes, to respond. A chorus of high-ranking Republicans in Congress also shot back, with a barrage of accusations that Mr. Daschle wanted to raise taxes by repealing tax cuts. 
Ms. Hughes said Mr. Daschle "seems to be implying that tax increases might be necessary." She said, "Nothing could be worse for workers who want to keep their jobs than to increase taxes at a time when our economy, we hope, is just beginning to recover."
The office of the minority leader, Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, provided a "glossary" for understanding Mr. Daschle's speech, titled "Senator Daschle's Economic Speech for Dummies." It said that when Mr. Daschle spoke of restoring "fiscal discipline" he really meant he favored raising taxes.
And Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois, said, "Perhaps the most important thing the Congress did last year to promote economic security was to pass the president's tax relief proposal." He added, "Senator Daschle voted against that proposal and now he seems to indicate that he wants to repeal it."
With Democrats deeply divided over whether to push to repeal or delay part of the tax cut, Mr. Daschle was silent on the issue. He sought to put Democrats on record in favor of "tax cuts that work."
"We want to make sure that any tax cuts we pass don't threaten Social Security or Medicare reserves, crowd out other critical investments, or drive us deeper into debt," he said. 
Mr. Daschle tried to dispel the idea that the Sept. 11 attacks and the war on terrorism were the main causes of returning federal deficits. "Sept. 11 and the war aren't the only reasons the surplus is nearly gone," he said. "They're not even the biggest reasons. The biggest reason is the tax cut." 
At the heart of Mr. Daschle's speech was an effort to contrast Mr. Bush's economic policies with those of former President Bill Clinton and to tie Democrats to the prosperity of the last decade. He was flanked by a former Clinton treasury secretary, Robert E. Rubin, and a onetime Clinton budget director and chief of staff, Leon E. Panetta, who is board chairman of the Center for National Policy, the site of the speech. 
"In 1993," Mr. Daschle said, speaking of Mr. Clinton's first year in office, "our economy was saddled with a record $290 billion deficit, and that deficit was projected to grow substantially for years. By 2000 not only was the deficit gone, we had a record $236 billion surplus, and that surplus was expected to increase dramatically for years."
Careful not to attack Mr. Bush by name, he said that when the recession started in March, "Republicans chose exactly the wrong solution" and pushed through the $1.35 trillion 10-year tax cut. Mr. Daschle said supporters of the tax cut had been "certain we could do everything" -- reduce taxes, increase spending, protect the federal retirement programs and pay off debt.
"What we got instead," he said, "was the most dramatic fiscal deterioration in our nation's history."
Mr. Daschle proposed two ideas to spur economic stimulus talks -- a one-year business payroll tax credit and a new business depreciation schedule to encourage companies to replace equipment and technology this year. The proposal would allow companies to write off 40 percent of new investments for six months and then 20 percent for the next six months. The administration favors write-offs of 30 percent a year for three years.
More broadly, Mr. Daschle endorsed a "balanced national energy plan" that relies more on conservation than does Mr. Bush's to increase production. And he pledged an early Senate vote this year on giving Mr. Bush expanded trade negotiating power. He said approval of the trade measure should be tied to a package of aid for displaced workers.
Ms. Hughes said that much of the Daschle plan sounded like Mr. Bush's own calls for an energy policy and for trade negotiating authority. She said she hoped Mr. Daschle's speech was an acknowledgment "that his posture at the end of the year in obstructing some of this important legislation was wrong." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); HISTORY (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); HIJACKING (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TERRORISM (74%); INCOME TAX (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%); INTEREST RATES (53%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); TOM DASCHLE (91%); TRENT LOTT (59%); LEON E PANETTA (50%) MITCHELL, ALISON; DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL; RUBIN, ROBERT E; HUGHES, KAREN; PANETTA, LEON E 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) ; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



126 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Practical Help for Afghans 

BYLINE:  By Fred P. Hochberg; Fred P. Hochberg was deputy administrator and acting administrator of the Small Business Administration from 1998 to 2001. He is an adviser to the Foundation for International Community Assistance, a microfinance organization.

 BODY:
As allied forces narrow their hunt for Osama bin Laden, the broader mission is creating a stable, secure Afghanistan. That will take time and resources, but President Bush can start now by drawing on one of the most effective, cost-efficient weapons in the fight against poverty: providing very small business loans to the poorest people -- especially women -- through microlending.
 Fortune 500 companies may not be lining up to do business in war-ravaged Afghanistan, but there is still business to be done. Like much of the developing world, Afghanistan has a well-established, yet informal, economy of street vendors, neighborhood shops and cottage industries. Small loans go a long way. Just $50, for example, could buy a used refrigerator to keep a vendor's produce fresh, a used sewing machine to make stitchery go faster or a bicycle to deliver goods. Tiny transactions like these are part of a proven strategy of poverty reduction. Across the globe, 25 million microentrepreneurs are using loans of very small amounts to increase their incomes and lift their communities. 
 Microfinance has worked well in war-torn areas. Within nine months of the start of a microlending effort in Kosovo's hardest-hit areas, 1,500 microentrepreneurs were in business and paying their loans back on time at an incredible rate of 99 percent. In El Salvador, recovering from the effects of civil war and then devastating hurricanes, microfinance institutions are now making more business loans than commercial banks.
Microfinancing serves both men and women, but all around the world, it focuses especially on women's business development, because helping women helps children. One group that can benefit greatly in Afghanistan, for example, is the many women who have become the sole support of their children after years of war. Afghan women and men need the access to microfinance to build something better.
While I served at the Small Business Administration, our own domestic microenterprise initiative grew to a permanent program. With average loans of $10,000, Americans with ideas and initiative but no credit history have been able to start thousands of businesses providing services from day care to gardening to travel arrangements. As small businesses were established, poor communities were strengthened.
Worldwide, the demand for microcredit keeps growing far faster than the funds available for it. Despite increased microlending support in recent years, the World Bank estimates nearly half a billion microentrepreneurs have no ability to get financial services. Many are forced to turn to loan sharks, who may charge interest of as much as 10 percent a day.
Microfinance is clearly good development policy, but it is also good security policy. Microenterprise assistance won't end the threat of terrorism, but it is a down payment on building stronger economies and more stable societies.
As Congress considers legislation to renew international microcredit assistance, the president should raise our investment to $500 million in annual aid from the current $150 million. Unlike other foreign aid, this is a renewable resource; as one family repays a loan, another receives one, multiplying the impact thousands of times over.
The World Bank should also do more. Today less than one penny out of every World Bank dollar is devoted to microlending. The bank should reform its charter to allow it to provide direct financing to microfinance institutions. The United States should also urge other wealthy nations to increase their contributions and include microfinance on the agenda of upcoming meetings of the G-7 group of industrial nations and the World Trade Organization.
We need to update our thinking about helping the world's poor. Everyone knows the adage that says, "If you teach a person to fish . . ." But in Afghanistan and throughout the developing world, people already know how to fish and farm and make and sell all kinds of goods and services. They need capital to invest in what they know. And that investment will pay dividends for us all. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROFINANCE (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (77%); WOMEN (76%); TRENDS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); RETAILERS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (70%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (69%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (68%); HIJACKING (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); LEGISLATION (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; CREDIT 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%) HOCHBERG, FRED P 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOSOVO (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



127 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Policy on Argentina Signals Shift in Approach 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN with DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
Seven years ago this month, President Bill Clinton's economic advisers told him Mexico was hours away from economic default and perhaps chaos on the streets. Mr. Clinton ordered an unpopular multibillion-dollar bailout, over the objections of Congress, but with the support of a prominent Republican governor, George W. Bush of Texas.
 When Argentina barreled toward a similar default in recent weeks, it was Mr. Bush who had to make the bailout call -- and his decision was to let Argentina suffer the consequences of its own economic mismanagement. His aides argue that the circumstances were somewhat different: Mexico appeared ready to make reforms but needed time and cash, while Argentina had not heeded repeated warnings that its policies were leading to financial disaster. 
 Still, Mr. Bush's reaction to the biggest international economic crisis so far in his presidency is a telling example of a new -- and perhaps risky -- approach to the kind of national economic bankruptcies that dominated Washington's dealings with the world's emerging markets in the late 1990's.
The Clinton administration, fearing "economic contagion," was willing to back loans to teetering governments in Thailand, Indonesia, South Korea and Russia. But Mr. Bush's aides have adopted a policy some call "tough love," meant to reverse the expectation in capitals around the world that if you are big enough, or strategically important, Washington will always find a way to prevent fiscal and political collapse.
Mr. Bush promised just such a policy during his presidential campaign. But the first time his approach was tested, when Turkey ran into deep trouble last spring, Mr. Bush's national security aides warned that it was no time to abandon a well-located ally whose government seemed willing to take the medicine the International Monetary Fund prescribed. Washington joined in the bailout. 
"It's fair to say," one senior administration official noted during the last week, "that while we have been clear, we haven't always been consistent."
The hard line on Argentina, White House and Treasury officials say, was calculated to send the message that under the Bush administration, the United States would be a reluctant financial firefighter and that the markets should not bet on a bailout. It is a message that Mr. Bush's aides said in interviews this week that they hoped would force officials of developing countries and foreign investors to work out their problems without relying as much on huge aid packages from the International Monetary Fund and from Washington, which became commonplace after Mexico.
"It is a different approach, but we needed a different approach," said John B. Taylor, undersecretary of the Treasury for international affairs. "We want to follow a policy that does not bail out bondholders and improves the market over all."
There are other new aspects to the Bush policy.
Treasury officials in the Clinton era never shied away from dispensing a steady stream of advice to countries on the condition that they would have to meet to get Western aid. In contrast, during the Argentina crisis, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill was nearly invisible, rarely commenting on the country's approaching default, or the violent protests that led to the resignation of President Fernando de la Rua.
Officials say Mr. O'Neill supported the decision by the I.M.F. to cut off Argentina's loans because it had failed to meet the fund's demands for fiscal restraint. And now Washington's message to Argentina's new president, Eduardo Duhalde, is straightforward: Come up with a workable plan, and then we will talk.
"President Bush never talked about specific steps he expected the Argentine government to take," said one White House official familiar with Mr. Bush's periodic calls and letters to Mr. de la Rua and the series of his successors in recent weeks. "You won't find this administration having those kinds of conversations. Argentina has to come up with what works for them, and if we can support it, we will."
Mr. Bush's approach carries considerable risk. There is every possibility that Argentina's new government will abandon the free-market leanings, tight fiscal and banking controls the country embraced with strong International Monetary Fund support over the last decade. Already there is considerable doubt that Argentina will now agree to the kind of hemispheric free-trade agreement that Mr. Bush himself, with Mr. de la Rua at his side, said last year was a major goal of his administration.
Both the I.M.F. and the United States, the fund's largest shareholder, have come under some sharp criticism for denying new loans to Argentina after previously approving aid to the country. The last emergency loan was put together in August, with Mr. O'Neill's close supervision.
The critics of Mr. Bush's decision to pull the plug on aid argue that the I.M.F. and the Bush administration were callous for abandoning an ally at a sensitive moment. And some argue that both the Clinton and Bush administrations should have acted sooner to steer Argentina away from its doomed efforts to defend a 1-to-1 peg of its peso to the dollar.
But administration and I.M.F. officials respond that they aided Argentina for as long as they thought there was a reasonable chance that its political leaders were serious about reform. They pulled the plug, one senior administration official said, "only when it became clear that the collapse was going to happen sooner or later, and there was no use spending billions to get a few more weeks before the inevitable happened."
Some longtime critics of the fund applauded the Bush administration's stance. Both left-wing anti-globalization activists and some conservative economists have argued that the fund became too interventionist during the Clinton years. That allowed investors to make reckless bets on the assumption that lending agencies would rescue them when things went wrong.
"I am hopeful that we're in transition to a world in which countries and lenders learn more about risk," said Allan H. Meltzer of Carnegie Mellon University, who headed a Congressional panel two years ago that advocated sweeping changes at the I.M.F. and the World Bank. "You can't just keep throwing money at these problems and hope they will go away." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); BONDS (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) SANGER, DAVID E; KAHN, JOSEPH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (55%) ARGENTINA; MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



128 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 116 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE 

 BODY:
 This Time, No Bailout
Seven years ago President Clinton ordered a huge bailout of Mexico when it was near default. President Bush, who supported Mr. Clinton, offered nothing to Argentina when it barreled toward default. PAGE A3

Jobless Rate Reaches 5.8%
The unemployment rate rose two-tenths of a percentage point, to 5.8 percent in December, a level it last reached in April 1995. But fewer Americans lost their jobs than in the prior three months. PAGE C1

Writer and Contempt Charge
An aspiring author jailed for months for refusing to hand over her research to a grand jury, was released because the grand jury's term had expired, but prosecutors said they may convene a new one. PAGE A8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAND JURY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); LAYOFFS (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002 



129 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns; 
Four Decades, Two Democrats and a Nassau Twist of Fate

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: MINEOLA , N.Y. 

 BODY:
NINETEEN SIXTY-TWO was an auspicious year for Democrats in Nassau County, who until very recently had to look that far back to have any basis for hope. Eugene H. Nickerson took office as the first Democratic county executive. And Thomas R. Suozzi, the second one, was born.
 On Tuesday, in an eerie but somehow fittingly symmetrical fluke of fate, Mr. Suozzi was sworn in, and Mr. Nickerson, 83, died, of complications from ulcer surgery. 
 The two men had little in common beside their dark-eyed good looks and ambitions for higher office. Mr. Nickerson was a patrician, white-shoe lawyer with no experience in government. Mr. Suozzi, 39, the son of an Italian immigrant, was the mayor of Glen Cove for four terms.
Mr. Suozzi takes over a county government bleeding red ink, weighed down by debt, and teetering on the brink of financial collapse. Mr. Nickerson's challenges, by contrast, were largely of his own choosing.
The Nassau he inherited in 1962 had just reached adulthood following the postwar boom that made it the biggest and foremost American suburb, its corn and potato fields largely subdivided and paved over, its roadways already choked with traffic, its tap water already fouled with chemicals from unchecked growth, The Republican-led county government was awash in money but had been concerned with little more than maintaining the status quo.
"What problems there were were the beginning problems of suburbia: inadequate transportation, the welfare rolls going up, the city's problems coming out into Nassau," said James C. Shelland, a historian at Empire State College in Old Westbury. "Nickerson saw his mission as confronting those things."
There was little that the optimistic Mr. Nickerson did not confront. He promoted affirmative action, low-cost housing and better ties between the police and minorities. He started recreation programs for patients at the county nursing home. And he pushed to turn the county's tiny hospital into a modern medical center for the middle class and poor alike.
He was helped by a torrent of state and federal aid pouring into Nassau during the 1960's. While county spending soared, taxes rose less steeply, Mr. Shelland said.
Mr. Nickerson also saw his mission as unifying Nassau and elevating its self-image. "He recognized that Nassau was not just a bedroom, but our home," said Sol Wachtler, who was the North Hempstead supervisor before he became a judge, and whom Mr. Nickerson narrowly defeated in 1967 to win his last three-year term. "And as a result, the people living in Nassau became interested in the things being provided for them. Up till that time, people were pretty indifferent. They wanted things to be left alone, they didn't want people and problems coming out here from the city, they didn't want the earmarks of liberalism."
It was Mr. Nickerson who persuaded the Kennedy administration to turn over sprawling Mitchel Field, then an undeveloped jewel at the county's core, for what he hoped would be a sports, cultural and transit center, a Madison Square Garden, Lincoln Center and Penn Station rolled into one. The Nassau Coliseum was all he got. But his ideas for a transit hub are still kicking around.
ANOTHER bit of unfinished business: Mr. Nickerson often complained that the county had no system of reporting on municipal services, making it impossible to know whether streets had been cleaned or workers were showing up. Forty years later, Mr. Suozzi says the same thing.
Unlike Mr. Suozzi, whose fellow Democrats hold a one-vote edge in the County Legislature, Mr. Nickerson faced an obstructionist, Republican-controlled Board of Supervisors throughout his tenure. But he was a canny operator: to push his plan for the medical center through, Mr. Wachtler recalled, "He had the hearing room filled with people on iron lungs. He made me feel like such a miserable person. And of course I was the first vote in favor of it."
Mr. Suozzi will need all of Mr. Nickerson's political smarts, and then some. The county, he said gently in his inaugural, is "showing its age." The medical center and nursing home laid off 353 workers on Thursday to help stave off bankruptcy. 
And many more cuts are coming. The Republicans who succeeded Mr. Nickerson preached fiscal conservatism, but they never eliminated the programs and departments -- and the jobs -- that he created.
So the most symmetrical link between Nassau's two Democrats will be if it is Mr. Suozzi who has to curtail the expansive, programs that Mr. Nickerson created. "We cannot tackle the problems of 2002 if we are guided by visions of 1962," Mr. Suozzi said Tuesday, before Mr. Nickerson's death had become known. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MAYORS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); BUDGETS (73%); SUBURBS (72%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (69%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (68%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (51%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M; SUOZZI, THOMAS R (COUNTY EXEC); NICKERSON, EUGENE H (JUDGE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) NASSAU COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



130 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: FOLLOWING UP 

BYLINE:  By Joseph P. Fried 

 BODY:
Contender for Governor Keeps Outspoken Views
His spin in the spotlight was short, his campaign for governor of New York unconventional, his loss big and his exit from the news almost instant.
 In 1990, after 19 potential candidates turned down the state Republican Party's nomination to run against Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, the two-term Democratic incumbent, desperate Republican leaders turned to a man who had never run for public office, Pierre A. Rinfret. 
 A Montreal-born, New York City-bred financial and economic consultant, he was a feisty, blunt-spoken cage-rattler who did not hesitate to denounce fellow Republicans as well as Mr. Cuomo, whom he called inept at dealing with what he saw as the state's economic decline. The Republicans who had refused to run against Mr. Cuomo, he said, were "gutless wonders."
Not surprisingly, some Republicans were among the politicians who saw Mr. Rinfret as a loose cannon prone to shooting himself in the foot. The race ended with the worst showing of any Republican candidate for governor in the state's history. Mr. Rinfret's 21 percent of the vote barely beat the 20 percent won by the Conservative Party candidate, Herbert London. Mr. London had attacked Mr. Rinfret as aggressively as he had Mr. Cuomo, who won with 53 percent.
"I knew from Day 1 I couldn't win," Mr. Rinfret said last week from Nantucket, Mass., where, at 77, he lives in retirement. But he ran, he said, "to try and get the people to see" that the state "was deteriorating economically" and that rampant crime had made New York City's residents "frightened to walk" the streets at night.
Mr. Rinfret said his effort had helped show the vulnerability of Mr. Cuomo, who "won by a bare majority against two rank amateurs" who had split the anti-Cuomo vote. Four years later, Mr. Cuomo lost to George E. Pataki.
Mr. Rinfret said that the Republican Party "did nothing" to help his campaign, but he conceded that he "made some dumb mistakes," such as "taking on the press too much." As he did during the campaign, he maintained that The New York Times had been especially "nasty" and unfair to him.
Though no longer in the consulting business, Mr. Rinfret gives his economic views free on the Web at www.rinfret.com and www.parida.com. Ever the iconoclast, he offers such advice as: "Ignore any and all statements about the future of the economy by any and all government officials" because "they all lie."

Bidding for Site Delays Bookstore's Moving Day
The book is still being written on a legendary bookstore's planned move.
In July, the owner of the Gotham Book Mart, a nostalgic trove long popular with buyers, browsers and authors, said he planned to sell its cramped home in Midtown Manhattan and seek larger quarters in the area. 
The owner, Andreas Brown, said the shop had outgrown the five-story building at 41 West 47th Street, its home for 56 of its 82 years. And strong interest in the site in the thriving diamond district made selling financially wise, he said, adding that he hoped to complete the sale and acquire a new home for the shop by Christmas.
But as of last week, neither had been done. "There are a huge number of bidders, and we're going into a second round," Mr. Brown said. He could not pin down a new location "because our budget for purchasing depends on what we get for this building."
"Our asking price is $7.9 million," he said. "Early bids show we have a shot at it."

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BOOKSTORES (83%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); RELOCATIONS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); SHOOTINGS (67%); LITERATURE (60%); HISTORY (52%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); BOOKS AND LITERATURE; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

ORGANIZATION: GOTHAM BOOK MART (NYC) 

PERSON: FRIED, JOSEPH P; RINFRET, PIERRE A; CUOMO, MARIO M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



131 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: Harvard President Brings Elbows to the Table 

BYLINE:  By KATE ZERNIKE and PAM BELLUCK

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Jan. 5 

 BODY:
It was undoubtedly the most negative publicity Harvard University's new president, Lawrence H. Summers, had received in his six months on the job. A dust-up with the professor Cornel West and complaints that Mr. Summers had snubbed or disappointed other celebrated black scholars raised the possibility that Harvard would lose the stars of its Afro-American studies department.
 But the dispute, resolved this week when Mr. Summers took steps to mend fences with the professors, was not the only time that Harvard's president has ruffled feathers. 
 In November, at a meeting with law professors, he was perceived as giving a disparaging response to a professor who objected to plans to move the law school's campus. 
In September, he rankled leaders of public service organizations on campus, who complained that he was unfairly advising them to stick to charitable work and not get involved in social or political advocacy.
And several professors of Latin American studies say that over the last few months, Mr. Summers has deflected requests that a Latino studies center be established on campus.
His critics say that since Mr. Summers took office in July, he has developed a reputation for excessive bluntness, lacking the quiet diplomacy they praise in his predecessor, Neil L. Rudenstine. They say Mr. Summers, who was treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton, brought with him the sharp elbows for which he was known in Washington. Even though he taught economics here for nearly a decade, they speak of him as a kind of interloper, one who does not understand how universities are supposed to operate.
In many ways, he is what people used to expect university presidents to be: outspoken, a strong hand and a public figure, not simply a smooth fund-raiser. The education of Larry Summers suggests how much that expectation has changed.
"Given someone who has experience in Washington, his behavior has been quite shocking," said William Julius Wilson, who was recruited under Mr. Rudenstine as a professor and part of the Afro-American studies department.
"He's now saying things he should have said from the beginning," Dr. Wilson added. "That's to his credit. I hope he learns something from this."
At the least, Mr. Summers cast a figure far different from the owlish Mr. Rudenstine -- and faced more withering scrutiny. When Mr. Summers's sweat pants sagged during a halftime game of Red Rover at a November football game, for example, gossip columns here and in Washington obsessed about whether his underwear had been red or white.
In an interview in his office off Harvard Yard, Mr. Summers defended his tenure and suggested that the criticism reflected the need to adjust to a new style, one of questioning, not conciliation. The questions are intended to force people to rise to the high expectations worthy of Harvard, not to shoot them down.
"I think the questioning is a mark of respect for people, an interest in what they have to say," Mr. Summers said. "I've always believed that you can't do anything without having a sense of the pros and cons."
Mr. Summers's defenders, too, challenge the idea that he sought an imperial presidency by saying that he is acting from his roots as a professor. It is not uncommon, they say, for faculty members to challenge one another's ideas; rather, it is the essence of the university. Instead of being unfamiliar with the university ethos, Mr. Summers is perhaps a little too familiar with it.
"If he made any mistake at all, it's that he thought he was coming back as a faculty member," said Sol Gittleman, provost of Tufts University. "The faculty is free to say whatever they want. Once you became an administrator it's something else."
Dr. Gittleman said that Mr. Summers "brings his own kind of unique faculty baggage to the job." He added: "I don't see him as arched. I don't see him as pompous. He didn't realize that he was no longer faculty; he's the president of Harvard."
Others say that the committee that chose Mr. Summers was looking for a strong voice. And that, say Morton and Phyllis Keller, historians and authors of a recent book on the university, is a natural transition for Harvard. Historically, the Kellers say, Harvard has alternated between strong presidents and those they call stewards, whose chief task is to build up the university's endowment. The presidents in between have been freer to focus on some aspect of the university that they think needs improvement. For Charles Eliot, it was making the curriculum more flexible. For James Conant, it was improving the quality of the faculty and students. For Derek Bok, it was making Harvard more relevant to the outside world.
"Larry Summers comes in at a time when money is not the problem, the quality of students is not the problem," Morton Keller said in an interview. "There is a serious problem in the way in which Harvard's worldliness and prestige drives professors away from their core responsibilities: teaching and scholarship. He is responding not only to his own sense of the university having strayed from its core mission, but to the criticism outside the university."
The criticism of Mr. Summers is largely over how he delivers his message, but sometimes it is the message. Trevor Cox, president of Phillips Brooks House, Harvard's umbrella for community service groups, said that at the meeting with student leaders, Mr. Summers seemed to be saying that public service should focus more on charity work than on advocacy of a particular approach to solving social problems. Tutoring children might be appropriate, for example, while fighting vouchers might not, even if it was based in a belief that they make conditions for children in public schools worse.
"The general drift of it was that he didn't consider advocacy public service," Mr. Cox said. "His conception was more of charity. To have the president of the university define a narrow definition of public service was not well met." 
So far, Mr. Cox said, he and other students have found things about Mr. Summers to praise and criticize.
"Summers has done a very good job at the beginning of visiting groups of people, indicating by his presence that he's willing to learn about issues that affect the college," Mr. Cox said. "He has had office hours, and a lot of students have gone in to see him."
On the other hand, his probing questions can be disconcerting.
"If you have a short time with him, it's not too encouraging if the whole time he spends a lot of time challenging your views, even though he may not really believe that," Mr. Cox said. "I think he is for both his sake and ours challenging us and challenging himself on a lot of these issues."
That is how Mr. Summers explains it. In two interviews in his office, he seemed eager to refute any suggestion that he was too confrontational.
All his questions, he said, are aimed at making the best decisions toward a broad agenda: improving undergraduate education, tamping down grade inflation, making it possible for more students to attend Harvard regardless of cost. He acknowledges that there are challenges in trying to satisfy everyone.
"Not everything can be a priority," he said.
At the meeting with the students, he said, he was making the point that the university cannot be seen as endorsing political causes, particularly if they are at one end of the ideological spectrum. As for the misunderstanding at the law school, he called the faculty member to make sure no insult was felt -- an account the faculty member corroborates.
And while Mr. Summers acknowledges that it may be different for Harvard to have its president in the gossip columns, he is a public figure and has been for years.
Even his critics seem to grant that Mr. Summers has learned from the disputes over the past few weeks. "He's trying to make things better," said Charles Ogletree, a professor at the law school who represented the Afro-American studies professors in their dispute. "He's been conciliatory. He's been calling people, meeting people, wanting to set the record straight, trying to fix what he describes as a misunderstanding."
"We've made a lot of progress," Dr. Ogletree said. "I'm just thrilled that he's open."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lawrence H. Summers, Harvard's president, has mended fences. (C. J. Gunther for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); CHARITIES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (92%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



132 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
Help on Rent Eases Strain As a Life Is Ending

BYLINE:  By AARON DONOVAN 

 BODY:
Moshik Khivazov has memorized the appearance of the residential tower outside his bedroom window -- the way the white curtains behind one window rest just so, the droop of the plant leaves in the windows a few floors below.
 The building will likely be one of the last things he sees. 
 Late last month, doctors at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center told him that he had a week to live, maybe a little more, maybe a little less, his family said.
His once-vigorous muscles have atrophied to the point where his arms are thin sticks, his torso emaciated. He spends his days on his bed at home, heavily sedated by morphine and inclined to stare out that window. 
One day two weeks ago, Mr. Khivazov, 53, a musician, woke up and asked his wife to get his saxophone. 
"I have to play now," he told her. "I have to prepare for my concert."
It was just a delusion, said Larisa Khivazov, 44, his wife of 25 years.
Mr. Khivazov's head rests on an oversized pillow and his body is covered by only a thin white blanket. He speaks in a whisper, but rarely says more than a word or two.
His story, and that of his family, is better told by his wife, a former kindergarten teacher who immigrated with him from Uzbekistan two years ago and is now a part-time home health aide.
"For two days I felt dead myself," she said of her reaction to learning her husband's prognosis. "But then my husband told me, 'God says when we are born and when we have to die. God chooses the right time. So for me, it's the right time. Don't cry, be strong.' "
In September 1999, the couple and their daughter, Milana, now 21, left Yangier, Uzbekistan, a small town on the slopes of the Himalayas about 250 miles from Afghanistan. They said they faced discrimination there because they are Jewish.
Mr. Khivazov had hoped to play the saxophone in front of larger audiences when he moved to the United States. But three months after the family arrived in New York, Mrs. Khivazov said, doctors discovered a large cancerous tumor on his kidney that had gone undetected in Uzbekistan. "When we left he was not all right," Mrs. Khivazov said, as Fira Furman, a social worker from the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services who helps her, translated from Russian. "He fainted a few times but they had no idea why."
The tumor was removed after it was detected but the cancer had already spread. Mr. Khivazov has been undergoing experimental drug treatment in the two years since having surgery, but has not improved, his wife said.
After his cancer was diagnosed in December 1999, he realized he was too sick to work. Mrs. Khivazov obtained certification to be a home health aide, but she has curtailed her work recently to spend as much time as possible with her husband.
Now she earns $300 a month at her job, and the family receives $1,106 a month in Supplemental Security Income.
But with many expenses, Mrs. Khivazov was in danger of falling behind on the rent, $881 a month for a one-bedroom high-rise apartment in Rego Park, Queens. With help from The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, she was able to pay it.
The family has been receiving help from the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services since shortly after arriving in New York. The agency, a beneficiary of UJA-Federation of New York, helps them with their immigration paperwork and public benefits. UJA-Federation is one of the seven local charities supported by the Neediest Cases Fund.
"We try to help this family in any way we can," Ms. Furman said. "They are facing very unusual circumstances."
While the money is unlikely to help Mr. Khivazov get well, it will help tide the family over until Mrs. Khivazov is able to obtain full-time employment.
Mr. Khivazov hoped to bring his family to the United States to pursue better economic opportunities and escape religious intolerance, but the most significant thing that happened here was that he had access to better medical treatment.
The Khivazovs' son, Eugene, 26, also came to the United States recently, bringing his wife, Christine, 20, and their daughter, Camilla, 2. 
Moshik Khivazov looked at his granddaughter and smiled as she showed him a stuffed animal. "At least two more years he was given by Sloan-Kettering," Mrs. Khivazov said. "The U.S.A. kept him alive and let him see his granddaughter."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK*
FDR Station
P.O. Box 5314
New York, N.Y. 10150

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $6,729,483.61
Recorded Thursday: 120,028.38

Total: $6,849,511.99

At similar period last year: $7,308,255.38

GRAPHIC: Photo: Larisa Khivazov says American medical care allowed her husband, Moshik, to live to see his granddaughter. (Richard Lee for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (89%); CANCER HOSPITALS (76%); CHILDREN (74%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (74%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (72%); KIDNEY CANCER (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); MUSIC (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (65%); MOUNTAINS (62%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (60%); CHILD WELFARE (60%) NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND 

ORGANIZATION: MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (57%)

PERSON: KHIVAZOV, LARISA; DONOVAN, AARON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%); HIMALAYAS (67%) UNITED STATES (90%); UZBEKISTAN (90%); AFGHANISTAN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



133 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK; 
New Careers for 3 Who'd Been Around the Block

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH 

 BODY:
ON the morning of Sept. 11, Alan Guinn decided he would change the way he lived his life. Standing in Penn Station amid swarms of anxious commuters trying to get home, Mr. Guinn made a commitment to himself.
 "Right there, I realized we have only so many minutes to live our lives," Mr. Guinn said. "I decided to start my future immediately." 
 The next day he walked into his boss's office at a bill processing company on West 72nd Street and resigned his position as director of global sales. He gave six days' notice. "I couldn't wait two weeks," he said. 
 By the following week he had converted a spare room in his Massapequa home into an office and had begun soliciting business for his new consulting company, helping companies build and operate sales and marketing programs and other business development efforts.
 Every year, thousands of Long Islanders flee the restrictions and relative safety of salaried jobs to begin their own businesses. Such ventures emerge out of New Year's resolutions to pursue long-deferred dreams of independence, or following traumatic events. The state small business development center in Stony Brook, on the campus of the state university, reports a 15 percent increase in calls since Sept. 11.
 Sometimes it's simply that the time is right for change.
 Mr. Guinn, 49, said he had wanted to set out his shingle long before Sept. 11 but never made the commitment. "All the office politics, the do-it-by-committee mentality and the endless meetings," he said. "I really don't miss corporate life."
 Judith Tyne, director of the Center for Entrepreneurship at Hofstra University, said, "People in midlife and later start businesses around what they care about, and what we care about changes as we get older."
 But Mr. Guinn said the work he does is similar to what he did as an executive for companies like Pepsico, Haagen-Dazs and 1-800-flowers.com. Now, however, he's his own boss. That, he said, makes all the difference.
The bill processing company, Cashpoint, welcomed him back as a consultant. "One thing I learned early on," he said. "Don't burn any bridges."
 Several other contracts followed. Mr. Guinn is also teaching a business class through an online university and has completed writing and self-publishing a motivational book called "Psyched For Life."
 "My calendar is pretty full," he said, sounding pleased.
 Not everyone finds the transition so smooth. Sue Byrnes of Huntington, a single mother who raised two children and put them through college on her salary as a nurse, said she felt increasingly dissatisfied with her chosen field. She worked in a Huntington nursing home and found the burden of paperwork ever more difficult to bear.
 "I went into nursing to take care of people," she said, "not to fill out forms."
 Two years ago, at age 54, she quit her job and opened a tea shop in Huntington. She and a friend, Candace Osias of East Meadow, leased a storefront on New York Avenue and called their new business Miss Haversham's Tea Shop, after the Dickens character in "Great Expectations."
 In addition to offering 500 brands of tea, Ms. Byrnes said, the shop features sandwiches, scones and soups. Ms. Byrnes said she cooks the soups every day from scratch. The work isn't easy. "I work more hours these days, sometimes 55 hours a week," she said. "I never worked more than 48 as a nurse."
 Her father provided the motivation to get out of nursing, she said.
 "Late in life my father became regretful," she said. "He was always a workaholic. In old age he talked about everything he never found time to do. I decided not to let that happen to me."
 Ms. Byrnes said she likes dealing with people and likes tea, and thought running a tea shop would be a good fit one day. She researched business opportunities for nearly a year. She turned to the small business development center in Stony Brook for help, receiving free information and advice.
 Two years later, she said, results are mixed. She enjoys serving customers, but in retrospect wishes she had asked more questions of people in the business.
 "I would have talked more to people with actual experience and spent less time reading books about it," she said.
 One thing she'd change is her location.
 "Downtown Huntington is busy, but here we're several blocks south of everything," she said, indicating that business could be better.
 She wonders when people will go out again as they did before Sept. 11. And she worries how she will master all the unfamiliar business skills she now knows she needs.
 "I never had to manage cash flow before, but now I'm learning how to do it," she said. "And I know I won't be regretful like my father over what I never tried."
 For Gene Seraphine, semi-retirement from his public relations agency has afforded him time to study music and become, at age 84, the leader of a working jazz band.
 As a young man blessed with a good ear and an extensive collection of 78's -- plenty of Lester Young and Coleman Hawkins, the reigning innovators of the tenor saxophone -- Mr. Seraphine skipped formal training. Instead he took his saxophone with him to clubs and restaurants, sitting in when a bandleader gave the O.K.
 "I never learned theory and harmony," he said. "But I enjoyed playing, and I knew the tunes everybody liked." 
 After college he worked for the Cunard cruise line, traveling widely. In Paris he once talked his way into a jam session with the guitarist Django Reinhardt. 
 Back in the States, Mr. Seraphine began building a career in public relations. He founded an agency in Manhattan serving hotel, travel and entertainment accounts. There were celebrity clients too, including Salvador Dali and Steve Allen. In off hours he still made the rounds, saxophone in hand.
 Mr. Seraphine gave up his Manhattan office space and his Port Wwashington home and moved to Hampton Bays 16 years ago. He still handles occassional assignments from old clients. But these days, he said, there's time for fishing. And jazz.
 Playing a guest solo one night with a band at Bridges, a restaurant in Sag Harbor, he marveled at the playing of the keyboard player, Mark Gatz. Told that Mr. Gatz also taught music, he asked to become a student. Mr. Gatz agreed.
 "It was my late-life crisis," he said with a grin. The weekly lessons continued for three years, followed by extensive practice on his own, Mr. Seraphine said.
 "There has been a great improvement in the way I hear things," he declared. "I can hear some of the newer tunes now that the band wants to play. I used to stumble over chord changes. Not anymore. Now I know what I'm doing up there."
 Mr. Seraphine printed up new business cards with the image of a saxophone next to his telephone number. He gets calls to bring small groups to play at various East End business functions, political events and weddings. The quartet is booked regularly at local restaurants on jazz nights.
 "I'd like to record a CD with this quartet," Mr. Seraphine said. "These guys swing like crazy. I'm proud of us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gene Seraphine, who played the saxophone for years as an avocation, has become the leader of a jazz band at the age of 84. Ray Williams is the group's bass player. (Doug Kuntz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (89%); HIJACKING (79%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); CHILDREN (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); RETAILERS (75%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (75%); TERRORISM (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (73%); DISTANCE LEARNING (71%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); NURSES & NURSING (60%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; TEA; MUSIC; SMALL BUSINESS 

COMPANY: 1-800-FLOWERS.COM INC (63%); PEPSICO INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (56%)

TICKER: FWC (FRA) (63%); FLWS (NASDAQ) (63%); PEP (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (63%); NAICS453110 FLORISTS (63%); SIC5992 FLORISTS (63%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (63%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%)

PERSON: GUINN, ALAN; BYRNES, SUE; SERAPHINE, GENE; STRUGATCH, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



134 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: LONG ISLAND JOURNAL; 
A Friend to the Scaly and Many-Legged

BYLINE:  By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER; E-mail: lijournal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
BOB SMITH'S office in a Hauppauge industrial park is a mecca for snakes, amphibians and bugs. There's Dumpy, a silky smooth, lime green Australian tree frog with a dreamy, smiley look on his face, sitting on the tray of Mr. Smith's business-card holder, breathing ever so gently that the nocturnal amphibian looks more like a gargoyle. Lurking under the moss in the terrarium by Mr. Smith's desk is a Brazilian rainbow boa constrictor that had 26 babies earlier this year, though the offspring have been relocated to separate lodgings in his Northport basement. When not between sheds, the boa's skin looks iridescent.
 Across the room is a tank with three larger boas wrapped around each other. Mr. Smith is more than happy to regale a rather skittish visitor by pulling out one of the eight-foot snakes and pointing out the bulge along its length that is most likely the rat it recently savored.
 Want to see another creepy crawler? From a vivarium in the next room, Mr. Smith proudly shows off an African millipede that freaks out his wife, Diane, every time he takes the coiled up brown critter out of the tank. 
"It doesn't bite," said Mr. Smith, stroking the thousand-legged creature and touting it as an inexpensive pet that doesn't need walking and is content with a lump of lettuce and an occasional misting.
 "It's a vegetable eater," he said. "It has to feel a little bit comfortable and then it will start walking. It's interesting to see how the legs oscillate. The fear of every mom in America is that it gets out of the cage. That's why I have it here and not at my house."
 Mr. Smith's office is actually the headquarters of the Right Financial Group, which services computers and financial equipment in banks. But if his employees had any trepidation about working amid his extensive collection of reptiles, amphibians and insects in cages that make the rooms seem more like a pet shop, they have had to get over it. Since last January, when Mr. Smith launched Fauna magazine, the staff has been pulling double duty.
 Mr. Smith is an amateur herpetologist with big plans for this slick, full-color magazine stuffed with razor-sharp images of snake-necked turtles, legless lizards, giant hornets and the seldom seen ridge-nosed rattlesnake and articles with headlines like "The Joy of Toads" and "Along Came a Spider." So far, he's been publishing 15,000 copies every other month, and toting his menagerie to schools all over the Island in search of an audience. His staff handles the business and advertising end; Mr. Smith does some editing but farms out assignments to scientists who know their invertebrates. The articles are geared to a general interest readers and are reviewed by an independent editorial board.
 "When we do grow up, we'd like to be National Geographic," said Mr. Smith, 43. "That's the benchmark for success in a nature magazine."
 Part of Mr. Smith's goal, he said, is to "dispel the myth that snakes are evil monsters."
"On a survey, when people ask what are you most afraid of, even today, after Sept. 11, 50 percent of the respondents said snakes," he said.
 Tarantulas also rank up there on the scary charts, said Mr. Smith, reaching into another tank, plucking out an African scorpion while mimicking an eerie soundtrack with a shiver-inducing "woooooooooooooo."
"This guy down here has a little danger involved," he said. "There's a bit of a wives' tale in every James Bond movie. You see this thing is crawling on somebody and you think it is going to kill you like a tarantula," he said, knowledgeably noting that it's the claws that can clip a victim like a lobster and the stinger in the back is venomous, though not more than a yellow jacket sting.
 Mr. Smith said his hankering for creatures that others shirk away from propelled him to launch the magazine.
 "I am a firm believer that these things have a right to exist," he said while readily admitting that though he's an environmentalist, the skin of a dead snake might make a fine-looking pair of shoes. "There are enough people worrying about polar bears and jaguars. When you get into the wild and see the relationship between all these animals that live on the forest floor, that's why we started Fauna. It's the forgotten fauna. These are animals no one knows about or cares about anymore. They really are the basis of the food chain and the basis of life. Without them, everything stops. They are not in danger. They are just completely understudied and misunderstood."
 Mr. Smith's fascination with snakes started when he was 6. The family had just moved to West Babylon from Manhattan and he was having a hard time acclimating to the neighborhood.
 "The kids across the hedges were screaming about something and out comes this little snake and I just instinctively went over and picked it up," he recalled. "It just didn't dawn on me to do anything but."
 His soon-to-be best buddies were absolutely shocked. His mother ran out of the kitchen screaming "put that down." The animal turned out to be a nonvenomous garter snake. From then on, he was hooked, venturing out on his bicycle all over the Island chasing down snakes, turtles and frogs, collecting them in a 55-gallon drum in the garage and peddling them to the pet departments of local department stores.
Except for breaks during college, where he studied business economics, and when he got married, Mr. Smith kept up his hobby. When his oldest son, Tyler, now 12, caught a snake in the backyard as a toddler, Mr. Smith got the bug all over again and started breeding. For hibernation season coming up, Mr. Smith and his three children boxed their 50 to 60 reptiles into cozy sweater boxes and put them in the crawl space under the basement to sleep for the winter.
 Humans wiped out the rattlesnakes that were indigenous to Long Island more than 125 years ago, Mr. Smith said. He is looking farther. It was during a eco-tour of Costa Rica last year that he started talking about a business to promote reptiles and amphibians and the possibility of reincarnating Fauna was proposed. The name had been used on reptile magazines that came and went three times in the last 50 years.
"It means the animal kingdom, that's the true definition of the word," said Mr. Smith, hoping to someday make jungle tours of Costa Rica, Madagascar and the Amazon part of the magazine's outreach. "We are just describing these forgotten species. We want people to understand that these animals certainly are not something you hit with a shovel if you see them in your garden, that they have a right to live."

Literary Great Neck
Great Neck has no shortage of literary aspirants. To celebrate the peninsula's writers, Muriel Turk, the director of programming for the Great Neck Library, initially compiled a list of people who grew up in Great Neck and became authors. "We heard from very few of them but their parents called a lot," Ms. Turk said. However, she was inundated with calls from authors who had lived in town for decades and felt they should be remembered too. 
 "We are including writers of every ilk," Ms. Turk said, counting novelists, editors, critics, journalists, biographers, playwrights, essayists, songwriters and poets. The register topped 300.
 Among those who showed up at a dessert reception on a recent Sunday afternoon were Murray T. Bloom, who since he moved to the area 51 years ago, has written eight books, seven of them non-fiction. His novel, "The Thirteenth Man," became a film, "Last Embrace," with Roy Scheider; his 1969 book, "The Trouble With Lawyers" was a best seller. He said writers were attracted to Great Neck because of its proximity to the city and that the locals "seemed to encourage literate pursuits."
 David J. Silverman, an enrolled agent and a Great Neck resident for three decades, was touting his "Taxes for Dummies,", now in its eighth edition. Robert H. Phillips, a psychologist, ticked off some of his more than 20 books on coping including, "Overcoming Your Panic: A Strategy Guidebook," "Coping with Diabetes" and "Coping with Breast Cancer." One-time author, Ricca Metz, was holding a copy of "Maudie: A Positive Nursing Home Experience," a book about her mother published last year.
 Gordon Korman, who has written 40 children's books including "No More Dead Dogs" and "I Want to Go Home," moved to Great Neck three years ago. He was thrilled to be recognized. "That's one of the things about kids' books," Mr. Korman said. "No one over the age of 14 knows who you are."
 Among literary luminaries on the list that will become part of the library's permanent collection were Herman Wouk, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Oscar Hammerstein and children's writers Margaret Wise Brown, Johanna Hurwitz and Esphyr Slobdkina. "This is a library," Ms. Turk said. "If there weren't authors and writers, what would we put on our shelves?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Smith's office in Hauppauge presents many surprises to visitors, like the bearded dragon and frilled dragon on his hand, not to mention boas. (Phil Marino for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (92%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (89%); ANIMALS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); PETS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); ZOOLOGY (78%); RELOCATIONS (73%); RODENTS (72%); PET STORES & SUPPLIES (71%); BIOLOGY (66%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (65%) SNAKES; AMPHIBIANS; INSECTS; BOOKMOBILES 

ORGANIZATION: FAUNA (MAGAZINE) 

PERSON: FISCHLER, MARCELLE S; SMITH, BOB; HAUPPAUGE (NY); TURK, MURIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) GREAT NECK (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



135 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 91 words

HEADLINE: DEC. 30-JAN. 5: NATIONAL; 
HARVARD BREATHES EASIER

 BODY:
 A public clash between Harvard's new president, Lawrence H. Summers, and its Afro-American studies department appeared to end when Mr. Summers issued a statement of support for affirmative action and met with Cornel West, a senior professor who had threatened to bolt to Princeton, along with other members of the department. The professors cited what they called snubs by Mr. Summers, especially a meeting in which they said he insulted Dr. West by raising questions about his scholarship, grade inflation in his classes and his making a rap CD.












LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (85%); RAP MUSIC (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



136 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2618 words

HEADLINE: Feeding the Fans 

BYLINE:  By BRYAN MILLER; BRYAN MILLER, a former restaurant critic for The Times, is restaurant editor for Citysearch.com.

 BODY:
IF the world's major athletic spectacle is to invade a small American town -- and needs to be fed around the clock -- it might as well be Park City. This well-preserved former mining settlement, now a wealthy year-round resort, appears well braced for the challenge. With more than 100 restaurants, a dynamic business district (Main Street will be a pedestrian mall during the games) and well-regimented civic planning, this giant communal meal may well come off, if not seamlessly, at least with minimal broken china.
 As for getting reservations in the next few weeks, the situation, while very competitive, is not nearly as difficult as had been expected. More than half the corporations that booked entire restaurants for part or all of the Olympics for their hospitality suites have canceled or scaled back since Sept. 11, according to nearly a dozen restaurateurs interviewed. 
 "Companies have drastically cut back on their entertainment costs," said Steve Solomon, general manager of Zoom, a contemporary American restaurant in downtown Park City. "We all hoped that we'd have these million-dollar buyouts, but it didn't happen. We're sort of back to business as usual." But business as usual during ski season means very busy, so early reservations are essential. 
While Salt Lake City, about 30 miles west, is larger and has an emerging restaurant scene, it is surpassed in quality and variety by this affluent seasonal community.
But first, a word about Utah's complex liquor laws. Bars that do not serve food and certain restaurants are designated "private clubs." A modest admission fee, typically $5 to $10, grants you access for one to two weeks. Other than that, the vast majority of full-service restaurants have no such restrictions, and in fact some have substantial wine lists.
Here is a fall sampling of Park City's Olympic buffet.

Glitretind
Norwegian-born Stein Eriksen is to Park City what Jimmy Buffett is to Key Largo. A gold medalist in the giant slalom in the 1952 Olympics, Mr. Eriksen was involved in developing the luxurious 170-room lodge named after him (a condominium hotel). The restaurant there, named Glitretind, after a mountain in Norway, is considered by some as the highest gastronomic peak in town. 
The spacious L-shaped room is shadowy and romantic, with two stone fireplaces, deep comfy chairs, flattering candlelight and colorful Norwegian-style tapestries. From some of the tables there is a striking view of the snow-capped Wasatch Range, part of the Rockies.
Like most menus in this tourist town, Glitretind's is an ambitious melange of cuisines, in this case American, Italian and Asian. For the most part, the kitchen pulls it off. 
My companion and I started with nutty pumpkin and butternut squash soup tinged with cinnamon oil, perfect for a chilly fall evening. Our other choice was the ubiquitous tuna tartar, in this case called a tuna parfait. It didn't look very dessertlike, a squat cylinder of minced tuna supporting a buttery seared scallop, all garnished with caviar and wasabi oil. Best of all was a duo of intensely smoked, gamy little quails that were tender yet crisp-skinned, and slathered with a sweetish-hot barbecue sauce. 
Servers are fittingly reserved and vigilant in this hushed setting. The wine selection is exceptionally well chosen, focusing primarily on France, the West Coast and Australia. Somebody here likes sauvignon blanc, for the selection is copious and the prices are very low. We enjoyed a pleasingly citric 2000 Villa Maria from New Zealand ($24).
For the main course, a delicate and firm-fleshed wild salmon reminded me of how inferior the farm-raised variety is. The filets arrived wrapped with a thin sheet of smoked veal, almost like bacon, which sounds bizarre but was lovely, served with potato puree, beet greens and a rather bland ginger-and-beet infusion. 
Sichuan peppers and an aromatic tea glaze worked wonders for a seared duck breast, along with a wonton cone filled with fried rice and duck confit (why didn't my neighborhood Chinese place think of this?).
And as incongruous as it may seem after that alluring creation, Key lime pie was a fine finale.

Zoom
Chances are slim that you'll see Robert Redford, the proprietor of Zoom, slouched over the bar sipping spiced hot cider; nonetheless, this stylish and serious restaurant is worth a visit on its own merits.
Housed in a former Union Pacific depot, the handsomely renovated space features the well-worn original wood floor, cast-iron sconces, soft leather chairs and, on the walls, photos galore of Mr. Redford's contemporaries in the movie business, from a boyish Francis Ford Coppola to Julianne Moore.
The contemporary American cooking is clean and unambiguous, with well-assembled dishes like pecan-crusted trout and collard greens, herbed halibut with seared spinach, and barbecued buffalo kebabs with baked beans. One of the better starters is the excellent house-smoked salmon served with a thick potato pancake and a lemony dill cream sauce. Since these are chuck wagon portions, you might want to share. Macaroni and cheese was appropriately crusty and lumpy and as smooth as a toboggan run. 
Zoom draws a rakish apres-ski crowd, and it's a good place to drop in for a drink before or after dinner.

Riverhorse Cafe
A short walk up Main Street is Riverhorse, a big, stagy second-floor expanse with theatrical lighting, oversized nature paintings and a dining deck overlooking town and mountains. On the contemporary menu you'll find familiar dishes like seared ahi tuna with a very peppery ginger-soy sauce, a smoky rack of lamb bolstered by a viscous red wine sauce, and a thyme-scented rib steak. One of the specials, macadamia-encrusted halibut, was delightfully crusty and perfectly cooked, although it did not need the cloying Chinese hot-sweet sauce.
Service was slow and unobservant, even on a weeknight, but you have to love a waiter who, upon presenting the menu, confides: "The duck's not very good, so you don't have to worry about that." 
The menu touts the Riverhorse pot stickers, filled with shrimp and mixed vegetables, but what arrived were unremarkable deep-fried triangles of stuffed wonton skins. Tuna sashimi, though cut much too thick, was top quality. The most intriguing starter was called "spicy chicken and white onion pancake" embellished with "Texas ruby grapefruit salsa." Similar to a buttery rosti potato, it was golden and crisp, but it needed some salt and a lot of black pepper. 
Among desserts, you might go with the deep crock of mixed berry cobbler and the apple tart with cinnamon ice cream.
There are few bargains on the mostly American wine list. One good choice was the mellow and full-bodied 1999 Fetzer Merlot ($36.50).

Wasatch Brew Pub
The microbrewery and brew-pub phenomenon of the late 1980's got its start in the Rocky Mountain region, and today this is suds heaven for the visitor. Park City's major contribution is called Wasatch, made here by the Schirf Brewing Company. Inside the brewery, which is right in the middle of town, is the festive Wasatch Brew Pub. You can sample from 10 or more featured brews, everything from St. Provo Girl Pilsner (light and refreshing with a nice hoppy bite) to Hefe-Weizen (a yeasty unfiltered German-style wheat beer). Beer samplings are served daily by the good-humored staff.
The restaurant is a bright and casual place with pine booths and a crowded bar decorated overhead with beer mugs of regular imbibers. The publike fare is pleasing, copious and inexpensive: light, golden fish and chips, sauteed trout with garlic herb butter, salmon encrusted with pine nuts, and wintry homemade soups and stews. Only the ribs were disappointing, dry and overly sweet. A fitting dessert, gingerbread stout cake, was first-rate.

Chimayo
If you are looking for an indigenous adobe-and-tile Southwestern sort of place, try this upscale restaurant on Main Street. The food cannot be described as bona fide Mexican -- at least I've never happened upon calamari and mango salad in my south-of-the-border travels -- but it is generally flavorful and attractive. 
The dining room is an explosion of desert colors and textures -- rough brick, beautiful tiles, cascading dried flowers, wreaths strung with Christmas lights, orange and rust fabrics. 
Such an exhilarating setting cries out for margaritas, and they arrived filling giant frosted glasses. On tasting them we assumed there was some mistake -- they resembled limeade more than a cocktail. Utah law, it turns out, allows only a measured shot glass per drink, no matter how big the glass. We asked for the limited and overpriced wine list, finding the best deal in a 1999 Sanford sauvignon blanc ($38).
Almost every restaurant in Park City seems to serve some form of toasted corn chowder. This version was the best of our trip: earthy, sweet, lumpy with corn kernels and thickened with potatoes. 
While the most anticipated entree, roasted elk loin, was a dud -- underseasoned and paired with a feeble "spicy" bearnaise -- the barbecued duck enchiladas with a spicy tomatillo salsa were zesty and nicely balanced. Also good, when they have it, is the sauteed mountain trout and grilled lamb sirloin with a roasted corn pozole. 

Grappa
At the top of Main Street, in an imposing turn-of-the-century former miner's lodge, is the most romantic restaurant in Park City. Inside, the renovated-to-look-old interior is all brick and wood and stenciled stucco, with dangling copper pots and a copper hooded hearth. The staff could not be more welcoming -- three times they offered to change our table because there was a noisy large group nearby.
One of the more inventive items sampled was a napoleon of layers of polenta, spinach, cheese and dried tomatoes. Another fine starter was the woodsy wild mushroom ravioli in a mushroom and leek broth fricasee. Figs, minced pears and diced pecans made a terrific stuffing for grilled pork chops, which were served with mashed potatoes laced with pancetta. Osso buco was unconventional -- the meaty veal shank surrounded by a brothlike sauce with vegetables -- but savory and tender. Next to dishes like those, you might pass on the lackluster salmon in a horseradish crust, and the overorchestrated and underseasoned seafood linguine. 
The wine list here is substantial, as are prices. The most reasonable bottle we could find was a white, 1999 Ruffino Libaio ($38). . None of the dessert samples are worth recommending. 

The Stew Pot
This is the place to go when you really don't feel like going out to eat. It's a laid-back place of knotty pine tables facing the mountains -- you could probably clunk in with your ski boots and they wouldn't mind -- serving restorative dishes like chunky beef stew with freshly baked bread, hefty sandwiches and an authentic Cobb salad -- and for lunch nothing costs more than $10. The Stew Pot is a good place to take kids.

Lakota
While many Park City restaurants are close to ski slopes, Lakota, a vaguely Southwestern-style restaurant in the center of town, is literally on a ski slope. Patrons can slide down the mountain into a wooden bridge that connects with the entrance. Great fun; too bad most of the food is so mediocre. One exception is the sweet and golden crab cakes , so you might order some at the bar and take in the show.

Where to sample Park City's bill of fare
These restaurants are open daily for lunch and dinner unless otherwise noted. Estimated dinner prices are for two with three courses and a glass of wine for each, but not including tax or tip. 
All major credit cards are accepted (exceptions listed). Smoking is not allowed in any public building in Utah, with the exception of restaurants designated as private clubs. 
Glitretind, Stein Eriksen Lodge, 7700 Stein's Way, (435) 649-3700. Breakfast, lunch and dinner are served daily. Dinner costs about $130. 
Zoom, 660 Main Street, (435) 649-9108. Dinner about $110. 
Riverhorse Cafe, 540 Main Street, (435) 649-3536. Dinner daily. Dinner comes to about $70. 
The Wasatch Brew Pub, 250 Main Street, (435) 645-9500. Smoking allowed in the two bar areas. Dinner about $50.
Chimayo, 368 Main Street, (435) 649-6222. Lunch and dinner daily Feb. 7 to 28; otherwise, dinner only daily. Dinner costs about $90.
Grappa, 151 Main Street, (435) 645-0636. Dinner daily. Dinner about $110. 
The Stew Pot, 1375 Deer Valley Drive South, (435) 645-7839. (No Diner's Club.) Dinner about $60.
Lakota, 751 Main Street, (435) 658-3400. (No Diner's Club.) Dinner about $75. 

Plus six in and around Salt Lake
All price estimates are based on the cost of a three-course dinner for two, with a glass of wine each, but not including tax and tip. Major credit cards are accepted unless otherwise noted. 
Metropolitan, 173 West Broadway, at 173 West and 300 South, (801) 364-3472, fax (801) 364-8671.
Dinner is served Monday through Saturday. With its striking modern design and solidly executed contemporary American food, this is the top restaurant in town for sophisticated diners. Among the best winter dishes are oxtail braised in red wine and the roasted baby chicken with an onion-apple stuffing. The bar area is called The Met "Bistro," with a less expensive menu of burgers, fried chicken and the like. (Diner's Club not accepted.) 
Dinner for two $100 to $120.
Fresco Italian Cafe, 1513 South, at 1500 East, (801) 486-1300, fax (801) 487-5379. 
Dinner daily. A 10-minute cab ride from downtown but well worth it, this snug little cottage has a congenial staff and a menu featuring bright, flavorful pastas and risottos, as well as savory meat and poultry classics. Menu highlights include spaghettini alla siena (with tomatoes, basil, olives, aged ricotta and artichokes), and grilled pork tenderloin with a dried cherry and Madeira sauce. 
Dinner for two $70 to $90.
Red Iguana, 736 West on North Temple, (801) 322-1489, fax (801) 322-4834. 
Lunch and dinner daily. A small, color-splashed cafe near downtown, this is the best Mexican spot in the city. Try one of the famous moles -- or all seven of them -- or the chili verde (pork cubes in a piquant tomatillo sauce). Carryout is popular, so you might want to take one of the hefty burritos or enchiladas to the Games. (No Diner's Club.) 
Dinner for two $40 to $50.
Market Street Grill, 48 West Market Street, at 340 South, (801) 322-4668, fax (801) 531-0730. 
Breakfast, lunch and dinner daily. A big old fish house with a long black dining bar and old-fashioned stools, this is a good bet for grilled fish of the day, fresh oysters and seafood chowders. A contiguous restaurant under the same ownership, Market Street Oyster Bar, is equally good (although it is technically a private club and charges a $10 temporary membership fee good for two weeks and up to seven people -- and smoking is allowed). 
Dinner at the Market Street Grill for two about $70.
Log Haven Restaurant, 6451 East Mill Creek Canyon, (801) 272-8255, fax (801) 272-6315. 
Dinner daily. Nestled deep in the Wasatch Mountains, this romantic 80-year-old log cabin, with two fireplaces and candlelit tables, is worth the 15-to-20-minute ride from downtown. The food is pleasing, if sometimes overworked, so stick with the simple dishes like green-tea-smoked duck breast with spicy sesame stir-fried long beans or steaks and game specialties. 
Dinner for two about $100.
W. H. Brumby's, 224 South 1300 East, near 200 South, (801) 581-0888, fax (801) 581-0889. 
Breakfast, lunch and dinner daily. If you want to escape from the downtown Olympic crowds, this delightful little bistro-bakery near the University of Utah (a five-minute ride from downtown), offers all kinds of wintry specials like cassoulet or braised lamb shank, and a wide selection of desserts and pastries. 
Dinner for two about $60. BRYAN MILLER

CORRECTION-DATE: February 3, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 6 about Park City, Utah, the site of many events in the 2002 Winter Olympics, and a listing of dining places there, referred incompletely to the availability of two restaurants. One, Grappa, is fully booked during the Olympics. The other, Lakota, is booked for lunch during the Olympics but open for dinner.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Riverhorse Cafe serves such offerings as a smoky rack of lamb and thyme-scented rib steak.; At Zoom, where dishes like pecan-crusted trout and buffalo kebabs are served in chuck wagon portions.; Chocolate and gold-leaf dessert at Glitretind. Grappa, a romantic spot on Main Street. Babyback ribs with onion rings, at Chimayo. (Photographs by Tom Smart for The New York Times)(pg. 12); Entrance to Riverhorse, with a deck overlooking the mountains. (Tom Smart for The New York Times)(pg. 15) Map of Salt Lake City highlighting Park City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); WINTER OLYMPICS (88%); SKIING (88%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (87%); MOUNTAINS (87%); ATHLETES (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); CONDOMINIUMS (72%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (69%); DRINKING PLACES (69%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%) RESTAURANTS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; OLYMPIC GAMES; OLYMPIC GAMES (2002); WINTER GAMES (OLYMPICS) 

ORGANIZATION: GLITRETIND (PARK CITY, UTAH, RESTAURANT); ZOOM (PARK CITY, UTAH, RESTAURANT); RIVERHORSE CAFE (PARK CITY, UTAH); WASATCH BREW PUB (PARK CITY, UTAH, RESTAURANT); CHIMAYO (PARK CITY, UTAH, RESTAURANT); STEW POT, THE (PARK CITY, UTAH, RESTAURANT); LAKOTA (PARK CITY, UTAH, RESTAURANT) 

PERSON: MILLER, BRYAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (93%) UTAH, USA (95%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) PARK CITY (UTAH); SALT LAKE CITY (UTAH)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



137 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 3016 words

HEADLINE: Diva Among the Divas 

BYLINE:  By Frank Bruni; Frank Bruni is a staff writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
'I should be dead by now," groans Beverly Sills as she rises from her desk at Lincoln Center with a comical roll of her eyes and heads to a meeting in the conference room across the hall. She walks slowly -- maybe because she had knee-replacement surgery over the summer, maybe because she knows that the meeting won't be a lark. Lately, not a lot in the center's offices has been. "I should have dates beneath my name," she continues, and although she means the comment as shtick, it has a more serious undercurrent.
 At 72, the diva could easily be resting on her laurels. Instead, she is standing at the helm of Lincoln Center, the premier performing arts organization in the country, as it navigates the roughest water it has encountered in a while. Against its bow crashes wave after wave of difficulties: cuts in city financing, slower ticket sales since Sept. 11 and the resignation in late September of Gordon Davis, the center's relatively new president, a disorienting development that has forced Sills, the center's chairman, to pick up much of the slack. 
 But that's not the worst of it. For several months now, Lincoln Center has come across more as a stage for petty resentments and persnickety feuds than as the city's temple of high culture. A billion-dollar-plus redevelopment plan set many of the center's 12 constituent groups to dreaming, but not in harmony. So New York City Ballet now feels put out by New York City Opera, which is nursing a grudge against the Metropolitan Opera, which is looking askance at the New York Philharmonic. And Sills is feeling slightly mortified. Can't they all just get along?
When she sits down on this morning in mid-December with senior executives of Lincoln Center Inc., or "Linc Inc.," which is a sort of umbrella group for the constituents, she almost immediately begins tearing the bagel on the plate in front of her into misshapen, doughy clumps. And when the executives discuss an idea for a concert that would require special coordination among the constituents, Sills says she shudders at the thought of creating another centerwide committee -- which would of course provide one more opportunity for constituents to squabble.
One executive enumerates for Sills and the others the ways in which the city's financial support for cultural institutions has tightened since Sept. 11; Linc Inc., the executive calculates, could lose $400,000 this fiscal year. ("Goody," Sills drolly interjects.) Another executive lists current and imminent repairs, which will cost nearly $40 million. The city is supposed to pick up that tab, but center executives worry that the city's budget woes could leave them on the hook. Still, Sills tries to remain hopeful; when the executive is about to finish his presentation, she asks him, "Are you going to end on an upper?"
The same question applies to Sills herself, who would like to go out on a high note, as she always has. She cut off her career as a singer at the age of 50, before the breadth and beauty of her coloratura soprano was diminished. She relinquished her subsequent role as the general director of City Opera only after she had turned around what had been a financially beleaguered company. She wants to leave Lincoln Center, the site of some of her greatest vocal triumphs, in steady, sturdy shape. And, she says, she wants to leave sooner rather than later.
But circumstances will not oblige. Neither, perhaps, will the facets of her personality and private life that keep driving her, long after any other prima donna would have faded away.
As a performer, Beverly Sills never contained herself. In her eagerness to please a mass audience, she refused to heed artistic conventions or obey traditional boundaries. When she wasn't playing Cleopatra in Handel's "Julius Caesar" or Queen Elizabeth in Donizetti's "Roberto Devereux," she was tap dancing with Kermit the Frog or filling in as a guest host for Johnny Carson. All of this was a measure of not only her energy but also her appetite for adoration, and it was one reason that she was more of a household name than any other opera singer of her era.
Born Belle Silverman and nicknamed Bubbles, she was simultaneously refined and earthy, the classical superstar with Brooklyn in her speaking voice, the sophisticated lady who could tell a bawdy joke. When Sills ran City Opera in the 1980's, she initiated bold changes that put the audience ahead of the aesthetes, including the use of supertitles, which translate lyrics into English, and a marketing campaign that was pure fun. ("Feel like hell?" asked one advertisement. "Come see 'Faust."')
People outside the opera world took note of her ingenuity and intelligence. Sills accepted invitations to sit on prestigious corporate boards: Macy's, Warner Communications, American Express. She grew chummy with New York City's mayors, chummier still with its news media luminaries. Her Rolodex was unrivaled, as was her ability to raise the philanthropic dollars on which arts organizations survive.
Small wonder that Linc Inc. came calling in 1994, choosing her to be the first woman and the first artist ever to head the group, which is both a constituent of the center and, crucially, the landlord of other constituents. Sills was told the job might consume 15 hours a week. She has more often spent double, triple or quadruple that amount of time on it.
And she has reigned supreme. "She is an empire unto herself," says Mayor Ed Koch, a longtime friend. "Nobody questions her." That is not, Koch says, because she makes them tremble, but because she tames them with her stature, good humor and disarming effervescence. "Everybody accedes -- willingly, not morosely -- to her requests, which are really not requests at all. They're orders from above." 
Sills and Nathan Leventhal, the center's president when she arrived, sparred at first. But they worked out their differences, and Sills's tenure was shaping up to be a charmed one. In the boom economy of the late 1990's, contributions to Lincoln Center rose steadily; since 1994, the separate endowments of Linc Inc., the Metropolitan Opera and the New York Philharmonic each increased by 100 to 150 percent. 
But that growing wealth wasn't the genesis of the redevelopment initiative. As Sills tells the story, the plan originated in an idle thought she had about the electricity running behind the walls of her Central Park West apartment. "I thought, There's a lot of wiring going on here," she recalls. She realized that her sockets might not be in tune with today's technology -- and then realized that the same might be true of Lincoln Center. 
In late 1998, almost nonchalantly, she proposed that all of the center's constituents assess their physical needs. She expected to receive reports on erratic heating units and cracked travertine. She ended up with a request from the philharmonic to have Avery Fisher Hall entirely reconstructed and one from City Opera, which shares the State Theater with City Ballet, to leave the theater altogether for a home of its own. Before long, there was a tentative plan for a total overhaul, with a price tag, over the 10 years the project was expected to take, of $1.5 billion, including $100 million for a giant glass dome to be floated above the center's Upper West Side campus.
But the fun was only beginning.
To her surprise, Sills says, she learned that "a lot of the constituents were unhappy," and perhaps none more so than City Opera, which felt that it was trapped in an acoustical prison. The State Theater had been built for dance, and the stage that muffled the sounds of dancers' feet so effectively also muffled the sounds of singers' voices, or so officials with City Opera contended. They wanted their own opera house on the Lincoln Center campus, which meant a new building in Damrosch Park, a corner of green snug against one flank of the Metropolitan Opera.
Joseph Volpe, the general manager of the Met, wouldn't hear of it. "We would have no sunlight," he complains when I pay him a visit in December. Volpe had other qualms. He thought that City Opera's complaints about acoustics were partly camouflage for an inferiority complex about not having its own theater. Volpe also knew that if City Opera tried to raise an extra-large sum of money for an opera house at the same time that the philharmonic tried to raise an extra-large sum of money to improve Avery Fisher Hall, the Met might have more trouble raising its own extra-large sum of money if it were so inclined.
The Met, the most prosperous of Lincoln Center's constituents, saw little need for the fanciful, expensive aspects of the redevelopment plan, and Volpe threw up more roadblocks than anyone else. The other constituents kept an eye on Sills to see if she would fight him. She didn't.
Volpe decided that the dome was an extravagant and ill-conceived indulgence -- and so did Sills. "I said, 'A glass dome?"' she recalls. "We're going to have to heat it and air-condition it and clean the pigeon poop! Let me see a show of hands -- which constituent would like to pay for that?' Not a hand went up." 
Volpe decided that City Opera should not be encouraged to move into Damrosch Park -- and so did Sills. She argues that the park, which is owned by the city, isn't Lincoln Center's to take over and change.
Irwin Schneiderman, the chairman of City Opera, suggests that there was a "psychological aspect" to Sills's position, that she simply could not bring herself to believe that there were significant acoustical problems at the State Theater. After all, she had built her career and achieved her fame there; when she made the cover of Newsweek in 1969, she had yet to sing at the Met, next door. (At the time, the Met's general manager, Rudolf Bing, who tended to look down his nose at City Opera, said, "I have heard her sing, but not lately, and I can't remember in just what.")
Sills does seem to have strong opinions about the State Theater's sound quality. She says that when she and Placido Domingo performed in the State Theater, "there were never any complaints about the acoustics. I never got a review that said, 'Too bad we can't hear her in a decent opera house' or 'Gee, I couldn't hear Mr. Domingo sing at all."' There is now a system of tiny microphones scattered around the stage, and it clearly offends Sills. "The very art of opera singing," she tells me, "is unenhanced sound."
In the midst of all of this friction, Davis, who took over from Leventhal as the center's president at the start of 2001, abruptly resigned -- or was shown the door, depending on whom you talk to. His defenders say that he was exasperated by Sills's meddlesomeness -- she presided over meetings usually handled by the center's president, they say, even when knee surgery forced her to do so from home, by speakerphone. Her defenders say that Davis paid insufficient attention to the nitty-gritty of his job. Sills and Davis merely say that the arrangement wasn't working.
In early October, there was a meeting at which "all hell broke loose," according to someone knowledgeable about the details. Some center constituents accused Volpe, who was not there, of being a bullheaded obstructionist, while Sills defended him and made it clear that she shared his scaled-back vision of redevelopment. According to one news report, Marshall Rose, the real-estate developer who was then in charge of the project, was angry with Sills. (Though Rose has since resigned, he and Sills adamantly deny reports of tension between them. "I love Marshall," Sills says. "I wrote him a poem the other day!")
Several weeks later, a specially created redevelopment board, on which almost all of the center's constituents were represented, met to decide on a quasi-final redevelopment plan to submit to the city for approval. The board held separate votes on each proposed aspect of the plan; unanimity was necessary for approval of each point.
The dome died, although more than half of the board voted at least to preserve the option of building it. Sills's opposition to the dome clearly miffed a few other center officials who were involved in the process. One grouses that Sills has no visual sense and thus shouldn't be making design decisions; this official remarks that her apartment, which is filled with naive art, "looks like a Mexican flea market."
What City Opera ultimately got was an agreement that it could look for an appropriate location off-campus to build a $240 million opera house. The board decided that $326 million was in order for the reconstruction of Avery Fisher Hall and that even the Met needed about $179 million in improvements. 
Complications persist. If City Opera leaves the State Theater, City Ballet, now responsible for only 26 weeks of programming there, may have to figure out how to fill the missing weeks. If City Opera doesn't leave, it stands to lose $50 million, which its largest donor, the philanthropist Robert W. Wilson, has promised only if it moves into a new house.
Sills had only one vote on the redevelopment board, but in her way she had more moral force and influence than anybody else. When she weighed in, it was for keeping things relatively modest -- for trying to make sure the project was doable. Perhaps that was because she wanted to leave behind something certain. She says that as soon as a new president is found -- the position has been vacant since Davis left -- and brought up to speed, she will probably retire. That could be as soon as 3 months from now, or as long as 12.
For 10 minutes, Sills has been on the telephone, trying to placate a screechy donor who is worried about a plaque at the center, her reward for giving $100,000. Apparently, it is not shiny enough. Sills, sitting behind the desk in her office, promises to look into it and begs the woman to stop yelling. Finally, she holds the phone at arm's length for half a minute. The woman, ceaselessly talking, has no idea.
Why does Sills subject herself to this? People who have worked with her cite her passionate commitment to the arts and to Lincoln Center. But there is another reason for her devotion to her work. Barbara Walters, a close friend, hints at it when she asks me, "How much do you know about her private life?" She is referring to Sills's two children, a daughter, Muffy, 42, and a son, Bucky, 40, neither of whom has ever heard Sills sing. Muffy, who was born with a severe hearing impairment, was discovered to have multiple sclerosis 11 years ago and now lives at home with Sills. Bucky is autistic and has spent most of his time in institutions. Sills's husband, Peter Greenough, is also ill, physically debilitated by a stroke.
"I've had all the embroidered pillows that say, 'God gives the biggest challenges to those he loves the most,"' Sills says, "and there were days when I felt I could do with a little less love." She punctuates the remark with one of her sunny, dependable laughs, but friends aren't fooled. Some suggest that her role at Lincoln Center gives her an escape from her grief. "Lincoln Center is a tangible series of problems she can do something about," says Schuyler G. Chapin, the city's cultural affairs commissioner under Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, adding that the center "keeps Beverly sane."
Finally, there is this: Sills long ago grew accustomed to being the center of attention, the cynosure of a colorful and melodramatic whirl. But when her vehicle was a real opera, there were flowers and shouts of "Brava!" at the curtain call. When she finally leaves the soap opera at Lincoln Center, that may not be the case, and some of the people around her think that she is only now coming to painful terms with that.
"She's a diva, you know," says one top official at Lincoln Center in an affectionate and even sympathetic tone. "She wants everybody to love her and everything that's said about her to be positive." Her current situation has made that impossible, and there are times when she seems beaten down by it. "Not being loved," the official says, "does more harm to a diva than anything else."
One night toward the end of December, I visit Sills in a dressing room at Avery Fisher Hall, where she is about to appear as host of a broadcast of the television series "Live From Lincoln Center." She has a sore throat and a fever and sits lifelessly in front of a mirror as a makeup artist adds color to her cheeks. She allows herself a reminiscence: of the late 1960's, when the area around Lincoln Center was rough enough that she warned Muffy away from it. "All of that has changed, because of Lincoln Center," she says proudly. "Its tentacles just spread."
But what of its future? The city's budget woes could force the new mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg, to rethink a pledge of more than $150 million in aid to the redevelopment project that Giuliani made. When I ask Bloomberg if that promise is solid, his answer stops short of a guarantee. "Subject to whatever finance problems the city has," he says, "it is certainly a commitment I will do everything possible to keep."
There is also no assurance, in the wake of Sept. 11, that Lincoln Center can find the private money for a project of this scale. The reports of infighting at the center won't make things easier. Martin E. Segal, a former chairman of Linc Inc., says that at dinner parties, he is constantly asked why center officials are "at each other's throats," as he puts it. "If you are a wealthy donor and you read one story after another that gives the impression of a chaotic situation -- which, in my opinion, there isn't -- then that gives you pause," he says. 
As she prepares to face the camera, Sills says, "Boy, I'm tired," and adds, with a cough, that "nothing is functioning." She means her body and her brain, but it's hard not to wonder if, at some level, she also means the grand plans for Lincoln Center. This time there are no eye rolls and there is no shtick -- just an aura of genuine exhaustion. When I see her a few minutes later on a television screen, she looks surprisingly radiant. But the hour is getting late, and she cannot hide the creeping hoarseness in her voice. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Jeff Riedel) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); ORTHOPEDICS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); OPERA (74%); BUDGETS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BALLET (69%); DANCE COMPANIES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TICKET SALES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



138 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 2811 words

HEADLINE: Theater; 
Downtown Theaters Enter a New World

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN FIFE; Stephen Fife is a playwright and screenwriter. His play "New Day" recently completed a run in the East Village.

 BODY:
AS most people in the downtown theater world know only too well, reverberations from the World Trade Center attacks can still be felt in the less traveled streets of Lower Manhattan and the smaller audiences that make their way to the area's theaters.
 The Alliance of Resident Theaters/New York, a service and advocacy group for the city's more than 400 nonprofit theaters and related organizations, recently estimated an income loss for its member companies of $5 million for 2001 (lost ticket, space rental and concession income as well as postponed benefit performances) and a projected loss for 2002 of $16.3 million (reduced contributions and ticket sales). Despite the cooling of the national economy, A.R.T./New York tied the losses explicitly to Sept. 11, where, the group reported, "for theaters operating on tight margins, without the safety net of cash reserves and endowments, two days to two weeks of lost income can make the paying of staff and rent difficult." 
 This has certainly been true for theaters below Union Square and extending south toward ground zero. The city's decision to pump funds into Broadway -- recently buying millions of dollars worth of tickets to a variety of shows, like "The Phantom of the Opera" and "Beauty and the Beast" -- has not been matched by an equivalent plan for downtown theaters. 
One response has been the formation of Downtown NYC, a coalition of theater owners, dance and theater companies, producers, art galleries, restaurants and other small businesses "to address the challenges confronting our extended community," said the group's founder, Scott Morfee, a commercial theater producer.
Some philanthropic groups have come forward, led by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, which announced that it was establishing a $50 million fund to help support cultural and performing arts organizations affected by repercussions from Sept. 11. 
Artistic directors of a number of nonprofit theaters below Union Square, as well as Mr. Morfee and another commercial producer, responded to questions recently about their experiences after Sept. 11 and their hopes for the New Year. Here are excerpts from their replies. 

VIRGINIA P. LOULOUDES
Executive director, Alliance of Resident Theaters/New York
 What happened at the World Trade Center is similar to what Sophocles was writing about. I think that dealing with subject matter like this is why theater began. It's a place where people convene and tell stories. Those stories used to be about the things most important to us -- catastrophes, the power of the gods, myths. And if there was ever a time when we need to be focused on primal things, it is now. Our values were completely reoriented after Sept. 11 -- to some extent in a good way.
I don't think any company is going to go under. There's a difference between saying things are bad and locking the doors. If the recession deepens and downtown businesses continue to fail, then we could be looking at something worse. But the bigger danger is that theaters will exist in a substandard way. They will work without pay and health insurance, their potential will go unrealized, and the next Arthur Miller or Tony Kushner will never write that great play for them.

KRISTIN MARTING
Executive director, Here Arts Center
The events of that morning caused us to cancel 14 performances of three different shows. In addition, several other shows just canceled outright. In all we lost around $60,000 in income. Then our insurance company -- to whom we pay astronomical rates -- denied our claim on a technicality.
I went about trying to uncover other sources of revenue for nonprofit arts organizations, only to find they don't exist. It was a very frustrating time. Our building didn't fall down, none of our staff was injured, but do we need to apologize for trying to stay in business? I mean, the for-profit businesses were given help, while the nonprofits generate all this revenue for the city.
It raises the old issues about our having second-class-citizen status. I deal with this all the time, but I've never had it so reinforced. At the same time, the night we re-opened was just so meaningful. Our friends in the community came back to let us know how important Here was to them. This just made me aware of why we do what we do.
We cut $100,000 from our budget, almost all from productions we canceled or postponed. A few foundations helped us raise most of the money we'd lost, and the audience is now down only about 10 percent to 20 percent from usual. I'm no longer worrying that my payroll checks will bounce.

DAVID FULLER
Producing artistic director, Jean Cocteau Repertory Theater
When the attacks happened, we were in the middle of rehearsals for "Oedipus the King" and were performing Tennessee Williams's "Small Craft Warnings," which was a hit for us, often selling out. The immediate effect was to cut our box office in half. New subscriptions dropped off to almost nothing.
Because we don't just produce show to show, but employ a repertory format, I think that saved us psychologically. We got back on our feet right away. And the good news is that our audience has largely come back. We are poised for a major move forward, looking for a larger theater space.
But I have to say that around noontime on Sept. 11, I was worried about whether we even had a theater anymore. Those were some pretty anxious moments, and it's heartening to see where we are now.

PETER MEINECK
Artistic director, Aquila Theater
Before Sept. 11, we were selling out a 300-seat theater. Then, for contractual reasons, we had to move to a 148-seat space nearby. Suddenly, no one was coming. Then every time we'd build up attendance Attorney General John Ashcroft would announce another unspecified warning, and the audience would vanish again. It made me really angry. I'm British, but I'm also a big fan of America, and I'm going through my citizenship process right now. But in this case, I felt like my government was working against me.
I'm certainly not antiwar. I was a Green Beret myself, with the Royal Marine commandos. I think Americans have to realize that fighting terrorists has been a part of the world since World War II. All of us have to tough it out together. When people call up our box office and say, "I'm too scared to come to the theater," I think that's unpatriotic.
It reminds me of what Winston Churchill once said, when asked to close the theaters because of dangers from the Nazi blitz. He turned to an Air Force marshal and asked, "Good God, man, what are we fighting for then?"

ANGELINA FIORDELLISI
Artistic director, Cherry Lane Theater
For our show "Havana Is Waiting," we just found it so difficult to get the word out. We had a 100,000-piece mailing that went down the drain, lost in the anthrax scare. People seemed afraid to come downtown. That was a big issue.
I think our potential ticket-buying audience is still in shock. I'm sure they'll come out of it soon, and that gives me hope. But if I think about how January and February are usually the worst times to open new shows, then it could be a dark time, literally, for theaters downtown.

DOUGLAS AIBEL
Artistic director, Vineyard Theater
The situation after 9/11 was very tough for us. Our Laura Nyro musical, "Eli's Coming," was on its way to a commercial run, which got derailed. The scenery for our next show was stuck in New Jersey, with the tunnels and bridges closed down. Our massive mailing had gone out two days before, and was completely a bust. Our new subscriptions were down 80 percent. Our phones and e-mail were down.
The night it was announced that Tom Brokaw's assistant had anthrax, we had 40 cancellations. We were also grieving for our local firehouse, which lost half its men. We did manage to raise $16,000 for them from audience donations.
The loss for us this season is around $300,000. There was a lot of talk after 9/11 about what was going to be palatable for audiences, that people were looking for the theatrical equivalent of comfort food. I felt that way too.
But in the end, we decided to go forward with "Brutal Imagination," a dark play. We were absolutely adamant that we would not adjust our programming. We're hoping and praying that there is still a serious theater audience out there that will come back to Off Broadway.

ELLEN STEWART
Artistic Director, La Mama E.T.C.
We did not have an audience problem after the attacks. And we're not that far away: we did get that bad air. But the restaurants are filled down here in the East Village . People are in the streets. You would not know anything had happened, and I don't know if that's good or bad.
We always have people coming from all over the world, and so far no one has said they are not coming except one group: a theater troupe in Istanbul called the Fifth Street Theater that refer to themselves as Mama's Boys. But they were frightened to come because there were incidents on CNN of Arab-looking people being attacked in the United States. They were the only ones to cancel.
This year, La Mama is 40 years old, so we're accustomed to rolling with the punches. If we have something people want to see, they come. And if we get a review in The New York Times and it's good, we're packed. Many times we have a beautiful show and we don't have a review -- which requires word of mouth and takes a while. We've learned to deal with not getting full houses. 
From the end of December through early February we are having a teensy-weensy festival from Israel: Arabs who live in Tel Aviv; black Jews from Ethiopia; and a Yemenite dance troupe. In the December part of the festival we had two Arabs and two Israelis doing a play together.

DANIEL AUKIN
Artistic director, Soho Rep
I remember saying to the cast of the play we were working on: "This event is too much for us to process right now, but it's important to remain available to how it will inflect everything we do." And it has.
It has made us more conscious of how close we could come to closing down. This energized and provoked us and our board into more urgency, in terms of our long-term planning.
And maybe it has made people more receptive to unconventional subject matter now, as in our current play, " sic " about three young, artistically inclined neighbors living in a limbo of their own devising, consciously or not . Perhaps the events in some way helped to create an atmosphere of openness.

MARK RUSSELL
Executive director, Performance Space 122
 The ecology of these places that develop artists was really threatened by 9/11, because losing $10,000 to $15,000 can make the whole thing stumble: it can close you. We lost $80,000 in canceled rentals. I'm just lucky I have a staff that is pretty creative about making do with less.
The other thing that is hard to quantify is the psychic damage and stress. Everyone on our staff was going through this re-evaluation, where you ask: "What am I doing with my life? Making entertainment? When people are dying 20 blocks downtown?" I went through a huge crisis. I usually feel like the center of a community, but without e-mail or phones, I couldn't fulfill this.
I think we've come back in a stronger way, and our audiences have shown that we're a part of their lives too. But I feel like the millennium really began on 9/11. And it's a whole different world now.

WOODIE KING
Producing director, Henry Street Settlement
The attack on the World Trade Center has changed the nature of philanthropy in New York. It's going to impact the large cultural institutions, and if that happens the way we think, it will almost certainly destroy the small cultural institutions like us. 
We've weathered a lot of storms because we deal with sweat-equity people who work for nothing because they're young and just entering the business. But corporate giving, foundation giving, has become very, very slow. We're retrenching in order to survive.

JIM NICOLA
Artistic director, New York Theater Workshop
 We had a meeting on Oct. 1 to share our experiences about 9/11. People wanted to discuss: "What should we do as artists? How is this going to make its way into our work?"
But I thought that first we needed to talk about how we felt about this as people. And then once we had gotten through that, we could go on to the second part.
In the end, we went well into the night. People cried, got angry. We tried to rebuild in an emotional way, putting one foot in front of the other, and just being happy that we were alive, in the same room together.
We never got to Part 2.

SCOTT MORFEE
A producer of "Underneath the Lintel" at the SoHo Playhouse
 I'm a small-time independent commercial producer. A month and a half or so after Sept. 11, our show was growing daily, really picking up steam at a clip of almost 20 percent a day. Then Mr. Ridge Tom Ridge, head of the Office of Homeland Security announced that the holidays were going to be a time of increased danger. Our sales dropped 800 percent in one day.
I started calling other producers, expecting people to put on this false front, this positive face. Instead, there wasn't a single person I spoke with who wasn't forthcoming, who didn't start talking hard numbers.
That became the impetus for Downtown NYC www.DowntownNYC.info a community of people who actually care about each other, and who share ideas and promotions. Boosting business and boosting the city of New York -- that is the essence of our group. Beyond that, it remains to be defined.

GEORGE C. WOLFE
Producer, Joseph Papp Public Theater
Almost 30 acts coming into Joe's Pub canceled right away. We lost close to $50,000. Our endowment was affected and we had to lay off more than 20 staff people.
We've been using this time to re-examine what we do here, and to figure out how we can be more efficient. Everyone was overworked before; now they're really overworked. Every nonprofit group is going to have to deal with this new economic reality we find ourselves in.
In times of plenty, one can afford to be indifferent and selfish. In times of need, there exists the possibility of rediscovering community. We've all got to be smart and tough and try to support each other.

JIM SIMPSON
Artistic director, Bat Theater Company at the Flea Theater
Before the attacks, we had five shows running in rep and two dance concerts, all playing to 95 percent capacity. When we reopened a month later, our box office went down to 5 percent. I closed three of the shows and the dance concerts. "Closing show to survive" -- very bizarre.
I have a company of 35 actors, and some felt strongly that we had to deal with the tragedy. I went looking for a journalist who could instruct us in gathering interviews. I found Anne Nelson, a journalism professor at Columbia University. She told me she had been writing eulogies for a fire captain she knew. I encouraged her to turn these into a two-hander play. Eight days later, I received the script, called "The Guys." We immediately did a reading with Bill Murray and my wife, Sigourney Weaver. We decided to do a workshop to see what we had. The brief run ended last month. 
I feel like I've rediscovered theater's ability to turn on a dime and to respond in real and immediate ways. It's a great advantage to being down here. We don't have any subscribers. I'm looking to renew the theater, and that means a younger audience, who don't subscribe. We have an artists-driven agenda. I hope we can stay around, because the cultural life of downtown is very important.

JEFF COHEN
Artistic director, Worth Street Theater
On Sept. 10, we were in the process of transferring a successful production to a commercial run, and our theater was rented solid through March. Then, in a matter of days, everything canceled, and I had to give all the money back.
All of a sudden we had this empty 80-seat theater just a few blocks from ground zero. We didn't know if downtown would ever come back. In the middle of it all, I had this idea: "What about doing an old-fashioned free U.S.O. show for the workers?" 
My producer and I handed out fliers every Monday to firemen, policemen, construction workers, sanitation workers and the volunteers who care for them and feed them. 
The performers at "Stage Door Canteen" have been incredible -- many were Tony Award winners or nominees, others were headlining comics. They showed up at 5 o'clock, rehearsed with our three-piece band, and by 7 p.m. it came together. Everyone donated their services. It put smiles on people's faces and I could feel a weight lifting from them. 
It has filled me with tremendous optimism. And good things have started to happen. Philip Morris and New York Community Trust have come forward with emergency grants. And I have rentals again. We're going to be using the space for our next show, "Tartuffe," beginning this Saturday, and free tickets will be available at every performance for ground zero workers and volunteers.
I think we're going to be all right. I think downtown is coming back.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 20, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A symposium on Jan. 6 about the effects of the Sept. 11 attacks on theaters in Lower Manhattan misstated the affiliation of one contributor, Woodie King. He is producing director of the New Federal Theater, not the Henry Street Settlement.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Adriane Lenox last month in a U.S.O.-style show put on by Worth Street Theater. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. 4) Map of Manhattan: Nonprofit theaters and other theatrical organizations below Union Square are struggling. (pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); THEATER (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); CHARITIES (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); PHILANTHROPY (74%); DANCE (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); EXECUTIVES (62%) THEATER; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: FIFE, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



139 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: And the Winner Is: West Haven, for Now 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD WEIZEL 

 BODY:
WEST HAVEN and neighboring Orange have been embroiled for years in what both sides agree has become a David vs. Goliath battle for a new Metro North train station.
 But both sides are convinced they are David. 
 The estimated $25 to $30 million station would be built right in the middle of the nine-mile stretch of track from Milford to New Haven. That stretch is the longest from New York City to New Haven without a stop -- a ride that can take as long as 18 minutes. It would also be the first new station built along the main line in Connecticut since the route was established about a century ago. 
But last month's long-awaited decision by the South Central Regional Council of Governments after months of debate to recommend the West Haven site off Interstate 95 at Saw Mill Road, rather than at a nearby location in Orange, only confirmed what Mitchell Goldblatt, the first selectman of Orange, was worried about all along.
"We're just a small suburban town fighting a larger city that has the support of New Haven," Mr. Goldblatt said. "I said from the beginning and still believe if the issue is improving the transportation needs of the region and getting cars off the roads then Orange is clearly the better site."
But now that the council, which is made up of 15 mayors and first selectmen has chosen West Haven, Mr. Goldblatt said he has appealed to Gov. John G. Rowland, the commissioner of transportation, John Sullivan, and the State Legislature to intervene before it's too late.
"I just cannot accept the decision by the council of governments because I truly believe Orange is the better site for the region," Mr. Goldblatt said.
But, as Mr. Goldblatt has said all along, "if the main issue is helping an urban center then of course we don't stand a chance."
Indeed, the 9 to 6 vote by the council in favor of West Haven was apparently motivated by a desire by the region's mayors and first selectmen to address the greater economic needs of West Haven, which they indicated was a major factor in their decision.
"Why shouldn't it have been a factor?" Richard Borer, the mayor of West Haven, asked. "If the station is going to have about the same impact on the region and you can also help thousands of people in an urban area, it seems clear to me that that is the way to go." Mr. Borer also pointed out that while there are just under four miles of train tracks that run through his city, only a few thousand feet runs through Orange.
"Our citizens have all the inconveniences of train tracks -- noise, pollution and danger -- and none of the benefits," Mr. Borer said. "Our residents deserve to have the station and have fought hard for it. Where is the support in Orange other than in the first selectmen's office and at Bayer?"
The Bayer Pharmaceutical Corporation, with a campus that straddles the border of both communities and with 2,000 employees, has strongly supported and lobbied for the Orange site. Bayer employees, some of whom ride a shuttle to and from the New Haven train station, would be able to walk to and from an Orange station.
"We were extremely disappointed by the council of government's decision to build the station in West Haven," said Laura Malis, a spokeswoman for Bayer. "We believe the station should be built in Orange and still support Orange's efforts to accomplish that."
Mr. Borer said he was surprised by Mr. Goldblatt's plans to appeal the council's decision and suggested that the Orange first selectmen accept a West Haven station. "I don't know what the governor or State Legislature can do," Mr. Borer said. "This a decision that needed to be made by the region and it has been made by the region. Now we should just move ahead and do whatever it takes to get the station built as quickly as we can."
But Mr. Goldblatt is angry that the council's decision came just a week after a council transportation committee comprised of transportation experts recommended the Orange site and just a few months after a major state study also chose Orange as the preferred site. As the battle has heated up, so have the tensions between the two communities. Hundreds of West Haven residents, spurred by an active grass-roots movement, packed recent hearings and made emotional pleas urging the station be built in their community.
"This is something West Haven has been waiting 50 years for," said Paul Frosolone, a lifelong resident. "It would change the city overnight by providing rail service for thousands of people who could use the train to get to better jobs in Fairfield County and New York." 
In Orange, a special train station committee was appointed several months ago by the first selectman to lobby for an Orange station.
"The Orange site is far better and I literally walked the tracks to figure that out," said the co-chairman of the Orange Railroad Committee, Richard Slawsky, former economic development director in West Haven who became convinced Orange was the better site while still in his West Haven post.
Mr. Goldblatt, armed by a state study, said an Orange station would be cheaper, could be built at least a year faster and would be more accessible to commuters who would use the station in greater numbers, which means getting more cars off the roads than a West Haven station.
"This was a major decision by the Council of Governments, there's no doubt about that and right now it very much looks like it's going to be in West Haven," said Harry Harris, transportation bureau chief of the State Department of Transportation. "But nothing can happen until the D.O.T. and the Council of Governments reach agreement on where the station should go." Mr. Harris said that won't happen until completion of the in-depth environmental study, which could cost in the hundreds of thousands of dollars.
Orange is not giving up.
"It may not look good right now," Mr. Goldblatt said. "But the ball seems to keep bouncing back and forth on this and I still believe in the end the station will be built here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mitchell Goldblatt, above, the first selctman of Orange, and Richard Borer, the mayor of West Haven, at the sites of the proposed stations. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); SUBURBS (67%); NOISE POLLUTION (50%) RAILROADS; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER) 

ORGANIZATION: METRO-NORTH COMMUTER RAILROAD CO 

PERSON: JOHN SULLIVAN (50%) WEIZEL, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) WEST HAVEN (CONN); ORANGE (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



140 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut; 
Small-Town Atmosphere of 'Burys' Attracts Growth

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
DEVELOPMENT is accelerating along the Interstate 84 corridor in the semirural towns of Southbury and Middlebury. Land that is priced lower than in the more-expensive Fairfield County next door, including 1,500 acres of excess holdings for sale by I.B.M., has been attracting businesses; home builders are submitting proposals for subdivisions to accommodate expected population growth; and home buyers thirsting for small-town life away from expensive suburbs are willing to make longer commutes to work.
 "Over the next few years we'll see a lot more development in the 'burys,' " said Joanne Carroll, president of the Fairfield County Home Builders Association, referring to Danbury in Fairfield County, Southbury and Middlebury in New Haven County and Roxbury and Woodbury in Litchfield County. "The region has that remoteness that all of a sudden people are looking for," she said, "and the demand for high-end homes is bringing in developers from the Farmington Valley to Westchester." 
 Southbury and Middlebury, straddling I-84 at exits 14 and 16, are not exactly overjoyed at being invaded. "This is a little Currier & Ives community of 6,100 people living in 18 square miles," said Middlebury's first selectman, Edward St. John. "We feel very strongly about controlling growth. Nothing much has changed since we were incorporated in 1807." 
But it has. Recent years have brought million-dollar lakeside homes, the price of building lots has climbed to as much as $600,000, and more change is on the way as businesses expand or move into town. The Crompton Corporation, a specialty chemical company, is transferring its Greenwich operations to an expansion of its existing Middlebury operations. Local real estate agents are expecting sales to some of the 200 employees now in Greenwich.
Henry Paparazzo, the award-winning builder of Heritage Village in Southbury, paid a little more than $1 million for 60 acres on Route 188 in Middlebury four years ago, where he is building Avalon Farms, named after the farm it is replacing. Five of a planned 48 Cotswold-cum-Normandy-style homes have been built and are priced at $500,000 to $700,000, but only one house has been sold since the opening early last year. Mr. Paparazzo attributes the slow sales in part to indecision in the immediate aftermath of the terrorist attacks. "Our market is Fairfield County and Westchester, the people most affected by Sept. 11," he said. "It has caused some hesitancy."
According to Mary Ann Hebert, co-owner of Bannon & Hebert Properties, sales agent for Avalon Farms, "we have had some of Crompton's midrange executives looking at the model house." Sales are restricted to people older than 40 with no children younger than 18.
TRADITIONS, a 150-home New England shingle-style development on 90 acres in Southbury, is having more success. It has sold 17 homes since early November and has taken down payments of 10 percent on five more. Nothing has been built except a sales office, where people are buying from floor plans and virtual video tours of the homes, which range in price from $324,900 to $464,900. 
The success of Traditions could be attributed to its appeal to a variety of buyers -- childless couples, families, active empty nesters, single people and retirees. Twelve two- to four-bedroom models, each with three different elevations, range in size from 1,950 to 3,057 square feet and range in price from $324,000 to $444,900.
The houses, designed by William Devereaux & Associates of McLean, Va., have porches, lofts, two-story foyers and family rooms. Other features on some homes include master bedrooms on the ground floor, walkout basements, one- and two-car garages, libraries and upstairs sitting rooms. 
Construction of 150 houses is expected within three years. During that time, several amenities will be added, including a village green and gazebo, an amphitheater, a children's playground and a community meeting house with a stage, fitness center, outdoor pool and children's pool.
Seven models at Avalon Farms, from 2,700 to 4,355 square feet, designed by Richard Moisan, head of Moisan Architects in Woodbury, "are deliberately different from the early New England reproductions that everyone else is doing," he said. Faux stonework exteriors, master bedrooms and baths on the ground floor, two or three additional bedrooms and one or two additional baths on the second floor are featured. Some homes have lofts, walkout basements, two-story foyers and family rooms; all models have mudrooms, laundries, two half-baths, decks or patios and two- or three-car garages.
Avalon Farms will customize homes to the extent that room sizes can be changed, walls can be eliminated and the footprint of the house expanded. Traditions will customize only interior decorating and will upgrade appliances, plumbing and lighting fixtures, floors and carpeting.
Both projects are being developed in clustered enclaves of four or five homes surrounding mini-greens. The driveways empty onto a road that encircles the mini-green and exits onto the subdivision road. Ten percent or more of the land is dedicated to open space.
Traditions' developer is Spectrum Skanska, a five-year-old company formed when the Spectrum Group Ltd. of Westchester, whose president and chief executive was Mitchell C. Hochberg, became a wholly owned subsidiary of Skanska U.S.A. 
Skanska U.S.A.'s parent, Skanska of Stockholm, has $16 billion in annual revenue, owns about 25 companies worldwide and is one of the largest international builders of highways, bridges, tunnels, offices, stadiums, airports and housing. "Our emphasis is on the United States," said Stuart Graham, executive vice president for American operations, "because it's the largest construction market in the world."
"In order to continue to grow, Skanska had to expand outside the Swedish borders -- it's always been the culture of Scandinavia to export services, going back to the Vikings," he said.
Mr. Hochberg, who now reports to Mr. Graham, has switched his focus from building multimillion-dollar homes in Westchester and Fairfield to what he calls "lifestyle communities." 
"To support the amenities we provide, we need a large number of units," he said, "and Skanska has the financial and construction capabilities to do larger and more numerous projects at more competitive prices." 
Housing is also to be built by the Timex Corporation, a longtime resident of Middlebury. The company is not going into the housing business, according to John Pollard, whom Timex hired as development consultant. It is merely using 94 acres of the site that it bought for a new headquarters but does not need for the building. The 79 homes will be age restricted -- at least one occupant must be over 55 -- and will be sold on the open market in the low $300,000 range. Timex obtained a zoning change and will submit final site plans within 60 days.
According to Jean Donegan, Middlebury's zoning enforcement officer, Omega Technologies, which is based in Stamford, will erect a satellite building on 101.8 acres that it owns in Middlebury. The property is approved for 11 commercial buildings, including Omega's, and it will be the town's first business park. 
Ms. Donegan noted that Forest Walk L.L.C. had submitted a proposal for 286 housing units on 17 acres requiring a zone change. Hearings are scheduled on Jan. 29 and 30. A proposal for 126 single-family homes by Baker Residential of Pleasantville, N.Y., was recently rejected. "We are likely to appeal," said John Horton, director of project development for Baker. A zoning change from industrial to residential was granted by the planning and zoning commission last February, he said, and specific reasons for the rejection were not disclosed.
Roads throughout the open part of Transitions include one that is a quarter of a mile long and extends into the adjacent property: Mr. Paparazzo's Heritage Village. The road, which will cost Spectrum Skanska $250,000, will be gated and locked and will be for the sole use of emergency vehicles that require access to Heritage Village and would otherwise be blocked by Traditions.
Mr. Paparazzo owned the Traditions property at one time and planned it as an addition to Heritage Village. But when threatened with foreclosure in the recession of the early 1990's, he sold it to Summit Residential of Monroe. Summit sought approval of the Papparazzo plans for 150 homes in 1998 but was unable to begin work within the town's one-year limit from approval to construction. "That's when Skanska stepped in," said DeLoris Curtis, Southbury's planning administrator. Skanska paid $9.5 million for the property last June. 
Mark Cooper, Southbury's first selectman, worries about maintaining the town's rural character, noting the attraction of the highly rated Southbury-Middlebury regional public school system and the availability of land -- only 18,000 people live within the town's 40.9 square miles.
"There used to be more cows than people," he said. "Now we have million-dollar houses; companies like I.B.M., Comsat Corporation, Kmart Corporation, the Gap, AT&T Global Network; and big housing developments."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 20, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in Connecticut and Westchester copies on Jan. 6 about housing construction in Middlebury and Southbury, Conn., misstated the policy of the Avalon Farms development on the age of purchasers. The development has no age restrictions; it does not require that purchasers be older than 40, with no children younger than 18.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry J. Paparazzo, left, and Keith J. Sorensen of Heritage Development at Avalon Farms in Middlebury. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CHILDREN (79%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); SALES FORCE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (64%); TERRORISM (60%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%); CHEMICALS (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) HOUSING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

COMPANY: CHEMTURA CORP (82%)

TICKER: CHMT (PAR) (82%); CHMT (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (82%)

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) MIDDLEBURY (CONN); SOUTHBURY (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



141 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Start-Ups Tailored to the Times Thrive 

BYLINE:  By MARCI ALBOHER NUSBAUM 

 BODY:
The double whammy of terrorist attacks and recession has hurt or destroyed untold small businesses in the New York metropolitan area, from restaurants and shops near ground zero to travel agencies and financial printers. But some have thrived and are even hiring workers.
 Consider Lexolution, the brainchild of three executive recruiters. They left an established firm to start their own company on Oct. 1 to provide contract and temporary lawyers to law firms. 
 "With layoffs and slowdowns in permanent hiring, many firms are turning to us to fill the gaps," said Nora Plesent, one founder. And in a recession, when even highly qualified lawyers can get the ax, the pool of talent for Lexolution to choose from has widened. "With resumes that read Harvard undergrad, Harvard law, major law firm, it's a kick," Ms. Plesent said.
In its first month, Lexolution has had meetings with over 20 law firms and placed more than 10 contract lawyers. The company, which began its life in the basement of one partner's home, signed an agreement to lease office space near Grand Central Terminal, starting Jan. 1. "Because the market is so soft, we found ourselves with a lot of options," Ms. Plesent said.
A substantial number of industries and professions are either flourishing in, or at least weathering, the post-Sept. 11 recession, economists say. These include pharmaceutical companies, mobile-phone makers, munitions suppliers, security specialists, bankruptcy-related services, secondary education, fast food, public transportation, health care, home entertainment, social workers and physical therapists.
The Garden City Group, a legal-administration company in Melville, N.Y., for example, has just opened a reorganization unit to capitalize on the surge in bankruptcies that has taken filings nationwide to a record 1,437,000 in the year ended Sept. 30.
The company's bread-and-butter is administering claims for large class-action cases, but it quickly realized that providing Chapter 11 services for law firms and debtors was a natural business extension. So it recruited Karen Shaer, the general counsel of a client company that had been through the class action and Chapter 11 process itself, to run the new unit.
As a result of its expansion, Garden City has invested hundreds of thousands of dollars in new technology, redeployed several people, cross-trained others and moved into an office with double the space.
In its first two months, the new unit has been retained by two clients, and hopes to add 10 to 15 new cases this year. 
Another sector that usually gets a lift when the economy dips is education, particularly in those fields that job applicants can use to enhance their marketability. This year, applications to law schools and business schools are up, and Princeton Review Inc., a New York-based test-preparation outfit, says its enrollment has skyrocketed. "Prior to Sept. 11, our G.M.A.T. and LSAT growth were almost double what they were last year, and since Sept. 11, our growth has doubled again," said Jaime Bederman, the company's national director for graduate program marketing.
Fuller classrooms mean the company has stepped up hiring. Amy Smith, who runs the Long Island office, says the recession has improved the quality of job candidates. "We've seen people who were running their own businesses, reporters, graduate students and even some high-level people laid off by major corporations," she said.
Therapists and other calmers of the soul have also enjoyed a surge of business, too. Jonathan Fields opened his Sonic Yoga NYC in Manhattan on Nov. 12 with the slogan, "Taking back the holiday." By the end of the month, he had signed up 100 customers, triple his projection, for 10-session packages costing $150. "So far so good," he said.
Another specialty niche that is thriving is the fight against chemical or biological weapons. The anthrax scare created a sudden and intense demand for the services of Sylkworks Inc., a North Haledon, N.J., medical surveillance start-up, according to Brad J. Blaschak, the chief executive. Two potential but cautious investors suddenly committed money to the venture, he said. Soon after, Sylkworks sent a team to hospitals in Trenton, where postal workers were being treated for anthrax exposure, and established a method to help medical professionals diagnose and treat anthrax.
Today, its systems are in place in 16 hospitals in New Jersey, and the company expects that number to jump to 50 nationwide by the end of January. 
Then there is the personal-security profession. Tom Patire, founder of CDT Training Inc., an Elmwood Park, N.J., company that gives self-defense courses, says that business has soared at the company's 900 training centers nationwide. "Prior to 9/11, we had about 1,500 people a week coming in," he said. "Two weeks after the attacks, we had 12,000. Now, it's settled down to 8,000." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jonathan Fields leads a class at his Sonic Yoga studio in Manhattan. His is one of a variety of businesses doing well despite a tight economy and more somber times. (Kelly Guenther for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); RECESSION (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); CITIES (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (83%); RESTAURANTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (72%); TRAVEL AGENTS (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (71%); TRENDS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (69%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); CLASS ACTIONS (67%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (65%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (65%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (52%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (52%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; SMALL BUSINESS 

COMPANY: EDUCATION HOLDINGS 1 INC (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (60%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

PERSON: NUSBAUM, MARCI ALBOHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



142 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Q. & A.; 
Loss of Storage Space

 BODY:
 Q. I am a rent-controlled tenant in a building with 48 apartments. Ever since I first occupied my apartment more than 30 years ago, I and other tenants have had the use of storage space in the basement. The landlord has now notified us that we must vacate the storage space. This represents the elimination of a service I have enjoyed since moving into the building. Can the landlord do this without giving a rent reduction or other compensation? . . . George Fenmore, Manhattan.

A. Colleen F. McGuire, a Manhattan lawyer who represents tenants, said that on Dec. 20, 2000, the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, the state agency charged with administering the rent laws, adopted amendments to the regulations governing rent-controlled and rent-stabilized tenants. One of the amendments, Ms. McGuire said, included a roster of conditions the agency considers "de minimis."
 "The removal or reduction of storage space is now considered to be a de minimis condition unless the storage space service was provided for in a rider to a lease," she said, adding that the loss of a de minimis service would not result in the landlord being required to reduce the rent or provide other compensation.
Ms. McGuire added, however, that the agency's characterization of the loss of storage space as de minimis is not necessarily set in stone but could be subject to interpretation or modification by the agency itself or the courts.
"There may be circumstances where a condition, although included in the D.H.C.R.'s roster, will nevertheless be found to constitute a decrease in a required service," she said. "So I would advise these tenants to file a decrease-in-services complaint with the D.H.C.R. and vigorously protest the elimination of the storage."
The tenants should emphasize that the service has been provided for at least three decades, that it is important to the tenants who use it, that it will be quite expensive for the tenants to find replacement storage space outside the building and that, as a result, the termination of the use of the space will constitute a real and severe hardship for the tenants.
"In other words," she said, "the tenants should file a complaint that demonstrates that the service is not de minimis, but is important and integral to the tenancy."

Taking a Mattress Up in the Elevator

Q. I own and live in an apartment in Rego Park, Queens. A few days ago, late in the evening, I took in a twin-size mattress to accommodate an unexpected overnight guest. Two days later I was shocked when I got a letter from the management company saying that I had violated the "moving rule" and was being fined $500.
I know that the rule is that moving must be done between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, but that is for tenants who are moving in or out of their apartments. I have been living here and just took an item in. Is this a violation? . . . Hardy Zhang, Rego Park, N.Y.

A. Marc Luxemburg, a Manhattan co-op lawyer, said that without knowing the details of the moving rule, it is impossible to determine whether the letter writer violated it.
However, he said, co-op and condominium boards generally have the power to establish rules and regulations pertaining to the use of common areas and common elements -- like elevators -- in the building. 
"Rules governing moving usually apply to any use of the common areas for moving bulky items, not just to moving the entire contents of an apartment," Mr. Luxemburg said.
At the same time, he said, fines imposed for violating the rules should bear some relationship to the amount of damage the move might cause.
"A fine of $500 for moving a mattress may be out of proportion to the potential damage the building might suffer," he said, adding that the letter writer might want to contest the amount of the fine by writing a letter to the managing agent or the board explaining the circumstances. If the board insists on imposing the $500 fine, Mr. Luxemburg said, the letter writer would then have no recourse but to resolve the matter in the courts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); RENT CONTROL (92%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (78%); LAWYERS (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



143 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: A Resort Replaces a Mental Hospital in Maryland 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES BELFOURE 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Md. 

 BODY:
A $155 million resort that is expected to bolster the economy of this lower Eastern Shore city is nearing completion on a site once occupied by a mental hospital overlooking the Choptank River. The Hyatt Regency Chesapeake Bay Resort, Spa and Marina is scheduled to open in March with 400 rooms, a golf course and a 150-slip marina. A subsequent development around the golf course is expected to add 800 houses and condominiums.
 In the mid-1990's, Maryland decided to replace the aging 300-bed Eastern Shore Hospital with an 80-bed facility for the mentally ill on a site two miles away. The Maryland Economic Development Corporation recognized the development potential of the hospital's 364-acre grounds, one of the last undeveloped tracts along the Choptank, with stands of virgin forest, open fields and an untouched riverfront. 
 The state agency declared the land surplus property and issued a request for redevelopment proposals.
The Hyatt Hotel Corporation of Chicago joined with Quadrangle Development Inc. of Washington and Clark Enterprises, a development and construction company based in Bethesda, Md., to form Chesapeake Resorts L.L.C., which won the project in 1996.
Chesapeake Resorts bought the land for $5 million from the state, whose development corporation then provided $134 million of the project's cost by issuing tax-exempt revenue bonds, said Robert J. Knopf, senior vice president of Quadrangle Development, a real estate development concern that manages more than seven million square feet nationwide. The project will be responsible for paying back the bonds with revenue from the resort.
The state development corporation, which owns the improvements on the site and shares in the resort's revenue, will pay rent under the terms of a 35-year lease. After the lease expires, the physical improvements will revert to Chesapeake Resorts.
The six-story hotel is a U-shaped building anchored by an indoor pool complex and arboretum called the Wintergarden that opens out to the river's edge. Next to the hotel is an 18,000-square-foot spa and fitness center with six tennis courts and an outdoor multilevel pool. 
Inside the main complex are 15 fireplaces and 32,000 square feet of meeting space, including two ballrooms and three restaurants. The hotel, designed by the Washington office of RTKL Associates Inc., has a nautical theme, including red brick detailing that recalls the traditional architecture of the Virginia-Maryland tidewater region. 
The grounds of the old hospital now have an 18-hole golf course designed by Keith Foster, a 5,000-square-foot open-air pavilion and a seafood restaurant on a boardwalk along the river. An 18-acre portion of the site has been set aside as a nature preserve that will have walking trails and wildlife observation. 
Because of the importance of recreational boating in the Chesapeake Bay, a central part of the resort is its marina, which is expected to draw day visitors and vacationers. "Boaters can come in and rent a slip for a day or a week or a month," said Michael T. Walsh, the general manager of the resort. "We'll have all the utility hookups, fuel and a dockside marina store."
Quadrangle has also agreed to build 800 residential units throughout the golf course. That phase, which is being designed, will consist of single family homes, town houses and time-share units in mid-rise buildings. Construction is expected to begin sometime this year, Mr. Knopf said. 
Cambridge, 75 miles southeast of Baltimore, is where the Choptank meets the Chesapeake Bay. Every summer, thousands of visitors pass by the city on their way to Ocean City, the state's most popular resort, but rarely stop to visit. 
Now, government officials hope that the addition of the Hyatt resort, which can be seen from the highway, will draw more tourists to Cambridge. "We'll become a destination," Mayor Cleveland L. Rippons said. "People will see how many things there are to do here."
The city, which borders the Hyatt site on the west, has a downtown historic district with many unaltered examples of late 19th-century architecture and a maritime museum. Another attraction is the Blackwater Wildlife Refuge, an 11,000-acre sanctuary about 12 miles to the south, created in 1931 to protect migratory water fowl. 
In addition to attracting the Ocean City-bound vacationer, the resort hopes to bring in weekend visitors. "The location is perfect with Washington, Baltimore and Philadelphia each only about an hour and a half drive away," Mr. Walsh said. Room rates will run $150 to $200 a night, depending on the season.
Officials hope that the Hyatt resort will become an economic catalyst for Dorchester County, whose unemployment rate was as high as 12 percent during the boom economy of the late 1990's. Although there are a few small industrial concerns, the county, with a population of about 30,000, does not have a strong economic base.
Cambridge, the county seat, remains an important center of the state's seafood industry, with Chesapeake Bay watermen traveling from its harbor to harvest crabs and oysters. But with the lowest crab harvest in almost 30 years, that industry is in trouble. 
"There could be several hundred direct jobs from the resort," Mayor Rippons said. "But more importantly, the presence of the Hyatt will accentuate an entrepreneurial spirit that will generate ancillary jobs in the area as well."
One of the resort's main efforts will be to attract conferences and social functions, Mr. Walsh said. He already has 46 gatherings booked for 2002, including eight weddings, several events for Johns Hopkins University, a nursing association and an electric power trade group.
But with all the amenities of the resort, the developers say its real draw is the location, with its views of the Choptank and beautiful country-like setting. 
The site is the result of the planning of the original 1915 Eastern Shore Hospital, which continued the philosophy of the late 19th century that asylums should be built in rural, pastoral settings so patients could enjoy fresh air and a park-like setting. The complex of more than 20 buildings, built in the Tudor Revival style, was demolished in 2000.
"You can't find land like this anymore," Mr. Walsh said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Hyatt Regency Chesapeake Bay Resort, opening in March, is to have 400 rooms, a golf course, a 150-slip marina and, later, 800 homes. (Marty Katz for The New York Times) Map of Maryland highlighting Cambridge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESORTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MARINAS (90%); GOLF (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); RESTAURANTS (75%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (74%); WILDERNESS (74%); TRENDS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); BONDS (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%); BOATING & RAFTING (72%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (71%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (68%); TAX LAW (67%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (67%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); WALKING & JOGGING (62%); TENNIS (60%); SPORTS (60%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (92%); SONESTA INTERNATIONAL HOTELS CORP (69%); RTKL ASSOCIATES INC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: HYATT HOTELS & RESORTS 

TICKER: H (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (92%); NAICS483212 INLAND WATER PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); SIC4489 WATER TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, NEC (69%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (62%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (62%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (62%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (62%)

PERSON: BELFOURE, CHARLES 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) CAMBRIDGE (MD); CHOPTANK RIVER

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



144 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey; 
A Plan to Revitalize a Historic Enclave in Camden

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
BY the standards of Camden, the state's poorest city, the historic neighborhood of Fairview has held up fairly well, but holes are now poking through the armor of this area.
 About 200 of its 2,400 homes are boarded up, reminders of the families, some of whom had been in the neighborhood for generations, that in the last decade have fled from high taxes and meager services. Worries about safety have increased with the rise in the number of empty buildings that overlook the area's central green, where drug deals go down as day turns to night. 
 Fairview -- a World War I era planned community of American Federal style homes built for shipyard workers by the federal government -- may seem to be sliding, but it is still one of Camden's last viable neighborhoods. Now there is a $40 million plan in place aimed at stabilizing and ensuring the long-term health of the 225-acre enclave at the city's southernmost tip and surrounded on three sides by Newton Creek. 
The plan calls for 320 new and renovated rental and for-sale housing units for people with a mix of incomes, as well as the hiring of a manager to coordinate efforts to bring back businesses to the central square, which will be cleaned and secured. The plan also includes the creation of a 3,000-square-foot community center and a recreational area as well as the introduction of programs for youngsters in the neighborhood, which was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1974. 
"It's a holistic approach, the key to which is the revitalization of Yorkship Square as a center of commerce and community," said Anthony M. Cancro, acting commissioner of the state's Department of Community Affairs, adding that it also involves community input. Those two factors make this plan different from past efforts, which "slowed but didn't stop the deterioration," he said. 
Over the last two years his department devised the plan together with the designated developer, RPM Development Group of Montclair; the Fairview Historic Society; and other community groups. Among them are the area's seven churches and the Senator Walter Rand Institute for Public Affairs at Rutgers University in Camden. 
Al Rose, president of the historic society, praised the plan's determination to preserve not only the neighborhood's bricks and mortar but also its spirit. Mr. Rose has run a pharmacy for 28 years in the neighborhood; today it is the only business still operating from an otherwise shuttered building.
FELIPE GOROSTIZA, executive director of the Rand Institute, said Fairview's "real or perceived image" of a lack of safety also needed to be addressed. "People must be given a reason to want to come back," he said. 
The Rev. Kenneth Hallahan, pastor of St. Joan of Arc Roman Catholic Church stressed, however, that the aim is not "to gentrify the area or drive out long-time residents."
Last month the city signed off on the plan, which requires RPM to acquire existing buildings as well as land from various owners. It is to be carried out in three phases over the next three years. 
The acquisition process has begun for the first 120-unit phase, which includes acquiring four vacant buildings along the square and renovating them to create 50 mostly one-bedroom rentals and acquiring several parcels along Collings Avenue, a main entryway to the area, to build 70 new apartments. Work is to begin in late spring. 
The $40 million plan is to be financed mostly through state as well as federal funds. The city is providing a 30-year tax abatement.
In the last eight years the state has invested $80 million to produce 780 new and renovated housing units in other Camden neighborhoods as well as $20 million more in commercial redevelopment. "We had to show private developers Camden was worth investing in," Mr. Cancro said.
That commitment helped to persuade RPM, known mainly for its work in northern New Jersey, to respond to the state's call for developers. Other factors included Fairview's location and physical appeal, said Ed Martoglio, RPM's principal. 
"Beyond the blight and boarded-up buildings, you can still see a charming neighborhood," he said.
The federal government created Fairview in 1917 to house workers of the New York Shipbuilding Corporation, which churned out ships for World War I. Originally called Yorkship Village, it was carved from farmland along Newton Creek near the shipyard. 
But, like 54 other such wartime neighborhoods nationwide, it was designed to be more than a barrackslike compound. The designer of Fairview, Electus Darwin Litchfield, modeled the community after the Garden City developments popular in England at that time and gave it a central village square, from which stretch narrow winding residential streets and broad green commercial boulevards like spokes on a wheel. 
The architect also lined the streets with trees and row houses, duplexes and detached homes made of red brick and graced with porches and small front and back yards. Having the creek on three sides also makes Fairview seem more suburban than urban, and residents with homes overlooking the creek say they can spot egrets and blue herons.
FROM 1923, when the government auctioned off the homes, to the start of the last decade, Fairview remained an stable enclave. Then a 1992 tax revaluation that doubled homeowner's property taxes, an aging population and white flight conspired against the neighborhood and left behind a trail of vacant houses, many of them sold to investors. Over the last decade the number of such units rose and property values fell. 
In that time the neighborhood's population dropped to 4,877 from 5,353 and its complexion changed. In 1990, 90 percent of the residents were white; today estimates put the population at one-third to one-half white and the rest black and Hispanic. 
Michael H. Lang, a professor of urban studies at Rutgers in Camden and a Fairview resident, credits the neighborhood's survival over the decades to the quality of its design. He said it is often cited as a model of the "New Urbanism" school of planning, which advocates see as the answer to suburban sprawl.
While the community's response to the revitalization effort generally is positive, there are concerns. Among them are the relocation of businesses along Collings Avenue and the loss of undeveloped county-owned land along the creek to make way for the new rentals.
Some also think that the 320 residences planned are too much for the neighborhood and that too many of them, 220, are to be rentals affordable to people earning $25,000 to $38,000 a year, depending on family size. The 50 renovated rentals in the buildings edging the square and the 170 new rentals planned in up to eight structures will have one to three bedrooms with 650 to 1,100 square feet. They will rent for $400 to $600 a month.
Mr. Martoglio said the density "is needed to support area businesses." The new rentals make the plan economically viable and allow his company to provide the community center and recreational area, he said, adding that the goal of the 100 market-rate houses "is to attract people with higher incomes."
Those now-vacant houses, with 1,000 to 1,600 square feet, will be renovated and sold to buyers at initial prices of $40,000 to $55,000. Work on the first 35 homes is to begin in midspring. 
Still, old-time residents like James Viall, 80, who has lived in Fairview for 32 years, are weary of promises of a new beginning. "Sure I would like to see improved buildings," he said, but he added that an increase in neighborhood pride is also needed. 
Last month, within days after the announcement of the Fairview project, the New Jersey State Legislature rejected a separate state aid package to turn around Camden, whose finances were taken over by the state in 2000. But state housing officials stress that the Fairview money will come from the sale of bonds and from real estate transfer taxes, not the state Treasury. 
Mr. Rose, who described himself as an optimist, said the Fairview plan would be realized, "because we are all working together." Michael Devlin, a former city councilman and Fairview resident, added that "the will and resources" are there to get it done. "But," he said, "it will take work that requires rolling up shirtsleeves."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fairview was created to house workers who built World War I ships. (Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times) Map of New Jersey highlighting Fairview.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CHILDREN (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); WORLD WAR I (70%); SHIPBUILDING (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); RELIGION (65%) HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) CAMDEN (NJ); FAIRVIEW (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



145 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 2635 words

HEADLINE: DINING OUT; 
Newcomers Join Ranks of the Familiar

BYLINE:  By M. H. REED 

 BODY:
THINGS have changed. 
 Despite a competitive industry and a shaky economy, several brave new restaurants carved out a notable niche for themselves in the county last year. These innovative newcomers have attracted a loyal clientele almost from the day they opened their doors. Excitement, pizzazz, menus and decor Manhattan style echo in sleek, roomy bars. But the new spots haven't replaced the established favorites -- old-guard dining rooms with old-world elegance. 
 Here are restaurants, new and old, that deserve special note for their exceptional food, ambience or service. 

American
Few places are more Manhattan than two of Steven Palm's eating spots: Orchard Street Oyster Bar and Grill and Harrys of Hartsdale. Both stock a large selection of shellfish -- most notably oysters -- at their splendid raw bars. While the stylish ambience at Harrys outshines that at tiny Orchard Street, Orchard Street's kitchen keeps up. Look for terrine of chicken, duck with pappardelle, ginger sea scallops, and for dessert, chocolate sack, chocolate tear or refreshing green apple granita. 
New, too, is the Road House. This pretty and informal redo of space last occupied by Maxime's includes a snug bar and lounge areas and a warming fireplace in the dining room. Tyler Merson knows how to balance flavors, and he uses vegetables galore to add zip to his dishes. Delectable surprises hide in unlikely-sounding offerings, like fricassee of spaghetti squash and vegetables, bread pudding with mushroom ragout and roasted tomato salad. 
Across the river, Lu Shane's has quickly become a popular destination. Expert design has turned a long, unwieldy room into an asset. A tub of glistening iced oysters weighs down one end of a copper-topped bar. Most dishes like pork chop, salmon and quail come showered with wild mushrooms, sweet leeks or exotic oils. And, oh, those lavish desserts. 
Also just west of the Hudson River are Peter Kelly's restaurants; this culinary Mozart never runs out of fresh harmonies of flavors and variations on old favorites. Bright dining areas at Restaurant X and Bully Boy Bar are in keeping with the dazzling food. Some rooms have fireplaces or views of gardens or a pretty, romantic pond. The big complaint about the tiny, convivial Freelance Cafe & Wine Bar is that it's always crowded and takes no reservations. Many diners like to make a meal of several appetizers accompanied by good wine by the glass. Reservations are taken next door at Xaviar's at Piermont, as elegant a place as the Freelance Cafe is casual (the restaurants share a kitchen), although seating is becoming a bit tight. Xaviar's at Garrison, Mr. Kelly's first success, is open for prix-fixe tasting dinners on weekends and a fabulous Sunday brunch.
A crackling hearth warms the cellar Tack Room of Peter Pratt's Inn, which dates to Revolutionary times, and although the kitchen sometimes stumbles, its soups make a case for forgiveness. Delicious pumpkin and chestnut soup and spicy Thai-style lemon grass soup are the hits of the moment. 
A few parts of Crabtree's Kittle House creak with age, not peculiar for their beginnings as a barn more than two centuries ago. Over the years it has expanded with a rabbit warren of additions. Gregory Gilbert's oxtail ravioli in chanterelle broth or a dainty little stuffed quail or mustard-crusted lamb are extraordinary, as is everything else. Anibal Romero creates light, not-to-be-missed desserts. Service is outstanding, as it is at Iron Horse Grill, set in an old train station house. Philip McGrath (the chef and owner) and his vigilant staff are concerned with the diner's total happiness, further ensured by dishes like venison with juniper, brandade (cod with potato) and apple galette with ice cream. 
A few other small restaurants serve food notably big on flavor. Bistro Twenty-Two is a little jewel, polished by Brian Galvin's honey-glazed chicken, roasted cod and fragrant bread pudding. Maureen and Charles Steppe have taken over the old Box Tree and renamed it Purdys Homestead. The wide polished old floorboards and huge fireplaces of the old farmhouse have been retained, and the kitchen given a fresh attitude, with baking that is nothing short of splendid. Roasted oysters, rainbow trout and chicken Purdys are fine bets, as are all desserts. At Cafe Meze Mark Filippo always has something interesting on the stove such as salmon tartare, grilled octopus, skate, lamb and pork chop. These and more are embellished with creative garnishes worth a special trip. Fruity desserts are gorgeous. Marco is informal, an unlikely setting for the interesting fare Mark Donelli cooks, generous plates of spicy shrimp, grilled ostrich and other game meats. 
Then there are dining kitchens that make a specialty of one main ingredient. Fish is king at Eastchester Fish Gourmet. This kitchen knows how to cook it plain and how to cook it fancy. Lobster and seafood from the raw bar are always on hand. Creative, seasonal entrees might be roasted cod with risotto and mushrooms, Dover sole wrapped in pastry or pancetta-wrapped monkfish. At The Fish Cellar the best call is at the roomy raw bar at the entrance. Here's the spot to have a glass of beer or wine and to munch on shrimp or a selection of seasonal oysters. The shuckers are knowledgeable and can talk about the provenance of every mollusk they crack. 
Tables are small and the noise level high at Ye Olde Tollgate Steakhouse, but it would be hard to find more succulent, smooth-textured porterhouse steaks than those served here.

Chinese
There's much good news about Chinese food in Westchester. Long in the forefront of what true Chinese cuisine is about -- fresh ingredients and innovation -- Hunan Village has reinvented itself. Paul Chou, the owner, has shortened his menu to concentrate on his seasonal best. Diners should consult him or anyone on his well-trained staff about the freshest seafood or vegetable buys, which might not be on the menu. Triple-cooked pork ribs, sole in laurel wine-lees, "silk" squash with shrimp -- everything is worth a try. Soups and vegetables are beyond praise.
David Ng has moved his Jade Palace up the street and into the old Tung Sing. Now called David's Jade Palace, this new, bigger restaurant includes a wall of live-fish tanks, a tea bar with an outstanding selection and a dining porch, which is packed at lunch with patrons hungry for dim sum. Dinner is terrific too, with its fresh fish and vegetables. 
Green Symphony is a strictly vegetarian restaurant that cooks up healthful food that will satisfy even carnivores. Based on Buddhist culinary tradition, dishes are miracles of soybean and vegetable combinations that look and taste like chicken, squid, duck, shrimp and beef. No alcohol is served. Meats and fish are the real McCoy at K. Fung's, but it makes a point of offering healthful fare by adding loads of interesting vegetables to the mix, as well as noodle, dumpling and tofu dishes.

French
"French" restaurants, like "American" restaurants, have borrowed ingredients from all over the globe to enhance their already complex dishes. These are formal restaurants, and jackets are preferred.
The elegant, intimate dining areas of Chef George Seitz's Arch make a fitting backdrop for carefully made food. Butternut squash soup with roasted pecans and game dishes are among the memorable. The cheese selection is first rate, as is old-fashioned apple pie. Service is top-notch.
Cool weather seems to demand hearty fare, and for many, duck is the top choice. Several versions, all expertly contrived, are always on hand at Auberge Maxime, in its old-fashioned country-French dining rooms. Long the restaurant's specialty, pressed duck is no longer on the menu but is available with 48 hours' notice. Service? Wonderful, of course.
La Cremaillere has been around for decades and maintains its French roots. The menu is still written in French, with subtitles in English. The dining rooms are small and stuffy. But while chefs come and go -- some bright lights and some lesser -- the place perseveres, perhaps because there are no surprises, no fireworks. Consistency has its comforts. The current chef, William Savages, sees to it that dishes remain classic and as rich as ever in cream and foie gras. Goat cheese with beets "gateam," roasted squab and mustard-crusted salmon make lovely choices. 
Pretty La Panetiere is the most formal among these restaurants. Although service can be shaky and the cooking occasionally uneven, it would be hard to go wrong ordering magnificently fresh seafood, duck terrine and coquilles Saint-Jacques. Desserts are often works of art.
Harralds, like La Cremaillere, has been thriving for more than 30 years in the tradition of old-world correctness. Little changes, and why should it? The Tudor-style cottage with a cluster of small, elegantly appointed dining rooms looks like a house out of a fairy tale. The owners, Harrald Boerger and Eva Durrschmidt, the chef, have culled the best from their years of experience; every detail of the ambience and the menu has been well thought out long ago. If there's one dish that stands out from the rest, it's simply prepared truite au bleu. 

Indian
With prices generally easy on the wallet, Indian restaurants are particular bargains for lunch and brunch, when an elaborate selection of varied and delectable dishes lines their buffet tables. A few places offer buffet dinners as well, another bargain, but only on certain nights of the week. Call first. 
Discuss what you would like and your tolerance for spicy heat with wait staff, who aim to please. Here are just a few of many Indian spots. 
Coromandel, the new kid in town, bursts with color, and the food is the fiery cuisine of Southwest India. Indian art hangs on the walls of Bengal Tiger, which has 25 years of experience to bring to diners. A few new dishes are usually on the boards and add excitement to the menu. At times, service can be wobbly at India House, but little is amiss with its tasty dishes. Crowds have discovered the generous Sunday buffet dinner at Jaipore. And conveniently situated next to a movie theater, Royal Palace has a dinner buffet from Monday through Thursday.

Italian
Producing fine Italian food takes skill to balance flavors, and the artistry to deal with ever-changing new products and seasonal markets. Not many kitchens make the effort. When they do, they shine. 
In a pretty Colonial house, Emilio has the knack, from the spectacular antipasto assortment to a variety of homemade pasta to seafood. Service is excellent and the welcome, warm. At Il Cigno the ambience here is nothing much and service could be more agreeable, but diners tolerate closely packed tables and, at times, deafening noise for pappardelle with wild boar, risotto, grilled chicken or calf's liver Semifreddo is a happy ending. 
Popular, laid-back and fun, Valentino's serves good, basic, fresh food -- basins of it -- in storefront digs embellished with glass chandeliers and mirrors. New dishes join the lusty favorites: tripe, osso buco, braciole. If you don't see what you want on the menu, ask. Come with companions; the atmosphere is carnival. 

Japanese
A number of Japanese restaurants have opened in the past few years, a testament to the popularity of sushi. Cooked dishes here are less consistent. If cooking oil isn't fresh enough and hot enough, tempura can arrive heavy and sodden. Much depends upon who is watching the wok. 
One-pot soups and casseroles are best right now, when the weather's cold and when post-holiday resolutions to avoid further dining excess are still firm. These vegetable-stocked broths -- called nabeyaki udon, nabemono or yosenabe, depending upon ingredients -- are tasty, low in calories and nourishing. Try Gyosai, Hanada, Kira Sushi, Sushi Man or Sushi Raku. Any of these has fine examples of both sushi and soups. 

Latin American
In his bright and airy dining rooms, Rafael Palomina, the chef and owner of Sonora, inspired by cooking from various regions of South America, gives seafood in particular a new, winning persona. One of the ceviche appetizers or a shrimp and avocado salad or lobster quesadilla will show diners what this kitchen is about. 

Portuguese/Brazilian
Patrons who wait for tables on busy weekend nights complain that Caravela is too small. This cozy storefront space, however, is clearly just the right size. For six years people have come for Fernando Cabral's savory food, dependable cooking and warm personal service. Good olive oil, melted onions and garlic put a Mediterranean stamp on shrimp, scallops and squid, as well as on chicken, pork and fish dishes. A dash of port wine binds flavors. Port by the glass and cheeses or succulent fruit tarts finish a meal nicely. 

Good Eating Around the County
RESERVATIONS are essential for most of these restaurants. Hours and days of operation change, and some places close in January. It's a good idea to call. Prices are not as high as in Manhattan, but especially at the finer restaurants, dining out can be expensive.
Arch, Route 22, Brewster. (845) 279-5011.
Auberge Maxime, 721 Titicus Road (Route 116), North Salem. (914) 669-5450. 
Bengal Tiger, 144 East Post Road, White Plains. (914) 948-5191.
Bistro Twenty-Two, 391 Old Post Road (Route 22), Bedford Village. (914) 234-7333.
Cafe Meze, 20 North Central Avenue, Hartsdale. (914) 428-2400.
Caravela, 53 North Broadway, Tarrytown. (914) 631-1863.
Coromandel, 30 Division Street, New Rochelle. (914) 235-8390.
Crabtree's Kittle House, 11 Kittle Road, Chappaqua. (914) 666-8044.
David's Jade Palace, 156 South Central Avenue, Hartsdale. (914) 288-8088.
Eastchester Fish Gourmet, 837 White Plains Road, Scarsdale. (914) 725-3450.
Emilio, 1 Colonial Place, Harrison. (914) 835-3100.
Fish Cellar, 213 Main Street, Mount Kisco. (914) 666-4448.
Freelance Cafe & Wine Bar, 506 Piermont Avenue, Piermont. (845) 365-3250.
Green Symphony, 427 Boston Post Road (Route 1), 
Port Chester. (914) 937-6537. Gyosai, 30 Garth Road, Scarsdale. (914) 725-3730.
Hanada, 8 Pleasantville Road, Pleasantville. (914) 769-0638. Also 369 Downing Drive, Yorktown Heights. (914) 245-9016.
Harralds, 3110 Route 52, Stormville. (845) 878-6595.
Harrys of Hartsdale, 230 East Hartsdale Avenue, Hartsdale. (914) 472-8777.
Hunan Village, 1828 Central Park Avenue, Yonkers. (914) 779-2272.
Il Cigno, 1505 Weaver Street, Scarsdale. (914) 472-8484.
India House, 199 Albany Post Road, Montrose. (914) 736-0005.
Iron Horse Grill, 20 Wheeler Avenue, Pleasantville. (914) 741-0717. 
Jaipore, Route 22, Brewster. (845) 277-3549. 
K. Fung's, 222 East Hartsdale Avenue, Hartsdale. (914) 472-3838.
Kira Sushi, 575 Main Street, Armonk. (914) 765-0800.
La Cremaillere, 46 Bedford-Banksville Road, Banksville. (914) 234-9647.
La Panetiere, 530 Milton Road, Rye. (914) 967-8140. (914) 967-8140.
Lu Shane's, 8 North Broadway, Nyack. (845) 358-5556.
Marco, 612 Main Street (Route 6 at 6N), Lake Mahopac. (845) 621-1648.
Orchard Street Oyster Bar and Grill, 478 White Plains Road, Eastchester. (914) 961-5717.
Peter Pratt's Inn, 673 Croton Heights Road, Yorktown. (914) 962-4090. 
Purdys Homestead, Titicus Road (at Routes 22 and 116), North Salem. (914) 277-2301.
Restaurant X and Bully Boy Bar, 117 North Route 303, Congers. (845) 268-6555. 
Road House, Old Tomahawk Street, Granite Springs. (914) 248-7200.
Royal Palace, 77 Knollwood Road, Greenburgh. (914) 289-1988.
Sonora, 179 Rectory Street, Port Chester. (914) 933-0200.
Sushi Man, 724 Saw Mill River Road, Ardsley. (914) 693-8800. 
Sushi Raku, 279 North Broadway, Sleepy Hollow. (914) 332-8687.
Valentino's, 132 Bronx River Road, Yonkers. (914) 776-6731.
Xaviar's at Garrison, Highland Country Club, Route 9D, Garrison. (845) 424-4228.
Xaviar's at Piermont, 506 Piermont Avenue, Piermont. (845) 359-7007.
Ye Olde Tollgate Steakhouse, 974 East Boston Post Road, Mamaroneck. (914) 381-7233. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 27, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A listing on Jan. 6 with a critic's review of favorite restaurants misstated the telephone number for David's Jade Palace in Hartsdale. It is (914) 288-8008.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the India House in Montrose, far left, tasty dishes are the draw. An antipasto assortment is a standout at Emilio in Harrison, right. Garlic sausage with warm potato salad, below right, at Il Cigno in Scarsdale. Harrys of Hartsdale, below left, is known for its bountiful selection of shellfish. (Richard L. Harbus); (Janet Durrans); (Emile Wamsteker); (Chris Maynard) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); FROZEN DESSERTS (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (74%); MENU PRICES (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (64%) RESTAURANTS; REVIEWS 

PERSON: REED, M H 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



146 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: LOVE & MONEY; 
When The Big Paycheck Is Hers

BYLINE:  By ELLYN SPRAGINS; Ellyn Spragins is a freelance writer in Maplewood, N.J. Her column about money's influence on relationships appears the first Sunday of each month. E-mail: loveandmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
WHEN I told a married friend that I would be writing a column about wives who make more money than their husbands, he snorted out a laugh. Then he said, "I wish we had that problem," using his fingers to scratch quotation marks in the air as he uttered the word "problem." 
 As it turns out, the quotation marks weren't necessary. To many men, a wife rolling in dough sounds like a fantasy come true. But earning significantly more money than your husband is more than a potential relationship problem -- it's shrouded in more secrecy than any other money issue I've written about here. 
 One successful, outspoken woman after another told me that she could not really talk about it -- or at least not with her name attached. An entrepreneur in New York City chatted happily for a half-hour about financial conflicts and then called back the next day to say that after talking to her husband she wanted to retract what she said. Husbands were offered as interview subjects but never returned calls. I felt as if I were covering a drug-trafficking story. 
Do husbands really need all this protection? Many of their wives think so. "The guy's ego is all caught up in being the breadwinner and if you take that away from him you take away a lot of his self-confidence," said a public relations executive in Boston who earns more than her husband.
A business owner from New York City, who has been married for 20 years, added: "I would never want people we know socially to know. I think it would be a real blow to his ego."
Not all high-earning wives feel that they need to tiptoe around their husbands' fragile masculinity. Women in their 20's and 30's are much more comfortable than older women with the Chief Breadwinner designation, said Ellen Perry, founder of Family Office Solutions, a wealth management consulting firm in Washington. And women whose husbands are in low-paying professions -- the arts or social work, for example -- rarely feel the need to keep secret their income disparity.
No, concealment seems most necessary when a couple's W-2 forms don't follow the apparent script handed to each partner on the wedding day. Ah, you don't remember receiving it? Of course not. A couple's earnings premise, as I think of it, is rarely articulated. But it's there all the same, embedded in the couple's career choices. He is going into investment banking and she is going to teach? The pact is that he will make the serious money and she will have a family-friendly work schedule.
If either partner deviates from the script, trouble tends to come knocking. But when a wife ad-libs by hitting a career jackpot, the strain can be enormous. Barbara Corcoran, founder of the Corcoran Group, a large Manhattan real estate firm that was acquired last fall by the Cendant Corporation and Apollo Management, remembers the year after her brokerage company's growth far outpaced that of her husband's real estate business, in New Jersey. She and her husband, Bill Higgins, survived the strain, but not without some fears.
"I actually sat down and thought, 'I better not do this,' " she said. "I valued my marriage and was fearful of losing my husband's love. I wasn't sure if he would love me as much if I was going to seem stronger than him." 
Many relationships don't outlast the stress, psychologists and wealth management consultants say. And many couples that succeed often work hard to preserve the myth, even within the marriage, that the husband is the Chief Breadwinner. 
"We don't talk about it," said the Boston public relations executive. "He'll tell me I'm beautiful but he'll never compliment me about the end-of-year tax return. He puts it in front of my face, asks me to sign it and not a word passes our lips."
Steven Axelrod, a clinical psychologist in Manhattan who specializes in work issues, says there is "a veil of silence around this kind of thing, even in many good marriages."
A sad collection of unanswered questions and lonely moments accompany that silence. Many wives feel chained to their earning power and angry that they have somehow engineered a life without an exit clause. "I worked since I was 13, but still somewhere in the back reaches of my mind I was dreaming about being rescued like Cinderella," Ms. Corcoran, 52, said. "I was resentful that I didn't have the option that all the other girls had."
WORSE, though, are the nagging questions that eat away at mutual respect. Why isn't my husband more successful? "Unless there is some emotional contract, some way of feeling that the man is being productive, there can be a real loss of status in the woman's eyes," Mr. Axelrod said. "Then the man will internalize that." 
You'd probably like to hear how husbands feel. So would I. If high-earning wives sometimes feel lonely and enslaved, imagine what their spouses are experiencing. Without their voices, this story is only Part One.
So how about it, guys? Speak up. You may have more company than you realize. The biggest secret about this secret society of fiscally unequal couples is that they are common at high-income levels. Among all married couples, about 22 percent of the wives earn more than their husbands, according to the government's Current Population Survey. But among couples in which the wife earned $100,000 or more, 68 percent of the wives outearned the husbands. 
I'm listening.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Van Nutt)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (78%); FAMILY (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); MEN (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); TRENDS (70%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (51%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (51%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WOMEN; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



147 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3276 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property; 
In Office Market, a Time of Uncertainty

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
LAYOFFS at financial services companies and related businesses combined with the collapse of many dot-com businesses were already pushing the metropolitan area's real estate sector downward before the events of Sept. 11. The attacks on the World Trade Center removed 13.4 million square feet of office space for at least several years and temporarily rendered an additional 12.1 million square feet unusable.
 But rather than causing the market to tighten, as might have been expected when 25 percent of the downtown submarket suddenly vanished, the attack released a flood of sublet space, as if by magic. According to a report by Grubb & Ellis, the brokerage and services company, 10.1 million square feet was offered for sublet in the three months after the attack, as companies that had been holding excess space put it on the market in hopes of attracting tenants who had been displaced from downtown buildings. 
 "After Sept. 11, there was an overnight land rush to anything that was built and operable next day," said Mitchell Steir, vice chairman of Julien J. Studley, a brokerage that specializes in representing tenants. "It lasted 7 to 10 days." 
But once the rush to relocate had passed, the market slowed, with tenants who did not have to make decisions deferring them until market conditions become clearer. As the year ended, a high degree of confusion seemed to grip the market, with both buyers and sellers unsure about pricing.
"There is a disconnect between bid and asked in both sales and leasing," said Mary Ann Tighe, vice chairman of Insignia/ESG, the brokerage and services company. "Twenty-nine percent of the direct space was on the market with no asking rent as of the end of the year," she said. "Forty-two percent of the sublease space had no asking rent."
And the lack of transactions is only adding to the uncertainty, Ms. Tighe added. "Landlords are saying, 'Make a bid.' Tenants say, 'What are the comparables?' And there are not enough comparables to tell them much."
Others in the industry agree. "The degree of uncertainty is the greatest in my entire career," said Michael T. Cohen, the president of Williams Real Estate, a brokerage and services company."People are glum, and in real estate that is a self-fulfilling prophesy."
Most real estate executives say they expect the pricing issue to work itself out in the form of lower rents this year as the amount of available space increases as a result of a continuing softening of the economy. Midtown should suffer the least, they say, because much of the available space has been taken by tenants from downtown.
Some of the space that was placed on the market after Sept. 11 was driven more by a desire to clean up financial statements than to satisfy the needs of displaced tenants, according to Anthony E. Malkin, president of W&M Properties, an investment and management company.
"A lot of people dumped space so that they could take the financial hit in 2001," he said. "It was going to be a terrible year anyway, so why not get it all done at once?" By packing a lot of losses in one year, publicly held companies can lay the groundwork for rosier financial statements in the future.
Mr. Malkin said 1999 and 2000 were such good years for the real estate business that even if a recovery begins later this year it may seem unsatisfying. "People have got to get used to the idea that things will be more normal before they become incredible again," he said.
With the investment sales market having slowed sharply because building owners think their properties are still worth what they were before Sept. 11, while buyers are expecting discounts, real estate executives say owners may turn to refinancing as a way of turning part of a building's value into cash. With interest rates at unusually low levels, this appears to be an attractive alternative.
The Starrett-Lehigh Building at 601 West 26th Street did a $230 million refinancing late in the year, said Howard L. Michaels, chairman of the Carlton Group, which helped arrange the financing. He said the West Side structure, large parts of which have been converted from industrial to office use, gained additional tenants after Sept. 11 from government agencies displaced from downtown.
He said the events of Sept. 11 had made it harder to develop financing packages for properties downtown and hotels anywhere in the city. "Before Sept. 11, you could refinance a property with one lender," he said. "Afterward, you might need as many as three lenders to get a deal done downtown."
The capital markets had already noticed the deteriorating fundamentals of the real estate market earlier in the year and had begun tightening underwriting standards, according to John Lyons, chairman of Granite Partners, a real estate investment-banking company. "As the economy softened in the spring and summer, lenders began to modify such things as projected rental growth and occupancy levels in a way that lowered the value of properties," he said.
Although a gap remains between the bid and asked prices for properties, there are forces at work that will increase pressure to complete transactions this year, Mr. Lyons said. "There are opportunity funds who have a certain stated rate of return and the longer they hold property, the lower the returns typically become," he said. "They are not in a position where they have to sell immediately, but the limited life of these funds will begin to force their hands to sell in 2002."
Douglas Durst, president of the Durst Organization, a family company that owns 10 major office buildings in Manhattan, said Sept. 11 had posed some questions to which the answers are unclear. "Normally, recessions creep up on you as the space gradually is added to the market," he said. "After Sept. 11, everybody dumped space on the market and created a situation different than anything I have ever seen."
He said tenants housed in temporary quarters may wait until the middle of this year before deciding whether they want to remain in Manhattan or increase security by spreading out to several locations.
Typical of the short-term alternatives that companies have sought is the 146,000 square feet that Morgan Stanley, an investment banking company that had 840,000 square feet in Tower Two of the World Trade Center, sublet in the One Hudson Square building at Canal and Varick Streets, said James Meiskin, the president of Plymouth Partners, a tenant's broker. Morgan Stanley relocated other operations to 825 Third Avenue and 1633 Broadway. 
"A lot of companies are doing short-term renewals and sublets," he said. "Rents are headed down, and the longer a tenant can wait to make a decision the better they will do."
Although this year may not be a big one for new development because of the soft office market, Mr. Durst said he might go ahead with a 2 million square foot building on the eastern end of the block bounded by 42nd and 43rd Streets and the Avenue of the Americas and Broadway. Late last year he was able to buy a key parcel of land in the middle of the block to largely complete the assemblage of the site.
Mr. Durst said he hoped to start demolishing the buildings on the site in the summer to make way for the structure he plans to call One Bryant Park. The new building would share the block with the Conde Nast building at 4 Times Square, which Mr. Durst completed in 1998. 
The downtown area continues to suffer a variety of problems, including excavation operations near ground zero, transportation snarls caused by the closing of several subway stations and the PATH line to New Jersey and blocked-off streets. As a result, while asking rental rates for Class A space in Midtown have fallen about 10 percent since Sept. 11, rates downtown are off 20 percent, according to Bruce Mosler, president of United States operations for Cushman & Wakefield, the brokerage and services company.
Like many other real estate executives, Mr. Mosler was critical of the city and state for what they characterized as having been too slow to develop a package of incentives to give companies a financial reason to return to downtown or to stay there. "The city and state have failed to communicate to companies what the plan will be," he said.
In addition to financial incentives, public officials have to lay out a timetable for getting the transportation system fixed and possibly improved by bringing rail lines that now terminate in Midtown closer to the southern tip of Manhattan. "The transportation issue has got to be addressed," Mr. Mosler said. "New York businesses will withstand hardship as long as they know when it is going to be fixed."
According to Mitchell Moss, director of the Urban Research Center at New York University, rather then focus on the complex and difficult job of deciding what will happen at the 16-acre Trade Center site, city officials should move swiftly to make life in lower Manhattan more normal.
"They need to improve the entire circulation system in downtown," Professor Moss said. "The frozen zone is too large. There are too many streets closed off. There has been excessive delay in building a bridge across West Street. We have to address the ecology of lower Manhattan."
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the land under the Trade Center and operates the PATH trains, has declared that it will build a temporary PATH station in Lower Manhattan. This would re-establish a direct link to Jersey City and relieve pressure on the line that runs from Hoboken to 33rd Street. Officials of the agency said the new station could be in operation in about two years.
One downtown deal that was apparently killed by the events of Sept. 11 was a plan to build a new home for the New York Stock Exchange. Under a city-sponsored plan, the exchange was to have its trading floor in the first 10 stories of a 50-story tower on the block bounded by Wall, Broad and William Streets and Exchange Place.
With the exchange one of the most prominent symbols of American capitalism, its officials worried that a tall building housing the trading floors would be a target for terror. "A 900-foot tower post-Sept. 11 is not a salable transaction," Richard A. Grasso, the chairman of the exchange, said at a securities industry meeting in November.
At a subsequent news conference, Mr. Grasso said the exchange still wanted to move its trading to the site at 23 Wall Street, but with far less office space above it. Referring to the trading operation as a box, he said the new location "could be a box, or a box with space above it, but not a box with 1.5 million square feet of space above it."
The exchange said it had also developed and tested an alternate trading floor at an undisclosed site in the city that could be used if another incident interrupted its telephones, power and other utilities at its primary location.
As the year ended, the exchange and the city still could not agree on the scope of the project. Instead, both parties signed a general agreement to build a 10-story trading complex with the remaining details to be worked out with the new Bloomberg administration.
One institution that was not deterred by the problems facing downtown was Deutsche Bank, which closed its $610 million purchase of the 47-story building at 60 Wall Street, the former headquarters of the J. P. Morgan banking company, as scheduled on Nov. 1. "The transaction relocated Deutsche Bank to downtown at a time when it would have been easy not to close and rationalize the decision," said Robert Alexander, a vice chairman of Insignia/ESG, who helped broker the deal. And it was done without extracting an incentive package from the city, noted David Maurer-Hollaender, an executive managing director of Insignia/ESG.
Despite what is expected to be a lackluster year in 2002, real estate executives say the office market could recover quickly if the national recession ends, as expected, in the third quarter and businesses start hiring people instead of laying them off.
"It is clear to me that most of the major corporations in Manhattan have slimmed down to the least amount of real estate they can have and still function," Ms. Tighe said. "If business were to improve, they would have to add real estate. This means there will be a very direct connection between the economy and demand for real estate."
In the past, she said, there has typically been an 18-month lag between an economic upturn and a recovery of the office market.
Following are accounts of how some specialized market sectors performed and their prospects.

Retail Space
Many Rents Drop, By Varying Degrees
Like other businesses at least partially dependent on tourists and business travelers, retailers, including restaurants, were hurt by the reluctance of many people to visit the city after Sept. 11. Some were hurt worse than others. The shopping mall under the trade center, which sold to both visitors and the tens of thousands of people working in the buildings above, was wiped out.
Other retail stores that were physically little disturbed by the disaster found that a large part of their customer base had been forced to relocate to other parts of Manhattan or the suburbs.
But stores operating in prime retail locations on Madison and Fifth Avenues and on 57th Street still had sizable foot traffic and few sites were vacant, brokers specializing in retail real estate reported.
Still, the lack of visitors, particularly the free-spending international travelers, hurt overall sales. The city's convention and visitors bureau estimated that visitors spent $2.1 billion less in 2001 than they did a year earlier, a decline of 12 percent.
The outlook for this year is not particularly encouraging, with the bureau estimating that the number of visits will increase about 1 percent but that visitor spending will decline about 1 percent because most of the additional visitors will be lower-spending Americans.
The downtown retail market has been changed by the destruction of the buildings and the interruption of subway and PATH links, said C. Bradley Mendelson, who manages retail operations of Insignia/ESG. One reason, he said, is that corporations will be careful not to put all their operations in one large building like the towers at the Trade Center.
"We put Borders Books into the Trade Center," he said, but without the traffic supplied both by the workers in the Trade Center and the tourists that were drawn to the area, "I doubt Borders will take another store downtown now." And without the tourist traffic the Trade Center drew, he said, the downtown market is a five-day-a-week office market.
Elsewhere in the city, he said, sales in restaurants have been off about 15 percent from 2000, a good year, and sales at other stores have been about flat. A key indicator, he said, is that receipts at parking garages are off 40 to 50 percent since Sept. 15, indicating that nearby residents, the most likely to drive, are avoiding coming into the city.
Although overall asking rental rates for retail space is down 25 to 30 percent compared with last year, actual rentals vary widely with location, cautioned Benjamin Fox, an executive vice president of Newmark New Spectrum Retail, a brokerage specializing in retail space.
"If you are talking about a 700-square-foot store in the prime areas of Madison and Fifth Avenues, there is very little available and the prices remain high," he said. "But if you are talking 4,000 square feet to 8,000 square feet in lesser areas, there has clearly been an adjustment."
Mr. Fox said lower rental rates for stores can be good for consumers because the lower rents reduce the cost of opening a new type of store in the city. "If you look back to the mid-1970's and the '89-'91 period," he said, "that's when new retail concepts came into the city -- retailers take advantage of lower rents to come into Manhattan."

Hotels
An Abrupt Change In Tourism Industry
The terrorists who attacked the World Trade Center probably did not have the city's hotels in mind, but their timing could not have been worse, according to Thomas McConnell, director of the hotel practice at Insignia/ESG. "Retailers make their money near Christmas," he said. "For hotels, the time between Labor Day and Thanksgiving is Christmas."
Both tourist and business visits dropped abruptly after the attack, particularly from international travelers suddenly wary of coming to the city. According to the Convention and Visitors Bureau, 5.4 million fewer people came to New York in 2001 than in the previous year, a decline of 14 percent.
The decline hurt all segments of the lodging industry, including companies that rent apartments for relatively short periods as an alternative to hotels. "Our business is about 50 percent domestic and about 50 percent overseas," said Howard Pitter, general manager of AHS, which has about 300 apartments in various parts of Manhattan. After the attack, he said, "we had hundreds of cancellations." He added, "Our European business went away, both business and tourist."
Since then, he said, the domestic business has improved somewhat, partially because residents driven out of buildings in Battery Park City have sought other locations in Manhattan. But the international business remains all but dead, he said.
Many luxury hotels in the city reacted to the falloff in traffic by sharply cutting their rates. This helped fill up rooms during the Christmas season, but many in the industry expect vacancies to soar in the early months of the year, traditionally a slow time in the hotel business.
According to Mr. McConnell, the average daily rate in September last year was $179 a night, compared with an average rate of $226 for September 2000. Since the overall economy was weakening, he said, 2001 would have finished with a 76 percent occupancy rate and a $200 a night average room charge. Because of the attack, the occupancy rate fell to 72 percent, with an average nightly charge of $177.

Suburban Space
A Surge of Interest In New Jersey Space
New Jersey was the principal beneficiary among the suburban markets of the dislocation in lower Manhattan. According to a report by CB Richard Ellis, nearly 2 million square feet of space was signed for by financial services companies like Lehman Brothers and Goldman Sachs. Much of the space taken was along the Hudson River waterfront, but interior parts of the state benefited as well.
Most of the attention has focused on Jersey City, but activity is spreading north to Hoboken and Weehawken. SJP Properties is building a 550,000-square-foot office building at Waterfront Corporate Park in Hoboken on speculation, having filled the first phase of the project with tenants largely lured from Manhattan before Sept. 11, including the venerable publisher John Wiley & Sons.
Farther north, in Weehawken, Hartz Mountain Industries is prepared to move ahead with the final phase of the Lincoln Harbor project, which first began in 1982. But Emanuel Stern, Hartz's president, said work would not commence until tenants are signed.
Stamford, in Fairfield County, Conn., lured two major tenants displaced from lower Manhattan. Citigroup agreed to lease 235,000 square feet at 100-300 Stamford Place, while American Express (which announced plans last month to reoccupy its headquarters in downtown Manhattan in the spring) took 175,000 square feet at 400 Atlantic Avenue, according to a report by Colliers ABR, the real estate services company. Both leases were for 10-year terms.
In Westchester County, the vacancy rate remained stubbornly high as few tenants appeared to be attracted to the former corporate headquarters buildings that dominate the office-building landscape immediately north of the city.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bruce Mosler, left, bemoans the lack of a government incentive plan for rebuilding downtown; Mary Ann Tighe thinks an economic rebound could cause real estate demand to improve fairly quickly; and C. Bradley Mendelson believes some retailers will be reluctant to locate downtown. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times, left and center; Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times, right); Morgan Stanley, which had 840,000 square feet at the World Trade Center, sublet 146,000 square feet in the One Hudson Square building. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 9) Chart: "More Space Comes to Market"The months since Sept. 11 have seen an increase in office space being offered for lease. Some is offered directly by landlords, others as sublet space by renters seeking to dispose of space they no longer need. In tables below. "Vancant %" refers to space now unoccupied, while "Available %" indicates offices that may now be occupied, but will be available in the near term (usually from six to 18 months). Asking rent is dollars per square foot annually. Chart shows prices for Midtown, Midtown South, and Downtown* from Dec. '00, March '01, June '01, Aug. '01, and est. Dec. 31.(Sources: Lot info 2001, Space Track; Grubb & Ellis)(pg. 1) Map of Manhattan highlighting Midtown, Midtown South, and Downtown areas. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITIES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); AIRLINES (74%); TERRORISM (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RETAILERS (64%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TERRORISM; RENTING AND LEASING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HOTELS AND MOTELS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE 

COMPANY: GRUBB & ELLIS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GRUBB & ELLIS CO; CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD; INSIGNIA/ESG 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (57%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%)

PERSON: ;HOLUSHA, JOHN; MOSLER, BRUCE; MENDELSON, C BRADLEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



148 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: CUTTINGS; 
When Europe's Flora Flourished on Porcelain

BYLINE:  By MARTY ROSS

 BODY:
IN 1790, the Royal Danish Porcelain Factory received a commission to create a magnificent set of china -- 80 place settings and accompanying serving pieces -- apparently as a royal gift from the king of Denmark to Catherine the Great of Russia. The service was to be painstakingly decorated with paintings of flowers and plants drawn from one of Denmark's great scientific works, Flora Danica (1762-1883), a superbly illustrated catalog of the Danish flora.
 Working with the hand-colored copper engravings on folio sheets on easels before them, a respected botanical illustrator, Johann Christoph Bayer (and probably several assistants), rendered the drawings onto cups, saucers, dinner plates, serving platters, soup tureens, sauce boats and teapots. They painted the flowers, grasses, mosses and mushrooms of the realm with scientific exactitude, lavishing leaves, buds, flowers, roots, stems and seed pods on the fragile contours of every piece of the dinner service. Denmark's plant kingdom was to be laid out on damask tablecloths in glittering, candlelit halls, before lords and ladies of the utmost sophistication and discernment. It was an extraordinary royal gesture: This was the glory of creation being served up for dinner. 
 Before the 18th century, Europeans imported their fine porcelain from China, and Oriental themes predominated in their decoration. The first porcelain dinner service produced in Europe, made in Meissen in 1729, was decorated with tigers and bamboo.
As knowledge of the art of making porcelain spread across Europe, the science of botany also was flourishing. The great Swedish natural historian Carolus Linnaeus published his treatise on systematic plant classification in 1753. There was intense interest in botany among the ruling classes. Botanical gardens were being established, and the economic uses of plants were being discussed in the distinguished circles of newly formed and highly prestigious natural history societies.
Social, intellectual and administrative elites were closely knit. In Copenhagen, the porcelain factory's director, a mycologist, was also in charge of the botanical garden.
When Catherine the Great died, in 1796, about 1,000 pieces of the dinner service had been made. Hundreds remained unfinished. Instead of canceling the order, the Danish regent increased it to 100 place settings, and in January 1803, on the king's birthday, the royal pastry cook received the first tantalizing pieces of the china: the dessert service.
The complete service numbered nearly 2,000 pieces, painted with delicacy and accuracy, and edged with gold. The artists had matched the scale of the plants to each cup, saucer and plate. Wispy members of the willow family and trailing hops decorated soup tureens; lichens and mushrooms were depicted on butter dishes; milkweeds, elderberries, hawthorns and lady's mantles were reserved for the larger dishes. The lush leaves of valerian were judged appropriate for the voluptuous shape of a sauce boat.
Botanical illustrations began to appear on dinner and tea sets all over Europe. A founder of the Horticulture Society of London was John Wedgwood, whose family firm in 1810 began manufacturing a series based on illustrations in William Curtis's authoritative Botanical Magazine. French porcelain from Sevres was decorated with asters, calendulas and iris. The fern-leaf peony, P. tenuifolia, appeared on plates made in Russia. Tulip poplar flowers bloomed on a black background on a Viennese tea service. Napoleon commissioned a set of plates decorated with copies of Redoute's paintings of the roses at Malmaison.
In 1863, a new Flora Danica dinner service was ordered for the Danish princess Alexandra, who was engaged to marry Albert Edward (Edward VII), heir to the English throne. The princess's service -- 60 place-settings, almost 800 individual pieces -- is now in the collection of Queen Elizabeth II, at Windsor Castle..
Nearly 1,500 pieces of the original Flora Danica service survive. Many can be seen at Rosenborg, the Rose Castle, in Copenhagen. The service is still brought out for royal birthdays and other occasions of state.
Flora Danica is still being made by hand at Royal Copenhagen's factory, but it is hard to buy on a budget. The dinner plates cost $1,000 each, and a soup tureen a small fortune. I grew up in more modest circumstances, eating meatloaf on Thistle plates, a wonderful old Stangl pottery pattern my mother still uses. My grandmother's fancy china, decorated with fat grapes, hydrangea blossoms, ivy, full-blown roses, pansies, and other flowers and fruit, was always too good to use. When my grandmother died, my mother instinctively wrapped the plates in newspaper and packed them away forever.
Anyone who has ever plucked a bit of lichen from a tree trunk or picked a wildflower at the edge of a woodland path is aware of the delicacy and astonishing complexity of nature. These little specimens seem to spring to life again when you discover them tucked in the pages of a notebook or novel. Two hundred years ago, the pleasure must have been as sweet when a botanist and a prince -- and possibly they were the same man -- conceived the idea and accordingly decreed that, no matter how dark the night or how troubled and complex the political situation, on the dinner table, at least, it thenceforth might as well be spring. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: In the 18th century, European porcelain began moving away from Oriental themes to depict local flora. A Flora Danica ice dome, above, and a plate, left. (Royal Copenhagen) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POTTERY & CERAMICS MFG (90%); CHINA & POTTERY PRODUCT MFG (90%); BOTANY (89%); PAINTING (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); HISTORY (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (68%) DENMARK (94%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (90%); UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



149 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: DOWN THE SHORE; 
In Atlantic City, a Matter of Town vs. Gown

BYLINE:  By ROBERT STRAUSS 

 BODY:
WHEN Robert M. Renneisen Jr. took over as chief executive of the Miss America Organization a little more than two years ago, he was greeted in Atlantic City as a hero, a savior and, most of all, a one-of-us kind of guy.
 The truth is, Mr. Renneisen did not have a hard act to follow. He was replacing a neophyte in the form of Robert Beck, a lawyer from Chicago who had embarrassed the pageant during his yearlong tenure by decreeing that women who had been divorced or who had had abortions should be allowed to enter the annual contest that searched for "all-American face and form." 
 It is not that simple. Atlantic City has a one-year lease on life in terms of keeping the 80-year-old pageant in its hometown. It was the last thing that this faded resort needed in a time of economic weakness when New York State is inching closer to legalized gambling in the Catskills -- a prospect that frightens the gaming industry in Atlantic City despite protestations to the contrary. 
The concern is that New Yorkers and others -- who make up 15 percent to 20 percent of the gamblers in Atlantic City -- will head for a modern resort in the mountains rather than a glitzy casino on the Boardwalk facing a less-than-inviting stretch of beach and surrounded by urban decay.
Against such a forbidding backdrop, Mr. Renneisen -- who worked his way up in the world of casinos over the past 20 years in marketing and management -- last week accused Atlantic City's civic leaders of not doing their best to keep the pageant in the place it was born and threatened to take it on the road if they did not come up with an additional $1 million a year.
Almost two weeks ago the board of the Miss America Organization voted unanimously to remain in Atlantic City for at least one more year despite the refusal of the Atlantic City Convention and Visitors Bureau to agree to the pageant's request for more money.
It made residents of this beleaguered city yearn for a simpler time.
"It was a bit surprising," said Cathy Burke, who owns the Irish Pub, a longtime local watering hole. "Miss America is the thing that gives Atlantic City an identity. It shows us as more an attraction than just the casinos. You wouldn't think it, but I love these people who come in for Miss America. They are so real. It's like a family reunion every year when they come into town."
While many people in Atlantic City deride the anachronistic notion of a beauty pageant in the 21st century, they do not want to see it ride out of town on the old Reading Railroad -- or any other conveyance on the Monopoly board.
"Yes, someone must be against it, I guess," said Pinky Kravitz, who has had a radio call-in talk show in the Atlantic City area for 40 years. "There are people who get upset when the sun shines, too. Realistically, though, it is part of this community. Miss Universe, the teen pageants, they are all a copy of Miss America.
"It may be hokey," Mr. Kravitz added, "but ultimately it's fun. For two weeks out of the year, it gets Atlantic City good publicity in newspapers all over the country. How can anyone here really want it to leave?"
While Mr. Renneisen's threats certainly aroused anger, at least some observers were willing to admit that he had a point. In addition, places like the Mohegan Sun Casino in Uncasville, Conn., the MGM Grand in Las Vegas; and Anaheim, Calif., said they were willing to pay top dollar to lure the pageant from Atlantic City.
"To sell it out to the Mohegan Sun so they can promote their property to the nation would have been a slap in the face," said James Carney, an Atlantic County freeholder. "There was some suspicion on why it was moving where. The checkbook was there to go higher. But money wasn't the total issue and the board saw it. It has been an 81-year-old marriage. It went beyond the money."
But for Mr. Renneisen's part, it is about the money. He said that the pageant lost money last year -- even though it received $5.8 million from ABC for television rights -- and that he hoped with state subsidies, upgrades to production facilities and other in-kind services worth about $1 million, Atlantic City could make the pageant profitable.
To that end Mark Juliano, director of the Atlantic City Convention and Visitors Authority, has organized a task force of business and community leaders to figure out how to keep the pageant in town.
"It's definitely an Atlantic City event that should stay in Atlantic City," said Andrew Latz, the third generation of his family to run the Knife and Fork restaurant in the Chelsea section of the city -- a place where a first-place prize from the original 1921 Miss America parade is on display. "The Knife and Fork won it, and we want to display it to show how tradition still means something in Atlantic City, that the city is multidimensional, not just a bunch of casinos."
This is not the first time that officials have threatened to move the annual pageant. Leonard Horn -- predecessor to the reviled Mr. Beck -- had discussions with Disney about taking on the event, and for several years even had the contestants gather at Disney World in Orlando before the pageant in Atlantic City. But no one took seriously the threat by Mr. Horn, a lawyer who grew up in the area, to move the pageant.
"The most important thing was that he wanted it here, and now we know most people in Atlantic City want it here, too," said Mr. Kravitz. "Maybe we took it for granted and this is a good thing. But you know, you can't beat the publicity. Say a girl from Tuscaloosa is in the pageant. Well, her paper covers it for a couple of weeks. Then she gets in the finals and all of the papers in the state do it, too. We couldn't buy that type of thing."
Nor is it likely that Mr. Renneisen can buy the type of local support he gets in Atlantic City. Dozens of volunteers chaperone and drive and do all sorts of tasks to make sure the pageant operates smoothly and pleasantly in Atlantic City.
"People have taken off two, three weeks of their vacation for 25 or 27 years to work on Miss America," said Mr. Carney.
Uncasville, for example, where the the Mohegan Sun Casino is situated, has a population of only 9,909, probably not enough for a good volunteer base.
And in Las Vegas and Anaheim, the pageant would be no more than an afterthought among so many other local events.
"Here we get the people who work for the event or love the event to come back and enjoy themselves," said Ms. Burke of the Irish Pub. "There are hockey people or golf people, right? So there are Miss America people, too, and for whatever anyone thinks, they embody the true spirit of the country. They are of all races and ethnicities and they love coming here for this pageant."
She added: "For a couple of weeks a year, Atlantic City becomes a wholesome place, which is hardly a bad thing. Maybe this is what we needed to appreciate that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A sign welcoming visitors to Atlantic City, above, notes that the resort is home to the Miss America Pageant, where Bert Parks, left, its longtime host, would serenade the winner. Robert M. Renneisen Jr., who now runs the contest, says the city must ante up more money or it will leave. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times); (Photographs by Chris Polk for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (69%); FAMILY (69%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (68%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (67%); BEACHES (64%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (64%); ABORTION (55%) BEAUTY CONTESTS; MISS AMERICA 

PERSON: RENNEISEN, ROBERT M; STRAUSS, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) ATLANTIC CITY (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



150 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: SOAPBOX; 
Spare the Children

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH V. DORIA Jr.; Joseph V. Doria Jr., who represents Bayonne and part of Jersey City in the Assembly, will be chairman of the Education Committee.

 BODY:
ABRAHAM LINCOLN, a man who revered the value of education, once gave this sage advice: "Leave nothing for tomorrow which can be done today."
 It's always been a good maxim to live by, but I have found Lincoln's words to be profoundly applicable in recent weeks as state policymakers consider ways to address a multibillion-dollar revenue shortfall in the state budget. New Jersey's "financial problem" has already prompted a state government hiring freeze. There also have been discussions about such austerity measures as making no increases in municipal aid and paring down a scheduled increase in the NJSaver property tax rebate program. 
 Only time will tell the extent and severity of the spending reductions the state will need to keep its budget balanced and its fiscal house in order. But as lawmakers weigh their options, they would be wise to keep Lincoln's words in mind and repel any temptation to cut back financing for the fledgling early childhood education programs that have been created to address long-ignored inequities in the state's public schools.
Preschool programs are a mandatory investment, not a frivolous expenditure. Early education should be considered sacrosanct because the kind of future we create for our children and ourselves will depend on what we do for our children today.
Continuing to finance preschool programs ensures more than personal growth opportunities for children. In the long run, these programs help to protect this state's long-term economic stability while averting further counterproductive court fights over the state's system of financing public schools.
When governments invest in educating children at ages 3 and 4, there are significant dividends down the road. Numerous studies have demonstrated that a first-class preschool experience has a direct relation to how children learn and how they get along with others. Children who have taken part in such programs exhibit a greater level of social adjustment, have less chance of being left back or of being placed in special education, and have a greater probability of graduating from high school.
In a series of landmark decisions in the Abbott v. Burke school lawsuit, New Jersey's Supreme Court has ruled that all 3- and 4-year-old children in the state's 30 "special needs" districts, called Abbott districts, must receive "high quality" preschool programs. After years of procrastination and posturing, the state has finally reached a point where it might move in earnest to meet the court's mandate.
Under New Jersey's Early Childhood Program Aid initiative, more than $329 million in state aid was distributed in fiscal year 2001-02 to the Abbott districts and to 98 non-Abbott districts that have a substantial number of low-income families. The money is specifically earmarked for providing full-day kindergarten and half-day preschool programs for 3 and-4-year olds. 
Currently, the formula for determining a school district's eligibility for these funds is based on the total percentage of lower-income children in a district. But the state's budget problems could force a dramatic change in the way this financing is determined. State education officials have already sent letters in which they hint at spending reductions for some districts. Their approach would drastically reduce the number of school districts eligible for the financing.
In the short term, the state would save itself some money. The long-term outcome, however, may be an expense worth avoiding: a whole generation of young people could be deprived of what many researchers consider the foundation upon which future academic success is built.
New Jersey faces numerous fiscal challenges -- financing vital highway and mass transportation projects, providing for our elderly citizens and meeting the security challenges following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, to name just a few. But we cannot afford to siphon precious dollars away from early education.
Throwing money blindly at a problem is never an answer, but adequately investing in our children at a tender age produces a dividend for us all. When all children are properly educated from the start, all of society reaps the benefits -- now and in the future.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); FAMILY (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); LITIGATION (69%); TAX LAW (69%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (56%); PROPERTY TAX (55%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EDUCATION (PRE-SCHOOL); FINANCES 

PERSON: DORIA, JOSEPH V JR (ASSEMBLYMAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



151 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
Retirement Shares You Keep Paying For

BYLINE:  By ERIC BAUM

 BODY:
MUTUAL fund fees, never easy to decipher, are becoming even more complex. Several big fund companies have introduced a class of retirement shares recently that may be appealing in the short run but that lift an investor's long-term expenses.
 The shares have different names, and while they generally promise lower expenses at the outset, they often result in higher overall costs for investors by increasing the annual fees paid to brokers. First introduced in smaller 401(k) retirement plans, the shares are now being offered to investors who hold mutual funds in individual retirement accounts. 
 In some cases, the shares will raise fees for investors who have held funds in employer-sponsored 401(k) plans for years and will roll them over into I.R.A.'s when they change jobs or retire.
The advent of the shares troubles some experts. John Rekenthaler, president of online advice at Morningstar Inc., said the retirement shares would confuse many people.
"I'm confused," Mr. Rekenthaler said. "I don't think it's good for the fund industry.
"It would be nice if they could find a way to sell the product rather than add to the proliferation of product," he added. "This just adds to the level of distrust between the client and the adviser."
Fund companies offering retirement shares include Franklin Templeton Investments, OppenheimerFunds, Invesco Funds and Putnam Investments. American Funds is also considering retirement shares, according to Chuck Freadhoff, a spokesman for Capital Research and Management, which owns the American Funds Group.
"I think there's a sense that the retirement plan business, especially the 401(k) plan market, is such a large part of every mutual fund company that it needs to be treated in a different way," Mr. Freadhoff said. "We are certainly looking at the concept of a share class for retirement."
But the shares have not yet swept the industry. Vanguard and Fidelity Investments are not planning to introduce the shares in their own funds, nor will they sell them through their fund supermarkets.
"We don't have a retirement share class, and have no plans to offer one," said Dan Flaherty, a spokesman for Fidelity.
Brian Mattes, a Vanguard spokesman, said: "We do not have one of these programs because we are committed to selling directly to the investor. Everyone wants to get paid for distribution, but that is not part of our philosophy."
Fund companies are positioning themselves for the anticipated roll-over of trillions of dollars of baby-boomer retirement assets from 401(k)'s and other defined-contribution retirement plans into I.R.A.'s. Such roll-overs are expected to reach $467 billion a year by 2010, according to Cerulli Associates, a consulting firm in Boston.
For brokers and financial advisers who sell funds to investors, the retirement shares provide increased service fees over the long haul. Ordinary fund shares that charge an upfront commission customarily provide brokers with fees of 0.25 percent of assets annually, while the retirement shares raise the fees to a minimum of 0.35 percent and to as much as 0.75 percent, fund companies and brokers said.
BECAUSE the retirement shares often waive commissions, they are useful for some investors, while giving brokers an effective sales tool, said Douglas Rentschler, an OppenheimerFunds vice president in Grosse Pointe, Mich.
"It's another pricing arrangement that will allow the financial adviser to diversify their clients' portfolios in the proper funds at an appropriate expense ratio," he said.
Some brokers acknowledge that the shares benefit them more than their clients. John Diaz, president of Premier Financial Advisors in New York, said he was motivated to consider selling OppenheimerFunds' retirement shares because they paid a higher commission in the long term. Still, he said, the typical alternative, known as a Class A share, represents a better value for customers. The A class is the standard share category on which an upfront commission, often 5 to 6 percent, is charged.
"Usually, the A share wins out in the long term because you have a lower expense ratio," he said. "But there was a lot of hand-holding over the last year. Clients expect some kind of service that requires time, and advisers should get paid by either fees or commissions."
Steve Mattar, president of Mattar Financial in Farmington Hills, Mich., used software to provide a hypothetical example of how a long-term investor would be better off with A shares, although retirement shares might seem more appealing at first glance.
A person investing $500,000 in Putnam's Voyager fund in an I.R.A. using Class A shares in November 1991, would have qualified for a reduced commission of 2 percent, or $10,000. The remaining sum, invested at annual expenses of 0.86 percent, would have grown to $1.81 million in 10 years without withdrawals, he said. In the same situation, an investor using retirement shares, which Putnam calls M shares, would incur no initial commission but would pay annual expenses of 1.36 percent. The investor would have accumulated $1.76 million had the share class existed for all 10 years. (It was created in December 1994.) 
In that illustration, the A shares outperformed the M shares after the eighth year. Hypothetical situations also show that the A shares would have earned $2.5 million more than the M shares over 25 years.
While some investors feel confident choosing from multiple share class options, others say they need help.
Don Lewis, 48, the former director of government sales at Dictaphone, lost his job in a recent round of layoffs and has a balance of roughly $60,000 in his 401(k), which he plans to roll over into an I.R.A.
He is investigating investment options with his wife, Lynne Mersfelder-Lewis, 36, but finds the array of funds and fund classes off-putting.
"It's not intimidating; it's annoying," he said. "It's information overload." To avoid the mistake of choosing an unsuitable share class, he has decided to invest with Vanguard, the largest strictly no-load fund family. 
Commissions, however, are ultimately a means of paying for professional guidance, and picking a mutual fund is a decision that involves trust as well as cost, Mrs. Mersfelder-Lewis said.
"Are they doing something that's better for your stock portfolio or for their pocketbook?" she asked of the investment advisers. "That was one of the reasons why we picked Vanguard."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Don Lewis, a former sales executive who is rolling over his 401(k) balance into an I.R.A., says he has encountered "information overload" in choosing a mutual fund. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); US 401K PLANS (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); BONDS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); TRENDS (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMERFUNDS INC (85%); FMR CORP (75%); MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); INVESCO LTD (58%); FRANKLIN RESOURCES INC (54%); CAPITAL GROUP COS INC (54%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%); IVZ (NYSE) (58%); BEN (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6733 TRUSTS, EXCEPT EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS, & CHARITABLE (85%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (75%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (75%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (75%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (75%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



152 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORK BOOKSHELF/NONFICTION; 
Thrift Amid the Squalor, Ego in the Skyline

 BODY:
FIVE POINTS
By Tyler Anbinder
The Free Press
($30, hardcover)
 Some observers nonetheless questioned the wisdom of emigrating, given that the Irish faced discrimination and were virtually forced into low-paying manual labor. Reading such charges in The Irish-American, Five Pointer Michael Coogan felt compelled to reply. Although it was true that Irish Americans worked primarily as laborers, he wrote, the Irish were especially well suited for the work. Besides, the County Wicklow native argued, manual labor paid well compared to the options available in Ireland. 
 "Don't they get good value for their time and labor," Coogan asked. "They can eat good beef, and pork, and butter, and eggs, and bread -- not so at home in the old country," even though "an Irish laborer had to work harder there than here."
Those familiar with the standard version of Irish-American history might be surprised by these letters. A deep pessimism pervades this literature, assuming that the famine immigrants were a kind of lost generation fated to be victims of disease, nativism and overcrowded tenements in America.
If any group of Five Pointers was going to fit this stereotype, it ought to be the Lansdowne immigrants. A full 90 percent of the Lansdowne men toiled as lowly paid menial laborers, and they lived with their families in the most filthy and overcrowded tenements. But account ledgers from the Emigrant Savings Bank suggest that these immigrants did far better than we have previously imagined. Lansdowne immigrants living in Five Points opened 153 accounts in the bank's first six years of operation (through August 1856). 
In fact, about half of the Lansdowne families living there had opened accounts by mid-1855. The bank records provide a rare glimpse into the economic fortunes of a very significant number of the Lansdowne immigrants.
The bank ledgers suggest that even while living in Five Points, the Lansdowne immigrants were able to save far more than one might have imagined.

EMPIRE:
A Tale of Obsession,
Betrayal, and the Battle for an American Icon
By Mitchell Pacelle
John Wiley & Sons
($27.95, hardcover)
As the real estate gold rush of the 1980's was fading into bust, and financial pressure on the insurance company mounted, Prudential had decided to sell the Empire State Building, and Kurt A. Reich was waiting to meet the mysterious couple who had bid more than anyone else.
The ego buyers had indeed been out in force, because the world's most famous skyscraper, curiously enough, was likely to sell for a price that -- in the lofty world of Manhattan real estate -- was little more than a song.
Thirty years earlier, Prudential had gutted the building's profit potential. It had leased the entire building -- for 114 years, an eternity in real estate -- to an investment company controlled by a pair of Manhattan real estate titans. Each year, the two moguls paid Prudential a paltry $1.9 million in rent for the 2.5-million-square-foot building, giving them both a motive to cling to their lease with the tenacity of Park Avenue millionaires in rent-controlled apartments.
Whoever bought the Empire State Building now would face the prospect of wrangling with two of Manhattan's most difficult real estate titans: Peter Malkin, an iron-willed Harvard-educated lawyer who was exacting to the point of annoyance, and Leona Helmsley, a notoriously volatile woman who was sowing terror through the billion-dollar real estate empire assembled by her ailing husband, Harry. What Prudential was selling, in truth, was little more than sizzle: the right to boast, "I own the Empire State Building."

UNEARTHING GOTHAM:
The Archaeology
of New York City
By Anne-Marie Cantwell
and Diana diZerega Wall
Yale University Press
($39.95, hardcover)
The African Burial Ground has become an enormously important site for modern-day Africans, African-Americans and all New Yorkers. This sacred site underscores and commemorates the deep historical presence of Africans in New York and their contribution in building the nation. 
As David Dinkins eloquently put it, "Millions of Americans celebrate Ellis Island as the symbol of their communal identity in this land. Others celebrate Plymouth Rock. Until a few years ago, African-American New Yorkers had no site to call our own. There was no place which said, we were here, we contributed, we played a significant role in New York's history right from the beginning. Now we -- their descendants -- have the symbol of our heritage embodied in Lower Manhattan's African Burial Ground. The African Burial Ground is the irrefutable testimony to the contributions and suffering of our ancestors."

THE EMPIRE STATE:
A History of New York
Edited by Milton M. Klein
Cornell University Press
($45, hardcover)
 World War II had transformed New York City. . . . The lively arts, blacked out in Europe, lit up New York City. . . .
What resulted was an astonishing outpouring of Americana. In 1943 came Aaron Copland's "Fanfare for the Common Man," a paean to wartime patriotism; and the following year saw Martha Graham's performance of Copland's masterful "Appalachian Spring." 
The musical "Oklahoma!" made history on Broadway in 1943. It not only featured Richard Rodgers's lilting tunes and Oscar Hammerstein II's apple-pie lyrics, but set a new standard for the musical stage by making Agnes de Mille's "dream ballet" and Oliver Smith's haunting scenic designs an integral part of the drama. Further highlights in 1944 included Leonard Bernstein's "On the Town," with book by Betty Comden and Adolph Green . . . 
During the war, Broadway mounted patriotic shows like Irving Berlin's revue "This Is the Army" (1942), and sponsored the Service Canteen, which hosted visiting soldiers and sailors. Drama was largely escapist fare, notably "Life With Father," which ran throughout the war, and "Harvey" (1945), the whimsical account of a man and his imaginary friend, a seven-foot rabbit, which beat out Tennessee Williams's brooding, sexually ambivalent "Glass Menagerie" for the Pulitzer Prize. 
Several Shakespearean productions marked social breakthroughs, notably the black actor Paul Robeson's lead in "Othello," and "The Tempest," which starred Canada Lee, another African-American, as Caliban. In 1941 the Group Theater, run by Harold Clurman and Lee Strasberg, put on Thornton Wilder's sentimental tale of humankind's progress, "The Skin of Our Teeth," worth of note for Elia Kazan's direction of Montgomery Clift's Broadway debut. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); FAMINE (78%); PORK (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (60%); HISTORY (53%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

COMPANY: EMIGRANT SAVINGS BANK (54%); JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (52%)

TICKER: JWB (NYSE) (52%); JWA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (54%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: ANBINDER, TYLER; PACELLE, MITCHELL; CANTWELL, ANNE-MARIE; DIZEREGA, DIANA; KLEIN, MILTON M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

TITLE: FIVE POINTS (BOOK); EMPIRE (BOOK); UNEARTHING GOTHAM: THE ARCHAEOLOGY OF NEW YORK CITY (BOOK); EMPIRE STATE, THE: A HISTORY OF NEW YORK (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



153 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 5; Society Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Melissa Telzer, Alexander Milne-Pott

 BODY:
Melissa Hope Telzer, the daughter of Dr. Ellen G. Telzer and Mark N. Telzer, both of Brooklyn, was married on Wednesday to Alexander Thomas Gideon Milne-Pott, a son of Judith B. and S. Ross Milne-Pott of Melbourne, Australia. Johnnie M. Johnson, the deputy city clerk in Brooklyn, performed a civil ceremony there at Borough Hall. Last Sunday, at Bridgewaters, a restaurant in Manhattan, Kathryn Boeschenstein, who is studying to become an Episcopal priest and is a friend of the bride's mother, performed a nondenominational celebration. 
 Mrs. Milne-Pott, 32, and Mr. Milne-Pott, 29, work in Melbourne. The bride is the Web-infrastructure manager at KPMG Australia, the accounting and consulting firm. The bridegroom is a portfolio manager for JM Financial Group, a fund management firm. 
 The bride graduated from Brandeis. Her father is a caterer in Brooklyn. Her mother is a child psychologist in Brooklyn.
The bridegroom graduated with honors from the University of Melbourne. His mother is a Ph.D. candidate and an economics tutor there. His father is a director of corporate finance in the Melbourne office of HTM Wilson, a stock brokerage firm.
The couple met at a dance club in New York in December 1999, when Mr. Milne-Pott was visiting from Australia and Ms. Telzer was working as a management consultant at PricewaterhouseCoopers L.L.P.
"I gave him my number, saying, 'this guy is in from Australia?' " Ms. Telzer said, emphasizing the name of the continent as if to remind herself of the romantic futility the word seemed to promise. "I said to everyone at Christmas, 'Oh, I met this really cute Australian,' and they said, 'Can't you meet someone in New York?' "
But that first meeting led to a long phone call a few days later, followed by a movie date. Two weeks remained before Mr. Milne-Pott had to leave New York, and in that time, they became inseparable.
So began a long-distance relationship. Their phone calls crossed 16 time zones, and they made the flight between New York and Melbourne a dizzying number of times.
"When you go, you arrive two days later," the bride said. "And you can just imagine us calling each other. I don't think I got any sleep." Mr. Milne-Pott said he took traveling halfway around the world for love in stride.
"From an Australian perspective, it isn't such a big thing," he said. "The nearest country is eight hours away. New York is just a lot longer trip."
Even so, after seven months, they lost patience.
"We decided that someone had to move somewhere," Ms. Telzer said. "My job was better at the moment, and so he quit his job and moved to New York in September."
Visa restrictions, however, made finding work difficult, so in February Mr. Milne-Pott went back to Australia. In April, Ms. Telzer moved there, too.
Last month, they made the 22-hour trip to New York to marry in the city where they met. His parents also made the trip, and he gave them credit for his transglobal romance.
"Our family has always encouraged us to go out and find the person of our dreams," Mr. Milne-Pott said. "Where that person comes from is second to that."

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (94%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CHRISTMAS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); CATERING SERVICES (71%); RELIGION (71%); ACCOUNTING (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); SECURITIES BROKERS (66%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (83%); JM FINANCIAL LTD (56%)

TICKER: JMFINANCIL (NSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (83%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: TELZER, MELISSA HOPE (MELISSA HOPE MILNE-POTT); POTT, ALEXANDER THOMAS GIDEON MILNE-POTT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



154 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES; 
The Ups, Downs and Fine Print of Sector Rotation

BYLINE:  By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a newsletter based in Annandale, Va. His column on investment strategies appears every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE bear market of the last two years has been painful for many mutual fund investors. But it has been relatively good to those who rotate through sectors.
 How good? Consider the performance of newsletters that advocate such rotation. The Hulbert Financial Digest has ranked the newsletters as if they were money managers carrying out these strategies. 
 At the peak of the bull market in late 1999, barely a handful of these newsletters were ahead of the stock market itself. Today, nearly two-thirds of them are.
It is rare for more than one-fourth of money managers to beat a buy-and-hold strategy over the long term. To be sure, the proportion grows somewhat during bear markets, to the extent that managers invest any of their portfolios in cash or bonds. Nevertheless, the percentage of sector-rotation newsletters that are now outperforming the market is surprising -- and is well above the percentage of other newsletters doing so..
Though there are many variations, sector-rotation strategies switch among sector funds -- those that specialize in particular industries -- in the hope of always being in the best-performing sectors. Many investors pursue the strategy through Fidelity Investments, which offers 41 sector funds, designated by the word "Select" in their names, as in Fidelity Select Energy. Other fund families that offer sector funds include Vanguard, Rydex Funds and ProFunds. There is also a growing list of exchange-traded funds -- securities built from baskets of stocks grouped by a particular sector or index.
The allure of sector rotation is easy to understand. Many investors view it as a middle path between a buy-and-hold strategy, which loses money during a bear market, and market timing, whose potential looks great on paper but which rarely works in practice. An additional attraction is that even in a bear market, some sectors do well. So investors who pursue these strategies can sidestep intractable questions about whether a bear market will continue.
Theoretically, at least, the payout can be big. Investors lucky enough to have been in the best-performing Fidelity Select fund in each of the last 10 calendar years would have made an average of 66 percent a year, annualized, versus 12.3 percent for the stock market as a whole, as measured by the Wilshire 5000 index. During the bear market of the last two years, someone who invested in the top-performing Select fund each year would have had an annualized return of 46.3 percent, versus a loss of 10.9 percent for the market. 
Of course, few investors are lucky enough to be invested in the top-performing sector fund in any given year, much less for 10 consecutive years. Nevertheless, every January, many investors are sorely tempted to try their hand at sector rotation.
Most of them end up regretting the decision, because few have the self-discipline to follow the precise dictates of sector-rotation strategies or the willingness to pay the almost-daily attention they typically demand. On balance, the sector-rotation strategies monitored by The Hulbert Financial Digest have beaten those odds. Of the 41 now being followed, 27, or 66 percent, are ahead of the Wilshire on a risk-adjusted basis over the monitored periods. Because that market-beating percentage is so much higher than for other newsletters, the sector-rotation newsletters' success is unlikely to be a chance occurrence.
Using the Sharpe Ratio, named for the Nobel laureate William Sharpe, each newsletter's performance was divided by its risk, as measured by the volatility of its returns. That was to ensure that newsletters that were willing to incur above-average amounts of risk were not given an unfair advantage.
The Fidelity Select model portfolio of Timer Digest provides a good illustration of how the Sharpe Ratio can deflate what otherwise appears to be impressive performance. Between the beginning of 1988 and Nov. 30, the portfolio outperformed the Wilshire, 16 percent to 13.7 percent, annualized. At the same time, the portfolio was 73 percent riskier than the Wilshire. As a result, the portfolio's Sharpe Ratio was below that of the Wilshire -- which means that it owes its market-beating performance to its riskiness.
Comparing strategies on a risk-adjusted basis is important in any context, but it is especially so for sector-rotation strategies because of their riskiness. On average, based on their Sharpe ratio, the 41 sector-rotation strategies now being monitored have been 14 percent riskier than the overall stock market. The 27 strategies that beat the market were even riskier, averaging 21 percent more risk than the market. That such a high percentage of strategies outperform the market even after such adjustment means that they genuinely added value.
WHY has the average sector-rotation newsletter performed so much better? Part of the explanation lies in the short-term momentum strategies that almost all the sector-rotation newsletters pursue. Many academic studies have shown that stocks do exhibit short-term momentum, which means that the average stock that has outperformed the market in the recent past continues to do so, at least for a while longer. Sector-rotation strategies appear to be just another way of exploiting momentum in the market.
And momentum manifests itself more reliably among sector funds than individual stocks. Say a particular stock has a 55 percent probability of rising in price because of its short-term momentum. Now imagine a portfolio that owns many such stocks. It can be shown mathematically that this portfolio's odds of rising are much higher -- closer to 75 percent, in fact.
The key to this upside potential is that a sector fund's portfolio is homogenous. Its stocks sometimes move in tandem because they come from the same industry.
The downside, of course, is that a sector fund's heightened probabilities will work against it once its momentum heads south. That is why a sector-rotation strategy demands daily attention of investors: they may have to get in or out of a fund on a moment's notice.
These newsletters are indeed active traders; as of Nov. 30, for example, their recommended funds had been held for an average of only two months. As a result, their strategies are more appropriate for tax-deferred accounts, in which frequent transactions will not have adverse tax consequences.
Because of their frequent trades, sector-rotation investors should aim to avoid transaction costs. Many sector-rotation strategies have begun to favor non-Fidelity sector funds, because Fidelity levies a 0.75 percent redemption fee if a Select fund is sold within 30 days of purchase. Exchange-traded funds may also become a preferred alternative, provided that they are traded through a deep-discount brokerage firm.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Payoffs in Fleet-Footed Investing"Seven of nine portfolios based on sector-rotation strategies recommended by investment newsletters for at least five years have beaten the overall stock market on a risk-adjusted basis. Graph shows newsletters, portfolios, tracking, and the annualized gains.(Source: The Hulbert Financial Digest)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); RANKINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); TRENDS (69%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



155 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
Corporate Profits: Is the Worst Over?

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
A DUBIOUS anniversary will be played out over the next few weeks, as American corporations release their results for the final quarter of 2001. 
 Corporate earnings started to deteriorate a year ago, and they haven't stopped since. Investors are likely to be disappointed if they buy shares expecting that the profit picture will improve quickly. The positive spin, if you can call it that, is that the outlook for some sectors is not as bad as for others. 
 Chuck Hill, director of research at Thomson Financial/First Call, which tracks earnings estimates, took some time last week to talk about what he sees ahead. Following are excerpts from the conversation. 

Q. What is the best thing you can say about fourth-quarter earnings?

A. Compared to the year-ago quarter, when the seasonal patterns were the same, it appears that profit warnings are starting to decelerate, and until you start to see that, you can't talk about an imminent upturn in earnings. You don't just throw a switch and go from record earnings levels to down and then back up to record levels again. Also, there is a reasonable chance that technology may do better than expected.
Back in July, tech companies in the S.& P. 500 index were expected to have an earnings decline of 24 percent. Just before Sept. 11, they were expected to be down by 43 percent. Now the drop is forecast to be 64 percent. I think they will beat those numbers. But that doesn't mean much.

Q. What impact will Sept. 11 have on profits?

A.There will be more effect in the fourth quarter than there was in the third. Prior to the attacks, we had expected third-quarter earnings would be down 17 percent. They ended down 21.6 percent. The bulk of the difference was in insurance company earnings. That hit is essentially over.
Before Sept. 11, we had thought fourth-quarter earnings would be down 12 percent. Now we think the decline will be 22 percent. That number looks about the same from the third quarter, but in reality the fourth-quarter numbers are a lot worse. On a seasonally adjusted basis, profits are probably down 15 percent from the third quarter. 

Q. Was 2001 the worst year for corporate profits?

A. For the year, earnings will be down 16.7 percent. In 2000, they were up 16.2 percent. I don't know about ever, but you could make a case this is the worst earnings year since World War II at least, if you look at the length and breadth of the downturn.
There were two recessions where earnings declines were as deep or deeper, and two when the length of declines was as long or longer. But they were not the same two.

Q. Has the decline in earnings ended?

A. We will end up with five down earnings quarters at least. Analysts are already forecasting declines of 6 percent. I am confident the first-quarter number will get taken down more than the normal trimming.
The second quarter could be anywhere from flat to up a few percent. Then, for the third and fourth quarter, profits will be up a fair amount, partly because the comparisons get a fair bit easier and also as a result of all the stimulus taking hold and helping the economy. At this point we think earnings will be up 1 percent in the second quarter, up 15 percent in the third quarter and up 32 percent in the fourth.

Q. Which sectors are expected to produce the biggest profit gains and declines in 2002?

A. Right now, analysts are saying the biggest gainers will be technology, basic industries like chemicals and papers, and financials. Both tech and basic industries are forecast to see profits increase by more than 40 percent. Profit growth in financials is projected at 27 percent. Transportation, which will probably lose money, and oil companies, which are projected to see profits fall 25 percent, are the worst categories.

Q. Do you agree with analysts' numbers?

A. The mistake analysts are making is looking at how we bounced back from other recessions. In technology, there are still some demand and supply problems. I will believe the upturn in technology profitability when I see it.

Q. Are you concerned about the run we have had in stocks since late September?

A. Theoretically, you should pay more on trough earnings than on peak or normal earnings, but valuations in technology stocks are excessive in many cases. If you look out to 2003, when you are back closer to what normalized earnings should be, you are talking about prices that are two times the growth rate for many of these companies. In my mind, that is a bit rich.
But I don't think valuations are necessarily ahead of themselves in virtually every other sector. 
Still, I would feel better if the Fed, which in the past has said it does not react to asset valuations, started to tighten monetary policy if the market started to gallop.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chuck Hill 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); PROFIT WARNINGS (73%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); WORLD WAR II (50%) CORPORATIONS 

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%)

PERSON: HILL, CHUCK; GILPIN, KENNETH N 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



156 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: FLUSHING; 
Olympic Group's Dream Is Environmentalists' Nightmare

BYLINE:  By JIM O'GRADY 

 BODY:
To get to most points along Willow Lake in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, you have to hack through a 12-foot wall of phragmites stalks. To uproot those plants and turn the lake and its environs into a rowing site, as proposed by a group that wants to hold the 2012 Summer Olympics in New York, you have to go through a wall of indignant citizens called the Flushing Meadows-Corona Park Conservancy. 
 "What they call an improvement, I call a disaster," said Paul Graziano, a member of the new group, as he hiked around Willow Lake with a dozen fellow members on a recent cloudy Sunday afternoon. 
 The improvements he finds disastrous include dredging and connecting the 48-acre Willow Lake to the nearby 84-acre Meadow Lake, and raising Jewel Avenue onto a bridge that would cross the rowing site. The plan also calls for ball fields and wildlife habitats in the park. 
Daniel L. Doctoroff, who served as president of NYC2012, the private group that is backing the Olympics in New York, until named by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg as deputy mayor for economic development, has said such changes would improve Willow Lake.
"It is not a natural lake," Mr. Doctoroff said. "It was bulldozed into existence for the 1939 World's Fair to accept rainwater from the Van Wyck Expressway and Grand Central Parkway. It is filled with sediment, which is itself filled with chemicals like copper sulfate." But Mr. Graziano said the plan would turn the lake into "a giant bathtub" by smoothing out its idiosyncrasies.
The Bloomberg administration will continue the push to bring the 2012 Olympics to New York.
On the hike, the members found the area squishy and overgrown. It yielded wild irises and berry-bearing sumac vines, as well as bottles, a broken kite and some underwear. 
Richard P. Murphy, the Queens parks commissioner, guided the group. He stopped before a burned, unstable wooden bridge, which is one reason the lake is now fenced off from the public. Conservancy members say the park should be modestly renovated, routinely patrolled and open during the day. But they say no to the Olympics. 
NYC2012 had a big success in October when the United States Olympic Committee put New York on its list of four cities as possible host of the Games. The committee plans to choose one city by fall 2002. Should New York be chosen, it would go against foreign cities, with the 2012 host to be chosen in fall 2005. If New York is picked, the city's land-use approval process would begin. 
In December, , Mr. Doctoroff said Willow Lake is so polluted even eels have trouble surviving, "and they can survive almost anything."
With the proposed improvements, he predicted, its water would become clean and swimmable. "Even drinkable," he said. JIM O'GRADY

GRAPHIC: Photo: "What they call an improvement, I call a disaster," says an opponent of using Willow Lake for the Olympics. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); LAKES (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); HIKING (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (77%); WILDLIFE (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (53%) OLYMPIC GAMES; OLYMPIC GAMES (2012); PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; ROWING 

ORGANIZATION: FLUSHING MEADOWS-CORONA PARK CONSERVANCY 

INDUSTRY:  SIC7379 OTHER COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES; 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%) O'GRADY, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) FLUSHING MEADOWS-CORONA PARK (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



157 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
Managers Say This Decade Belongs to Health Care

BYLINE:  By VIRGINIA MUNGER KAHN

 BODY:
HEALTH care funds have outperformed the overall market over the last decade, and despite a disappointing run last year, some of the funds' managers declare that the future is theirs.
 "We believe this decade belongs to us," said Samuel Isaly, manager of the Eaton Vance Worldwide Health Sciences fund, the top-performing health care sector fund over the last 10 years, according to Morningstar. "In my opinion, health and biotech stocks can dominate the market over the next decade, just as technology stocks did in the 1990's," he said. 
 The last 12 months, however, have not been impressive for the sector. After a spectacular run in 2000, because of investments in companies generating steady earnings, the funds were hurt when nervous investors dumped high-priced stocks in early 2001, said Emily Hall, a Morningstar analyst. 
Moreover, pharmaceutical stocks, the biggest chunk of health care sector funds in general, had a tough year as drug company earnings were hit by patent expirations and an unexpected slowdown in government approvals of new drugs. Partly as a result, health care sector funds fell an average of 10.9 percent last year.
The long-term figures are better. Over the last 10 years, health care sector funds have returned 13.8 percent a year, on average, versus 12.9 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. 
Fidelity Select Health Care has handily beaten both the S.& P. 500 and another sector fund, Fidelity Select Technology, in the 20 years since its inception, returning a cumulative 4,071 percent, versus 1,613 percent for the index and 1,792 percent for the technology fund. "Over the long term, consistent earnings really do matter," said Eric Kobren, executive editor of Fidelity Insight.
Factors that have allowed health care funds to post such solid numbers are still in place, including steady demand for services and new treatments. In addition, new medical devices and developments in biotechnology are likely to spur growth, money managers and analysts said. 
The aging population of the United States and other developed countries is expected to spend more on health care products and services. And an expanding middle class in many developing countries should help global companies, because the richer a country becomes, the more it tends to spend on health care. In the United States, health care spending's share of gross domestic product has almost doubled in the last 30 years, to 13 percent from 7 percent. 
The pace of innovation is accelerating, said Dr. Kris Jenner, manager of the T. Rowe Price Health Sciences fund. Not only are investments made by biotechnology companies in the last 10 years bearing fruit, he said, but the mapping of the human genome promises to speed the development of more effective treatments. 
One effect is likely to be an increasing number of biotechnology companies that actually generate earnings; about 100 are expected to be profitable in 2005, up from about 30 now, Mr. Isaly said. "It's harvest time," he said. 
Over all, earnings of health care companies are expected to grow 16 percent a year over the next five years -- three percentage points faster than the S.& P. 500, according to analysts' estimates compiled by Thomson Financial/First Call. 
Health care stocks, however, have a problem: their future promise is hardly unrecognized. "This is not exactly a contrarian play," said Sheldon Jacobs, editor of The No-Load Fund Investor. The average price-to-earnings ratio of the stocks in health care funds is 40, according to Morningstar, compared with a multiple of 26 for the S.& P. 500. Even more expensive are biotech stocks, which have average multiples of 47, according to Mr. Jacobs's figures.
"You're talking pretty big risk here," he said. When such companies fail to deliver on investor expectations, their stocks fall hard.
Equally daunting for big drug-company stocks is the prospect of increased government involvement in the market. A prescription drug benefit under Medicare could depress drug prices and drug company profits, given the large role the government would play, Dr. Jenner said. Moreover, state governments have become more aggressive in pressing drug companies to lower prices. Just last month, 29 attorneys general filed suit against Bristol-Myers Squibb in an effort to break the company's exclusive hold over Buspar, its anti-anxiety drug, and open the market to generic versions. 
ULTIMATELY, however, the key to profit at drug companies is their ability to come up with effective new drugs quickly, Dr. Jenner said. That process has faltered of late, as shown in flat earnings expectations for companies like Eli Lilly and Merck for 2002. But later this year, drug introductions are expected to rebound. "I think people will look back on this year as an attractive time to buy," he said. 
An easy way for individual investors to play the long-term growth in health care is to buy shares of a relatively diversified sector fund. Some funds focus on volatile niches like biotechnology or medical devices. But a broader health care fund may invest in large pharmaceutical companies and small biotechs, upstart medical device companies and established hospitals and health maintenance organizations in the United States and abroad.
Over the long term, the Vanguard Health Care fund, with $17.2 billion in assets, has been among the best-performing broad-based health care funds. Run by Edward Owens, it has returned 19.8 percent a year, on average, over the last 10 years. In 2001, the fund was down 6.9 percent, five percentage points better than the S.& P. 500.
"Ed has been doing this a long time," said Daniel P. Wiener, editor of The Independent Adviser for Vanguard Investors, a newsletter. "He's proven he can be very consistent." Among Mr. Owens's top holdings now are the pharmaceutical giants Pharmacia and American Home Products.
Pharmaceuticals also play a big role at Eaton Vance Worldwide Health Sciences, which Mr. Isaly has managed for more than a dozen years. The fund invests only in drug stocks and biotechs, but those holdings cover both American and foreign companies, big and small. Among Mr. Isaly's favorite holdings are Eli Lilly, Novartis and Genentech.
ONE fund that did well last year was the Hartford Global Health fund, a relative newcomer. It is run by four managers at Wellington Management, which also employs Mr. Owens. The managers -- Joseph Schwartz, Ann Gallo, Jean Hynes and Kirk Mayer -- went into 2001 with an underweighting in drug stocks, relative to the Goldman Sachs Health Care Index, because of their big run-up in 2000. They also held disproportionately more health care service and medical devices stocks. Such companies had been beaten down the previous two years. Last year, health service stocks soared as pricing pressures on the industry eased, while drug stocks languished. 
Generally, investors are advised not to allocate more than 10 percent of their portfolio to a sector fund. "No matter how big the sector, these funds are going to trade with the vagaries of the industry," Ms. Hall warned. 
Some fund analysts, however, say the sector is broad enough and solid enough to warrant a bigger weighting. "We would have as much as 20 percent in a fund like Vanguard Health Care," Mr. Wiener said. "This is a well-diversified fund in a major sector of the economy that is recession-resistant, profitable and growing," he said. 
Before leaping into the sector, investors may want to check their exposure to health care stocks. Many growth stock funds loaded up on health care last year, and investors may have more than enough exposure already, Ms. Hall said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Kris Jenner, center, a T. Rowe Price health fund manager, visited MedImmune, a company in its portfolio. (Marty Katz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); HEALTH CARE (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BONDS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (74%); MEDICAL DEVICES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); PATENTS (70%); AGING TRENDS (66%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (60%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%); AGING (50%); GENOMICS (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: EATON VANCE WORLDWIDE HEALTH SCIENCES 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



158 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS for JOSEPH F. COATES; 
A Practiced Eye on the Future

BYLINE:  By LYNNLEY BROWNING 

 BODY:
 TALKING sweaters. A cure for schizophrenia. Cars that drive themselves to school to pick up your children. These are some of the things that Joseph F. Coates sees in the next 10 years. Mr. Coates, a futurist, analyzes technological, economic, political, social, cultural and demographic trends for businesses and government and industry organizations, and predicts what may happen in the next 5 to 50 years. 
 Mr. Coates is the retired president of Coates & Jarratt, a 22-year-old consulting company in Washington that gazes into its crystal ball for the likes of Coca-Cola, Ford Motor, the Central Intelligence Agency and the Smithsonian Institution. Mr. Coates, who now has his own consulting company, Joseph F. Coates Consulting Futurist, offered a few prognostications on Thursday. Here are excerpts. LYNNLEY BROWNING

Q. After Sept. 11, people predicted that business and government would change forever. Have they? How?

A. The main change affecting business and government is that you can no longer give casual acknowledgment that you are part of a larger system. Business and government are going to be forced to acknowledge this. They haven't been attendant to vulnerabilities. Business, in particular, tends to give little attention to the rare, the unusual, the unexpected and the offbeat.

Q. In what areas do you forecast the biggest changes?

A. The most interesting thing that's beginning to unfold at an increasing pace is molecular biology, molecular genetics. We're going to find pressure on people -- family members, friends, employers -- if there's a disease in the family to go and get a test. Prevention and treatment will follow much more slowly. But diagnostics will be quick, cheap and very important, and out of that will come the growth of genetic counseling.
Also, we are on the edge of the earliest forms of brain technology. All the things you'd say about your car or gas stove, you'll say about the brain. Fix it, take it apart, add to it, modify it. Within the decade, schizophrenia and psychotic depression will be history. That's how rapidly this knowledge is unfolding. We will have a cure and prevention of these within the decade. It doesn't mean we won't see schizophrenia in 2011, but the means of treating it will be there.
In the next couple of years, you're going to see overwhelming public and political acknowledgment that greenhouse warming is real. And we'll see massive programs that will affect home building and industrial processes -- and with that, a movement to massive conservation.
We're going to see much more work at home. Companies will see that people going to work is a tremendous waste of resources. Your grandfather on the farm probably saw one person a week, and he didn't go crazy. It's just a social accident that in an urban world, you see people so often. Videoconference screens will be fine enough so that you can read people's body language.

Q. How else will life at home change?

A. You will see the "electronic home work-study center." You're going to have to have something set aside as a designated workplace -- bigger homes. By the end of the decade, the typical home will have seven to eight flat-panel screens. Your cousin will be getting married in California, and you'll stick out your hand and touch the screen. It's not an alternative, either-or way of living. It's a substitution.
And who needs a $25,000 automobile to drive 5,000 miles a year? Are you going to travel three miles to a McDonald's? You'll see the redistribution of the service sector. You'll see fast-food people coming into the neighborhood with kiosks selling 15 items.
Regarding the education of children, with the dreadful condition of K-12, several things will happen. Parents will protest, but it won't be very effective. Home schooling will grow. Some parents will augment what the school does; others will replace it.
Distance learning has become very popular. College will eventually be the thing you go to only for hands-on experience or to find a mate. I see this rolling back into high school.

Q. Do you see any breakthroughs in how we consume energy, what we drive, what we wear?

A. We may see a significant number of fuel-cell automobile models over the next five years. I don't see hydrogen as a big factor in less than a dozen years. The people who wage war against nuclear power, that generation is aging and dying off. A new generation more favorable to nuclear energy will emerge.
You're going to have technology that provides "total body confirmation" -- shapes, colors, size, style preferences -- and all of this will be available to vendors. You will see a picture of yourself on the screen in the outfit, and can have the picture rotate so that you can see how the back looks. Say you're dealing with Nordstrom, and you want a warm-weather suit: 'No. 12, that's great, do you have that in yellow?'

Q. What technologies give you the most confidence?

A. The overall introduction of more information technology, in the form of sensors, "actuators" and detectors. For example, by the end of the decade we will have automobiles that are totally robotic. You'll say: "Car, it's getting close to 3 -- go pick up the kids. Then go pick up Harriet and go to Safeway."
Also, we're moving into an area of total body improvement. We'll have sweaters that tell you you're hunched over and won't stop until you stand up straight. If you're a diabetic, you'll have something buried in your belly or leg or other fat place that tells you: "Hey, Carol, you overdid it this time. Better take some more insulin." You'll be able to change your voice, your attitude, your interpersonal relations. No aspect will elude you.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph F. Coates 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); GENETIC & MOLECULAR MEDICINE (70%); BIOCHEMISTRY (70%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (69%); GENETIC BIOCHEMISTRY (69%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%); DEPRESSION (64%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (57%); BIOLOGY (50%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (58%); COCA-COLA CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); KO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%)

PERSON: COATES, JOSEPH F; BROWNING, LYNNLEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



159 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
Emerging Markets Test the Faithful

BYLINE:  By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
AS a pioneer of emerging-markets investment, Mark Mobius attained guru status among investors who had an appetite for risk and a taste for exotica. 
 In the 1980's, when holding stock in anything but I.B.M. or AT&T was considered a walk on the wild side for many investors, Mr. Mobius, president of Templeton Emerging Markets Funds, led shareholders into places like Mexico, Turkey and Korea. Later, when capitalism was establishing beachheads in Russia and Vietnam, he was one of the point men. 
 Those who signed up for his global journey were well rewarded, at first. His funds typically produced double-digit percentage returns -- until the middle of the 1990's. Then they began to sink, a result of seemingly endless emerging-markets problems including the Thai currency devaluation in 1997, the Russian debt default the next year and, most recently, the economic crisis in Argentina. 
The Templeton Developing Markets fund, for example, has had a spotty record. It rose an average of 12.26 percent a year from its inception in October 1991 through the end of 1994, according to Morningstar Inc., compared with a gain of 8.19 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Since then, the fund has lost 1.72 percent annually, on average, while the S.& P. has risen 15.98 percent, a difference of 17.7 percentage points.
There have been periods of respite for the markets, like 1999, yet even then the funds performed poorly because they did not invest in technology stocks. Those shares were the strongest performers in emerging markets just as they were elsewhere. 
The source of the funds' strength in the early 1990's proved to be their Achilles' heel later: Mr. Mobius's penchant for value.
As the decade was ending, buying stocks that were cheap relative to the worth of their earnings or assets was just as ineffective in emerging markets as it was in the United States. So after suffering a decline in absolute performance during the 1997-98 crisis, Templeton was hurt by a decline in relative performance during the subsequent recovery.
"We consistently avoided the expensive, exciting areas, to our chagrin," Mr. Mobius said in a telephone interview from Australia. "That hurt our performance for a while. The big emerging markets are dominated by tech issues, and they were affected by the run-up in Nasdaq."
Illustrating the global contagion from the bubble, he noted that for a brief period, the stock with the biggest market valuation in Brazil was "some crazy thing called Globo Cabo," a money-losing dot-com and cable television entity spun off by Organizacoes Globo, a media company. As with so many Northern Hemisphere counterparts, Globo Cabo's stock plummeted, declining 62 percent for the year. 
Despite the setbacks for emerging markets and for his funds, Mr. Mobius is cautiously predicting a new growth phase.
"I sense a reawakening," he said. "Investors have lost money in the U.S., and they have begun to realize they have to diversify. Also, private equity has not done well, and some investors are taking knocks in hedge funds. Korea and Taiwan did a tremendous reappearance act. That has aroused some interest."
Mr. Mobius says other emerging-markets countries will be in the vanguard of the revival he is counting on this year. South Africa, where stocks are "so cheap, it's quite unbelievable," is a favorite.
So are Poland, Russia, China and Austria. Austria is not an emerging market, but its status as a gateway to Eastern Europe, one of his preferred regions, allows him to count it as one.
DEMONSTRATING a nature that allows him to see silver linings in the darkest clouds, he added: "Look at Argentina. It's a big disaster, but there are opportunities there. All of Argentina is not going to sink into the sea. We've nibbled at some stocks in Argentina and some have moved up nicely."
Among the stocks he regards highly are four in South Africa, all of which are also listed on United States markets: Sasol Ltd., a chemical concern; Sappi Ltd., a paper producer; Sa Breweries; and Anglo American Gold, a large mining company.
Others in his portfolios include Pliva, a Croatian drug maker; Beijing Batang, a Chinese power company; and Quilmes, an Argentine brewer. Two favorites in Austria are Erstebank and the oil company OMV.
Mr. Mobius likes oil companies throughout the developing world, including Perez Companc in Argentina, PKN in Poland and PetroChina.
In addition to the South African companies, Quilmes, OMV, Perez and PetroChina have United States listings.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Mobius in Rio de Janeiro. He senses "a reawakening" for investments in emerging markets. (John Maier/Image Works for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); CURRENCIES (68%); DEVALUATION (68%) PERSONAL FINANCE; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (68%); NET SERVICOS DE COMUNICACAO SA (51%); GLOBO PLC (50%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (68%); NETC3 (BOVESPA) (51%); NETC (NASDAQ) (51%); GBO (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (68%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: MOBIUS, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (51%) BRAZIL (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



160 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: THE CENSUS: NEW YORK BY THE NUMBERS; 
Where the Men Aren't

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL 

 BODY:
THE resident of Apartment 4N at 790 Concourse Village West may be a man or a woman. But the odds are she's a woman, because Concourse Village, the seventh most female neighborhood in the city, has 1.45 women for every man. And the odds prove right: The resident's name is Paulette Gay-Mack, and she has lived there for 15 years. 
 Figures from the 2000 census for nearly 300 neighborhoods show that the most heavily female areas, for people age 18 to 64, are economically diverse, vary in size and are scattered throughout the city. But there is one markedly common feature: They are dominated by large housing complexes with formal application processes and long waiting lists. 
 Seven of the 10 most heavily female neighborhoods contain large low-income public housing projects, like Edenwald in the Bronx. With 1.6 women for every man -- compared with a citywide average of 1.1 -- Edenwald is the city's most female neighborhood. The other public-housing neighborhoods are Brownsville (1.53), Red Hook (1.46) and New Lots (1.42) in Brooklyn, in Claremont Village (1.46) and Soundview (1.42) in the Bronx, and Arverne and Edgemere (1.42) in the Rockaways.
But 2 of the top 10 areas -- Starrett City in Brooklyn (1.51) and Concourse Village (1.45) -- are middle- or mixed-income areas with subsidized high-rises, low turnover, private security and, residents say, a real sense of community. 
Gramercy Park, an upscale area of just 3,000 people that ranked second in the city with 1.57 women to each man, fits neither mold. Its rank is due mostly to the Salvation Army's Evangeline Residence, a home for about 300 young professional women that has low rents, a friendly atmosphere and a long waiting list, much like Concourse Village and Starrett City.
Women end up in these neighborhoods for many reasons. In the mid-80's, pregnant with her son Shakir, Ms. Gay-Mack moved from Greenwich Village to the Concourse Village co-op of her fiance. "We decided we were going to get married, and Eighth Street was not conducive to raising a child," said Ms. Gay-Mack, noting that she had lived near the theater playing "The Rocky Horror Picture Show."
Concourse Village, she said, provided community like the kind she had grown up with in Virginia. When Shakir was born, she had already found a baby sitter, a trusted older neighbor that the family still calls Nana.
"Once I get into the complex, once I walk up that ramp, I feel safe," said Ms. Gay-Mack, who remained there after her marriage ended. In the relatively high-crime neighborhood, security guards watch the outdoor areas and watch building entrances.
Starrett City is a subsidized rental community, not a co-op, but it has a family-oriented feel like Concourse Village. 
Rosie Battle, who arranges meetings at New York Life, has lived in Starrett with her sister for 11 years and has noticed there are few men on the express bus she takes into Manhattan every morning. Like others, she theorized that the stable setting, many families, 24-hour security and reliable maintenance attract single women.
"In the middle of the night they'll come if you have a stopped-up sink," Ms. Battle said. "You don't need a man around if you have somebody to fix your sink."
THE preponderance of women in areas with low-income projects did not surprise Elijah Anderson, a sociologist at the University of Pennsylvania. "Many of these places are just full of women," he said.
Mr. Anderson argued that some inner-city men shy away from relationships because of social pressure and fear of failing as providers: "These men are much more marginal to such situations," he said. "They do go off to the military. They do go off to prison. They do go off to be free to consort with other women."
Shanekwa, a single mother in Edenwald, calls them "1-2-3 men" meaning they come and go quickly. She added that some men also live in the project surreptitiously, so their families can avoid rent increases. 
Kenneth Mercer, the executive director of the Edenwald Gun Hill Neighborhood Center, agreed. "I know for sure that there are men not on the leases," he said. 
But these shadow men are unlikely to account for all the imbalance in neighborhoods with many women. What then makes Edenwald the city's most female area?
The answer is not entirely clear, but Mr. Mercer suspected that the lack of local jobs encouraged men to move toward the city. Others join the military.
"It's not an embracing environment for a young man who wants to succeed in life," Mr. Mercer said. Women face similar pressures, he said, but those who are raising children have more incentive to stay.
The scarcity of recent immigrants in public or subsidized housing may also raise the relative numbers of women in those places. Immigrant families may not know the system well enough or may not have been in the city long enough to have risen through a waiting list for such housing. If they had, they might change the imbalance between the sexes, because they often maintain an integral family structure. In heavily immigrant neighborhoods like Washington Heights and Flushing the male-female ratio is approximately one to one.
On the borough level, immigrants' choice of neighborhood can also affect male-female numbers, according to Joe Salvo of the Department of City Planning. The Bronx has a large female population, for instance. One reason is that male-heavy immigrant groups like Bangladeshis tend to wind up in Queens, while Dominicans and West Indians, who send a more balanced mix of the sexes to this country, gravitate to the Bronx. 
Jail also plays a role in the sex ratio in the Bronx, according to numbers, adjusted for population, from the city's Correction Department. About three times as many inmates in city jails list their residence as the Bronx as list Queens and about twice as many as list Brooklyn. 
All told, the Bronx is the state's most female county. And if you drop "group quarters," a large part of which are jails, the Bronx, home of Rikers Island, becomes the seventh most female county in the United States, with more than five women for every four men. 
Of course, statistics generalize. In a Red Hook laundromat last week, a bank employee named Augie said he was raising three children alone in private housing. "You don't know how many are out there like me," he said. "The guy who lives above me, he's got a daughter and lives alone, too."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Riders in Brooklyn wait for a bus at Starrett City, where women outnumber men 1.51 to 1. (Photographs by Kelly Guenther for The New York Times) Chart/Map of New York City shows the ratio of women to men, ages 18 to 64 mapped by census tract.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CENSUS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); PARENTING (63%); RANKINGS (50%) POPULATION; CENSUS; WOMEN; PUBLIC HOUSING; STARRETT CITY HOUSING DEVELOPMENT (BROOKLYN); CONCOURSE VILLAGE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT (BRONX); HOUSING 

PERSON: KUGEL, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



161 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
The Last Act Didn't Save the Play

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
MUTUAL fund investors closed out a sour year with a soupcon of sweetness.
 Reflecting the upturn in major market indexes from October through December, equity mutual funds had their best quarterly gain in two years. But the rebound, which encompassed all but two fund groups, only narrowed big losses for a year that many investors would rather forget. 
 After the steep declines prompted by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the average diversified stock fund gained 13.7 percent in the fourth quarter, according to Morningstar Inc. Still, much damage had already been done. 
For the year, more than 8 of every 10 stock mutual funds lost money, the worst annual performance in nearly 30 years. Two sectors that fared well were gold funds and, more significantly, small-cap stock funds. 
"It was a year in which I hope investors were diversified," said Robin Thurston, director of research at Lipper Inc., the fund research company.
With stock prices crumbling for most of the year, investors indeed chose to put their money into different asset classes. 
Based on figures from AMG Data Services, the flows represent a string of superlatives: 
* Net inflows into equity mutual funds were the smallest on record.
* Money market funds and taxable bond funds saw their biggest-ever annual increases.
* Tax-exempt municipal bond funds had the highest net inflows since 1993.
"The reallocation to bonds that began in August of 2000 has continued," said Robert Adler, president of AMG Data.
It was a good quarter -- and a great year -- to be invested in taxable bond funds.
In fact, during the last 18 months, bond prices have staged their biggest rally since the Depression. They inched higher in the fourth quarter, powered by additional reductions in short-term interest rates by the Federal Reserve and continued weakness in the economy.
According to Morningstar, taxable bond funds rose 1.3 percent in the quarter, for their ninth consecutive quarterly advance.
With yields on Treasury notes and bonds at very low levels, Mr. Adler said, investors are now piling money into corporate and high-yield bond funds, which carry much higher interest rates but also much more risk.
For the year, more than $84 billion flowed into taxable bond funds, according to AMG, the biggest increase ever. By contrast, equity funds attracted net inflows of $35.5 billion in 2001, down sharply from the $169 billion committed in 2000.
The stock market's losses over the last two years have also prompted risk-averse investors to stampede into another fund category: money markets.
More than $412 billion moved into money market funds last year, Mr. Adler said. By year-end, $2.3 trillion was on deposit in these accounts, according to AMG, compared with $1.85 trillion at the end of 2000.
"A huge amount of money went to the sidelines," Mr. Adler said. "A lot of that would never have gone into the bond or equity markets, but some would have."
In fact, even professionals who invest money for a living seemed reluctant to commit capital to the stock market as the fourth quarter began. Reeling from the previous three months, the worst period since the fourth quarter of 1987, many apparently did not recognize the post-attack sell-off as a buying opportunity.
"One of the interesting things is that fund managers were a little defensive at the beginning of the quarter," said Thomas McManus, chief investment strategist at Banc of America Securities.
"They seemed to underperform the bounce off the bottom," he added. "But by mid-December, they were outperforming."
Mutual fund investors were not much different. Mr. Adler said November was the biggest month of the quarter for equity fund inflows, at $10.6 billion.
At one big fund company, the Vanguard Group, net inflows into stock funds for the quarter were about $5 billion, said Brian Mattes, a spokesman. An additional $3.8 billion went into its bond funds, and $2.2 billion into its money market accounts, he said.
The stock-fund inflows at Vanguard were up sharply from $1 billion in the third quarter. 
WILLIAM H. MILLER III, who manages the $12 billion Legg Mason Value Trust, was one professional who did not dawdle.
During the last week of the third quarter, Mr. Miller trimmed positions in companies then selling at very depressed levels and sank all of the fund's available cash reserves into the market.
"We believe the market bottomed in the third quarter," he said. Value Trust rose 9 percent in the last three months of the year, and outperformed the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index for the year for the 11th consecutive time.
Edward B. Jamieson, chief investment officer for domestic equities at Franklin Advisers, said his group invested more than $1 billion between the reopening of the markets after the Sept. 11 attacks and mid-October.
"To see the Nasdaq below 1,500 was an opportunity we didn't know we would see again," he said.
The big bounce in the Nasdaq helped to turn a truly disastrous year for technology funds into one that was merely miserable.
Technology funds surged 37 percent in the fourth quarter, according to Morningstar. But that still left technology funds down 38 percent for the year.
And many analysts are wondering whether the fourth-quarter technology gains are sustainable, given the currently shaky earnings prospects for many companies in the sector.
"There is a lot of anticipation in this rally," said Kevin Landis, portfolio manager of Firsthand Funds in San Jose, Calif.
"If the economic turnaround turns out to be vapor, then the rally will make a U-turn. I had a heck of a rally in January and again in the mid-April to early May period," he said of his experience in 2001. "They were both head fakes."
For the quarter, Firsthand's six technology funds rose an average of 43.2 percent. But for the year they were down 45 percent, on average. 
It was a good quarter and a good year for small stocks and small-cap stock mutual funds. Of the major market indexes, the Russell 2000, the small-cap barometer, was the only one that ended the year higher. But the gain is somewhat misleading, because the group was a laggard for years.
Still, small-cap value funds were the second-best performing group last year, rising 16.6 percent, according to Lipper. The best performers were gold funds, up more than 19 percent, though they are not as widely held and do not encompass as large a universe of companies. 
The best performer among small-cap value funds was the Fidelity Low Priced Stock fund, up nearly 27 percent for the year.
"There are some pockets that did well, but the reality is that the average investor has most of his or her money in large-cap stock funds, and most of those fell 10 percent to 15 percent," said Russel Kinnel, director of fund analysis at Morningstar.
The collapse of Enron and a drop in energy prices during the quarter were bad news for utility funds. The Lipper utility fund index fell about 1 percent in the quarter and was down more than 20 percent for the year. Only one other fund group was down for the quarter: funds invested exclusively in Japanese stocks. They fell 1.9 percent for the quarter.
Many money managers and analysts were cautiously optimistic about the new year.
"Underlying demand and economic trends are still valid" in support of technology stocks, said Mr. Landis at Firsthand, "but we needed to go through this," he said of the sell-off.
"A greater percentage of my companies are giving us good news than they were last January or last spring," he said. "If we get more waves of bad news, then we could get another haircut. But I would be surprised if we go below the September lows."
MR. MILLER at Legg Mason said he expected 2002 to be a "pretty solid year, but one that is unlikely to be called a gangbuster year."
"It is not likely to be one like what happened following the big market bottom in 1982 or 1990, because overall valuations are a lot higher," he said. "But we do believe corporate profits are likely to expand nicely."
Mr. McManus at Banc of America was more guarded.
The first quarter, traditionally a time when fund inflows are strong, will be a disappointment, he said.
"We are forecasting the worst first quarter in quite some time" for fund flows, he said.
He said that last year was "the second year where equities did not perform as well as expected, and the amount of additional money people have to invest will be down."
Because he regards many stocks as richly priced, he said that "the market doesn't owe us as much in 2002 as some people expect."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In September, New York Stock Exchange traders tried to will away the bears, and made some progress in the fourth quarter. (Associated Press) Chart: "FOURTH QUARTER -- OCT.1-DEC.31, 2001" Technology ReboundTechnology led the way among sector funds, but utility funds were hurt by declining energy prices. Average returns, by sector fund type, for the fourth quarter. Technology: +36.69%Natural resources: +12.75Communications: +12.56Health: +8.92Financial: +7.31Real estate: +4.84Precious metals: +2.50Utilities: -0.07 Strong Quarter for StocksAverage returns, by mutual fund category, for the fourth quarter. U.S. diversified stocks: +13.67%International stocks: +10.78Taxable bonds: +1.28Municipal bonds: -0.83 Bonds, Back in FashionLast year, investors pumped money regularly into bond funds. Stock funds gained favor in the fourth quarter. Graph shows stock funds and bond funds (Net monthly investments or redemptions) from 1999-2001. Leaders and LaggardsBest- and worst-performing United States diversified stock funds for the fourth quarter. Van Wagoner Emerging Growth: +87.83%Van Wagoner Post-Venture: +81.23Rydex Velocity 100: +72.09ProFunds UltraOTC Inv: +71.31Van Wagoner Micro-Cap Growth: +55.18ProFunds UltraBear Inv: -19.16Rydex Tempest 500: -19.40Prudent Bear: -22.08Rydex Inv Arktos: -28.95ProFunds UltraShort OTC Inv: -51.86 (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; Investment Company Institute)(pg. 13) Chart: "Slow and Steady Beats the Market"Bond funds performed steadily throughout the year, outpacing diversified equity mutual funds despite the strong performance of stocks in the fourth quarter. Graph shows taxable bond funds, the S.&P. 500, and diversified equity mutual funds from January-Dec. 2001. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)(pg. 33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (99%); BONDS (91%); BOND FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (73%); TERRORISM (71%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); TAX LAW (66%); INTEREST RATES (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (83%); LIPPER INC (69%); AMG DATA SERVICES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (59%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



162 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
Late-Inning Heroics In a Wild, Wild Year

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
STOCK mutual funds rebounded smartly in the fourth quarter from their post-Sept. 11 dive, with domestic diversified equity funds gaining 13.7 percent, on average, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rising 10.3 percent, according to Morningstar Inc. Despite their strong finish, however, most stock funds lost money in 2001. 
Managers of some of the best-performing diversified stock funds talked about the end of a difficult year and about their expectations for the market.

Opposite Extremes
The top performers for the quarter, the $390 million Van Wagoner Emerging Growth fund, with a return of 87.8 percent and the $180 million Van Wagoner Post-Venture fund, up 81.2 percent, were also among the worst 10 funds for the year. Despite their exceptional close, both funds lost about 60 percent of their value in 2001.
"Our stocks were killed post-Sept. 11, and the fourth-quarter story is a rebound of what we think are leadership companies," said Garrett R. Van Wagoner, the firm's founder and the funds' manager. "But our year-to-date numbers don't reflect that. We're not popping Champagne corks here."
For both funds, Mr. Van Wagoner, 46, seeks rapidly growing companies in new and emerging industries, although those in Post-Venture must have received venture capital financing during the last five years.
The quarter's performance of Emerging Growth was driven by fourth-quarter gains in three stocks that fell more than 40 percent for the year. Mr. Van Wagoner added all three in the market sell-off after Sept. 11 and said he planned to hold onto them because he thought they were leaders in attractive niches.
The first is Embarcadero Technologies, a San Francisco company that provides database management software. The share price, which started 2001 in the low $40's, fell below $7 in October but closed on Dec. 31 at $24.20, down 46. percent for the year. "If you push a beach ball underwater far enough, it eventually bounces back," he said. 
The second stock was Stellent Inc., a maker of Web content-management software in Eden Prairie, Minn. Its price more than doubled for the quarter but was down 42 percent for the year. Stellent's programs "let you manage everything from documents to PDF files to e-mail, and they let you present all the content in a nice, easy-to-read format," Mr. Van Wagoner said, referring to Adobe's widely used Acrobat Portable Document Format. 
A third winner for the period was Interwoven Inc. of Sunnyvale, Calif., another content management company. It rose 152 percent in the quarter but was down 70 percent for the year.
"The industry niche is in its infancy and has maintained its growth rate better than industries like telecommunications or semiconductors," Mr. Van Wagoner said.
Looking ahead, he expects technology companies to improve this year, but very slowly. "It will be a pretty subdued year," he said.

A Bet on the Internet
Technology companies also drove the performance of the $103 million Baron iOpportunity fund, which returned 43.3 percent in the quarter, ranking fifth among diversified funds and ninth over all. It fell 3.6 percent for the year. "Our goal is to buy businesses where the predominant driver of value and profitability is the addition of the Internet and technology to the company's business," said Mitchell J. Rubin, the fund manager.
Mr. Rubin, 35, made money on Overture Services, an Internet advertising company in Pasadena, Calif. Its price almost tripled in the fourth quarter. "It's a low-cost, high-profit-margin business, and management has cut beneficial deals for themselves and their affiliated partners like AOL and Yahoo," Mr. Rubin said.
Also up sharply in the fourth quarter was Hotel Reservations Network of Dallas, the operator of an Internet travel agency specializing in the hotel industry. Its price doubled. . "Even though it's been a difficult year for the hotel industry," Mr. Rubin said, "the company benefited from the shift in people booking hotels over the telephone or through bricks-and-mortar travel agents to using the Internet."
Accenture, formally Andersen Consulting, was another gainer, up 111 percent for the quarter. Mr. Rubin said, "Every company has to understand and evaluate its business based on changes in technology," a field in which Accenture is a leading consultant. 
While he would not forecast trends, he said he thought that "our companies have done extremely well in very difficult economic times, and they will have an easier economic backdrop in the next 12 at 24 months that will translate into expanded profitability."

Anticipating a Recovery
By contrast, the $245 million CGM Focus fund owns no technology stocks, said its manager, G. Kenneth Heebner. It rose 38.5 percent in the quarter, finishing No. 13 among diversified stock funds and 18th over all. It rose 47.7 percent for the year.
Mr. Heebner, 61, says he has invested in companies poised to profit from what he thinks will be a strong economic recovery in 2002, led by consumer spending. Home builders account for 26 percent of its assets, followed by makers and sellers of recreational vehicles, 17 percent; airlines, 12 percent, and trucking companies, 10 percent.
One fourth-quarter winner was Winnebago Industries, the maker of recreational vehicles, which rose 72 percent. "Expectations were low following Sept. 11 and business was weak in September and into October," Mr. Heebner said. "But the business outlook has improved a lot during the quarter."
He also made money on Beazer Homes USA, based in Atlanta, up 51 percent for the quarter. Beazer, which designs, builds and sells single-family homes, serves the low-price market, he said, a niche that is more sensitive to interest rates than to overall economic activity.
 Frontier Airlines, which has its hub in Denver, more than doubled in price in the quarter. "It's one of the few airlines that has better prospects for 2002 than it did pre-Sept. 11," Mr. Heebner said, "because their big competitor, United, cut capacity more than 25 percent in the Denver market." Frontier is low-cost and profitable, he added.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mitchell J. Rubin of Baron iOpportunity looks for companies that stand to prosper from adding the Internet and new technology. (Dith Pran/The New York Times); At CGM Focus, G. Kenneth Heebner has avoided technology stocks. Home builders account for about one-fourth of the fund's assets. (Kirsten Elstner); Two funds managed by Garrett Van Wagoner were the top performers for the quarter, but among the 10 worst for the year. (Jeff Corlick/Bloomberg News) Chart: "Beating the Broader Market"Here is how three of the best-performing stock funds fared against some benchmarks in the fourth quarter. Graph shows Van Wagoner Emerging Growth, CGM Focus, and Baron iOpportunity compared to the S. & P. 500 from October-December 2001. FOURTH-QUARTER RETURNS Van Wagoner Emerging Growth: +87.8%All mid-cap growth funds: +20.3 Baron iOpportunity: +43.3%All mid-cap growth funds: +20.3 CGM Focus: +38.5%All small-blend funds: +19.1 (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (85%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BONDS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (69%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (67%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (65%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (62%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: STELLENT INC (82%); MORNINGSTAR INC (72%); LEADERSHIP COS INC (69%); INTERWOVEN INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: BARON IOPPORTUNITY; CGM FOCUS; VAN WAGONER EMERGING GROWTH 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (60%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



163 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
Investing on Autopilot? There's a World of Choices

BYLINE:  By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
SINCE the Vanguard Group created the first mutual fund tracking the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index more than 25 years ago, the logic behind the idea has been so compelling that investments in index funds have grown to over $300 billion.
 Most of that money is held in funds tracking American markets, but for cost-conscious and globally minded investors, many index funds focus on foreign markets. Some specialize in individual countries, while others track regional, worldwide and broad-based emerging-markets indexes. 
 Vanguard shares dominance of the market in foreign index funds with State Street Global Advisors, a unit of the State Street Corporation in Boston, and Barclays Global Investors in San Francisco, a unit of Barclays P.L.C. The aim of these funds is the same as that of their domestic counterparts: to offer low-cost competition to actively managed funds. 
The pros and cons of index funds that invest abroad are similar to those of domestic index funds. But active managers of foreign funds contend that inefficiencies, like poor research in many foreign markets, give their funds advantages.
Indexers, meanwhile, rely on mathematics to support their cause. "In aggregate, all investment holdings equal the market," said George U. Sauter, managing director of Vanguard's quantitative equity group, the division that runs index funds. "Investors can only get the market rate of return, only less because they incur costs trying to get the market rate of return."
All else being equal, their argument goes, investors who pay the lowest price will receive the highest returns in the long run. And Mr. Sauter said the costs of operating in foreign stock markets were greater than in the United States.
For one thing, it costs money to have analysts and fund managers stationed in exotic locales. And then there can be high costs for routine services like settlement of trades, safekeeping of shares and accounting and record-keeping in a mix of markets that may have greatly different regulations. The average actively managed foreign equity fund costs 1.8 percent a year to run, plus transaction costs, versus 1.4 percent, excluding transaction costs, for domestic equity funds, according to Morningstar Inc.
Vanguard's three foreign index funds have expense ratios ranging from 0.29 percent to 0.57 percent. The funds track indexes of European, Pacific and emerging markets as compiled by Morgan Stanley Capital International, a leader in the arcane and precise science of index construction.
Vanguard offers two other portfolios. The Vanguard Developed Markets Index fund combines shares in its Europe and Pacific funds in appropriate measures to replicate the performance of the MSCI Europe, Australasia and Far East, or EAFE, index. The Vanguard Total International fund mixes shares in all three funds to replicate the MSCI EAFE Plus Emerging Markets Index. This index represents the whole world, except the United States and some markets that limit participation by foreigners or else are just too small.
BARCLAYS has 33 funds, called iShares, focusing on foreign and global indexes, including many single-country funds and some that tracking global industry indexes. 
Unlike conventional mutual funds, like Vanguard's, iShares are exchange-traded funds; they trade in the same way as stocks and have expense ratios ranging from 0.25 percent to 0.89 percent. One drawback of iShares and other exchange-traded funds is they incur brokerage commissions. An advantage is that they can be bought and sold throughout the trading day, while mutual funds are transacted only at the close.
State Street offers exchange-traded funds, too, although just a few, as well as mutual funds.
Active managers say that while index funds might indeed be better if all else were equal, when it comes to investing in foreign markets, all else is seldom equal.
Hugh Young, managing director in Singapore for Aberdeen Asset Management Asia, said stocks in foreign markets, especially in his region, were not as well researched as those in the United States. That, he said, gives active managers a better chance of beating the indexes.
Much research in Asia consists of "flattering brokerage reports of large stocks in need of financing," Mr. Young said. 
"I would argue there is lots of scope for outperforming, which over time we have done," he added.
The way to do that, he said, is to avoid some very large stocks that dominate indexes in some countries, especially in emerging markets. These are often the shares of poorly run, government-controlled telephone and energy companies -- or government-supported conglomerates, as in Korea.
Stephen Watson, chief investment officer at Gartmore Global Partners in Conshohocken, Pa., agreed that "the less things are researched, the more there is the chance of finding out an angle" that allows managers to beat the market. An angle that has worked over the last decade, he said, is for Japan managers to avoid banks and for broadly focused international managers to avoid Japan.
Mr. Watson invoked some math of his own to support active management. Passively run index funds must have larger investments in the priciest stocks and markets. In the late 1980's, he said, before its stock market bubble burst, Japan accounted for 65 percent of the EAFE index; lately, it has been barely more than 20 percent.
"If you had been passively exposed to EAFE, you would have seen massive damage to the value of your fund" in the 1990's from its heavy ownership of Japanese stocks, he said. Nevertheless, he acknowledged that "it's not an easy thing to do, to beat indexes consistently, because of fees and costs."
But a look at the numbers suggests that it is also not easy to beat active management. Over the last 1, 3, 5 and 10 years, only European index funds have consistently outperformed the average actively managed fund focusing on their regions. Funds tracking other regional and international indexes have tended to lag behind equivalent actively managed funds.
Gus Fleites, director of exchange-traded funds at State Street, said the strong performance of many actively managed funds resulted from their decision to persistently shun Japan.
"Any fund that made a less-than- benchmark-weighted investment in Japan would have outperformed," he said.
Indexers dismiss that argument, however, saying active funds were just as underweight in Japan on the way up as on the way down. "They have underperformed over the combined 20-year time frame," Mr. Sauter said. "They didn't all of a sudden become smart. They were on the right side of it in the 1990's and the wrong side in the 1980's."
STEVEN SCHOENFELD, who leads international equities for Barclays, was just as skeptical, saying, "Nothing shows active managers can pick these turns" in markets. He also rejected the argument that market inefficiencies offer them an edge in certain countries. "The same fundamental arithmetic of active management applies whether it's U.S. large companies or Asian emerging markets," he said.
All the same, Mr. Schoenfeld was prepared to be magnanimous. He suggested investing 10 to 25 percent of an equity portfolio internationally, with half of that amount indexed and the rest actively managed.
"We think a low-cost, broad-based, indexed core should be the base for any investment portfolio," he said, "whether domestic only or developed international markets or even emerging markets."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Indexing Abroad"The Vanguard Developed Markets Index fund tracks a leading foreign stock index, which declined sharply last year. Amid debate over the merits of index investing overseas, the fund slightly underperformed the average of all diversified foreign funds. Vanguard Developed Markets Index fundRETURN ON INVESTMENT: -22.0 Average diversified foreign fundRETURN ON INVESTMENT: -20.7 MSCI EAFE Index (Europe, Australasia and Far East)RETURN ON INVESTMENT: -22.6% (Source: Morningstar Inc.; Morgan Stanley Capital International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); STOCK INDEXES (94%); INDEX FUNDS (93%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TRENDS (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (91%); STATE STREET CORP (83%); MORNINGSTAR INC (63%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (58%); BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTORS NA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: VANGUARD GROUP INC (X.VGI) 

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (91%); BARC (LSE) (91%); STT (NYSE) (83%); MORN (NASDAQ) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (63%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%) SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE; 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



164 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1917 words

HEADLINE: For Clothing Makers, It's Cutor Be Cut 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
THE dawn of 2002 brought no happy new year to clothing makers. For them, the squeeze is on.
 The recession, economic reverberations from Sept. 11 and unseasonably warm weather leading up to Christmas combined to clobber apparel sales last year. December was particularly gruesome. With sweaters and winter coats piling up at the pinnacle of the shopping season, desperate retailers dropped prices by as much as 70 percent. Someone must pay the price of that discounting, though, and the time of reckoning is at hand. 
 The pain of sharp markdowns will be felt all the way down the retail food chain, though the brunt will be borne not by the stores, but by the apparel manufacturers and wholesalers that supply them with everything from designer denim to cashmere overcoats. 
The ranks of these businesses are expected to shrink sharply in the coming months, according to bankers, other creditors and many manufacturers themselves. Donna, Tommy, Ralph and Calvin are all expected to suffer some, but the real trouble will be felt by the thousands of midsize and small companies, those with sales of less than $100 million -- companies like Bisou Bisou, the maker of a trendy women's line. Many, like Bisou Bisou, which is on the verge of filing for bankruptcy for its retail operations, could seek court protection, following in the recent footsteps of many American textile manufacturers, including Burlington Industries and Malden Mills Industries.
"The domestic fabric suppliers are all already almost out of business," said Adam D. Winters, a senior vice president at the Merchant Factors Corporation, one of the industry's largest suppliers of credit, "and now the apparel manufacturers must consolidate or go out of business."
Trouble among apparel makers, of course, is hardly headline news. Low-cost competition from overseas has been driving apparel manufacturing offshore, and retailers have been extracting steep concessions from their suppliers for years -- especially since the late 1980's, when bankruptcies and consolidations among retailers left fewer, but more powerful chains to buy the goods. For about a decade, department stores in particular have been using this strength to elicit concessions like "markdown money" -- the payments that retailers demand from manufacturers, after the season, to make up for whatever profits they lost by putting goods on sale.
But 2001 was different. Apparel sales were soft all year; so were prices. As the economy weakened, credit tightened, leaving many manufacturers and wholesalers in a vise.
"There is very little margin for error in this environment," said Paul Charron, the chairman and chief executive of Liz Claiborne Inc., one of the few companies that saw third-quarter revenue and profits improve from last year. "Large, sophisticated retailers are looking to do business with large, sophisticated suppliers. Management that has not executed with precision is in big trouble."
THE exact damage to the sector will not be known for a few weeks -- it is in January that retailers sit down with suppliers and demand cash back for those goods sold at discount prices or delivered late or in imperfect condition. The omens, however, began to emerge in late October and November, when the largest apparel makers reported discouraging third-quarter results and hinted that there was far more more bad news to come.
The VF Corporation, the maker of Lee and Wrangler jeans and Vanity Fair lingerie, is laying off 13,000 employees, or 18 percent of its work force. Kellwood, the maker of Sag Harbor, Sierra Designs and Kathie Lee Gifford's line for Wal-Mart, said its net earnings for the quarter would decline nearly 50 percent, compared with the period a year earlier, partly because its margins were being squeezed at retail.
For the quarter ended in September, Donna Karan International, owned by LVMH Moet-Hennesy Louis Vuitton, the French luxury conglomerate, had a net loss of $53.7 million, down from a profit of $14 million in the quarter a year earlier. And in October, the Jones Apparel Group, parent of Jones New York, whose blazers and pants are popular with working women, substantially cut earnings expectations for 2002, to $2.60 a share from $3.29, in part because of an expected "heavily promotional environment" at retail.
Those numbers, however, do not tell the full story. The largest apparel makers are actually in the best shape. The middle tier -- companies with $5 million to $100 million in annual sales -- is feeling more pain. One such company, BCBG Max Azria, based in Los Angeles, is short on cash and has been slow to pay its own suppliers; the company is now instituting 10 to 15 percent across-the-board cuts in expenses. Mad Engine, a San Diego company that sells T-shirts embellished with designs and sequins to department stores and to larger manufacturers like Levi and Polo Ralph Lauren, has laid off 50 percent of its headquarters staff. And Michael Kors, a designer whose company is partly owned by LVMH, was on the verge of a multistore rollout of his mid-priced line with Bloomingdale's when the deal collapsed, he said, after he refused to guarantee profit margins. Bloomingdale's, a unit of Federated Department Stores, denies that it asked Mr. Kors to guarantee margins.
BECAUSE most domestic apparel makers are middle-tier private businesses, often family affairs, they lack the resources and the muscle to fight back when retailers knock them about.
Princess Knitwear, for example, a small company based in the Bronx that still has manufacturing operations in New York City, has survived by producing only high-end goods to order. In the fall, it took on a sizable order for plus-size separates from an upscale department store chain that George Wolf, Princess's owner, declined to name. For four years, it had been a good client, paying in full and on time, according to Mr. Wolf. But, he said, he received a call two weeks before the order was due to be delivered in October from the store's buyer, saying that if he did not cut the price by 33 percent, the store would cancel the order. 
Mr. Wolf said he protested that such a cut would wipe out its profit margin. The buyer apologized, Mr. Wolf recalled, but insisted that extraordinary times called for extraordinary measures.
With no choice but to discount or to let the made-to-order knitwear sit in his warehouse, Mr. Wolf swallowed the costs. "We should all be in this together," he fumes now. "Instead, department stores want to maintain their profit margin and have us shoulder the whole sacrifice."
Such hardball tactics, while not new, have been spreading. Some manufacturers report that Kmart, the giant discount chain, has been dodging payments lately. At Thanksgiving, Kmart owed Playtex, a division of Sara Lee, $90 million on already-shipped inventory, some $50 million of which was long overdue, according to executives close to the situation. When Sara Lee stopping shipping Playtex products, the executives said, Kmart paid $15 million, but as of three weeks ago was still in arrears for the rest.
Kmart denies that it is having trouble with Sara Lee. "Today we have a normal account balance," said Jack Ferry, a company spokesman, "and we made regular payments during the time in question."
A spokeswoman for Sara Lee declined to comment.
Vendors also complain that J. C. Penney, which in late 2000 hired Allen Questrom, formerly of Barneys New York and Federated, as chief executive, has been aggressively stepping up demands for cash support in areas like advertising and markdown money. "It is the new hierarchy over there," said Alby Amato, the chief executive of Mad Engine. "They want guaranteed margins on everything."
A spokeswoman for Penney said: "We are more competitive in ways we weren't before. Our vendors know it is a war out there."
THE trend even affects Wal-Mart Stores, where sales for stores open at least a year rose by an estimated 6 percent this past holiday season. The chain, which has a reputation for negotiating thin margins up front but then sticking with them, has been asking for cash back after this season of sales, according to many factors and vendors who asked not to be identified.
Jessica Moser, a company spokeswoman, said, "We work to make our business agreements mutually beneficial for both us and our suppliers."
Hal J. Upbin, the chief executive of Kellwood, confirmed the epidemic: "My client list is the top 20 vendors in the country," he said, "and I can't think of one who is not doing it at some level."
As retailers become more demanding, creditors -- usually factoring companies, the financial middlemen that finance manufacturers and collect payment directly from retailers -- have become less forgiving, too. "The factors are becoming extremely tight," said Marc Bohbot, the chief executive of Bisou Bisou, which sells $40 million of apparel a year to department stores. "They are looking over the shoulder of every management, and they want 10 times the guarantees of last year to loan money. They investigate any asset outside the corporation in order to get liens on buildings, homes and even cars to guarantee the loans." (Creditors look at personal assets for family-owned companies.) 
MACROECONOMIC conditions, meanwhile, are worsening. Prices paid to producers of apparel have been spiraling downward since 1999; since November alone, the index of those prices has declined almost 1 percent, according to the Labor Department. "The success of discount retailers like Wal-Mart, Kohl's and Target has helped drive prices down," said Carl Steidtmann, chief economist at Deloitte Research. "It means if you are a midlevel manufacturer, life is not very fun. Because you can't take advantage of economies of scale, you must compete on something other than price, and in today's market that is a difficult challenge."
Midlevel manufacturers who are feeling such pressure, of course, have the option of trying to sell out to larger companies, and many are doing just that. But will they find buyers? "A lot more companies are willing to be acquired," said Mr. Upbin, of Kellwood. "We are seeing more deals than we have ever seen before, but how many deals can you do?"
In 1999, the latest year for which figures were available, there were almost 17,000 apparel manufacturers and wholesalers in the United States, according to the American Apparel and Footwear Association.
Daniel A. Greene, a senior vice president of FleetBoston Financial, one of the most active banks in the retail industry, said he anticipated "more consolidation in the coming year, but there are many more sellers than buyers."
The recession is separating big companies from small companies in obvious ways -- like which have more cash -- and also in less obvious ways, as in which are more technologically current. Usually, only big manufacturers can afford the most advanced computer systems that help identify sales trends early and predict buying patterns, helping to control inventory.
"We have invested heavily in technology," said Mackey J. McDonald, the chairman and chief executive of VF. "We think it is critical to servicing the retailer and in forecasting trends and needs."
Plenty of companies will survive. Yet for everyone but the large and powerful and the small-but-hot fashion houses, the game is now much less fun. "Anything with production in the United States is a dying breed," lamented Mr. Amato of Mad Engine. "I look at what is happening and I say, 'I've got to get out of the manufacturing end of it.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Princess Knitwear, a small apparel maker, says it is under pressure from retailers demanding price reductions. An employee worked with a sample in the company's plant in the Bronx. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Anne Mennealy of Los Angeles, right, scoured a discount table at Bloomingdale's in New York after Christmas. At the Bronx plant of Princess Knitwear, above, boxes of returns came back from stores. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times); (Associated Press)(pg. 9) Chart: "Tight Spot"Americans are spending more on clothing, but that has not helped domestic apparel makers, whose output is shrinking. Personal spending on apparel, in 2000 dollars Index of apparel production in the United States, 1992=100(Source: American Apparel and Footwear Association)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPAREL MFG (94%); CHRISTMAS (90%); FABRIC MILLS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); WHOLESALERS (88%); APPAREL WHOLESALERS (78%); TEXTILE MFG (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (78%); TEXTILES (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); FABRICS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (74%); TEXTILE MILLS (74%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (51%) APPAREL; INDUSTRY PROFILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: FIFTH & PACIFIC COS INC (84%); MERCHANT FACTORS CORP (66%); MALDEN MILLS INDUSTRIES INC (54%); INTERNATIONAL TEXTILE GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: FNP (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS424320 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & FURNISHINGS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC6153 SHORT-TERM BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS EX. AGRICULTURAL (66%); NAICS313210 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (54%); SIC2221 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS, MANMADE FIBER & SILK (54%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS314999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS TEXTILE PRODUCT MILLS (54%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (54%); SIC2299 TEXTILE GOODS, NEC (54%); SIC2231 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS, WOOL (54%)

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



165 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
Satisfying 2 Cravings: Yield and Safety

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH HARRIS

 BODY:
AS anyone in a money market fund knows, even security has its risks.
 The interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve Board last year have sliced into returns of money market funds, certificates of deposit and savings accounts. Taxable money market funds paid just 1.59 percent, on average, last week, according to iMoneyNet, a money-market fund tracker, while a three-month C.D. provided an average yield of 1.73 percent, according to Bankrate.com, a financial site. 
 But there are other choices. Stable value funds may offer what investors crave these days: yield and safety, not to mention higher returns. 
"Most of us have clients who are cautious or conservative or older, and we want to keep money in cash -- in a no-risk investment," said Malcolm H. Gissen, who runs his own investment firm in San Francisco. "This is a very attractive alternative."
At their best, stable value funds try to marry higher yields with price stability. The funds typically hold a diversified fixed-income portfolio of bonds with three- to five-year maturities. They add insurance guarantees, known as wrappers, to try to fix the funds' share price, or net asset value, at $10, which preserves both capital and accumulated income.
While the funds' yields still reflect changes in interest rates, the insurance guarantees aim to even out the bonds' price fluctuations. Investors benefit because the value of the funds should not decline even when interest rates rise and bond prices fall. But the same insurance mechanism that stabilizes prices from a decline makes investors miss bond price rallies.
"It's not for everybody because it is so sophisticated," said Norman M. Boone, a financial planner at Boone Financial Advisors in San Francisco. "But this is providing a pretty attractive combination of higher yields, stability and liquidity."
Stable value mutual funds fall into a broader category called stable value investments, which also include insurance products like guaranteed investment contracts. Together, these instruments had $233 billion in assets at the end of 2000, the most recent data available, with the bulk held in defined-contribution accounts like 401(k)'s.
Stable value mutual funds were first sold outside of retirement plans in 1998; as of Nov. 30 last year, their assets amounted to $1.2 billion, according to the Stable Value Investment Association. The funds are offered by a number of firms, including OppenheimerFunds, Morley Capital Management, ICMA Retirement and United Asset Management.
Deutsche Asset Management has the longest track record in this field, and its mutual funds hold the most -- $600 million -- in assets. The Deutsche PreservationPlus fund was introduced in 1997 by Bankers Trust, which Deutsche Bank acquired. The portfolio is available in defined-contribution plans. In 1998, the firm added the Deutsche PreservationPlus Income fund, which is intended for investors opening individual retirement accounts.
The fund has no sales charge but is sold mainly by investment advisers who may charge a fee for managing their clients' portfolios. Investors can also open an account directly at Deutsche with a $2,500 minimum.
THE portfolio of bonds resembles other intermediate-duration bond funds, with maturities averaging about three years. Holdings include a mix of high-quality corporate, government and asset- and mortgage-backed bonds. High-yield, or lower quality, bonds, make up about 7 percent of the portfolio. 
The fund is distinguished from a typical intermediate-duration portfolio by the insurance wrappers. Contracts from insurers or banks including Bank of America; TransAmerica Life, a unit of Aegon Insurance; and Caisse des Depots et Consignations of France try to buffer the bonds' prices from market fluctuation.
Managers try to make sure that the insurers and banks are highly rated, said Eric M. Kirsch, managing director and head of North American fixed income at Deutsche who helps manage the fund. If managers are concerned about an insurer's credit quality, they can choose a different insurer.
Although Mr. Kirsch buys intermediate-term bonds, the insurance guarantees make duration a moot point to some fund analysts.
"These funds, because of the insurance wrappers, are completely insensitive to interest rates," said Eric M. Jacobson, a senior bond fund analyst at Morningstar Inc. 
As a result, an investor wanting to buy or sell shares should be able to do so at any time at a steady rate of $10 each. As with any other security, the value of the bonds shifts with market conditions, but if a shareholder sold after the bonds' prices fell, the insurance wrapper agreement would make up the difference. 
"The yield is not very volatile -- it will change and track interest rates but it does that on a gradual basis," Mr. Kirsch said.
The cost for that peace of mind is missing out on an uptick in bond prices. The investors also bear the expense of the wrappers. Mr. Kirsch estimates that the wrapper agreements cost 0.23 percent of the total 1 percent expense ratio of the PreservationPlus Income fund. The wrapper ensures that investors can cash out at $10 a share when bond prices fall, but under some circumstances, involving extreme fluctuations in interest rates, investors could be charged a 2 percent fee if they redeemed their shares.
The portfolio's returns have held up well, compared with the average taxable intermediate-term bond fund. Over the three years through Dec. 31, PreservationPlus Income gained 6.17 percent, on average, topping the 5.10 percent return of the average taxable intermediate-term bond fund, according to Morningstar.
SUCH returns were attractive to John and Erika Ammirati of Los Altos, Calif., whose investments Mr. Gissen oversees. The couple are conservative in their investments and were drawn to the stability the fund offers, Mr. Ammirati said. About six months ago, they shifted 5 percent of their retirement assets into Deutsche's stable value portfolio. "We are being insulated from the volatility that's taking place," Mr. Ammirati said.
Investors should educate themselves about how such funds differ from more traditional intermediate-term bond funds, Mr. Jacobson advised, since these funds are not federally guaranteed. "It's a fairly new, very complex strategy," he said, "and that's what raises the caution level a little bit."
Sean McKeon, a registered investment adviser at DAL Investment in San Francisco, is not troubled that the insurance is not an absolute guarantee.
"It is not a government-guaranteed bank account, and it still is subject to the creditworthiness of the institutions that issue the wrappers," Mr. McKeon said. "But that being said, anyone who wants this fixed-income portion to remain stable in value, it's worth forgoing some potential higher return and allows you take a little more risk with the other portions of your fixed income."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Ammiratis, John and Erika (in checkered top), of Los Altos, Calif., have invested in a stable value fund. (Thor Swift for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (93%); TRENDS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); US 401K PLANS (77%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMERFUNDS INC (84%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); UNITED ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (51%); MORLEY CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (51%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6733 TRUSTS, EXCEPT EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS, & CHARITABLE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



166 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Education as an Investment. Really.

BYLINE:  By AARON DONOVAN

 BODY:
WITH tuition rising faster than inflation, and returns on many investments still in reverse, parents of prospective college students are facing some serious choices. Should they cash in their mutual funds now? Seek loans or grants? Ask a wealthy relative for help in paying? 
 Now a Manhattan company, Iempower, which started two years ago, has developed an alternative method of paying for college. Through its Web site, www.MyRichUncle.com, Iempower is working to match students with a network of well-heeled investors -- sort of like wealthy relatives. The investors provide money to pay for undergraduate or graduate degrees; the students agree to pay a fixed percentage of income for a set period after graduation. 
 But are people willing to invest in authority-questioning, baggy-pants-wearing college students, whom they don't even know? So far they have, said Raza Khan, who founded Iempower with Vishal Garg. The men attended Stuyvesant High School and New York University together.
In the last year, Mr. Khan said, Iempower has received $750,000 from investors, while 1,000 students have applied for aid and 65 have received it.
Mr. Khan says Iempower decides whether to offer assistance, and at what rate, based on students' grade-point averages, standardized test scores, employment experience and career goals. The company analyzes the data using actuarial principles that it calls an evaluation engine. 
The repayment rates vary. For undergraduates, they start at 0.2 percent for each $1,000 of earnings for a period of up to 15 years. Rates for graduate students start at 0.1 percent per $1,000 for up to 10 years. The maximum repayment rate is 0.4 percent per $1,000. All students also pay a one-time service fee to the company of 2.5 percent. It is deducted from the amount borrowed.
The company says it caps the aid amounts so that no one pays more than 15 percent of his or her future earnings. Once the students graduate and are employed, Iempower asks them for monthly income filings and for tax returns.
So are these loans better than conventional student loans available through banks or from the federal government? It is a judgment call for each student, because the actual repayment will not be known until graduates are well into their careers. In theory, students using MyRichUncle could fall victim to their own success -- the more they earn, the more they will have to pay back. For students, the most widely used loan right now is the federal Stafford Loan program; the interest rate is currently 5.39 percent.
Mr. Khan says his business tries to provide both a good return for its investors and a financial aid option to students who cannot afford to pay for college. 
"What's incredibly exciting about this," he said, "is that it is one of the few occasions where social ambitions and business ambitions are pursuing the same goal."
But Mukund Krishnaswami, a managing partner of Revolution Capital, a venture capital fund in Philadelphia and New York, has doubts about the program. 
"For every 10 students, you have two or three who decide they're not going to work, two who become social workers or priests, and you're not going to make any money on them," he said. "But maybe you get one person who becomes Bill Gates."
Mr. Krishnaswami said he considered starting a similar business after graduating three years ago from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, but abandoned the plans because he did not think the return would be good enough.
MR. KHAN would not disclose what investors could expect to earn, except to say that "it's fairly competitive" with other investment options.
Mr. Krishnaswami said the students most prized by Iempower -- those with the greatest earning potential -- may be the ones least likely to apply. "Anyone who intends to make a lot of money," he said, "is probably going to take out a student loan instead."
But Mr. Khan said students did not always have a clear picture of their future earnings. "It's funny how many poets become investment bankers," he said. "If you can spot value, the capital will move there." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); GRADES & GRADING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (71%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES 

ORGANIZATION: IEMPOWER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



167 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Still Alive and Growing Online, Without Fanfare

BYLINE:  By MIGUEL HELFT 

 BODY:
THE court-ordered auction of the assets of Webvan was something of a spectator sport, Silicon Valley style. Dozens of former employees, reporters, television crews and gawkers, many of them unemployed technology workers, gathered in late October at the company's shuttered headquarters near San Francisco for a sell-off of computer and office equipment. 
 It was as much a chance to witness the final chapter in one of the most spectacular failures of the Internet bubble as to gaze at piles of some of the most sophisticated technology gear anywhere. 
 But for Leo Hopper, a manager in the technology department of Global Sports, the e-commerce company, Webvan's auction was serious business. Sitting near the back of a packed room and armed with an inventory list of more than 3,000 products, he repeatedly flashed his auction card to bid up an item -- a Sun Microsystems server, some networking gear from Cisco Systems, a data storage system. By the end of his buying spree, Mr. Hopper had snapped up several million dollars' worth of equipment at 10 cents to 15 cents on the dollar. "We have our eye out for bargains," he said. 
It is the kind of frugality that has kept expansion costs down at Global Sports, one of the few e-commerce companies that is still growing as if it were 1999. 
Less than three years after it began running Internet stores -- including the Web sites, warehouses and customer service centers -- for sporting goods retailers, Global Sports has become one of the largest and most successful e-commerce survivors. 
Unknown to many consumers, Global Sports, based in King of Prussia, Pa., runs online stores for the Sports Authority, Sport Chalet, the Athlete's Foot and more than 20 other retailers, media companies and professional sports organizations.
Investors are noticing. Its 2001 sales are expected to be $100 million, up from $43 million in 2000. It has virtually no debt and had more than $92 million in cash at the end of the third quarter. (Results for the fourth quarter will not be released until Feb. 6.) Global Sports shares, which began 2001 at less than $6, are now trading at $20.33.
YET its business did not always elicit admiration. When Global Sports ventured onto the Internet during the peak of the dot-com boom in early 1999, its business model was shrugged off. Wall Street and the media reserved praise for eToys, Amazon.com and other online stores that were trying to create brands and hoping to displace conventional retailers.
As most "pure play" e-commerce companies were perishing, the outsourcing model of Global Sports started gaining proponents. Now, none other than Amazon is aggressively chasing after the same business.
"We created this business years ago, when people said it didn't make any sense," said Michael G. Rubin, the chief executive of Global Sports. "We have proven what an opportunity this is."
Mr. Rubin and his team still face significant hurdles. Global Sports must prove it can make money on the Internet. The company hopes that the tally of 2001 holiday sales will help show its first pro forma quarterly profit and that it will be profitable this year. Global Sports has bet that much of its future growth will come from areas where it has little experience, like luxury goods and general merchandise. And even with $100 million in sales, Global Sports remains small enough that it could face challenges from well-financed rivals. 
"As it becomes more lucrative, it will attract more competition," said Evie Black Dykema, a senior retail analyst at Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass.
For now, the aftermath of the dot-com collapse is playing in Global Sports' favor. 
While scores of e-commerce companies have vanished, online retailing continues to grow, and shoppers increasingly expect off-line stores to have online branches. Yet for many traditional retailers, the Internet has been little more than a costly headache. In recent months, traditional chains -- including Target, Wal-Mart and Macy's and Bloomingdale's, the Federated Department Stores units -- have scaled back, restructured or canceled online efforts. 
That has made Global Sports' offer of low-cost, low-risk Internet stores more attractive to retailers. Last year, it signed up Kmart, adding a general merchandiser to its stable of sporting goods companies. 
Despite spending more than $100 million on its own e-commerce effort, Kmart's Internet subsidiary, BlueLight.com, had consistently missed sales targets, according to Richard Blunck, chief executive of the Kmart unit. After becoming chief in May, Mr. Blunck said he considered several potential partners, including Amazon, before settling on Global Sports.
"This business has been in an absolute turnaround situation," Mr. Blunck said. Through November, BlueLight had reduced operating costs 75 percent while increasing sales 45 percent and improving on-time shipments and customer satisfaction, he said. (BlueLight has not yet released total holiday season sales but has said they exceeded expectations.)
Amazon declined to talk about its competition with Global Sports, but over the last year, as growth in Amazon's core retail operations has stalled, the company has emphasized the importance of its outsourcing business. Jeff Bezos, Amazon's chief executive, has described it as a "very meaningful driver of growth in the long term."
After Global Sports signed up Kmart, Amazon added Target to a list of partners that includes powerhouses like Toys "R" Us, Borders and Circuit City Stores. 
For businesses seeking to outsource e-commerce operations, "the two biggest options are Amazon and Global Sports," said Lauren Cooks Levitan, an analyst at Robertson Stephens. With 38 million shoppers, Amazon can bring significant traffic to its partners, Ms. Levitan said. But Global Sports has a better history of having its partners' stores ready in record time, she said. And Amazon competes with several of its partners in categories like books, consumer electronics and appliances, while Global Sports does not, Ms. Levitan added. 
Mr. Blunck said, "I wanted to have a partner that wasn't in the business of competing with me." 
Having Amazon as a rival does not seem to trouble Mr. Rubin, who at 29 has a 16-year track record as a successful businessman. 
Mr. Rubin opened his first business, a ski shop in his parents' basement, when he was 13. By the time he finished high school, he owned five retail ski shops in New York and Pennsylvania. After a semester at Villanova University, Mr. Rubin dropped out to start KPR Sports International, which sold off-price sporting goods. In 1997, KPR merged with Ryka Inc., a publicly traded maker of athletic footwear for women; the company later became Global Sports. 
By late 1998, the company was profitable, with $130 million in sales. Yet like many entrepreneurs, Mr. Rubin decided he could not ignore e-commerce opportunities. 
He considered starting an online sporting goods store but felt that he could not compete with established brands. So he decided to join with as many sporting goods retailers as were willing to sign up. 
"People believed we couldn't get competitors to partner," said Michael Conn, Global Sports' senior vice president for business development. Mr. Rubin, however, was so confident he sold all of Global Sports' existing business to focus on the Internet. 
By May 1999, Mr. Rubin had signed up 5 of the top 10 sporting goods retailers. Nearly two dozen have since followed. 
"They are the sporting goods industry online," said John Horan, publisher of Sporting Goods Intelligence, a newsletter. 
MR. RUBIN'S success hinged on an offer that presented little risk for retailers. Global Sports would assume all costs associated with running the online business, including inventory risks. It would pay a portion of sales -- between 5 percent and 10 percent -- to its partners. All the retailer had to do was advertise the online business in its stores. (The arrangement with Kmart is different. Kmart owns the inventory, held in Global Sports warehouses. Kmart pays fees and commissions to Global Sports to run the online operations.)
The economics made sense for Global Sports. Payments to its retail partners were much smaller than what pure-play Internet stores were spending in marketing to acquire customers -- the kinds of costs that had sunk Fogdog.com and MVP.com. 
In October 2000, Global Sports bought Fogdog for $38.4 million in stock, mostly to retain its well-regarded technology team. In September, Global Sports announced it would acquire Ashford.com, a troubled online luxury goods retailer. Mr. Rubin hopes to use Ashford's distribution sites, merchandising team and business relationships to solicit the online business of off-line luxury goods retailers, just as he has done with sporting goods companies.
"I think this can be a multibillion-dollar business that generates terrific cash flow," Mr. Rubin said of Global Sports. 
His boast is reminiscent of the Internet bubble. Yet Wall Street appears to like it. Of five analysts who follow the company, three rate it a strong buy and two rate it a buy, according to Thomson Financial Network, which tracks analysts' ratings.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vickie Stafford Bell, an employee of Global Sports, strings a tennis racket at the company's distribution plant in Louisville, Ky. (David R. Lutman for The New York Times); Michael G. Rubin, 29, the chief executive of Global Sports. He opened his first business, a ski shop, when he was 13. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (76%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (76%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (69%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (64%); SALES PROJECTIONS (62%) SPORTING GOODS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: GSI COMMERCE INC (92%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%); SPORT CHALET INC (54%); ATHLETE'S FOOT GROUP INC (53%); AMAZON.COM INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: GLOBAL SPORTS INC; AMAZON.COM INC 

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); SPCHA (NASDAQ) (54%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS451110 SPORTING GOODS STORES (54%); SIC5941 SPORTING GOODS STORES & BICYCLE SHOPS (54%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (53%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%)

PERSON: HELFT, MIGUEL; RUBIN, MICHAEL G 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



168 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1019 words

PERSON: Helmut Panke 

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
A Loyal Survivor Rises at BMW

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
IT is not clear whether Helmut Panke was surprised, but almost everybody else at Bayerische Motoren Werke A.G. was.
 At what was supposed to be a routine supervisory board meeting on Dec. 3, Joachim Milberg announced that he would retire a year early as chief executive of BMW, the automaker based in Munich. A day later, the company said Mr. Panke would take over as chief executive when Mr. Milberg stepped down in May. A man whose gaunt face and steely manner belie a more extroverted personality, Mr. Panke, 55, is a corporate survivor who had risen to chief financial officer and was Mr. Milberg's preferred successor. 
 On the surface, Mr. Panke, who speaks fluent English and who led BMW's manufacturing foray into the United States 10 years ago, landed one of the best jobs in the industrial world. While bigger rivals are reeling from the global recession and internal problems, BMW is thriving.
Under Mr. Milberg, BMW sold Rover, the money-losing British carmaker, shedding a disastrous acquisition.
Last year, BMW re-established itself as one of the most profitable automakers. Sales rose 11 percent in the first nine months. Thanks largely to its popular X5 sport utility vehicle, which Mr. Panke helped push the company into building, nine-month sales in the United States surged 19 percent.
Unlike most rivals in the United States, BMW did not increase sales with interest-free loans and other incentives that hurt profits. Nine-month operating profit rose 7.5 percent, and net profit rose 64 percent, although the 2000 results were hurt by Rover write-offs.
The stock market value of BMW is higher than that of Volkswagen, even though BMW sells one-fourth as many cars. The once-rampant speculation that BMW would be swallowed by a bigger company like Volkswagen or Ford Motor is gone.
But Mr. Panke will face some difficult and immediate tests. If the global economy remains stagnant, even BMW will be hurt. And Mr. Panke risks a major embarrassment if the 7 Series, BMW's new $70,000 line of cars, is a flop. The 7 Series, billed as BMW's most prestigious, has just gone on sale in America, but the automotive press has already criticized its styling as radical.
And the company is again trying to extend its reach into the lower end of the market. It is producing a new version of the Mini, one of the only Rover lines BMW kept, and a new 1 Series of small BMW's. Even if those succeed, their profit margins are lower than for luxury cars.
Mr. Panke is keeping a low profile until he formally takes the top job; he declined requests for an interview. The day after he was named Mr. Milberg's successor, he told reporters in Munich that he wanted to emphasize "continuity."
His rising influence has been apparent at BMW for some time. A former consultant in Germany at McKinsey & Company, he joined BMW as a senior corporate planner in 1982.
He is a veteran of management turmoil, having navigated two boardroom shake-ups since 1999 and one of BMW's biggest crises -- the problems at Rover. But part of his rise in the company stems from loyalty. While other executives disagreed with Mr. Milberg, Mr. Panke became a trusted lieutenant.
He first attained visibility in the early 1990's, overseeing site selection of BMW's first factory in the United States. He toured the South, talking to people at churches and truck stops and asking about the quality of the schools and whether there was a good work ethic. In 1992, BMW decided to build in Spartanburg, S.C., and Mr. Panke became president of American operations. He is admired by many people in South Carolina.
"I worked with him a long time; he's just a straight-up guy, a very good businessman," said Carroll Campbell, who was governor of South Carolina when BMW was deciding where to build. 
Mr. Campbell, now retired, says that he remained friends with Mr. Panke and that "when he was elevated, he gave me a call."
The Spartanburg plant was a turning point for BMW's American presence. The United States now accounts for nearly one-quarter of BMW's sales and is its biggest foreign market.
Mr. Panke's reputation has also been burnished by his role in persuading BMW to build the X5, aimed at the one in four BMW owners who also has an S.U.V. in the garage. "He clearly recognized that BMW's dependence on car models would be a barrier, as it tried to expand its lineup," said Wesley Brown, an auto industry analyst at Nextrend., of Thousand Oaks, Calif. 
Whatever his virtues, Mr. Panke's career has benefited in part from being out of the line of fire. He had no involvement when BMW's former chief executive, Bernd Pischetsrieder, acquired Rover in the early 1990's and embarked on an ultimately catastrophic plan to expand into mass-market cars.
Mr. Pischetsrieder became locked in internal warfare over strategy and was forced out in 1999 by the board, dominated by Germany's Quandt family.
BMW's top post went to Mr. Milberg, a quiet, onetime professor of industrial organization who had joined the company only six years earlier. Mr. Milberg quickly elevated Mr. Panke to chief financial officer, and both men gradually became convinced that they had to abandon Rover.
Other top executives disagreed and began to undermine Mr. Milberg by making their views known outside the boardroom. That was when Mr. Milberg forced out three members of the management board. Among them was Carl-Peter Forster, the production chief, who is now president of Adam Opel A.G., the German subsidiary of General Motors.
Through the upheavals, Mr. Panke radiated confidence. He defended Rover as long as that was official policy, contending that management could solve the problems.
But when Mr. Milberg went public with plans essentially to give Rover away, writing off billions of dollars, Mr. Panke was on the dais alongside Mr. Milberg, fielding questions. And when BMW began booming again, Mr. Panke behaved as though it had been planned.
In an interview in 2000, Mr. Panke recalled rebutting speculation that BMW was too small to compete against Volkswagen, DaimlerChrysler, Ford and General Motors. "You see?," he said. "Didn't I tell you we would stay independent?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Helmut Panke, the chief financial officer of BMW, at a factory in Munich. He is keeping a low profile before taking charge of the company, one of the most profitable in the industry. (Peter Schinzler/Agency Anne Hamann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); LUXURY GOODS (71%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (71%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (63%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (96%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BAYERISCHE MOTORENWERKE AG 

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (96%); BMW (BIT) (96%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

ANDREWS, EDMUND L; PANKE, HELMUT; MILBERG, JOACHIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



169 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Class Consciousness Comes to Airport Security

BYLINE:  By JOE SHARKEY 

 BODY:
THE velvet rope separating the V.I.P.'s from the hoi polloi has arrived at the airport security gate.
 Deeply concerned that egalitarian pile-ups at crowded checkpoints have caused many formerly frequent fliers to curtail travel since Sept. 11, the nation's airlines have begun setting up special-access security lanes for their most elite customers -- those who fly first-class or who belong to the highest levels of carriers' frequent-flier programs. 
 The airlines defend the new stratification as a necessary nod to customer relations. "As a company that is in a customer-service business we'll continue to look for ways that we can shorten security lines for all of our customers, and to provide customers who pay more to fly with us more with additional benefits and services," said Kurt Ebenhoch, a spokesman for Northwest Airlines. 
All airlines are adding security lanes for everyone's use. But four of the top five domestic airlines -- Northwest, United Airlines, American Airlines and Delta Air Lines -- have installed special lanes to put elite passengers in shorter lines. Only Continental Airlines has not done so, opting instead for additional checkpoints "for all of our customers," said Rahsaan Johnson, a company spokesman.
Flying, of course, has long been socially stratified. For obvious economic reasons, airlines give special treatment to customers who buy expensive first-class or business-class seats. Usually, these passengers are business travelers who pay the highest fares, even for seats in coach. Most business travelers belong to frequent-flier programs, which offer different levels of benefits depending on how many annual miles passengers accrue.
In airports themselves, however, class distinctions have traditionally been muted. Most carriers, for example, keep their membership-only club lounges behind closed doors, marked only with discreet signs.
But with the overall plunge in air travel after Sept. 11, economic catastrophe loomed for the airlines, which depend on business travelers for as much as two-thirds of their revenue. In surveys, airlines discovered that about 25 percent of that core market was cutting back on travel -- not because of fear of flying, but because of the delays and annoyances at crowded, often tense airport security checkpoints.
"The airlines have an obvious and understandable interest in serving their most valued customers," said David S. Stempler, president of the Air Travelers Association, a leading passengers' advocacy group.
V.I.P. lanes are just the beginning, Mr. Stempler and other industry experts say, as airlines scramble to find ways to balance the demands of law enforcement and customer service in a new era of increased airport security. Soon, they say, travelers will have the option of enrolling in a national identification program that will expedite check-ins using a high-technology system to essentially vouch for one's trustworthiness as a security risk.
Several airlines have been working separately on such systems. But with responsibility for airport security scheduled to shift on Feb. 18 from the airlines to the federal government, it's now considered likely that a unified system will emerge. The Air Transport Association, a trade group that represents the airline industry, has told the federal government that it supports such a plan.
One thing is certain: in the future, to get through to the gate faster, you'll need to be on "the list" -- a database of travelers who have applied for and received (most likely by paying a fee) a "smart card" I.D. that can be used for expedited airport security processing. Basically, said Mr. Stempler, the system would "separate airline passengers into two groups: the known and the not-known."
No matter what form such a system eventually takes, most proponents agree that it will have to be voluntary. Using a kind of "reverse profiling" technology, travelers will swipe their I.D. cards through A.T.M.-like devices at security checkpoints. As a guard against counterfeiting, encoded biometrics on the card would enable the device to verify a person's identity through fingerprints, handprints, iris-identification or facial recognition scanning. Then the system would check with a central database to verify that the user was designated an acceptable security risk.
The I.D. system would "separate the people we know -- the ones who are not high-risk -- from the people we don't know," Mr. Stempler said. "You get to go to a shorter line for your security check if you're in the known category. We'd still need to inspect what you're carrying, just as we do with everybody else. But everyone else who we don't know, you spend a little more time on, find out where they're going, what they're doing, where they've been."
Though anyone could enroll in such a system, in practice it would be used mostly by frequent fliers who would be willing to go to the expense and trouble of applying. But in granting more convenience to users, even a voluntary system would exert pressure on regular fliers to join, critics say.
And the idea raises ticklish privacy issues, since both the government and commercial interests, which may be linked to the card as a way of offsetting its cost, may have access to the database. 
There also are questions about the reliability of the technology itself, according to critics. Such equipment often doesn't work, the American Civil Liberties Union said in a study released last week. For one thing, it maintains, facial-recognition systems used by police departments for urban anticrime surveillance are flawed by an unacceptably large number of so-called false positives, which inaccurately match innocent passersby with wanted criminals.
All these questions need to be addressed, Mr. Stempler and others say. Right now, snarled security lines and angry passengers -- no matter how much they pay for their tickets -- pose one of the biggest customer-relations problems in the airline industry's history.
The main goal, Mr. Stempler said, is to enhance security by focusing resources more on high-risk passengers and less on those fliers who are willing to share personal information with security agents. "If you're looking for a needle in a haystack, which is what this is, it's good to try to get rid of as much of the hay as you possibly can," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Facing long lines and angry passengers after Sept. 11, airlines are looking for ways to fill up the skies again. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); AIRLINES (93%); AVIATION SECURITY (91%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); LOYALTY MARKETING (89%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); TERRORISM (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION) 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (90%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (90%); UAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



170 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
The Danger Of Doing Good Deeds

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
DURING the Afghanistan air war, the top military officer of the United States regularly briefed reporters not only on the areas bombed overnight, but also on the number of individual food packets dropped by military cargo planes.
 In a typical briefing on Oct. 22, 2001, Gen. Richard B. Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that "U.S. forces struck in six planned target areas that included airfields and air defenses, command and control facilities, and terrorist forces and camps." Then, barely missing a beat, he added, "We continued our humanitarian airdrop mission Saturday, with four C-17s delivering approximately 52,000 rations." 
 By giving such prominence to the military's airdrop of individual food rations, General Myers left the distinct impression that they played a critical role in the relief effort. But that notion was turned on its head by Andrew S. Natsios, the head of the Agency for International Development, which oversaw the American relief effort during the war.
"There was a symbolic importance to those food drops," said Mr. Natsios at a news conference last week describing the herculean efforts made to transport 200,000 tons of wheat into Afghanistan by December to prevent famine.
But symbolism aside, noted Mr. Natsios, the 2.5 million food rations that were dropped by the American military represented just one quarter of 1 percent of the food needed to feed the Afghan people.
In a country where the people were barely surviving even before Sept. 11 -- after three years of drought and 20 years of war -- the military's individual food rations of peanut butter, Pop-Tarts and lentil stew, spread very thinly across a few remote areas, made little difference, according to relief officials.
But to Pentagon officials, the airdrops were a success on two scores. First, at least some food was delivered to the most desperate Afghans as winter approached. This was important, said Joseph J. Collins, a deputy assistant secretary of defense, because this was the first time the United States had begun fighting a war in a country already suffering from a humanitarian crisis. "This has made humanitarian assistance to distressed populations an integral part of our overall policy, " Mr. Collins said.
Second, the food aid also gave the White House a powerful weapon in the propaganda campaign to convince Afghans that the United States wanted to help them. 
But many private relief agencies have complained that the food drops also caused a dangerous problem by blurring the distinction between humanitarian relief workers and the people fighting the war.
The strongest weapon in the arsenal of relief agencies is their neutrality -- their pledge that they will work to relieve the suffering of all, and not try to help or harm any particular group in a conflict. 
When those food packets started fluttering down from the same people who were bombing the country, it called the neutrality of relief workers into question.
"Those airdrops of ration packets were at the forefront of our concern," said Nicolas DeTorrente, director of Doctors Without Borders, a private charity that takes no government money to ensure its neutral status.
"The packets were quite ineffective in reaching the people in need -- really just a drop in the bucket -- but they presented a real problem by blurring the line drawn between the military and us," he added.
Something similar happened during the Kosovo campaign, when, as American planes delivered bombs, NATO forces built refugee camps in Albania and Macedonia. There, too, relief agencies discovered that a red cross or a red crescent sometimes wasn't enough to maintain their neutrality in the eyes of the people the United States was bombing.
Since the end of the cold war, relief agencies have struggled to capture what they call "the humanitarian space" where they can minister safely to civilians in a war zone. Arguably, this space is more critical than ever, given the character of modern warfare, in which many armies intentionally attack civilians. Today civilians make up 80 percent of wartime casualties. 
"The whole topic is hugely sensitive, much more even than in Kosovo," said Oliver Uhlrich of the United Nations office of humanitarian coordination. "The U.N. is very concerned about maintaining its neutrality."
The U.N., whose World Food Program transports food to people in conflicts and whose refugee organization is charged with caring for those who flee the fighting, is acutely aware of the potential problems created when military forces simultaneously fight and engage in humanitarian activities.
"Civilians are now at the heart of war and it is important that we do all we can to protect them, and to do that we have to be allowed to remain neutral and to be seen as impartial," said Urs Boegli of the International Committee of the Red Cross.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Afghan refugees waiting for food near Kunduz. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (88%); DISASTER RELIEF (88%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); FAMINE (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); AIRLINES (77%); HIJACKING (77%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%); DROUGHT (66%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (83%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (58%) ;AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) 

PERSON: BECKER, ELIZABETH; NATSIOS, ANDREW S 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (96%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



171 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Building With Attitude; 
The 'Look at Me' Strut of a Swagger Building

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL J. LEWIS; Michael J. Lewis, chairman of the art department at Williams College, is the author of "Frank Furness: Architecture and the Violent Mind."

 BODY:
NEW YORK is the only city in the world where the decision to build a cluster of 50- or 60-story buildings could seem an act of modesty. But such is the plan to rebuild the World Trade Center at close to half its 110-story height, as laid out by John C. Whitehead, head of the downtown redevelopment project. This is understandable. Who would duplicate a monument that had already been attacked twice, and expect tenants to move into the world's largest bull's eye? Thus the World Trade Center may well be reborn, in name and in rental capacity, but without the swagger.
 It is not only at Wall Street that monumental gestures have fallen from favor. On the East River, Frank Gehry proposed a new Guggenheim Museum that would have forever altered the city's skyline, a writhing tempest of metal, billowing like a full-rigged ship in a gale. It would have rivaled the nearby Brooklyn Bridge, though it now seems unlikely to happen. Meanwhile, in Chicago, Donald Trump's project for the city's tallest building has been shelved. There, too, swagger is on hold. 
 Each of these might be termed swagger buildings -- arrogant, proud and strutting objects that are the physical manifestations of America's competitive culture. Swagger buildings are distinguished either by exceptional size (the Woolworth Building and the Empire State Building), novel or arresting shape (Frank Lloyd Wright's original Guggenheim Museum), or by some dazzling but purely symbolic gesture (as with Wright's dream of a mile-high skyscraper). They are what happens when the financial power of a corporation is brought to bear on a small speck of urban real estate, and given permission to roar. They are high-spirited, narcissistic and supremely confident; they free inert metal and masonry to dance and caper in the air; they show what should be impossible to show: an earthbound building in the act of having fun.
THE swagger building has but one objective -- to rivet public attention. It is the loud and fascinating stranger who enters the room and instantly changes the tone and direction of conversation. And it is central to the experience of the American city. For all its spirited high jinks, it is engaged in the deadly serious business of making fortunes and casting its rivals into the shadow -- literally, if possible. Swagger buildings herald the entrance of a brash upstart, or anyone who can contrive a splash of color and a bit of architectural turbulence, hoist it against the sky, and trumpet, "I have arrived." They come in successive waves, and their ebb and flow is the visible pulse of the city. 
For swagger buildings can certainly fail. Fashions in architecture can be as fickle as those in clothing -- and these failures are far more difficult to hide in the back of the closet. Not much is needed -- an untimely economic lurch, a shift in the cultural winds, an unfortunate but indelible psychological association -- for a gesture of authority to look like bombastic flailing. When this happens, a swagger building can turn into something like the universally mocked Edsel -- something not merely dated, but whose form is deafeningly and magnificently wrong.
At times swagger itself becomes wrong. Too much agitation on the skyline does not communicate authority but a St. Vitus's dance of gesticulation. And when everyone is shouting, it is the whisperer who gets the attention. Such was the case with the Victorian era. The flamboyant Second Empire style failed so wretchedly after the Civil War that it still looks ridiculous a century and a half later. This style was created in France under Emperor Louis Napoleon, and its jaunty pavilioned towers and bulbous mansard roofs proclaimed affluence and sophistication with a fashionable French accent.
America embraced the style in a collective frenzy after the Civil War. The Old Executive Office Building in Washington is the most conspicuous relic of the style. Typically, though, New York built the most lavish example in its post office, a plump, florid leviathan that transposed the Louvre onto lower Broadway. 
After the Civil War, this festive, haughty style struck a welcome note: cathartic exuberance after the carnage. But in 1870, the vain French emperor blundered into a foolish quarrel with Prussia and was deposed, along with the style that had become his trademark. The prosperous mansard, which once looked voluptuous and vigorous, now looked puffed up and arrogant. New York, ever alert to the vagaries of fashion, jettisoned the style. The enormous Second Empire state capitol in Albany was already half built, but its offending mansard was lopped off. Throughout the country the mansard slunk into disfavor, further tainted by the Panic of 1873.
America is notoriously unforgiving to failed swagger buildings. The nation has never liked being associated with failure, whatever the cause. For Americans, the Second Empire lingers in the collective imagination as something either comical -- the gloomy turreted mansion in Charles Addams's cartoons -- or vaguely sinister -- the looming house of Norman Bates in "Psycho." It is the embodiment of failed ambition and decay. The odium of Louis Napoleon's fall even came to rest, quite unfairly, on the lackluster presidency of Ulysses S. Grant, as the style was incongruously dubbed the General Grant style. 
But swagger cannot be checked for long -- especially for buildings conceived during a period of economic prosperity like the Roaring 20's. This era produced the nation's finest swagger buildings, those Art Deco whimsies with their crisply chiseled walls and tapered shafts that rose to make great swaggering sculptural gestures at their crowns: the helmeted spire of the Chrysler Building or the fantastic Zeppelin mooring mast atop the Empire State Building. Their forms communicated vibrant economic health, the architectural equivalent of flushed cheeks and sparkling eyes.
Modernist architects may have mocked these forms, but their popularity was unassailable. Not until the Depression began were these cheeky and bold gestures regarded as grotesque and inappropriate. It was not the mooring mast that discredited the Empire State building; it was the investors leaping from windows and the apple sellers huddled around its base.
Much the same happened to the swagger buildings of the 1980's. At the start of that restless decade the Trump Tower and the AT&T Building -- with their jolly postmodern rooflines, colored bands of polished granite and sleek glass walls of Darth Vader-like opacity -- were first associated with unbridled economic expansion, later with junk bonds and looming recession. Once again, the psychological connections turned a gesture of confidence into a vulgar and boastful contortion. It will be some time before colored granite stripes are fully rehabilitated.
Now the events of Sept. 11 have again changed the nation's perception of the swagger building, which had recently returned to glory. Every indication suggests that there will now be a distinct moratorium on swagger buildings. But it is certain that they will return. They are, after all, basic to the American vernacular, like the advertising jingle and the billboard. Americans may often resent them and envy them and, sometimes, take malicious glee when their financing fails, but the nation will, nonetheless, find itself wishing for their return -- those cocky and amiable ruffians on the skyline.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A gargoyle atop the Chrysler Building keeps watch over Manhattan skyscrapers in 1931. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); Donald J. Trump's International Hotel and Tower, and globe, at Columbus Circle. (Librado Romero/The New York Times); The Old Executive Office Building in Washington, above, a relic of the flamboyant French Second Empire style, just reeks of affluence. The style lingers in the house from the Hitchcock film "Psycho," right. (Upper right, Office for Metropolitan History; above, Associated Press); (Corbis); Even the proposal of an early version of William Van Alen's Chrysler Building, upper right, already possessed the elan of an important Art Deco swagger building. (Upper right, Office for Metropolitan History; above, Associated Press)(pg. 5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%) ARCHITECTURE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (65%) LEWIS, MICHAEL J (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



172 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1567 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
Housecleaning at Ailing Funds Is Light, So Far

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
AFTER two years of shabby performance for America's growth-stock funds, the housecleaning has begun.
 Some managers with subpar records have been swept out, and some of the worst-performing funds have been shut down or merged into better ones. But the widespread disappointment among investors in hundreds of sagging growth funds has spurred far less change than fund analysts had anticipated. 
 "If it turns out that this is all there is, I would be shocked," said Russel Kinnel, director of fund analysis at Morningstar Inc. in Chicago.
More managers were shown the door in 2001 than in most years, he added, "but it hasn't been tremendous." 
The losses suffered by growth funds certainly have been. In 2001, growth funds -- those that concentrate on buying stocks of large companies expected to grow fast -- lost 23.56 percent of their value, on average, according to Morningstar. That came after a loss of 14.5 percent in 2000.
"There's a paucity of strong managers," said Burton Greenwald, a mutual fund consultant and independent fund director in Philadelphia. "The bull market carried a lot of average, or perhaps mediocre, fund managers to heights that did not reflect their abilities."
Many growth funds soared during the technology stock boom of the late 1990's, so investors who sold them two years ago should have racked up big gains. But those who held on may be finding that all of their paper gains have been wiped out and that their investments are now worth less than when they made them -- even after the stock market's rebound gave most growth funds a boost toward the end of 2001.
The fallout from the growth-fund plunge varies greatly from one company to another. At the money management unit of Merrill Lynch, the two most prominent growth managers, James D. McCall and Paul G. Meeks, have recently been replaced. At Putnam Investments in Boston, which has several underperforming growth funds, managers have been shuffled, and the process of picking stocks and balancing potential risks and rewards is being overhauled.
But some fund companies are sticking by their gunslingers. Consider the Invesco Growth fund, run by the Invesco Funds Group in Denver, which was popular with growth fund investors during the boom. The 2001 performance of Invesco Growth was so poor that even its long-term record turned dismal. On Morningstar's five-star rating scale, it now rates just one star, down from three a year ago and five just two years ago.
By increasing its stake in the technology sector early last year, Invesco Growth's managers compounded their troubles. The fund lost 49.1 percent of its value last year -- more than double the loss for its peer group -- and its assets dipped below $1 billion, about half of what they once were.
At the end of November, according to Lipper, another fund-tracking company, only three large-cap growth funds had bigger one-year losses than Invesco Growth, only five had worse three-year records and only 14 had worse five-year records. Taking into account the taxes its shareholders have had to pay on past gains, the fund's average annual return over the last five years has been a loss of almost 6 percent, according to Morningstar. 
Through the good and the bad, Trent E. May has managed the fund. He and Molly Cisneros, a spokeswoman for Invesco, said they did not expect that to change.
"Our process, I think, is not broken," Ms. Cisneros said. "Our style works well, and investors like it. We are not going to abandon that style."
Mr. May, who is also the lead manager of the Invesco Endeavor fund and helps manage the Invesco Growth and Income fund, said Invesco Growth's long-term record painted too bleak a picture. (All three of Mr. May's funds fell more than 43 percent in 2001.)
"It's been a very disappointing year," he said in an interview from his home in Colorado. "I don't want to underemphasize how disappointing it's been."
But under his management, he said, the fund had performed well through early December 2000. At that point, it was on its way to a sixth consecutive annual gain, he said. But an end-of-the-year swoon sank its return for that year to a loss of 23.9 percent.
In the first quarter of 2001, it lost an additional 40 percent of its value. After rebounding 11 percent in the second quarter, it sank 43 percent in the third.
The wild ride did not end there. As Ms. Cisneros was quick to point out, Invesco Growth had one of the biggest gains of all funds in October and November.
Still, the fund gained about 40 percent in each of its best years, 1997 and 1998. It would have to match that performance in the next two years to make up for last year's loss.
To do that, Mr. May would need a lasting resurgence in the technology stocks that account for more than half of the fund's assets. Despite having dug the fund into a deep hole with an even bigger bet on tech stocks early last year, Mr. May has not looked elsewhere for growth.
HE acknowledged that he and his co-manager, Douglas J. McEldowney, miscalculated in February and March. Thinking that the interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve would spur a quick economic recovery that would benefit technology companies, they raised the fund's stake in tech stocks to as much as 60 percent. 
"We underestimated how much downside there was left in technology," Mr. May said. He and his management team, he added, "didn't cut the numbers enough."
"We became too focused on a company-by-company basis and lost sight of some of the broader portfolio implications," he said. The independent directors of Invesco's funds, most of whom are paid more than $80,000 a year to oversee management of the company's 30 funds, did not call for Mr. May to be replaced, he said, but they did demand improvement in the company's risk controls.
As a result, he said, he tried to reduce the growth fund's risk level by putting more of its assets into companies with stronger balance sheets that would help them withstand a prolonged economic downturn. Invesco's managers also started holding quarterly meetings to discuss the bets they were making and why they were making them, he said.
Firing growth-fund managers because their funds are down in a weak market would not be fair and could prove to be a mistake when the inevitable rebound occurs, Mr. May said. "Had we underperformed when growth was in favor and underperformed when growth was out of favor, that would be a catalyst for change, and I wouldn't expect to survive that," he said.
Some fund companies are not as patient as Invesco.
Harbor Capital Advisors replaced Howard Moss and Blair Boyer of Jennison Associates as the managers of the Harbor International Growth fund in December. The fund lost 38.5 percent of its value in 2001, compared with a loss of 20.65 percent for the typical foreign stock fund. Much worse, for the last three years, its average annual return was a loss of 17.84 percent, more than 14 times the loss recorded by its typical peer.
According to Morningstar, more than 350 funds with at least $100 million in assets have underperformed their peer groups for the last one and three years under the same lead manager. That list includes some of the biggest names in fund management, like Gary L. Pilgrim of Pilgrim Baxter & Associates, Garrett R. Van Wagoner of Van Wagoner Capital Management, Scott W. Schoelzel of Janus Capital and Louis G. Navellier of Navellier Associates.
More than 50 of the funds on that list lost at least 30 percent of their value last year. Four of those belonged to Invesco and five to Putnam.
One standout laggard is Putnam OTC Emerging Growth, which still had more than $3 billion in assets after losing more than 46 percent of its value last year, according to Morningstar. Over the last three years under the management of Michael J. Mufson and Steve Kirson, the fund has lost 15.33 percent a year, on average, compared with a gain of 5.23 percent for the typical mid-cap growth fund.
That means that an investor who gave $10,000 to Mr. Mufson and Mr. Kirson to manage three years ago would have about $6,000 left. In contrast, an investor in the typical mid-cap growth fund would have more than $11,500.
Mr. Mufson and Mr. Kirson still have their jobs, but other managers and analysts at Putnam have lost theirs in a reassessment the company undertook this year, said Stephen M. Oristaglio, senior managing director at Putnam. He said Putnam tried to determine what skills its employees would need in the post-bubble market and whether they had them or would be willing and able to acquire them. 
"When we do all of that, a number of people fall out," Mr. Oristaglio said. "They're no longer with us. The people that aren't up to snuff have been let go."
WHILE most lead managers have kept their funds, he said, some co-managers with different specialties have been added to some Putnam funds. Roland W. Gillis was named co-manager with Mr. Mufson and Mr. Kirson in September, for example.
Dismissing an underperforming manager may be the easy answer, but it is not always the right one, Mr. Oristaglio said.
"There's good turnover, and there's bad turnover," he said. "You've got to be very thoughtful about change."
Mr. Kinnel of Morningstar said he expected that directors of many fund companies would be full of thoughts about change when they met this month and next to review 2001 results.
"My guess," he said, "is the first quarter is going to see a fair amount more turnover."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Through the good and the bad, Trent E. May has managed Invesco Growth. (John Abbott)(pg. 13) Chart: "Where the Managers Stand"After two years of poor performance for growth funds, some managers are being fired or replaced. Here are some of the worst-performing growth funds for 2001, and the status of their management teams. FUND NAME: Vanguard U.S. Growth1-YEAR RETURN: -31.703-YEAR RETURN: -12.64STATUS OF MANAGEMENT: Adviser, Lincoln Capital, replaced in June. FUND NAME: Putnam New Opportunities A1-YEAR RETURN: -30.093-YEAR RETURN: - 4.32STATUS OF MANAGEMENT: Managed by Daniel L. Miller since 1990; Jeffrey R. Lindsey since 1998. FUND NAME: PBHG Growth1-YEAR RETURN: -34.543-YEAR RETURN: - 1.00STATUS OF MANAGEMENT: Managed by Gary L. Pilgrim since 1985. FUND NAME: Harbor International Growth1-YEAR RETURN: -38.543-YEAR RETURN: -18.05STATUS OF MANAGEMENT: Howard Moss and Blair Boyer replaced in December. FUND NAME: Merrill Lynch Global Technology1-YEAR RETURN: -44.013-YEAR RETURN: -11.36STATUS OF MANAGEMENT: Paul G. Meeks replaced in December. FUND NAME: Putnam OTC Emerging Growth A1-YEAR RETURN: -46.123-YEAR RETURN: -15.85STATUS OF MANAGEMENT: A third manager, Roland W. Gillis, added in September. FUND NAME: Invesco Growth Inv1-YEAR RETURN: -49.073-YEAR RETURN: -18.74STATUS OF MANAGEMENT: Managed by Trent E. May since mid-1996. FUND NAME: Merrill Lynch Focus 201-YEAR RETURN: -70.063-YEAR RETURN: N.A.STATUS OF MANAGEMENT: James D. McCall replaced by Michael S. Hahn in November. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); TRENDS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: INVESCO LTD (85%); MORNINGSTAR INC (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESCO GROWTH 

TICKER: IVZ (NYSE) (85%); MORN (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%) SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE; 

PERSON: MAY, TRENT E. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



173 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
An Obscure Bond Manager Caters to Big Clients

BYLINE:  By ABBY SCHULTZ 

 BODY:
WESTERN ASSET MANAGEMENT may be the most obscure big bond manager in the United States. 
 The firm is a subsidiary of Legg Mason, the Baltimore financial services company, which is better known for its stock mutual funds. William H. Miller III, the chief executive of Legg Mason's fund group and the manager of the flagship Value Trust fund, is widely recognized for outperforming the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index for more than a decade. 
 But Western, in Pasadena, Calif., has quietly built a strong reputation among institutional money managers whose fixed-income assets it handles. These include directors of the pension funds of the Connecticut Retirement Plans and Trust Funds, the Illinois State Universities Retirement System, and the California Public Employees' Retirement System, known as Calpers. It ranks as the fourth-biggest bond fund manager for institutional, tax-exempt investors in the United States, according to Pensions & Investments, a trade magazine. 
All told, Western manages nearly $100 billion -- almost two-thirds of all the assets under management by Legg Mason and its subsidiaries, the parent company said. Bonds, however, bring in relatively low fees: the management fee for Western Asset Core, a bond fund sold to institutions, is 0.40 percent, while the fee for Legg Mason Value Institutional is 0.66 percent, according to Morningstar. 
Western's focus has been big accounts, but the firm manages more than $5 billion in bond mutual funds for individual investors, either under its own name or that of Legg Mason, according to the parent company. Western is also making a big push in the business of 401(k) plans, adding $1 billion in such assets in the last year. 
The firm's increasingly high profile is awkward for Western executives who prefer to discuss its investment views directly with their clients instead of in newspaper or television interviews. Western's strategy is to be "low key, to focus on investments and client service and get on with it," said Deepak Chowdhury, managing director for asset management at Legg Mason. The subsidiary's executives, including James W. Hirschmann, the chief executive, and S. Kenneth Leech, its chief investment officer, rarely give interviews. Mr. Leech speaks in public only at occasional gatherings organized by the parent company.
Raymond A. Mason, the chief executive of Legg Mason, says he is comfortable with the subsidiary's relative inaccessibility because of Western's institutional orientation. "In that business, publicity doesn't have a whole lot of value," Mr. Mason said.
Western, which had $3.5 billion in assets when Legg Mason bought it in 1986, caught on with institutional investors because of its performance. The Illinois State Universities Retirement System recently hired Western to manage a $75 million fixed-income portfolio because "they had a long track record that was just outstanding," said John Krimmel, chief investment officer of the Illinois system, with $10.5 billion in assets.
WESTERN'S recent performance, as reflected in its institutional mutual funds, has also been good. Western Asset Core, an investment grade intermediate-term bond portfolio with $630 million in assets as of Sept. 30, according to Morningstar, returned 10.1 percent in 2001, or 1.6 percentage points better than the Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index and 2.7 percentage points better than other funds in its category, according to Morningstar, which gives the fund its top, five-star rating.
Although Western Asset Core and Western Asset Core Plus, a similar fund that holds more mortgage-backed securities, are principally institutional funds, small investors can buy shares in them through Schwab and Fidelity brokerage accounts with minimum initial investments of $2,500, far less than the $1 million required of institutions. 
Legg Mason, however, considers Schwab and Fidelity institutional clients and does not deal directly with retail investors who invest through them, said Thomas J. Hirschmann, manager of Western's institutional funds. Availability through Schwab and Fidelity is useful for financial advisers who want to put clients in funds offered by Western, Mr. Hirschmann said.
Retail investors can also put money into Legg Mason's taxable bond funds or money market accounts. The funds, totaling $3.6 billion in assets as of Sept. 30, have higher expenses and lower returns, however, than the institutional funds. Legg Mason Investment Grade, which returned 6.8 percent in 2001, has an expense ratio of 1 percent, compared with half a percent for Western Asset Core.
"That's a huge difference," said Scott Berry, an analyst at Morningstar.
Mark Fetting, who runs Legg Mason's mutual fund group, attributed the difference primarily to the higher costs involved in pricing a retail product distributed through financial advisers. "The retail funds also have a bit more of a conservative charter," Mr. Fetting said. 
Western uses a team approach, relying on specialists in each bond sector. The firm also uses multiple investment strategies simultaneously, he added, on the theory that if one or two fail, the others will keep the portfolio ahead.
One of Western's goals is to manage interest-rate risk by managing the duration of bonds in the fund's portfolio. The success of Western Asset Core in 2001 had much to do with a bet that the Treasury market would continue to rally, said Mr. Berry of Morningstar.
EXACTLY how Western will manage the portfolio in coming months is unclear. In a meeting organized by Legg Mason last month, Mr. Leech gave some hints of his views. He said the economy was likely to brighten, but that the Federal Reserve was unlikely to be worried about inflation and so was unlikely to raise interest rates. In his opinion, most bond market participants mistakenly believe that the Fed will raise rates by two percentage points by the end of 2002. At most, he said, the climb would be one-half of a percentage point. "Since we're at a cyclical low point right now, monetary policy will err toward an ease," he said.
To achieve higher returns in Western's portfolios, Mr. Leech is likely to look toward bonds like mortgage-backed securities and corporate bonds that yield more than Treasuries. The greatest opportunities will be in junk bonds, because their prices are now deeply depressed, and because the economy is expected to improve, he said.
"We think this has the potential of being the best-performing sector of the U.S. fixed-income markets next year," Mr. Leech said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Unheralded Star"Western Asset Management has been gaining favor with institutional investors because of its strong track record. Graph shows cumulative total returns in 2001 for the LEHMAN BROTHERS AGGREGATE BOND INDEX and the WESTERN ASSET CORE BOND FUND from January-December 2001. (Sources: Lehman Brothers; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); BONDS (92%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); US 401K PLANS (74%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS 

COMPANY: LEGG MASON INC (90%); WESTERN ASSET MANAGEMENT CO LTD (84%); BALTIMORE FINANCIAL SERVICES CORP (58%); PENSIONS & INVESTMENTS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (83%) WESTERN ASSET MANAGEMENT 

TICKER: LM (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (84%) SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE; 

PERSON: SCHULTZ, ABBY 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



174 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2005 words

HEADLINE: All That Easy Credit Haunts Detroit Now 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
WHEN the North American International Auto Show, the Cannes Film Festival of the auto industry, opens here today, the Ford Motor Company will put on a display of its new vehicles. The company hopes to make its mark with a redesigned version of its Expedition S.U.V. and a station wagon from its Volvo unit that looks like it wants to be an S.U.V.
 But the big news will come at the end of the week, after the show ends. That is when Ford is expected to announce a plan to return to profitability by reversing the company's declining quality, cutting costs and perhaps closing plants to ease overcapacity. 
 This year, even during a week when product has always been king, financial matters are front and center. Concerns are growing on Wall Street about the health of the multibillion-dollar credit operations of Ford and, to a lesser extent, General Motors. 
In 2001, total auto sales stayed at a near-record level, especially after Sept. 11, largely because G.M. and Ford leaned heavily on their financing businesses to pump up sales. But that burst of interest-free financing deals was just the latest in a string of deal making that led to swelled portfolios of leases and car loans taken on by Ford Motor Credit and the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, known as G.M.A.C., in the last five years.
Unlike their foreign rivals, which have developed stables of models that buyers actually will pay more for, Ford and G.M. have relied more on incentives like low-interest loans and cheap leases to attract customers. The automakers have ponied up billions of dollars to their financing units to make up the difference on the below-market financing.
In good times, their credit businesses provided either a large part of their earnings or covered operating losses in the automaking business.
Now, with the economy slowing and unemployment rising, the question is whether the credit business will aggravate the effects of the recession instead of cushioning carmakers' bottom lines.
"More of these loans have been going bad, which is why Ford ran into trouble," said Stephen Girsky, an analyst at Morgan Stanley.
"The fact that G.M.A.C.'s loan losses are lower than Ford's, and the fact that their reserve ratios are higher, suggest they have more cushion," he added. "Does that mean it's not going to go bad at G.M.A.C.? No. I think G.M.A.C.'s earnings are going to go down this year. But I don't think it will be as bad as Ford."
Consider Ford Motor Credit. In the first nine months of 2001, it made nearly $1.2 billion, while Ford as a whole lost about $385 million.
G.M.A.C. is expected to have $1.2 billion in earnings in the first nine months of this year, down slightly from $1.3 billion in the first nine months of last year. That means G.M.A.C. is accounting for almost all of G.M.'s operating profits.
Many analysts worry about the potential for even more write-offs as the rate of bankruptcies rises during the recession, leading to more defaults, and as the value of vehicles coming off leases falls because the demand for used cars has flagged.
In the third quarter of last year, Ford Motor Credit's loan losses rose to 1.36 percent of its total loans and leases, up from 0.87 percent in the year-earlier quarter. G.M.A.C.'s loan losses were 0.69 percent in the third quarter, up from 0.6 percent. Both companies have recently bolstered their reserves for future losses, indicating that loan loss rates are continuing to rise.
On one level, the nation's two independent automakers are moving in opposite directions. Ford, previously Wall Street's consensus pick among the Big Three, is coming off a dreadful year that brought more disputes with Firestone and the ouster of its chief executive. The company is expected to report its first annual loss since 1992.
General Motors, whose market share has fallen to less than 30 percent today from 60 percent in 1960, actually gained a sliver of share last year, for the first time since 1988. Its share rose to 28.3 percent, a 0.03 percent increase over 2000, and G.M. will be the only one of the Big Three to record an annual profit.
BUT both G.M. and Ford continue to have problems competing with imports without resorting to heavy subsidies. Banks, in turn, have been fleeing the auto financing business because it is hard to compete with subsidized rates. As a result, Ford Motor Credit financed more than half of the vehicles Ford Motor sold last year, according to the company, up from 37.6 percent in 1996. G.M.A.C. financed more than 40 percent of G.M. sales, up from about 25 percent in 1995.
At G.M.A.C., 85 percent of loans made in 2000 had some subsidy. That compares with about 50 percent in 1996, according to a Morgan Stanley report.
While offering credit to more people has been shown to improve customer loyalty and increase opportunities for marketing to a captive audience, Wall Street analysts debate the extent of risk now inherent in the financing businesses.
Ford's and G.M.'s credit ratings were downgraded two notches last year by Standard & Poor's and Moody's, largely forcing the automakers out of commercial paper and into other, more expensive forms of funding, like turning pools of auto loans into securities. Credit spreads between their borrowing rates and their lending rates have narrowed greatly, further compressing how much they make by financing car purchases.
"They have been a drain this time around," Mr. Girsky said, referring to the credit businesses.
Both Ford and G.M. must set aside capital to shore up the balance sheets of the credit businesses as they make more loans. At the end of 2000, for example, G.M. contributed almost $2.5 billion of its capital to G.M.A.C.'s balance sheet.
"Ford Credit will probably need capital" soon, Mr. Girsky said.
"If you're growing your business, it's one thing to put capital in a company and get a return," he added. "If you're not growing, it's a different story."
Ford and G.M. both acknowledge the diminishing returns of their credit businesses in the contracting economy, but they say that no surprise write-offs are in store.
"Leasing has been a negative for us; I'm not trying to paint it as any kind of positive story," said Bill Muir, the chief financial officer of G.M.A.C. He quickly added that "we have adequately accounted for it and aren't facing any kind of a blowup over it."
Car loans are not the only problem. Leases have become less profitable, too.
Automakers like G.M. give themselves a cushion when valuing leased vehicles. In 1998, Mr. Muir said, G.M.A.C. could take a car returned at the end of a lease and sell it for an average of $1,000 more than what they had estimated when they calculated the lease terms. That gain fell to just $200 last year because many people who might have considered a used car chose instead to use no-interest loans to buy new cars.
Some analysts believe that there is a risk that carmakers could actually start losing money on each leased car. Ford Motor Credit is particularly at risk, they say, because of its more aggressive lending practices.
Another problem for the financing units is the rising number of bankruptcies and defaults.
"We are in a deteriorating economic environment and we are dealing, as all others in the industry are, with a very, very high level of bankruptcies of our customers," said Greg C. Smith, the president and chief operating officer of Ford Motor Credit.
Mr. Smith was installed last month after his predecessor, Donald Winkler, was ousted. Mr. Winkler's resignation came after Ford said it would need to pump several hundred million dollars into Ford Motor Credit because the financing unit had underestimated the amount it would need for reserves, resulting in a $900 million fourth-quarter loss for Ford Motor -- about five times greater than analysts had expected.
Mr. Smith said Ford had tightened its standards as the economy deteriorated, and would benefit from a rebound in the used-car market.
Some analysts said they were surprised that Ford appeared to be suffering more than G.M. "Traditionally, we've considered them as stronger, because they only had one business," said David Andrews, a credit analyst at UBS Warburg.
Ford Motor Credit sticks to auto lending, while G.M.A.C. is diversified into other businesses, like mortgages. In the past, analysts worried that these other businesses came with their own sets of risks that G.M. might not be prepared to handle, although last year mortgages actually cushioned G.M.'s losses on car loans. Some analysts worry that the outlook for mortgage lending and some of G.M.A.C.'s other businesses are still concerns this year.
"They're really pretty much in the same boat," said John Casesa, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. "They have the same set of problems, but Ford Credit's are more acute right now." 
He pointed to the deteriorating credit ratings of the two companies. 
"Both companies are seeing their borrowing costs increase; that's the main difficulty," he added. If the credit rating is cut enough, "the availability of credit diminishes."
All these issues underlie the fundamental problem for Ford and G.M.: their vehicles' overall lack of appeal has been such that they have not been able to compete with imports.
Last year, through November, incentive costs, including subsidized loans, rebates and warranties, rose to $2,291 a vehicle for the Big Three, compared with $1,146 for Asian automakers, according to the AutoData Corporation, a research firm in Woodcliff Lake, N.J. Despite that additional spending, G.M. managed to increase its market share just 0.03 percent last year, while Ford's share fell to 21.9 percent from 23 percent in 2000.
The costs of those incentives add up. In 2000, Ford Motor Credit reported pretax earnings of $2.97 billion. But that same year, Ford Motor spent $3.4 billion to make up for those cheap loans -- a huge expense that reflects more on the health of the auto business than the financing business.
Ford and G.M. are likely to see their market share shrink again this year, when overall sales are expected to fall sharply, analysts say. The companies have little room to maneuver further on pricing while their Japanese competitors benefit from a weaker yen, which declined by 14.6 percent against the dollar last year.
Last week, G.M. said it would change from interest-free financing to offering rebates of $2,002 a vehicle. The new wrinkle, meant to energize consumers again with a deal that seems different, will not lower incentive costs significantly. But at least it should lower the number of deals G.M.A.C. finances.
"We haven't been a drain on resources," Mr. Muir of G.M.A.C. said. "If you go over the past five years, G.M. has still gotten more cash dividends out of us than equity they have put into us."
Mr. Muir believes that as rebates are used and as sales decline, the amount of financing will slow and the need for capital will lessen.
"As the business cools off, we can still maintain our leverage and return a lot of capital to G.M.," he said.
Still, General Motors has other problems, principally rising health care costs and a potential multibillion-dollar deficit in its pension fund.
THE best way to fix these problems is to make vehicles that people will want to buy without any help. For Ford, it means striking the right balance between cost cutting and product planning, and getting the new products right.
G.M. has developed more momentum on the product side, but only very recently. Rick Wagoner, the chief executive of the company, appears to have re-energized G.M.'s design department by hiring Robert A. Lutz, the former president of Chrysler, last year.
Mr. Lutz, the champion of vehicles like the Jeep Grand Cherokee and the PT Cruiser, often compares Detroit to Hollywood. Companies spend a tremendous amount of money each year to develop a few new products, whether movies or car models. If people like enough of them, the production executives are heroes. If they don't, the executives are in trouble.
And that appears to be a fact that no amount of financing, ultimately, can make disappear.

GRAPHIC: Photos: American carmakers leaned heavily on financial incentives to help them battle a flood of hot-selling imports last year. (Bloomberg News)(pg. 1); Donald Winkler resigned as president of Ford's credit unit as loan losses grew. (Wieck); The chiefs of Ford Motor and General Motors, William Clay Ford Jr., top, and Rick Wagoner, must find ways other than subsidized loans to bring buyers into dealers' showrooms. (Agence France-Presse, top; Bloomberg News)(pg. 8) Chart: "Troubling Trends"Subsidiaries of Ford and General Motors have been lending to more customers, but the value of the assets behind those loans has been falling. Figures for 2001 are as of June Graph shows share of retail vehicle sales and leases financed by automaker's credit subsidiary from 1995. Graph shows the change in residual value of a sampling of vehicle types at the end of a two-year lease from 1996. LUXURY CARSMINIVANSLUXURY SPORT UTILITIES (Source: Morgan Stanley)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (75%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%) AUTOMOBILES; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; RENTING AND LEASING; SALES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (83%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); FORD MOTOR CREDIT CO LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); MS (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (55%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS; 

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (52%) HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



175 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
New S.E.C. Rule Starts a Name Game

BYLINE:  By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
AS if it weren't hard enough to tell one mutual fund from another, many sponsors have decided that certain names just don't work anymore.
 So the Safeco Ginnie Mae fund is about to become the Safeco U.S. Government Securities fund, Strong American Utilities has recently morphed into Strong Dividend Income, and Invesco Blue Chip Growth has been renamed Invesco Growth. 
 A new rule by the Securities and Exchange Commission is motivating many of the name changes. The rule requires that by July 31, 2002, funds focusing on particular types of investments put at least 80 percent of their assets in the type of security their names imply. The previous standard was 65 percent, but it was vaguely worded and not an official commission rule. 
"This is more a commission position," said Paul F. Roye, director of the agency's division of investment management. 
In early 2001, when it approved the rule, the S.E.C. estimated that 504 funds did not meet the 80 percent threshold. Some 30 percent of them had large and presumably temporary cash positions, the commission said, but the rest would need to change either their names or their policies.
A sampling of fund families and consultants generally supports the tougher standard. They say that the cost of compliance is relatively small and that funds will still have considerable leeway -- being free to use terms like "growth" or "small capitalization," for example, that refer more to strategies of investment than to types of securities. 
William H. Miller III, a portfolio manager whose Legg Mason Value Trust has beaten the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index for 11 consecutive years, would be unaffected, even though his definition of "value" embraces AOL Time Warner, hardly a value stock by traditional standards. On a price-to-earnings basis, the company's shares are about three times as expensive as the average stock in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
Burton J. Greenwald, a consultant in Philadelphia, was pleased with the S.E.C. rule change. "The name will be more descriptive, and I think the investor will benefit" over all, he said. Mr. Greenwald added, however, that in some cases, funds investing in narrowly defined sectors could become more volatile.
"If you're going to make a bet on telecommunications, it's going to be 80 percent telecom," instead of 65 percent, he said.
TYPICALLY, fund sponsors said in interviews, the new rule was only part of the motivation for name changes.
Safeco, for example, increasingly found Ginnie Mae bonds too confining an investment niche -- one that excluded even the obligations of the company's cousins, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
"It needed to be broadened anyway to make a better product," said Victoria Martinsen, a spokeswoman for the fund. It will be renamed this spring in the normal cycle of shareholder votes.
Similarly, the Growth Fund of the Northwest, already more than 90 percent invested in five of the region's states, is using the occasion of the new requirement to change its name to the West Coast Stock fund, adding California to its investment possibilities. The move gives it "a larger universe to ply our trade," said Randall L. Yoakum, chief investment officer for WM Advisors, the fund's adviser, which is based in Seattle.
The impending bite of the new rule figured in the decision by Southeast Asset Management to close and then last month liquidate Longleaf Partners Realty, a six-year-old, $500 million fund based in Memphis. Because of mergers, conversions to investment trust status and few new public offerings, suitable investment opportunities in its sector shrank severely.
"You might have to force yourself into a company not normally qualifying, just to maintain the 80 percent," said Lee Harper, marketing vice president.
Rule 35d-1, as the S.E.C.'s policy on fund names is now formally known, prohibits names that use terms like "guaranteed" or "insured" in a way that implies federal backing. Even if a fund meets the 80 percent test, the rule says, its name may be misleading if it implies an even higher commitment. Index funds and tax-exempt funds are two examples.
The commission considered but rejected doing away with its policy of requiring bond funds with names that include "short term," "intermediate term" or "long term" to have certain dollar-weighted average maturities -- less than three years for short-term funds, 3 to 10 years for intermediate term and more than 10 years for long term. It said the policy provides "reasonable constraints" against their misuse.
But the rule permits sponsors leeway in various, less definable realms. "The rule does not apply to fund names that incorporate terms such as 'growth' and 'value' that connote types of investment strategies as opposed to types of investments," the commission decided. Nor does the rule cover terms like "balanced," "international," "global" or those describing the capitalization of portfolio companies as small, medium or large.
That means "you can still be 90 percent domestic and call yourself global," said Russel Kinnel, an analyst at Morningstar. But he said that including these terms would have been unnecessarily restrictive. 
For one thing, stocks can migrate between categories. A company that was mid-cap in 1996 might have become a large cap three years later, said Geoffrey H. Bobroff, a consultant in East Greenwich, R.I. The Stratton Growth fund, for example, began life in 1972 by investing in growth stocks but has mutated over the decades to become classified as a value fund. 
Mr. Roye of the S.E.C. said funds needed to maintain flexibility. "There are different ways to achieve an investment strategy," he said. "If we tried to be very specific, we could be out of date five years from now."
Moreover, Mr. Bobroff said fund managers were increasingly sensitive to accusations of style drift -- when portfolios are allowed to stray outside specified parameters. "Buyers have become much more demanding that people stick to a disclosed style," he said.
Nevertheless, while the new rule may help investors make decisions, there is no substitute for looking at what portfolio managers actually buy and sell. 
"Even with added enforcement, the name still doesn't tell you very much," Mr. Kinnel said, pointing to funds that are simply named "Janus" and "Fidelity." "You still have to go by the portfolio."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Niculae Asciu)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); BONDS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); TRENDS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC); STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: INVESCO LTD (91%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); AOL INC (65%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (60%); LEGG MASON INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (93%)

TICKER: IVZ (NYSE) (91%); AOL (NYSE) (65%); LM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (80%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (80%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (65%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (65%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



176 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: Huge Decline Seen In Budget Surplus Over Next Decade 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
Analysts from both parties say the budget surplus for the next decade has shrunk to less than a third of what was projected a year ago, setting up an especially intense partisan battle over taxes and spending in the midst of an election-year recession.
 As the Bush administration and Congress prepare to debate a new round of budget proposals, the analysts said the government's $2 trillion annual budget was likely to end up tens of billions of dollars or more in the red for each of the next several years before returning to surpluses for the rest of the decade. 
 The government will end up in deficit for at least the next few years, they predicted, despite pressure from the White House for budget cuts or freezes in many areas outside the campaign against terrorism.
"We're a world away from where we were at this time last year," said Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, the senior Democrat on the House Budget Committee. "I'm not sure how you solve this equation, arithmetically or politically." 
The new figures, developed separately by the Democratic staff of the House Budget Committee and the Republican staff of the Senate Budget Committee, are an effort to predict official figures to be released by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office this month and the White House's Office of Management and Budget next month. 
The numbers developed by the two staffs are very similar. They provide a clear sense of the scale of the reversal in the nation's fiscal fortunes in the wake of the economic downturn, the Sept. 11 attacks and the $1.35 trillion tax cut President Bush pushed through last year over opposition from most Democrats.
With the money drying up and Democrats and Republicans facing painful choices between cutting the budget and abandoning any pretense of fiscal responsibility, the political and economic considerations are complex. 
Democrats have attacked the Bush tax cut, arguing that it has sliced deeply into the surplus, and they are trying to link it to the recession by suggesting that the resulting budget problems are keeping long-term interest rates higher than they would normally be during a downturn. 
Mr. Bush and Republicans on Capitol Hill are defending the tax cut as appropriate medicine for the weak economy and using the figures to increase pressure on Democrats to hold down spending increases.
In his weekly radio address, President Bush said he would meet with his economic advisers when he returned on Monday from a trip to California and Oregon, "to discuss the latest economic data and work for a quick recovery for our economy." He urged Congress to act on his proposals, which include further tax cuts and provisions to benefit unemployed workers, ideas that would further increase the deficit.
With surpluses apparently having given way to deficits in the short run, and with the long-term surplus a fraction of what was anticipated a year ago, both parties are being forced to scale back plans for initiatives like providing retirees with help buying prescription medicine.
They also seem to have little chance of making good on their pledges to use the part of the budget surplus generated by Social Security to pay off most of the $3.3 trillion national debt in the next decade.
In a report completed on Friday, the Democratic staff of the House Budget Committee estimated that the surplus for the 10 years ending in 2011 would be $1.79 trillion, compared with a projection by the Congressional Budget Office a year ago of $5.61 trillion for the same period. The 10-year outlook is likely to be slightly brighter in the forecast the Congressional Budget Office will release this month, because that projection will add the estimated surplus for 2012 and drop the presumed deficit for this year.
The Democratic analysts said the budget for the current fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30, was on track to run a deficit of at least $3 billion. That figure, though, rests on the assumption that Congress and the administration do not increase spending on the war, domestic security and programs like aid to farmers. 
More likely, the Democrats said, the deficit this year will be a minimum of $15 billion once those issues are addressed, and much more if the two parties agree on an economic recovery package. Just a month ago, the two parties were considering economic stimulus plans that would have cost as much as $90 billion this year.
For next year, the Democratic analysis said, the deficit would be at least $43 billion and more likely would be $70 billion or above.
In a report completed last week, the Republican staff of the Senate Budget Committee estimated that the surplus for this fiscal year through 2011 would be $1.86 trillion. 
The Republican analysis showed the government eking out a $1 billion surplus this year and next year. But because that projection did not account for the near certainty that Congress would approve more money for fighting the war and for other issues, Republicans said they assumed the budget would end up tens of billions of dollars in deficit for those years, especially given the election-year pressure on both parties to increase spending.
"It puts a lot of things in a tight box," said G. William Hoagland, the Republican staff director for the Senate Budget Committee. 
Both the Democratic and Republican figures show the government dipping into the Social Security surplus to pay for general government operations for most of the decade, significantly reducing the amount of money available for debt reduction. 
"If we had one agreement that was bipartisan and bicameral, it was that we would save the Social Security surpluses by buying up the national debt," Mr. Spratt said. "As you go through these numbers, you see any hope of accomplishing that dashed."
The worsened fiscal outlook has created a bind for Mr. Bush, whose team is completing the budget plan he will submit to Congress on Feb. 4, covering the fiscal year that starts on Oct. 1. Mr. Bush is scheduled to meet in the coming week with his budget director, Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., to sign off on the final numbers.
Mr. Daniels said he expected the administration's deficit and surplus projections to be similar to those of the Congressional Budget Office and those developed by analysts within the two parties. He said that the 10-year surplus projections would be scaled back substantially, and that for the next two years the budget would be roughly in balance before the costs of any new initiatives.
Mr. Daniels said the budget that Mr. Bush will submit will call for overall growth in spending, primarily by increasing financing for the Pentagon and for domestic security programs.
"You can look for the rest of government to grow, but much more slowly," he said. "
Administration officials said that programs like the National Science Foundation and the Women, Infants and Children program, which provides healthy food to poor children and pregnant women, would get more money under their plan.
But Congressional aides from both parties said the administration has signaled that it intends to freeze or cut many other programs, including the Smithsonian Institution and the Army Corps of Engineers, all of which have powerful patrons inside and outside Congress.
Senator Kent Conrad, the North Dakota Democrat who is chairman of the Budget Committee, said the budget squeeze was a direct result of Mr. Bush's tax cut, which he said was sold on the basis that last year's surplus projections were, if anything, too pessimistic.
"Now we're seeing real consequences, in terms of seeing a flood of red ink facing us not just this year but for years to come," Mr. Conrad said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "UPDATE: As Surplus Shrinks, Painful Choices Loom"Two similar new projections for the 10-year budget surplus ending in 2011 seem to predict an especially intense year of partisan budget battles. January 2001 -- President Bush is inaugurated.March -- Recession begins.June -- President Bush signs $1.35 trillion tax cut.August -- Unemployment rate reaches 4.9 percent.September -- Terrorist attacks.December -- Unemployment reaches 5.8 percent. Graph tracks projections of the federal budget surplus, 2002-2011Congressional Budget OfficeCongressional budget committees(Sources: Congressional Budget Office; Congressional budget committees)(pg. 21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (98%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TERRORISM (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); HIJACKING (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (69%); COUNTERTERRORISM (68%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN SPRATT (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



177 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-12

A Handshake, but No More, For India and Pakistan
At a South Asian summit meeting in Katmandu, President Pervez Musharraf offered his hand to the leader of his nation's rival, India. Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee shook it, but then remarked that he had had enough of symbolic gestures from Pakistan, which he says has failed to block militant groups he claims are responsible for attacks in India. 8

Pakistan has broadened a crackdown on extremist religious groups. 8

Optimism from Mideast Envoy
Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, the Bush administration's Middle East peace envoy, pronounced himself encouraged after meeting Palestinian officials, despite the debate surrounding Israel's seizure of a ship carrying arms that it said were destined for the Palestinian Authority. 12

NATION CHALLENGED 14-17

Shady Deals in Jalalabad Now That Taliban Are Gone
The centuries-old smuggler's den has returned to its old ways -- since the Taliban left, shady deals are again the rule of the day, with bootlegged Hollywood movies and hashish available to the highest bidder. 1

U.S. Holding bin Laden Aide
The United States has taken custody of Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi, one of Osama bin Laden's top paramilitary trainers and the most senior Al Qaeda member seized in the war in Afghanistan, American officials said. 1

Learning From Anthrax
Health officials acknowledge that the handling of the anthrax outbreak was marked by a catalog of miscalculations, missteps and misunderstandings about bioterrorism. 1

NATIONAL 18-24

Bush Vows to Fight Any Tax Cut Reversal
President Bush, trying to turn the national discussion back to strategies for ending the recession, declared at a California town hall meeting that Democrats would reverse his tax cut "over my dead body." He urged Americans to rally behind his economic program the way they have rallied behind the war on terrorism. 1

Decline in Surplus Predicted
Analysts from both parties say the budget surplus for the next decade has shrunk to less than a third of what was projected a year ago, setting up an intense partisan battle over taxes and spending. 1

60's Figure Goes on Trial
The former H. Rap Brown, now a Muslim cleric, faces a murder trial next week in a case that has proved divisive in Atlanta. 18

Texas Primary Heats Up
The Democratic Party's primary for governor grew much more complicated just before the final filing deadline. Now two viable candidates are competing to lead the ticket. 18

Pilot Crashes Plane Into Tower
A teenage student pilot flew a single-engine Cessna into a bank tower in downtown Tampa, Florida, killing himself but apparently no one else, government officials said. 18

Push for Columbine Inquiry
The parents of a student killed at Columbine High School think they can now prove their son was accidentally shot by the police. 22

An Author Apologizes
The historian Stephen E. Ambrose acknowledged that he had copied sentences and phrases in his best-selling book "The Wild Blue" from another historian's work. He apologized and said it was inadvertent. 23

NEW YORK/REGION 25-29

Mayor Brings Gadgets And Questions to Office
Among Michael R. Bloomberg's first actions was to install 35 special computer terminals made for his information company in the mayor's office. While the donation does not violate conflict-of-interest rules, the incident indicates how difficult it will be to separate the mayor from the company that bears his name. 1

New York's First Daughter
Many mayors have had first ladies who oversee the formal world of Gracie Mansion. Some have had first girlfriends. (Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani had both.) But the most prominent woman in Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's public and private life is his elder child, Emma B. Bloomberg. Since deferring graduate school last year, she has been a tireless advocate for her father. 25

Neediest Cases 28

OBITUARIES 30-31

Sam Mockbee
An architect and teacher whose commitment to bringing high-quality building design to the most impoverished residents of rural Alabama inspired other architects, he was 57. 30

Chess 29
Weather 33

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); ANTHRAX (87%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (83%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); SMUGGLING (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CANNABIS (74%); HISTORY (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); SHOOTINGS (71%); RELIGION (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (70%); BUDGETS (69%); TAX LAW (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); RECESSION (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); HIGH SCHOOLS (62%); FILM (52%); GOVERNORS (52%); MURDER (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JALALABAD, AFGHANISTAN (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (92%); NEPAL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



178 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: BUSH, ON OFFENSE, SAYS HE WILL FIGHT TO KEEP TAX CUTS 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Jan. 5 

 BODY:
President Bush used his first major appearance of the new year today to declare to an audience in central California that Democrats would reverse the tax cuts of last year "over my dead body."
 In a swing through two states he lost in the 2000 election, Mr. Bush tried to turn the national discussion from the war on terrorism back to strategies for ending the recession and easing unemployment, the issues his political aides believe will dominate this year's midterm elections. 
 Mr. Bush's flat declaration today, aimed at Tom Daschle, the Senate majority leader, echoed his father's pledge at the 1988 Republican national convention in New Orleans, "Read my lips: No new taxes." President George Bush backed away from that promise two years later, at tremendous political cost, a lesson his son is said to have taken to heart. 
While never mentioning Mr. Daschle's name today, President Bush used a "town meeting" in Ontario, Calif., to ridicule the Democratic leader's critique of the effects of the tax cut last year. He urged Americans to rally behind his economic program, stalled in the Senate, the way they rallied behind his war.
"There are going to be people who say, 'We can't have the tax cut go through anymore,' " said Mr. Bush, who appeared relaxed and to be enjoying himself after 10 days at his Texas ranch. "And I challenge their economics when they tell you raising taxes will help the country recover."
Then, after a pause, he added: "Not over my dead body will they raise your taxes." The members of crowd, which included many Latinos who have settled here in what Californians call the "Inland Empire" about an hour and a half drive east of Los Angeles, roared with approval.
Mr. Daschle, considered a potential candidate for the Democratic nomination for president in 2004, has so far avoided calling for a reversal of the 2001 tax cut. But in a speech on Friday, he accused President Bush and the Republicans of triggering the "most dramatic fiscal deterioration in our nation's history" by pushing through the cut, which will amount to $1.35 trillion over the next decade unless it is amended.
Today, in a statement issued after Mr. Bush's speech, Mr. Daschle suggested that the president had deliberately distorted Mr. Daschle's views.
"No amount of hot rhetoric will get the economy back on track," he said. "Let me be clear, I proposed short-term tax cuts to create jobs and generate investment and long-term fiscal discipline, not tax increases."
Mr. Daschle repeated his argument that the tax cuts had reversed an era of fiscal discipline and turned surpluses into deficits. "It is time they explain to the American people what they intend to do about the hole they dug," Mr. Daschle said of the Republicans.
Mr. Bush's swing through the West Coast today was intended to focus on the problem of rising unemployment, especially here in Oregon, which has the highest unemployment rate in the country, 7.4 percent. But he made no new proposals, and his aides referred reporters to legislation passed by the House, but not by the Senate, that would extend unemployment benefits and help the unemployed continue their medical insurance.
In Portland this afternoon, Mr. Bush repeated his argument to an enthusiastic crowd, but avoided repeating "over my dead body." He said simply, "The answer for those who want to raise our taxes is no."
He told the Portland audience there were already some reasons to hope economic recovery was under way, though he did not square that with his call for more stimulus. "I believe 2002 is going to be a fabulous year for America," Mr. Bush said.
In past years, political debate in Washington would center on what kind of compensating cuts would be made to avoid increasing the deficit. But neither party is talking in those terms now. Mark McClellan, a domestic policy adviser, said only "our goal is to stay out of deficits by restoring economic growth as quickly as possible."
Mr. Bush also used the Portland speech to suggest for the first time that voicing a terrorist creed would be viewed by his administration in the same terms as committing an act of terrorism. He told the crowd that anyone "who espouses a philosophy that's terrorist and bent, I assure you we will bring that person to justice." His aides did not elaborate.
In his speech in California and at a question-and-answer session today where he roamed the stage, Mr. Bush previewed his political strategy for the coming months -- a blend of counterterrorism and counter-Daschleism. He began with an account of America's military successes in Afghanistan, mentioning Osama bin Laden once in passing. Then Mr. Bush wove to the need to back up military success with the adoption of his economic strategy.
"It's time to take the spirit of unity that has been prevalent in fighting the war and bring it to Washington, D.C.," he said.
In the past few days his aides have subtly tried to merge the two issues by dropping their references to an "economic stimulus plan" in favor of a slightly different locution, calling the same legislation an "economic security plan." That puts it on the same level as an initiative stalled in the Senate, the president's "energy security plan."
It is a clear effort to blunt the Democratic strategy of backing Mr. Bush on the war and battling him on domestic issues, starting with the economy. In recent days Mr. Bush's top advisers, led by Karl Rove, the president's chief political adviser, and Karen P. Hughes, have mapped out a strategy that tries to capitalize on Mr. Bush's tremendous approval ratings to win early legislative victories once Congress is back in session at the end of the month.
Time may be short. The White House suspects those approval ratings are bound to drop as the shock of the Sept. 11 attacks wears off.
Today, Mr. Bush combined techniques from the campaign with the more serious demeanor he has gained since Sept. 11. "Now that I'm in California I've got to walk around like a talk show host," he joked as he took a microphone and wandered amid the friendly crowd. He preceded his economic discussion with a moment of remembrance for Sgt. First Class Nathan R. Chapman, an Army Special Forces soldier from San Antonio, who on Friday became the first American soldier killed by hostile fire in Afghanistan.
But Mr. Bush said little new about the war and offered no hint of where it would lead next, but twice he called the effort in Afghanistan "the first front," reminding his audience that he was committed to routing out terrorist groups elsewhere.
He focused his foreign policy remarks on the need to develop a middle class in Mexico, a favorite issue of his before Sept. 11, and one that fits into his economic plans.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a town meeting in Ontario, Calif., President Bush urged Americans to support his economic program. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); HISTORY (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); TERRORISM (56%) TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); TOM DASCHLE (89%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DASCHLE, TOM (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) OREGON

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



179 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
ForgottenIn the Boom, Hard Truths Are Relearned

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 Here are a few lessons gathered from the recession so far.

DON'T SEND CONGRESS TO DO AN ADULT'S JOB -- Given an opportunity to take quick action to help laid-off workers and encourage companies to begin investing in equipment again, Democrats and Republicans on Capitol Hill failed to pass a stimulus bill. They circled each other for three months in the fall, then concluded that they would rather debate ideology in the 2002 elections than compromise and act quickly to help their constituents.
 In a closely divided government, the outcome was no surprise. But it underscored the primacy of monetary policy in responding to the business cycle. Alan Greenspan and his colleagues at the Federal Reserve began their aggressive interest rate reductions long before it was clear that the economic slowdown would become a downturn, and they eased policy four times just in the three months after Sept. 11.

IN TIME, BUTTER TRUMPS GUNS -- Asked to name the top issues for the government to address, respondents to a Harris Poll put terrorism at the top of the list in October, at 43 percent. The economy was second, at 20 percent. But by mid-December, after the recession had been made official, the economy was No. 1, at 32 percent, with terrorism at 22 percent.
Right now, Americans feel good about their government in general and about President Bush in particular. But the polling figures are a reminder that when voters go into the ballot box, they think first of their own livelihoods -- and just as they reward the party in power when times are good, they punish it when jobs are disappearing and incomes stop growing.

BUDGET PROJECTIONS ARE BUNK -- A year ago, the Congressional Budget Office forecast that the federal government would run a surplus over the next decade of $5.6 trillion. When the office releases new projections in a few weeks, the comparable figure is likely to be $1.5 trillion to $2 trillion.
Some of the swing is a result of the $1.35 trillion tax cut that President Bush signed into law in June. But most of it is a result of the weaker economy, which in a few months has altered the nation's agenda for 10 years or more by eating up the revenue that both parties had counted on to pay for favored programs.

ECONOMIC NATIONALISM IS ALIVE -- Globalization is making national borders less and less relevant to economic life. Consider Europe, where a dozen nations have put aside monetary sovereignty and cultural identity to bind themselves to a single currency and supranational institutions like the European Central Bank.
But Europe would do well, as it celebrates the successful launch of the euro, to take a look at Argentina, which is being ripped apart by a currency crisis. Argentina tried the developing-world version of what Europe is doing; it tied its currency, the peso, to the United States dollar, effectively giving up control of monetary policy in exchange for lower inflation. But when the economy went into a tailspin, Argentina had no way to respond.
The results seem likely to include not just a repudiation of the peso-dollar link, but also a backlash against the proponents of that link, primarily the United States and the International Monetary Fund. Argentina, having defaulted, is free to pursue a more protectionist, inward-looking brand of politics.

DON'T TRUST IDEAS BORN IN A BOOM -- When capital is cheap and everyone is looking for a quick score, investors and executives tend to adopt strategies built on the notion that they will succeed because everything else is succeeding. During this business cycle, the dot-coms were the first casualty of that idea, followed by much of the telecommunications industry, airlines and, most recently, the Enron Corporation.
More nasty surprises are in store for investors and employees in other industries that are now being tested by a downturn. As they emerge, so will increased pressure for tighter regulation and new standards for auditors and stock analysts.

A PRODUCTIVITY "MIRACLE" WASN'T QUITE -- The most important economic development of the last decade was the surge in the growth of productivity, the most basic measure of business efficiency and the key variable in the economy's capacity for long-term expansion. Productivity growth has held up reasonably well through the recession, suggesting that its improvement is more than a cyclical phenomenon. But the latest estimates suggest that the surge was not quite as pronounced as initially thought. When the recovery begins, the ebullient "new paradigm" optimism of the late 1990's will have to give way to a more tempered but still upbeat outlook.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the quarterly change in gross domestic product at an annual rate, adjusted for inflation. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EURO (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); TAX LAW (73%); BUDGET FORECASTS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (61%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); INTEREST RATES (54%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (75%); ALAN GREENSPAN (54%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



180 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Landlord Prepares For a U.S. Makeover

BYLINE:  By IRA BRESKIN 

 BODY:
MANY Canadians harbor resentment toward the enormous shadow cast by the United States on topics from beer to hockey to vowel sounds. That sweeping generalization may soon apply to commercial real estate.
 Some of the biggest commercial landlords in North America are based in Canada. But one of them has renounced its national roots, and in the next few months, if shareholders approve, it will become a naturalized American corporate citizen. 
 The company, the TrizecHahn Corporation, which already manages trophy properties like the Sears Tower in Chicago, the Grace building in New York and the new Hollywood and Highland center in Los Angeles, home of the Academy Awards, is literally moving from Toronto to New York. The move involves some workers, furniture and even its share listing, which is shifting from the Toronto Stock Exchange to the New York Stock Exchange. 
Moreover, Trizec is moving in to New York just as some companies, rattled by the Sept. 11 attacks, are thinking of moving out.
Trizec officials said they were unaware of any company that had undertaken a similar change. Business historians said the only other remotely comparable example that came to mind was the 1986 relocation of Massey-Ferguson Ltd., a financially troubled maker of farm machinery, from Toronto to Buffalo. That company, which traced its Canadian roots back to the mid-1800's, changed its name to the Varity Corporation and was later sold in pieces to other companies.
Under Trizec's makeover, the company would sell all its properties in Canada and Europe. That would leave it focused solely on office buildings in the United States, where it owns or manages about 49 million square feet of space -- the equivalent of more than three World Trade Centers.
That would make Trizec the second-largest publicly traded real estate company in the country, behind Equity Office Properties of Chicago, controlled by the investor Sam Zell, which has 125 million square feet of office space.
The change is more than just a statement about Trizec's direction. It also reflects a broader acknowledgment that even with a slumping economy, the United States offers the kinds of tax advantages and business incentives for commercial real estate companies that Canada and other countries do not.
"We decided to create a structure that is reflective of the reality of our business," Christopher Mackenzie, Trizec's president and chief executive, said in an interview. "We decided to sell out in Canada because we didn't see the same growth opportunities as in the United States."
MR. MACKENZIE, a Briton who previously ran the European operations of GE Capital, has no second thoughts about overlooking national identities for business advantage in a global economy. His conversion strategy will qualify Trizec for significant tax breaks that it plans to share with current investors, on both sides of the United States-Canada border,and to use those breaks to attract new investors.
Trizec's change may not sit well with everyone, particularly Canadian nationalists who have lamented what they see as the growing hegemony of American companies. But so far no organized opposition has surfaced in Canada, partly because Trizec is shedding its Canadian assets.
"No one would quibble with this specific company moving," said Stephen Blank, a professor of international business and management at Pace University's Lubin Business School in New York.
But others say Trizec's move will be watched closely by other Canadian businesses. "This could be the precursor of more relocations, more similar actions because of the large investment Canadian comapanies have in U.S real estate," said Peter Morici, a professor at the University of Maryland's business school and an expert in Canada trade.
Mr. Mackenzie has been working on Trizec's makeover since he became chief executive in December 2000. Trizec's chairman, the billionaire financier Peter Munk, who also heads the Barrick Gold Corporation, hired him after Trizec had diversified, without much success, into hotels and retailing properties.
The plan to leave Canada was announced with little fanfare on Sept. 24, less than two weeks after the attack on the World Trade Center. Senior managers said the attack and its aftermath had not delayed the change, which still must be approved by American and Canadian shareholders in separate votes scheduled for late March or early April. Under the change, Trizec would convert into a real estate investment trust, or REIT, the structure adopted by its major American competitors because of significant tax advantages.
REIT's pay no federal income tax on profits distributed to shareholders. Moreover, by moving to the United States, Trizec will no longer pay a 10 percent tax on dividends distributed to its United States shareholders, as currently required under federal tax law.
"I think the reorganization is terrific for investors," said Lee Schalop, an analyst at Banc of America Securities in New York. "It gives them a security that's comparable to other competing companies."
The company's recent share performance, however, does not necessarily show enthusiasm. They traded in the $18 range after the plan was announced but closed on Friday at $16.05.
While Trizec's move to the United States is unusual, the company is taking extraordinary steps to accommodate shareholders in Canada.
After the change, Trizec's remaining non-office properties will be owned and packaged for sale by Canco, a new sister Canadian company owned by Trizec's Canadian shareholders. Canco will maintain a shareholder dividend equivalent to that of the Trizec REIT. It will also have a roughly 40 percent stake in the REIT, the same percentage that Canadian investors now hold in Trizec.
Those conditions are meant to satisfy regulators in both countries, which require that each company is majority owned by local taxpayers in order to minimize their tax liability.
REGARDLESS whether Trizec's reorganization benefits the company's shareholders, its United States tenants should expect to pay higher rents.
Mr. Mackenzie said the company's strategy is to continually upgrade properties to justify higher rents at lease expiration. And, he added, Trizec's office properties are currently almost fully booked -- at rents about 27 percent below average market rates.

GRAPHIC: Photos: TrizecHahn, headed by Peter Munk, above left, and Christopher Mackenzie, above right, manages American properties like the new Hollywood and Highland center, top, and the Sears Tower in Chicago. (Canadian Press, left; Bloomberg News); (Agence France-Presse); (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); NATURALIZATION (77%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); APPROVALS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (66%); TAX INCENTIVES (65%); INTERVIEWS (64%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (55%); HISTORY (52%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; TAX-SHELTERED INVESTMENTS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

COMPANY: TRIZECHAHN CORP (72%); VARITY CORP (67%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (61%); TMX GROUP LTD (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: TRIZECHAHN CORP 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (61%); GEC (LSE) (61%); GE (SWX) (61%); GE (NYSE) (61%); X (TSX) (56%); TXQ (FRA) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (72%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (72%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (67%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%) SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES; 

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (79%) MACKENZIE, CHRISTOPHER; BRESKIN, IRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%) NEW YORK CITY; CANADA; TORONTO (ONTARIO)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



181 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
Fixing Argentina: Whose Job Is It?

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA 

 BODY:
ON the day he was designated Argentina's fifth president in two weeks, Eduardo Duhalde cautioned his countrymen not to try to fix blame for the country's chaos. Then he did just that. 
 "It's time to tell the truth," he told the Argentine Congress last week. "Argentina is bankrupt. Argentina is destroyed. This model has destroyed everything." 
 Many Argentines had expected him to announce the end of their unique decade-old plan that pegged their peso to the dollar -- a plan that shrank Argentina's hyperinflation to single digits before turning into a drag on the economy during the last four years of recession.
Mr. Duhalde still is expected to dump the peso peg. But his speech could also be read as a condemnation of a much broader economic model, the one sold by Washington all over Latin America that consists of deregulated markets, privatized state businesses and liberalized trade rules for once-closed economies.
Regardless of how long he lasts in office, Mr. Duhalde has already raised questions sure to complicate American relations with Argentina and, perhaps, other Latin countries: What is the responsibility of the United States for the economic meltdown and the shadow it casts on Argentina's political future? And what responsibility does it have for getting the problems fixed before they spread to other Latin countries?
Many developing countries bought Washington's economic model in the 1990's, but none more wholeheartedly than Argentina, which for a few years became a symbol of the model's success. Certainly, no other country went so far as to adopt its exchange rate plan.
President Bush sent Mr. Duhalde an encouraging note last week, but his underlying message was the same one he gave all the players in Argentina's recent game of presidential musical chairs: "You got yourselves into this mess, so get yourselves out. Then we'll talk about help."
In fact, the Bush administration has been distancing itself from Argentina for a year, calculating that the country's financial troubles will not spill over to other countries, as happened when Mexico's currency collapsed in 1994-1995. In that case, President Clinton hammered together a $50 billion rescue plan -- the kind of bailout that the Bush administration now rules out.
There is an important distinction to be made between the United States's closest and most distant Latin neighbors. "Historically, in the south, the most important relationship has been with the United Kingdom," rather than with the United States, said Guillermo O'Donnell, a professor of government at the University of Notre Dame. This is true even for resentments. Professor O'Donnell, an Argentine, said Mexicans still pine for Texas and California the way Argentines gaze at Britain's Falkland Islands. Mexico sends 85 percent of its exports to the United States, but less than 12 percent of Argentina's trade is with the United States.
But that is not to say that the United States, as the hemisphere's dominant power, has exerted no influence on Argentina. President Jimmy Carter's focus on human rights put pressure on Argentina's military regimes in the 70's. Later, Argentina's generals were gravely disappointed when the Reagan administration opposed their disastrous effort to seize the Falklands, then backed the country's return to democracy.
WHAT followed was something of a honeymoon. Argentina freed itself of economic chaos by hitching its future to Washington's broad economic vision of free, competitive global markets. Under Carlos Menem and Fernando de la Rua, it drew close enough to the United States to be accused by Fidel Castro of "licking the Yankee boot." The crowning touch, the currency peg, was adopted in 1991 as the brainchild not of Washington, but of Economics Minister Domingo Cavallo. 
"It's true that the United States didn't cause Argentina's problems in the direct sense of imposing a particular mechanism," said Manuel Pastor, professor of Latin American and Latino studies at the University of California, Santa Cruz, referring to the currency peg. "But we have been going through most of Latin America offering advice and pushing people toward liberalization and privatization." So, he says, Washington does share responsibility for the current chaos. "Having prescribed the tonic for all these countries," he said, "we should be willing to help when the tonic proves toxic."
Others insist that it is not the economic model that is at fault in Argentina but the specific mechanism of the currency peg. "It is an absolutely fundamental error for someone to conclude that Argentina is in a mess because it embraced market economics," said John O'Leary, a former ambassador to Chile from 1998 to 2001. If market economics were at fault, he said, Chile could not have achieved the solid economic base it now has.
Chile can place its debt on the international markets at competitive rates. It has lowered tariffs and may sign a free trade deal with the United States this year. Most important, it has shown a restraint unknown in Argentina. Its public debt is about $5 billion. Argentina's, with twice the population, exceeds $130 billion. 
But the arguments for the United States taking greater responsibility in the Argentine crisis go beyond mere economics. Argentina is a big player in the neighborhood that the Bush administration insists is closely linked to the United States' future. The democracies Washington has supported in the region are fragile to some degree. As the open market model has sputtered from country to country, democracy itself has become less popular, paving the way for populists like Venezuela's Hugo Chavez to hoard power. 
Given his early comments, and his history as a free-spending, crowd-pleasing governor, Mr. Duhalde worries those who feel him capable of a similar course.
Latin America as a whole remains plagued by deep inequality and unemployment, and with few exceptions -- Mexico and Chile are the major ones -- free-market reform plans have disappointed those who expected them to solve those deeper problems. An overt repudiation of the open market in a frantic Argentina would reverberate across the region, challenging uncertain democracies like those in Ecuador and Peru, while fanning the embers of anti-Americanism.
And then there is the fact that a default on its debt by Argentina would be the largest in history. Outsiders have had the chance to safeguard savings, but these are somewhat uncharted waters. Some of the economic analysts who have confidently predicted there will be no contagion effect on other countries are the same ones who denied that Mexico was in trouble in 1994.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amid Argentina's economic chaos, stone-throwing demonstrators helped upend the government last month. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BAILOUTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); RECESSION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); GREGORY C CASE (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%) DEPALMA, ANTHONY; DUHALDE, EDUARDO (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (79%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



182 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Seeing Is Believing; 
America as Reflected in Its Leader

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IS it him, or is it us?
In the four months since Sept. 11, President Bush has seemed transformed from a casually educated son of privilege into a mature leader of a nation at war. Gone are the jokes about his I.Q. and his attention span. The president himself has appeared to rise to his new mission against terror time after time, from his tough-minded speech to Congress on Sept. 20 to his eloquent peroration about "the struggle of memory against forgetting" that marked the three-month anniversary of the attacks on Dec. 11.
 But the United States has changed, too, perhaps far more than its leader. The deadliest terrorist assault in the nation's history has left Americans feeling vulnerable and unambiguously patriotic. "All of this was brought upon us in a single day," Mr. Bush reminded the nation on Sept. 20. "And night fell on a different world." Americans quickly rallied around the president, as historically has happened at times of national crisis. 
 And yet events since Sept. 11, not least Mr. Bush's stratospheric approval ratings, suggest that something more unusual has happened to the nation's perception of its president.
In the days since the attacks, historians explain, Americans have projected on to Mr. Bush the qualities they desperately want him to have. That projection has worked, historians say, because Mr. Bush has managed to display those qualities -- strength, compassion, a mastery of a complex war on many fronts. It is significant that the attacks on Sept. 11, on two symbols of American financial and military might, might also have hit the White House, or so those terrified staffers who evacuated it believed. But when the White House was spared, Americans seemed to turn even more toward it and the president as symbols of hope and calm and security. The man had merged with the office.
Bruce J. Schulman, the director of American Studies at Boston University, argued that Mr. Bush "was never as silly or shallow as many people depicted him before." Nonetheless, he said, "It may be that certain of his qualities that seemed less than presidential before -- the inarticulateness, the folksiness, the seeming lack of sophistication -- now have become badges of things that are distinctive and appealing about American society at a time it seems under attack."
In a culture that has demonstrated marked suspicion of the intellectual and always admired the frontier, with its images of eternal promise, Mr. Bush's language of the wild West, of wanting Osama bin Laden "dead or alive," has been derided by academics even as it was embraced by the public. Mr. Bush's first speech to the United Nations General Assembly, in November, was similarly direct, free of the usual diplomatic niceties and was praised at home, even as leaders of other nations called it blunt and U.S.-centric. 
"He is someone who views the world in reductionist terms, who sees life as a clash between good and evil," said Robert Dallek, a presidential historian and the author of a two-volume biography of Lyndon B. Johnson. "It may not be entirely wrong, but the point is, this is something that caters to the public's interest right now."
In the same way, people now seem willing to indulge Mr. Bush's real forays to the West. Last summer, as the president was beginning a month-long break at his Texas ranch, polls showed that 55 percent of Americans thought that Mr. Bush was spending too much time away from Washington. He was taking it so easy, why should he need a vacation? But Mr. Bush will have spent 10 days of vacation at his ranch when he returns to Washington tomorrow, all without a single word of criticism suggesting that he didn't need the rest.
Other historians say that it is the unique nature of the American presidency that causes Americans to turn to Washington at a time of crisis, and that the horrific quality of the attacks simply intensified the reaction to Mr. Bush. Unlike prime ministers in the parliamentary democracies of Europe, the American president is head of state as well as head of government -- the embodiment of the nation.
"We want presidents to symbolize the country," said Michael Kazin, a history professor at Georgetown University and the co-author of "America Divided: The Civil War of the 1960's." "That's what presidents are for."
THE attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon were in that sense attacks on Mr. Bush, with the result that there was far less public discussion about the massive security failure of his government and far more sympathy about the burdens he must now bear in office. 
"If he does well, that means we're safer, and we want that to happen," said Bill McInturff, a Republican pollster. Mr. Bush's performance in the first weeks after the attacks generated his high approval ratings, Mr. McInturff said, but that initial performance does not explain why a Republican president currently has a 75 percent approval rating among African-Americans, most of whom did not support him when he ran for office. But now, Mr. McInturff said, Mr. Bush has come to represent American stability.
"They're investing not only in him personally, but as a way to express their hope for the country," Mr. McInturff said. "The presidency is the extension of the American public and how we feel about our country."
The vote for the president is certainly the most personal vote the public casts. The relationship between president and citizen is unique among all other elected officials.
Psychoanalysts say that there is nothing surprising about projecting qualities on to those in positions of leadership, and that it fulfills a basic need. "We always project qualities onto our presidents," said Peter Wolson, a Beverly Hills psychoanalyst and the past president of the Los Angeles Institute and Society for Psychoanalytic Studies. "The public has a need for an idealized hero. The public wants the president to succeed, even though there may be envy and lots of other conflicted feelings. There's a wish that the president will be a strong, powerful father figure."
Though Mr. Bush did not seem such a figure at first, the crisis has given him a chance to transform himself in the eyes of the public. His story can be seen as that of a particular kind of mythic hero dear to the American imagination.
"What do Prince Hal, Moses and Frodo have in common?" asked Jonathan Lear, a psychoanalyst and philosophy professor at the Committee on Social Thought at the University of Chicago. "None of them seek power, yet they're able to rise to the challenges that history, God or sheer chance deals them." 
Prince Hal, the wastrel son of King Henry IV, surprised everyone by becoming a courageous soldier. Moses didn't want to lead the Jews, but God forced it upon him. Frodo Baggins, the sweet-tempered hobbit of "The Lord of the Rings," was given a ring by his uncle, then told he had to save the world by returning it to its source. President Bush, Mr. Lear argued, is seen as the recipient of a similar kind of tragic luck.
Has Mr. Bush changed? Of course he has, even if the line from his White House underlings is that the public is now seeing in the man what they always saw. Anyone who has watched Mr. Bush for the past four months can see how confident and assured he has become in speeches and in unscripted question-and-answer sessions with reporters, how he has command of the issues at hand.
But the public has changed, too. The question is whether it will stay changed for the next chapter of the Bush presidency, when Prince Hal makes the push to revive his domestic agenda.
"When they look to Bush, they say, 'Well, he surprised me on the international front,' " said Mark Penn, a Democratic pollster, " 'but that doesn't mean I think he can run the economy.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HISTORY (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HIJACKING (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (61%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



183 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: A Gesture by Pakistan's President Is Not Enough for India 

BYLINE:  By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: KATMANDU, Nepal, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
In a theatrical gesture delivered with a flourish onstage, Pakistan's military ruler, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, strode up to Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee of India today and thrust out his hand.
 Mr. Vajpayee shook it, and the audience erupted in applause, relieved that there was at least some sign of contact between two nations that are engaged in a volatile conflict that threatens to turn into a war. 
 But to Mr. Vajpayee, the general's gesture was not simply "a hand of genuine and sincere friendship," as the general had described it. When Mr. Vajpayee rose to give his own speech, he used the moment to say he had had enough of symbolic gestures from Pakistan.
He told General Musharraf, in front of all the heads of state in the region, that he expected a halt to terrorist acts against India carried out by groups operating from Pakistan. India has blamed Islamic groups that have been backed by Pakistan for an Oct. 1 suicide bomb attack on a state legislative assembly and a Dec. 13 assault on Parliament.
"I invited President Musharraf to Agra," Mr. Vajpayee said, alluding to talks the two leaders held during the summer in that Indian city. "We were rewarded with a terrorist attack on the Jammu and Kashmir assembly and, last month, on the Parliament of India."
When all the speeches by South Asian leaders participating in the summit meeting here finished, Mr. Vajpayee, 77, walked creakily on his bad knees past the vigorous general with nary a sidewise glance, ignoring another opportunity to shake hands.
Those glimpses of two leaders onstage captured India's festering anger and suggested why it has been so difficult for India and Pakistan to find enough common ground even to sit down formally to look for a peaceful resolution of their conflict. Though senior leaders from both sides have had private discussions, it became clear today in India's public comments that Pakistan has not yet done enough to satisfy its demands for action.
The United States, Britain and other nations had hoped that the two countries would use the meeting of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation as an opportunity to reduce tensions, especially since leaders of India and Pakistan are conveniently staying in the same hotel.
But by late this evening, it had still not happened, and the conference is to end on Sunday. The Pakistani reaction to the day's events was murky. Pakistani officials canceled a news conference this evening.
General Musharraf's speech today did not say what the Indians had hoped. He condemned terrorism without qualification, but he did not claim any responsibility on Pakistan's part for the Islamic groups that had been waging a "holy war" against India in Kashmir.
Instead, alluding to the insurgency in Kashmir, India's only majority Muslim state, the general said the world had to draw a distinction "between acts of legitimate resistance and freedom struggles on the one hand, and acts of terrorism on the other."
The general has defined the violence in Kashmir as part of a freedom struggle, while India sees it as terrorism.
Since the Dec. 13 attack on Parliament, there has been a huge military buildup along India and Pakistan's common border, and the countries have downgraded diplomatic relations with each other. India also cut bus, rail and air links with Pakistan.
Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain is in India now on a long-planned tour and is expected to meet with Mr. Vajpayee on Sunday, and then go on to the Pakistani capital, Islamabad, on Monday, where he is to meet with General Musharraf.
In another indication of international concern about the current crisis, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell today gave an interview to BBC -- available on every television in the hotel where the Indian and Pakistani delegations were staying. He said the United States was seriously considering sending an envoy to the region to try to calm the tensions.
Secretary Powell praised General Musharraf for the steps he has taken to arrest the leaders of the two Islamic fundamentalist groups that India has blamed for the attack on Parliament -- comments that Indian officials seemed to find galling, since they still do not think the general has done enough.
Jaswant Singh, India's minister of external affairs, said India wanted a public declaration from Pakistan saying it would stop sponsoring terrorism against India. And it has demanded that Pakistan hand over 20 suspects wanted on terrorism and criminal charges in India, contending they have found sanctuary in Pakistan.
Mr. Singh, who has talked repeatedly with Secretary Powell through the crisis, said the possibility of an envoy had not been discussed, and he reacted coolly to the idea. "The United States of America has missions in New Delhi and Islamabad," he said. "Unless the missions are not up to the task, I don't see the need for a special envoy."
In barbed references to what many Indian officials see as the United States' double standard on terrorism -- that the United States can crush it militarily in Afghanistan, but that India must be restrained -- Mr. Singh said terrorism east of Pakistan, in India, is just as bad as terrorism west of Pakistan, in Afghanistan.
"Pakistan is an ally of the United States of America," Mr. Singh said. "Good luck to the United States of America."

GRAPHIC: Photos: After shaking hands yesterday with Gen. Pervez Musharraf, left, of Pakistan, India's prime minister, Atal Behari Vajpayee, discounted the gesture. (Manish Swarup/Associated Press); Staff members from the Indian high commission to Pakistan arrived in New Delhi with their families yesterday, as the military buildup along the border between the two countries continued. An attack in October on the legislative assembly in Jammu and Kashmir killed 38 people. (Agence France-Press) Map of India highlighting Jammu and Kashmir

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORISM (88%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); RELIGION (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) KASHMIR (94%) INDIA (99%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (94%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%); NEPAL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



184 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE LESSONS; 
If Saddam Hussein Is Next, Experts Say, Do It Fast

BYLINE:  By SERGE SCHMEMANN

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
If Saddam Hussein is to be taken out, experts agree, much of the reaction in the Arab world and elsewhere could be mitigated if the operation were quick.
 That, at least, is the apparent lesson of Afghanistan, where the rapidity with which the Taliban collapsed and the swift installation of a home-grown interim government seem to have muted the feared anger in Arab streets or opprobrium elsewhere in the world. 
 Few Arab leaders would regret to see President Hussein's government ended in Iraq, experts say, but as with Afghanistan, many have feared the reaction. "If it went quickly and smoothly, like Afghanistan and the Taliban, there would be no place for a public uproar," said Rolf Ekeus, a Swedish diplomat who was the chief United Nations arms inspector in Iraq from 1991 to 1997. 
But if it dragged on, or failed, Arab and Islamic militants would have a powerful weapon to incite the masses against the pro-Western governments of countries like Egypt, Jordan and Saudi Arabia.
Ousting Mr. Hussein, said James R. Schlesinger, defense secretary in the Nixon and Ford administrations and a senior adviser to Lehman Brothers, "would transform the strategic map of the Middle East."
"But for that to occur we would have to achieve the outcome with efficiency and high confidence," he added.
There is little question that the Bush administration would like to take on Mr. Hussein next.
If there is a moment to get him, proponents contend, it is now. The war on terrorism has generated a global momentum against purveyors of terror. Further, if Mr. Hussein is not crushed now, he may never be.
Yet even in the wake of the Afghan operations, any talk in Washington of "getting" Mr. Hussein runs up against a wall of resistance and anxiety, at home and abroad.
There is a fear that the overwhelming international support for the American operation against Osama bin Laden's Al Qaeda organization and the Taliban, which bestowed an international legitimacy on the war against terrorism, would fall apart if the United States took unilateral action to topple Mr. Hussein, especially since there is no evidence linking him to the attacks of Sept. 11.
Going after him now would revive accusations of unilateralism against the United States. It would also revive suspicions of a vendetta by veterans of the first Bush administration, which stopped short of deposing Mr. Hussein in the Persian Gulf war a decade ago.
"There were 500,000 troops on the ground in 1991, and they didn't do it," said Madeleine K. Albright, who dealt extensively with Iraq as secretary of state and as ambassador to the United Nations before that. "I think at this time, given the amount of work the administration has laid out for itself in terms of finishing the job in Afghanistan, it's hard to see that this is feasible."
The sentiment is widespread. Even Britain, America's most consistent ally, has urged caution, and so has Kofi Annan, secretary general of the United Nations. A common thread in their arguments is that it is better to stick with the devil you know. Mr. Hussein is basically being contained, the argument goes.
To move against him, by contrast, would be to plunge dangerously into the unknown -- an unstable or dismembered Iraq, a more powerful Iran, a suspension of oil supplies from one of the world's largest suppliers, dangerous shock waves through the Arab world.
Just getting to him, moreover, would be a far more dangerous undertaking than the hunt for Al Qaeda and the Taliban. The Iraqi Army is a far larger and more potent force than the Taliban. There are no proxy armies on the ground ready to advance, and however unpopular Mr. Hussein may be, there is no guarantee that his armies would quickly give up.
"If we're after evil, he's evil," said Graham Allison, director of the Belfer Center at Harvard University. "The only argument against getting rid of Saddam is nobody knows how to do it, or the cost of doing it."
Options under consideration in the administration are believed to focus on operations not involving a full-fledged invasion, but starting a conflict that internal opponents would complete. But that raises the question of whether any opposition group has the organization, leadership or capacity to overthrow Mr. Hussein. He has crushed all previous efforts.
Further, pitting the southern Shiites or the northern Kurds against the ruling Sunnis in Iraq's center could arouse angers beyond the borders of Iraq and could fracture Iraq into ethnic and religious camps, creating a new source of instability in a chronically unstable region.
Proponents of going after Mr. Hussein argue that there is no reason to assume that a successor government would necessarily fail. They contend that he is so unpopular that a determined nudge should be enough to set his own people against him.
If the United States supported the opposition, they say, it would be perceived not as an invader but as the ally of the Iraqi people fighting to liberate them, as with the Afghans.
The advocates of action argue that most Arab leaders would be glad to see Mr. Hussein go, but that they need a plausible case to make to their people -- concrete evidence of wrongdoing, perhaps, or some tangible American economic assistance.
"Some weeks ago the common wisdom was that going after Saddam would undermine our position in the Muslim world," said Richard Perle, of the American Enterprise Institute, who is an adviser to the Pentagon and a vocal advocate of action against Mr. Hussein. "Almost nobody argues that anymore, because similar things were said of the consequences of going after Taliban."
Beyond the Middle East, Washington's longing to unseat Mr. Hussein is generally resisted in Russia and Europe. Iraq owes a huge debt to Russia and is one of the few nations where Russia can exert its influence in the Middle East. France has large potential contracts in Iraq, and all European economies would be affected by the loss of 2.5 million barrels of oil a day, even for a limited period.
Even Britain has expressed reservations, worrying that extending the antiterrorism campaign to Mr. Hussein would convey the image of Americans reverting to unilateral actions.
There are those who agree with Dr. Albright that, however attractive and proper the ouster of Mr. Hussein, this is simply not the time. The hunt for international terrorists is entering a broad new phase in which international support will be even more critical, and there is no opposition ready to take power in Baghdad.
"Even those who argue that he is dangerous because of weapons of mass destruction have nothing to say about our lack of preparation," said Leon Fuerth, who was the national security adviser to Vice President Al Gore and now teaches international relations at George Washington University. "There are other ways to really, really increase the pressure on Saddam Hussein without making this the next top order of business." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); DESERT STORM (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (70%); RELIGION (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%); EGYPT (79%); JORDAN (79%); GULF STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



185 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
Critical Path appears tobe limping back from the brink.

BYLINE:  By Chris Gaither 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
ONLY three months ago, Critical Path appeared close to collapse. With its reputation in ruin after an accounting scandal, its shares trading as low as 24 cents, and a debt of $300 million, the once highflying provider of corporate e-mail systems appeared ready to join the many remains of failed companies strewn along the Internet's trail of busted dreams.
 But Critical Path may be on the comeback path. Under a new management team, the company has quietly settled more than 50 shareholder lawsuits, brought in well-respected financiers and nursed its balance sheet closer to health. 
 The leaders of the revival are David Hayden, the founder and executive chairman, and William E. McGlashan Jr., a venture capitalist and turnaround specialist who accepted an interim executive role shortly after the scandal broke in February 2001. Mr. McGlashan is to shed the term "interim" from his title today, when the company plans to announce that it has named him full-time chief executive. 
"We made it through the valley of the shadow of death," Mr. McGlashan, 38, said in a recent interview at the company's headquarters in the South of Market neighborhood of San Francisco, which was once filled with dot-coms.
Critical Path's quarters, a four-story converted warehouse with exposed brick walls and wood beams -- will soon be part of the company's dark history. The company leased the building -- for $47 a square foot -- only a month before the accounting irregularities became known. Now, as part of its efforts to reduce operating costs to less than $30 million a quarter, half the rate of last spring, Critical Path will soon move to the sixth floor of a more staid corporate building nearby -- for $35 a square foot, reducing its rent by $1.6 million a year.
The move is just one of many ways the company's executives have tried to correct the management mistakes of the last two years. Since March, Critical Path has shed half its work force as it has withdrawn from weak businesses, most of which the company entered through a dozen acquisitions that pulled it farther and farther from its original vision: running e-mail systems and large data directories for corporations.
"What 2001 was about was re-establishing the company's financial credibility and balance sheet," said William E. Ford, a new member of the Critical Path board. "This coming year is going to be about growth and market leadership."
But before that happens, Critical Path must continue to persuade customers and investors that its business model is strong. More important, it must win back the trust it so badly damaged.
Once a Wall Street darling, with its stock soaring as high as $119.50 in March 2000, Critical Path screeched to a halt last January when it widely missed its earnings projections. Instead of the profit long promised by the company's management, Critical Path posted a loss of 16 cents a share.
But the bombshell hit two weeks later. On Feb. 2, the company suspended two top executives and started an internal investigation into its financial practices after questions arose about the way executives reported revenue from several sales contracts. The Securities and Exchange Commission began an investigation, the stock plunged, and Wall Street analysts and investors began accusing Critical Path of deliberately cooking its books under heavy pressure to turn a profit.
Critical Path was eventually forced to restate its financial results from the third and fourth quarters of 2000, lowering its annual revenue 13 percent and widening its loss more than a third. The board forced out the chief executive, the president and the vice president for worldwide sales, then dismissed eight members of the sales team.
Citing the S.E.C. investigation, the company would not describe the questionable transactions. But Mr. McGlashan said they were limited to three deals. Referring to the previous management, he said: "For three deals, you went through this as a company? You cheated for three lousy deals?"
The accounting debacle struck as the economy worsened, leaving Critical Path scrambling to reassure existing and potential customers that it would survive. Mr. Hayden -- who said he was on a yearlong sabbatical from the company when the scandal occurred -- and Mr. McGlashan spent much of last summer visiting customers in the United States, Europe and Asia. During the tour they offered confidential information about the company's prospects for financing in exchange for agreements not to trade Critical Path's stock on the insider information.
Some companies balked at the sales pitch, unwilling to become involved with a company sitting under a black cloud. But others, including Morgan Stanley, DuPont and the national postal services of Italy and Germany, signed on.
DuPont uses Lotus Notes for its corporate Web-based e-mail, but hired Critical Path to operate a less sophisticated, and less expensive system for 7,000 workers in some factories and remote offices. "Obviously, one of the concerns we had was, 'Will they still be here tomorrow?' " said Irvin Lipp, a spokesman for DuPont. "They answered that question, which is why we went with them."
While software sales for the first nine months of 2001 fell 40 percent, to about $22 million, from the year before, Critical Path alleviated some doubts about its survival in November. First it announced that it would pay $17.5 million and issue warrants on 850,000 shares to settle shareholder lawsuits. The next day, the company said that investors led by General Atlantic Partners, a venture capital firm, had retired $65 million in Critical Path's debt and invested $30 million for a 26 percent stake, bringing the debt down to $38 million.
Mr. Ford, a partner with General Atlantic, and Raul J. Fernandez, chief executive of Dimension Data North America, joined the Critical Path board, restoring more credibility to the turnaround efforts. The stock price has increased moderately with the company's fortunes, closing up 20 cents, to $3.80, on Friday.
Critical Path has "done a remarkable pullback from the abyss," said Matt Cain, an analyst with the Meta Group, a research firm. "It's not necessarily out of danger, but it has been, over all, a remarkable comeback."
But the sting of betrayal will not go away easily for many investors. All 17 Wall Street analysts who followed the company early last year have dropped their coverage. One mutual fund manager who was burned by the falling stock price said he had no confidence in the company; he plans to sell his shares as soon as they rebound enough to offset some of his losses.
"In the end, everything they said about what they had appeared to be false," said the manager, who spoke on the condition that his name not be used. "Every once in a while you get skunked in a fraud, and we got skunked."
Critical Path executives acknowledged that they must win back Wall Street to improve a tarnished reputation. They intend to resume issuing forecasts for their quarterly results, a practice they stopped after the accounting irregularities. And Mr. McGlashan said he would revive a classic mandate of the old economy -- underpromise, overperform, be predictable -- to gradually restore investors' faith in a company that followed new economy excesses off a cliff.
"Particularly with the history of this company," Mr. McGlashan said, "you can't mess up twice."

GRAPHIC: Photo: William E. McGlashan Jr. will become the permanent chief at Critical Path, which was investigated by the S.E.C. last year. He said there had been no more than three questionable deals under previous management. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); ACCOUNTING (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SCANDALS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (73%); LITIGATION (70%); RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (69%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ELECTRONIC MAIL; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: CRITICAL PATH (CO) 

PERSON: GAITHER, CHRIS; MCGLASHAN, WILLIAM E JR; HAYDEN, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



186 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Independent Voice Hurt by a Culture of Secrecy 

BYLINE:  By BRIAN LAVERY 

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
As Ireland rocketed through the economic and cultural booms of the last decade, few institutions could guide its transformation as The Irish Times did.
 With an nonpartisan and unbiased approach, The Times pushed issues to the fore with a progressive, literate, pro-European voice. 
 It capitalized on its historic role as Ireland's paper of record -- and tried to shed its staid reputation -- to become a sort of fashion accessory for the newly affluent middle classes, sticking out of briefcase and backpack pockets everywhere in downtown Dublin.
Advertising revenue hit record highs; foreign bureaus expanded to nearly a dozen from one in 1986. From his Manhattan office overlooking ground zero, the paper's New York correspondent, Conor O'Clery, wrote front-page eyewitness reports of the World Trade Center attacks. 
"Since the 1960's, we have grown up together, this state and The Irish Times," said Dick Walsh, a columnist who joined the paper in 1965 and serves on its editorial steering committee.
With the end of the 1990's, however, the quest for growth went too far. In November, management announced that losses for 2001 would hit $2.3 million, and escalate to $20 million in 2002. Reporters and editors, ad salesmen and printers rose up in near revolt at the news that 35 percent of the work force -- 250 of 710 jobs -- would be shed to make up the difference.
When the extent of the losses emerged, attention quickly focused on the Irish Times Trust, and on Maj. Thomas Bleakley McDowell, the newspaper's 78-year-old patriarch. Major McDowell, who was managing director from 1962 to 1997, created the trust in 1974 to protect the paper from hostile takeovers.
In recent years he became a reclusive figure, almost never seen by his staff, even as he continued to serve as chairman of the trust and effective head of the paper. Major McDowell, wearing three-piece suits and using a pocket watch and monocle, struck reporters as a relic of a bygone age.
In response to pressure from a staff and a public concerned about the paper's survival, Major McDowell resigned in December, without making any comment on the paper's finances.
For such difficulties to emerge now, after the most successful years in The Irish Times's history, seemed absurd. In 2000, profit was $6.3 million on revenue of $113 million.
Worried staff members and readers had no idea that falling advertising could threaten the paper's existence. Back in 1974, The Irish Times came within 10,000 Irish pounds of filing for bankruptcy, but even then, there was no talk of cutting jobs.
Staff members criticized management on the airwaves and even in their own columns, accusing executives of lining their own pockets and going recklessly overboard with capital spending.
"What's at the heart of it really is hubris," said Frank McDonald, an assistant editor, who joined the paper in 1979 and reports on environmental issues. "There was a sense of invincibility."
Construction on a $69 million printing plant -- paid for entirely in cash -- was completed in the fall, but union demands have delayed operations until at least late January. A glossy weekend magazine, introduced to compete with the rival Irish Independent, loses $23,000 a week and cannot be printed on the new presses.
And Ireland.com, The Irish Times's award-winning Web site, has separate newsgathering and publishing operations from the newspaper itself, requiring separate staff and increasing costs.
"We were unfortunate in our timing," said the editor, Conor Brady, at an interview in his office above the paper's newsroom. "At the point when our cash reserves were depleted, the downturn kicked in, gutting the paper's lucrative property and recruitment sections."
Major McDowell guided The Irish Times through difficult periods, and his trust allowed absolute editorial independence, a rare thing in Europe. But the Irish Times Trust also permitted a culture of secrecy that is at odds with modern standards of accountability.
"The corporate governance issues that have come to the fore were lurking in the background throughout the good times," said Seamus Dooley, chief organizer for the National Union of Journalists in Ireland.
Until a series of changes that were announced last month, the eight trustees -- including Major McDowell, his daughter and several close associates -- automatically sat on the board, with voting powers five times those of regular directors. As the sole holder of A shares in the trust, Major McDowell was entitled to extra voting weight on a specific issue: his own position. Should the other trustees vote to remove him, his vote counted for one more than their combined total.
The trust led to many years of not coming to grips with historical costs, Mr. Brady said. "We tended to be more indulgent" than other newspapers were. For Major McDowell, that meant an annual salary of more than $560,000, a chauffeur and a gardener, even though he had few day-to-day responsibilities.
Financial restructuring may force The Irish Times to sell, and then occupy as a tenant, its iconic building in the center of Dublin, or lease the ground-floor printing space to retail stores. The paper borrowed to pay wages in November.
Without The Irish Times, even Ireland's conservative mainstream, which often takes issue with the paper's liberal debates on gender relations, abortion and diversity, would feel the loss of the way it "tries to hold a mirror up to Irish society," Mr. Brady said. "It opens a window onto the world outside this island."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maj. Thomas Bleakley McDowell, with monocle, was chairman of the trust governing The Irish Times. The paper's troubles have raised questions on the secrecy of the trust and Maj. McDowell. Seamus Dooley, top left, of the journalists' union, speaks to workers from The Times, where layoffs are planned. (Leon Farrell/Photocall Ireland); (The Independent) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (78%); HISTORY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (75%); WRITERS (74%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); EYEWITNESSES (69%); TAKEOVERS (50%) NEWSPAPERS; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: IRISH TIMES 

PERSON: LAVERY, BRIAN; MCDOWELL, THOMAS BLEAKLEY (MAJ) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRELAND (93%); UNITED STATES (79%) IRELAND

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



187 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1675 words

HEADLINE: Memphis Embraces Its Own Gritty Soul; 
City Pins Hopes on a Musical Heritage

BYLINE:  By EMILY YELLIN 

DATELINE: MEMPHIS, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
The new Peabody Place mall in the heart of downtown here at first seems indistinguishable from the masses of shopping centers that have sprung up in tourist districts all over the country. But somewhere along the way from the Gap to Victoria's Secret to Starbucks, shoppers with sharp ears can hear a difference. 
 Instead of the usual canned music, Peabody Place pipes in home-grown, original recordings, like the earthy soul music classic "Green Onions," which filled the air one recent afternoon. That song is one of many recorded just a few miles away at Stax Records in the 1960's by the hometown band Booker T. and the MG's, and its being played in one of the city's newest showcases suggests its nascent pride in a largely overlooked part of its cultural heritage: Memphis soul music. 
 Al Green, Otis Redding and Isaac Hayes are just a few of the artists who recorded this raw, stirring sound here on the Stax and Hi Records labels during the 60's and early 70's. Memphis's soul music rivaled Detroit's more polished pop-oriented Motown sound. 
"Memphis music is grittier than Motown," said Mr. Hayes, a co-writer of songs like "Soul Man" and "Hold On! I'm Comin' " and writer of "Theme From 'Shaft,' " for which he won both Grammy and Academy Awards. "It's closer to where blues began. It's down-home soul music, born out of blues and gospel."
Perhaps because Memphis soul also became part of the soundtrack of the civil rights movement, it has been slow to re-emerge and be celebrated here, for it evoked this city's most wrenching moment, the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. at a downtown motel in 1968.
Mr. Hayes, 59, who has homes in New Jersey and Memphis, said he often noticed his hometown ignoring the kind of music he helped create. "All over the world Memphis soul music has been revered and recognized," he said. "Memphis just didn't realize the treasure it had in its own backyard." But, he added, "I think now they are seeing what they've got."
The most ambitious example of that new recognition can be found in Soulsville, a $20 million redevelopment project under way on the site of the old Stax recording studios near downtown. It includes a museum of soul music and a music academy for children, now under construction, and there are plans for a performing arts center. Memphis and Shelby County governments are behind the project -- contributing a total of $5 million -- as part of a push that began about three years ago to tout soul music.
Even with a drop in tourism here and across the country in the wake of the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, Memphis has kept up that effort.
"A lot of things have stopped or slowed down in the wake of 9/11," said Jerry Schilling, who, as president of the city and county music commission, is charged with promoting Memphis music. "But I think the leaders of this city continue to support efforts to highlight our soul music heritage, because they're looking at that longer term as a key to the future here."
Developing economic opportunity around its musical heritage is a formula the city first learned from rock 'n' roll. Elvis Presley of course became ubiquitous here after his death in 1977, and his Memphis home, Graceland, annually attracts more than 700,000 visitors. The Sun Records studio -- famous for early recordings of Presley, Jerry Lee Lewis, Carl Perkins, Johnny Cash and Roy Orbison -- routinely draws a healthy share of musical devotees.
By the 1990's the Memphis blues tradition, too, was getting its due with the resurgence of Beale Street downtown, boasting dozens of blues clubs, like the flagship B. B. King's Blues Club. The city's Convention and Visitors Bureau even adopted a new slogan, "Memphis: Home of the Blues, Birthplace of Rock 'n' Roll."
Then in 1998 came one of the first signs that the city was finally beginning to embrace its soul music heritage. WRBO-FM (103.5), a 100,000-watt station, came on the air and shot to No. 1 among all listeners in its market within six months by playing only soul music from the 60's to the mid-70's.
"The music was living all along," said Henry Nelson, program director of the station, whose playlist is weighted toward classic Memphis soul. "It just wasn't living commercially. People had it in their hearts, in their homes. But you never heard it on the radio."
As the station continued to thrive, Mr. Hayes -- whose own career had been revived with the remake of "Shaft," his role as the voice of Chef on the animated television show "South Park" and a stint on WRKS-FM (known as KISS-FM) in New York -- became a D.J. on WRBO five nights a week. He records his show of classic soul music in New York exclusively for the Memphis station. 
In 2000 another beacon appeared. The Smithsonian Institution opened its 8,000-square-foot Memphis Rock 'n' Soul Museum just off Beale Street. It is the Smithsonian's first permanent exhibition outside Washington and New York.
"What happened in Memphis was what happened in America," said Charlie McGovern, curator of cultural history at the Smithsonian's National Museum of American History. "We hoped to offer Memphians as well as visitors the sense of how important their own history was to American culture."
The inclusion of the word soul in the museum's name was not lost on Memphis.
"By saying rock and soul, we were trying to show that black and white cultures intermixed over a long period of time beginning back before the blues and country music," Mr. McGovern said. "But for the period that the exhibit focuses on, from the late 40's to the mid-70's, you really see the interplay of white and black forms of popular music."
Mr. Schilling, a friend and associate of Presley and former road manager for the Beach Boys and Billy Joel, agreed. "Most of Memphis music, even the rock stuff, is really based on our soul and rhythm-and-blues heritage," he said. "That's where Elvis got his music."
The Soulsville redevelopment project, which was officially begun last spring, encompasses a 27,000-square-foot academy to help troubled students through music and a 17,000-square-foot museum of American soul music, both of which are under construction. A 500-seat performing arts center is also planned.
The Soulsville project has raised $15 million in public and private money, including $1 million in federal funds approved by Congress in November. And during a two-day, grass-roots fund-raiser on WRBO in October, another $70,000 was raised, with many of the $5 to $25 pledges coming from residents of the surrounding economically depressed neighborhood. That district, a roughly three-square-mile area known as Soulsville U.S.A., encompasses musical landmarks including the house in which Aretha Franklin was born.
"We have so much here that we have not properly mined," said Andy Cates, chairman of Soulsville. "And I think we are mining it in a respectful way. We are doing this purely nonprofit. We're trying to create a musical village and to use the music as a gateway to revitalize and restore a neighborhood."
Deanie Parker, director of Soulsville and a former Stax employee, said the music academy and community building were essential to the museum project. "It would be very selfish," she said, "if we were to look back at soul music without a sense of social conscience."
In the 60's, when racial mixing was rare, especially in the South, Stax Records provided a haven of sorts for young white and black musicians. That was reflected most clearly in Booker T. and the MG's, the Stax house band, led by the organist Booker T. Jones. The group consisted of two black and two white members.
"We were living the dream," said Ms. Parker, who wrote and recorded a few songs herself while working as Stax's publicity director. "We were people of different races, religions, genders working together. And it affected the writers, who were clearly writing songs that reflected the emotions of both black and white America."
Mr. Hayes said, "We had a great relationship at Stax, because it represented a lot of races in Memphis." But after the King assassination the bottom fell out. 
"It affected me in the most profound way," Mr. Hayes remembered. "I was just devastated. I was confused. I marched with him in his last march, and the dogs were sicced on us, and we were Maced. White people were doing that. Some of my friends got beat so bad. It paralyzed my creativity for a year, because I was bitter."
Mr. McGovern of the Smithsonian said: "This is a moment where the wider world intrudes. And it encourages a kind of musical expression that was much more overt. We went from 'Soul Man' to 'Respect Yourself' and 'Shaft' in the matter of a couple of years. The course is clear, and while songs were still about love and stuff, over this period soul music really began to speak to black life, and there were more people listening."
Referring to his composition and performance of the "Shaft" theme in 1971, Mr. Hayes said, "You had a black man onscreen at last being a hero, so you wrote about that with a bit of bravado. You know, he's a 'bad mother -- shut your mouth.' "
But by 1976 Stax had gone bankrupt. 
"With the death of soul music in this city coming a few years after the assassination, there was sadness, there was hate, there was grief," Mr. Nelson of WRBO remembered. "And for years nobody wanted to talk about it. We swept this music under the rug. Then there was this resurgence of Elvis that kind of overshadowed it."
Now, though, it seems Memphis has banked much of its future on a full recognition of its cultural past, with the Rock 'n' Soul Museum, Graceland, Sun Studios, Beale Street, the weekly Sunday church service conducted by the soul and gospel star the Rev. Al Green, a new namesake restaurant and nightclub downtown owned by Mr. Hayes, WRBO-FM, and the nearly 10-year-old National Civil Rights Museum built on the site where Dr. King was assassinated. In addition, Soulsville is scheduled to open next fall. 
"Years later, it's not just about Elvis," Mr. Nelson said. "There is a rich heritage in R&B in Memphis that we can now celebrate."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Isaac Hayes speaking in April at the groundbreaking ceremony for the Soulsville complex in Memphis. (Rollin Riggs for The New York Times)(pg. E5); Left, artist's concept of a new museum planned for the Soulsville section of Memphis, where attractions also include Aretha Franklin's birthplace, above. Right, some of the city's soul music pioneers, from top, Wilson Pickett, Otis Redding, Al Green and Cleotha Staples of the Staple Singers. (Stax Museum); (David Gahr); (Lynn Goldsmith); (Volt Records); (Larry Busacca/Retna); (Looney Ricks Kiss Architects Inc.)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); MUSIC GENRES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); RETAILERS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); SONG WRITING (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); SOUND RECORDING STUDIOS (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (63%); COUNTIES (50%) MUSIC 

COMPANY: VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SOULSVILLE (MEMPHIS, TENN) 

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (50%) YELLIN, EMILY; PICKETT, WILSON; REDDING, OTIS; GREEN, AL; HAYES, ISAAC 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (95%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) MEMPHIS (TENN)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



188 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: Price Cutting and Oversupply Imperil Art Book Houses 

BYLINE:  By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK 

 BODY:
In 1994, Benedikt Taschen announced his arrival in the rarefied, clubby world of New York art book publishers with an advertisement in the trade magazine Publishers Weekly. In a black-and-white photograph, he posed stone-faced and casually dressed next to his tall, blond editor in chief, who sat naked on a black pedestal with her legs crossed, her breasts exposed and one hand on his shoulder.
 Since then, Mr. Taschen, a native of Germany, has become the most public face of a series of changes that have produced a crisis in the illustrated book business, forcing cutbacks at many of the prestigious companies that once dominated the field. 
 Executives at his company, also named Benedikt Taschen, said, its annual sales in the United States -- mostly in art books, along with some erotica -- have increased to nearly $20 million from less than $5 million in the last eight years. 
Mr. Taschen's first innovation was simply to publish cheaper illustrated volumes of art. But his success helped inspire some ferocious competition, especially from Ludwig Konemann, his former partner-turned-rival. And at the same time, some retailers, led by Barnes & Noble, stepped up their own low-price lines of big, glossy tomes about everything from the art of the Louvre to the varieties of pasta. The result has been a glut of coffee table books.
Now some wonder whether so much low-price competition may have squeezed the market for high-quality illustrated art books out of the national chains and back to the more esoteric world of museum shops and boutiques, a serious challenge to the established publishers that had come to depend on a mass market.
In the last year, the industry has severely retrenched. Harry N. Abrams, the largest and most prestigious American publisher of illustrated books and now part of the French Groupe de la Martiniere, laid off about 25 of its 150 employees, or nearly 17 percent of its staff, including some top executives.
Another major art book publisher, Abbeville, cut back to the point that it stopped acquiring new books. The company's Web site advises that "because of the current conditions in the marketplace, we have streamlined our publishing program, and as a result, our book list is full for the next several seasons." Abbeville's New York office was destroyed in the attack on the World Trade Center, and no one was available to comment last week. The Italian illustrated book retailer and publisher Rizzoli laid off about 50 people in the United States and closed almost all its American stores as well. 
The Penguin Putnam division of Pearson of Britain has cut the number of titles from its Viking Studio illustrated books line by half, to about 20 a year because of disappointing sales. The trade publishing division of AOL Time Warner decided to move the editorial offices of its Bulfinch Press illustrated books line, which publishes the work of Ansel Adams, to New York from Boston, and its longtime publisher, Carol Judy Leslie, is leaving the company. The future size of the operation remains to be seen.
After surging to become one of the world's largest illustrated book publishers, the house founded by Taschen's partner filed for bankruptcy protection for his company, Konemann.
No one knows the precise size of the illustrated book market in the United States. Paul Gottlieb, vice chairman of Harry N. Abrams, estimated the industry's total sales at more than $500 million a year, or more than 10 percent of consumer book sales. But publishers insist that art books are more important than their sales suggest because they offer artists a chance at posterity and readers the chance to bring the fine arts into their homes.
Many illustrated books still cost as much as $150. But price competition has already lowered manufacturing standards. Twenty years ago, high-end illustrated books were once routinely published in their own cardboard cases. More recently, Abrams and other art publishers prided themselves on details like French folds, with book jackets wrapped around the top and bottom as well as sides of the cover. 
Some of the best art books are made at specialized plants in Italy, with a supervisor from the publisher on hand to inspect them. But publishers are increasingly turning to cheaper Asian manufacturers and cutting costs in areas like paper, color quality and bindings. 
The economics of the business are challenging because, unlike in publishing other books, the production of the books as artifacts accounts for much of the cost and advances to authors are far less significant. Each new print run is expensive, creating an incentive to gamble on big first printings and lower prices. 
The broad market for illustrated books, especially art books, first began to take off in the 1970's, spurred on partly by the expansion of the national bookstore chains like B. Dalton and Waldenbooks. Publishers increasingly made additional income by recycling their original illustrated books as lower-price, more cheaply produced reprints. Booksellers loved the inexpensive volumes because putting them in bargain bins in the front of their stores created the impression of good value throughout. 
To the dismay of many established publishers, Barnes & Noble, the largest bookseller in the country, long ago began printing its own inexpensive illustrated books, often recycled or licensed from others, without the publishers' high marketing costs.
Barnes & Noble now publishes about 80 or 90 illustrated books a year, making it one of the biggest American publishers in this area. It usually sells them in its bargain bins for less than $20 each. "We do very well with it," said Alan Kahn, chief operating officer of Barnes & Noble.
Publishers often complain that Barnes & Noble undercuts their sales with cheaper editions of books similar to their own, on volumes about artists like Manet or Gauguin, for example. But Mr. Kahn said Barnes & Noble had never stopped stocking or promoting other publishers' books.
In the last decade, Taschen and then Konemann shook up the market by gambling on large print runs produced in several countries and languages at once, with special formats to insert translated text, said Paul Norton, business manager for Taschen in the United States. Taschen and Konemann also often sold books to stores for a slightly lower wholesale price but without giving stores the customary right to return unsold books. 
Over time, Taschen branched into some more expensive books as well, like a $1,500 book of Helmut Newton photos. And a British electronics entrepreneur, Richard Schlagman, acquired the publisher Phaidon out of receivership and greatly expanded its publishing program, making similarly big bets and competing along price lines.
So far, Mr. Taschen's bold style has worked nicely for him. He recently bought a landmark home in Los Angeles designed by the architect John Lautner that resembles a flying saucer. And his model and editor, Angelika Muthesius, became his wife.
But with the increasingly brutal competition for shelf space and consumer dollars in the national chains, at least a few publishers are electing to avoid the mainstream market altogether. 
"Without the chains you can only be so successful, even for high-end books," said Sharon Gallagher, founder of D.A.P./Distributed Art Publishers, which distributes other publishers' illustrated books and a few of its own. "But they may not be the best place to sell some very high-end art book any more."
She said her company deliberately focused on selling to museum shops and boutiques, partly to avoid the price competition in the chains. She said her sales in the chains were down more than 10 percent last year. But she said her sales at other outlets increased.

GRAPHIC: Photo: While the illustrated book business accounts for more than 10 percent of consumer book sales, publishers of coffee table art books are having tough times. Competition from low-price volumes has put pressure on high-quality works. Some prestigious publishing businesses have eliminated jobs and closed stores. Publishers are also increasingly turning to cheaper Asian manufacturers and cutting costs in areas like paper, color quality and bindings. (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE CUTTING (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING TRADE (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RETAIL SALES (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (69%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ART; BOOK TRADE; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: AOL INC (60%); PENGUIN GROUP (USA) INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ABRAMS, HARRY N, INC; TASCHEN, BENEDIKT (PUBLISHER); ABBEVILLE PRESS; RIZZOLI; PENGUIN PUTNAM INC; AOL TIME WARNER; BARNES & NOBLE INC 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (60%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (60%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: ;KIRKPATRICK, DAVID D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



189 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1033 words

PERSON: Ian Hamilton 

HEADLINE: Ian Hamilton, 63, Whose Salinger Book Caused a Stir, Dies 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
Ian Hamilton, a British poet, editor, critic and biographer whose unauthorized biography of J. D. Salinger was barred by the courts even as bound galleys were being sent to reviewers, died on Dec. 27 in London. He was 63.
 The cause was not disclosed, said a spokesman for Between the Lines, a literary journal for which Mr. Hamilton worked as an editor. 
 Mr. Hamilton, chain-smoking and drinking prodigiously, prowled the British literary landscape in the last third of the 20th century, establishing a reputation for brutal criticism and elegiac, if minimalist, poetry. He founded two influential literary journals and was an editor of the Times Literary Supplement, among other publications.
But it was his pursuit of Mr. Salinger that drew the most attention. Indeed, after a federal appellate court reversed a lower court and barred publication of "J. D. Salinger: A Writing Life," Mr. Hamilton reversed field and wrote another book with himself as a main character. Called "In Search of J. D. Salinger" (Random House, 1988), it described his thwarted chase.
As a young man, Mr. Hamilton had been deeply influenced by Mr. Salinger's "Catcher in the Rye" and decided to follow his own highly praised 1982 biography of Robert Lowell Jr. with one on the reclusive Mr. Salinger, who refused to cooperate, having long insisted that nobody should write his biography until he was dead.
Mr. Hamilton nonetheless visited Mr. Salinger's old neighborhoods, spoke with his old friends and found some unpublished letters from the author, many of which Mr. Salinger had donated to university libraries. Those letters, quoted in the original manuscript without authorization, moved Mr. Salinger to sue.
Upon hearing that the letters were to be used in a biography, Mr. Salinger copyrighted them. But a judge in federal district court in Manhattan, Pierre N. Leval, ruled that Mr. Hamilton's use of the letters was minimal and insubstantial. Calling the book "a serious, well-researched history of a man who through his own literary accomplishments has become a figure of enormous public interest," Judge Leval ruled that it could be distributed.
But an appeals court reversed the judge's ruling in 1987, questioning whether Mr. Hamilton's use of Mr. Salinger's unpublished letters violated the spirit of the "fair use" standard. A year later, the revised Salinger book landed on the desk of Jason Epstein, Mr. Hamilton's editor at Random House. Mr. Hamilton called it a literary adventure story and proclaimed it better than the first.
"It has a stronger plot and certainly a more riveting denouement," he said, "and at the same time it raises key questions about the whole business of 'biography' -- what is it for, why do we write it, why do people want to read it and so on. Also, it tells you just as much about Salinger, in fact more, than the earlier, banned version did."
Robert Ian Hamilton was born in King's Lynn in Norfolk, England, on March 24, 1938. His father, an engineer specializing in sewage systems, died when he was young. Barred from soccer, his passion, because of a heart murmur, he turned to poetry.
While still in elementary school in Darlington, England, he edited an alternative magazine intended to compete with the official school publication and was disciplined. He served in the Royal Air Force before entering Keble College at Oxford University, where he founded a literary magazine called Tomorrow.
After graduation in 1962, he and his friend John Fuller began another literary magazine, The Review. Its purpose was to "rap dunces and hound charlatans." It championed a terse, imagist minimalism and attracted like-minded young poets like David Harsent, Hugo Williams, Colin Falck and Michael Fried.
The Review folded in 1972, but two years later Mr. Hamilton began The New Review with support from the Arts Council of Britain. The first issue contained 10 poems by Lowell, a friend of Mr. Hamilton's, as well as a gossip column. 
Writers included Martin Amis, Jim Crace, Ian McEwan and the current poet laureate of Britain, Andrew Motion. Editorial meetings were often conducted at the pub next door, the Pillars of Hercules.
It was there, in Soho's legendary seaminess, that Mr. Hamilton honed his well-lubricated, sardonic humor. One of his famous lines came after a young poet declined an alcoholic drink on the grounds that it tasted bad and made him feel bad.
"Well, none of us likes it," Mr. Hamilton said.
He seldom published his own poems, but when he did, they were generally well received. "Each individual poem is pruned back to an austere and beautiful knot of pain," Michael Hoffmann wrote in the London Review of Books in his review of Mr. Hamilton's "Fifty Poems" (Faber & Faber, 1988).
His poem "Awakening," from his book "The Visit: Poems" (Faber & Faber, 1970), suggests his verbal economy:
Your head, so sick, is leaning against mine,
So sensible. You can't remember
Why you're here, nor do you recognize
These helping hands.
My love,
The world encircles us. We're losing ground.
The New Review, which ended its six-year run in 1979, was Mr. Hamilton's last full-time job. He was host of a literary program on television and wrote biographies, first of Lowell, then of Mr. Salinger. His next book was on screenwriters, "Writers in Hollywood, 1915-1951" (Harper & Row, 1990).
He then examined how widows and other survivors sometimes deliberately distort biographies in "Keepers of the Flame: Literary Estates and the Rise of Biography" (Faber & Faber, 1994).
He edited many books, including "The Oxford Companion to 20th-Century Poetry in English" (Oxford, 1994). He also returned to his youthful love, soccer. He wrote two books about Paul Gascoigne, the English midfielder who played in Italy: "Gazza Agonistes" (Granta, 1993) and "Gazza Italia" (Granta, 1994).
Mr. Hamilton is survived by three sons from two marriages that ended in divorce, and a son and a daughter he had with his companion, Patricia Wheatley, who also survives.
Always a prolific critic, he cultivated a reputation for incisive, often savage reviews. He once reviewed a young poet's first collection three times -- once under his own name, once under a pseudonym, once anonymously -- each time negatively.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An obituary of the British poet Ian Hamilton on Monday referred incorrectly to his survivors. They are his widow, the novelist Ahdaf Soueif, and their two sons; a son from his first marriage; and a son and a daughter he had with his companion, Patricia Wheatley. Mr. Hamilton's second marriage did not end in divorce.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ian Hamilton (John Foley) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (92%); LITERATURE (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (91%); LITERARY CRITICISM (90%); POETRY (90%); WRITERS (90%); JUDGES (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LIBRARIES (70%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (68%); SMOKING (56%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

HAMILTON, IAN; MARTIN, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



190 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: PENTAGON SEEKING A LARGE INCREASE IN ITS NEXT BUDGET 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
The Pentagon is pushing for a substantial increase, in the range of $20 billion or more, for its 2003 budget, confident that the war on terrorism has strengthened Congressional and public support for rebuilding the armed services, senior military officials say.
 Even as Congress is projecting a budget deficit next year, the Pentagon is arguing that it will need significantly more money to cover rising health care costs, stockpile precision-guided munitions and accelerate an array of big-ticket programs, including fighter jets and warships. 
 "There is a real necessity to do something we didn't really address in the last budget, which is ramp up procurement," said Under Secretary of Defense Dov S. Zakheim, the Pentagon comptroller. "It's got to go up."
Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld has also vowed to use the budget for the 2003 fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1, to advance programs he has said will "transform" the military, including missile defense, unpiloted aircraft and high-tech battlefield communications equipment. 
Mr. Rumsfeld is expected to argue, for instance, that the armed services must stockpile laser- and satellite-guided weapons for future conflicts. Those munitions, which cost from $20,000 to $1 million each, exceeded expectations in Afghanistan, where they were used so extensively that the Navy arsenal came close to running dry, officials say.
The secretary will also call for developing munitions that can penetrate caves and hardened, deeply buried bunkers -- one area where military officials say American bombs were not always effective in Afghanistan. North Korea and Iraq are thought to have built many such bunkers for command centers and storage sites for biological and chemical weapons.
Officials say Mr. Rumsfeld will also push for accelerating a program to convert Trident submarines, which are now armed with nuclear-tipped missiles, so they can instead carry precision-guided cruise missiles with conventional warheads.
Dr. Zakheim said the Pentagon budget was still being negotiated with the White House and declined to provide figures. But senior military and Congressional officials have said the increase will be about $20 billion over the current $329 billion Pentagon budget, or about 6 percent, after adjusting for inflation.
A $20 billion increase in the Pentagon budget would be less than the $33 billion increase approved by Congress last year, the largest since the Reagan era. But the new request comes in an economic downturn, when other federal agencies are being told to trim spending to balance declining tax revenues.
The proposed increase for the 2003 Pentagon budget will not cover the costs of fighting the war in Afghanistan or tightening defenses against terrorism in the United States, which include fighter jet patrols over some American cities. Those costs will continue to be financed by emergency budget supplements.
Congress has already allocated $17.5 billion in emergency money for the Pentagon since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. But Dr. Zakheim said the Pentagon would need another major infusion of emergency money by late winter. 
That is because the cost of the war, estimated at nearly $2 billion a month, is not expected to decline soon and may rise, Dr. Zakheim said. Though the bombing in Afghanistan has almost ceased, scores of American warplanes continue to fly missions there daily, thousands of troops are being moved in for long-term missions, and American bases around the world remain on heightened alert against terrorism.
"I don't see much tailing off yet," Dr. Zakheim said.
Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the White House budget director, ordered the Pentagon to trim an earlier, much larger budget request, Congressional officials said. Still, Mr. Daniels has said the White House will endorse a substantial Pentagon budget increase for 2003.
"The reconstruction of our defenses, which started in the '02 budget, will continue with perhaps more urgency," Mr. Daniels said recently.
Even as they criticize President Bush for the impending budget crunch, Democrats in Congress are widely expected to support a major expansion in military spending because of broad public support for the war on terrorism, Congressional officials say. 
"All of us understand that our first obligation is to defend the nation, and we're going to make certain that the resources are available to do that," said Senator Kent Conrad, a Democrat from North Dakota who is chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. 
"At the same time, every part of the federal government understands we can't be giving blank checks," Mr. Conrad added. "Unfortunately according to the administration, we're turning to deficit spending, in a major way."
Before Sept. 11, some Congressional and military officials had predicted that Mr. Rumsfeld would seek to reduce forces or cut big-ticket weapons systems to buy high-tech weaponry. But it appears that he would now like to maintain and even strengthen conventional forces to counter threats from nations like Iraq and North Korea, while also investing in new weapons to fight unconventional wars of the future.
"You can't ignore the wherewithal for fighting the kinds of wars that we've fought in the past, as long as the people who initiated those wars are still around," Dr. Zakheim said.
That means, he said, the military will still need to build tanks, warships and tactical fighter jets like the F-22 and the Joint Strike Fighter. He said there would be no cuts to the force structure of the services, as had been contemplated before Sept. 11. If anything, Dr. Zakheim said, the services might grow to reduce the need to use National Guard and Reserve troops -- although that issue will probably not be addressed until the 2004 budget.
In its budget submission to the White House, the Pentagon will argue that pay increases and expanded health care benefits -- programs initiated in the Clinton administration and continued by President Bush -- have risen sharply and are eating into procurement budgets. 
Last year, Congress enacted legislation requiring the Pentagon to supplement the Medicare coverage of military retirees over age 65, including costly pharmacy benefits. That move will increase Pentagon health care costs by $5 billion in 2003, military officials said, though some Congressional analysts have called that estimate high. On top of that, officials forecast that health care costs will grow at double-digit rates, draining billions more from the Pentagon's personnel accounts.
At the same time, the armed services are clamoring to accelerate major weapons programs that have been delayed by budget squeezes in the past. Early last year, there was much speculation that some of those programs -- including a new generation aircraft carrier, the Army's Crusader mobile artillery unit and the Marine Corps's V-22 Osprey -- might be canceled or reduced.
Now military officials are predicting that all those programs will be financed in 2003, and that some will be expanded. Senior uniformed officers have also complained privately that a $20 billion increase will not be enough, officials say, raising the likelihood that they will lobby Congress for more money.
"We're in an atmosphere where not many hard choices are being made," said Gordon Adams, a budget official in the Clinton administration who is now director of the Security Policy Studies Program at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University. "And as long as we're not making hard choices, there will be an attempt to have it all."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Although Congress is projecting a budget deficit next year, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld plans to ask for a budget increase that military and Congressional officials say will be in the range of $20 billion. (Associated Press)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); TERRORISM (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (77%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (70%); AIRLINES (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (61%); CITY LIFE (60%); CITIES (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PUBLIC OPINION 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (54%)

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); ZAKHEIM, DOV S 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (64%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



191 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2172 words

HEADLINE: Americans, Gradually, Feel Grip of Recession 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
The recession that started in March is gradually intruding on people's lives, forcing them to cut back in ways that contribute to the downturn.
 Young people just out of college find themselves unable to land jobs in their chosen careers, or to afford rent for their first homes. Retirees try to get by on suddenly shrunken incomes. Immigrants send less money to relatives back home, or cut their own expenses. And a growing number of middle-income people, having lost jobs or bonuses or raises, squeeze luxury out of their lives. 
 But if the number of Americans untouched by recession is diminishing, optimism is not. The expectation of most forecasters -- that the economy will be rising by June -- is shared by many Americans who see their new hardship as temporary and therefore bearable. That mix of optimism and pain showed up in two dozen interviews with people in all walks of life across the country. 
"People see this recession as a temporary adjustment after a long expansion that could not go on forever," said Tom W. Smith, a director at the University of Chicago's National Opinion Research Center. "The message we get is that people are hurting; they are finally beginning to experience the recession in their daily lives. But they view the economy as fundamentally sound."
Only a minority of the population, roughly 17 percent, feel directly affected by the recession, said Humphrey Taylor, chairman of Louis Harris & Associates, the polling firm. But that is up from 10 percent last summer and is growing rapidly, deepening the downturn as people are drawn in and spend less.
New college graduates are especially touched, people like Anne Turner Gunnison, who is unable to find a job in her chosen field. Andrew Mickish and Karen Griffin, a couple in their early 30's, had a solid foothold in the dot-com world, plummeted into unemployment, then made it only partway back, and shifted to a simpler lifestyle.
Daniel Mejia, an immigrant who worries that his job as a van driver is about to vanish, has stopped sending money to his grown children in El Salvador.
Preston S. Smith, a marketing executive at the wealthier end of the spectrum, is cutting back on vacations and other purchases, but is betting on a bull market soon. The Henkenius family of rural Iowa, earning well but feeling recession all around them, are trimming their already modest expenses. And Philip Colombo, a recent retiree hoping to move smoothly into a new job, is finding the road rather bumpy.
The poor, meanwhile, who suffer in good times as well as bad, seem less affected than higher-income people. Unemployment has barely risen in the past year among people who make less than $20,000, the Labor Department reports. That is not much consolation for Tony Acevedo, who has many fewer customers for his $10 boardwalk massages, although he shows up in the statistics as employed.
Through most of last fall, attention focused more on the terrorist attacks and the national response than on the economy. But now opinion polls show that the recession is surging back into public focus, along with an unexpected optimism.
"There is this tremendous sense of resiliency and resourcefulness," Mr. Smith, the pollster, said. "We will get the terrorists and we will work our way through the recession."

Challenges for the Class of 2001
No group appears to be experiencing the recession with more surprise, and pain, than the Class of 2001, caught off guard as they started careers. For Ms. Gunnison, 22, an art history major, the recession was under way when she graduated from Stanford in June. But she did not notice. She moved quickly into an ideal job: classifying early 20th-century Indonesian textiles at the Cantor Center for Visual Arts at Stanford. There was even a salary, $10 an hour, for this opening burst in her career.
But when the textile project ended in October, Ms. Gunnison tried to move along. "I thought the next job was out there," she said, "and it wasn't."
With art sales shrinking, museums and galleries stopped hiring, and numerous applications for jobs in her field turned up no openings. The one she did find -- explaining contemporary art to gallery visitors at $15 an hour -- drew 80 applicants. Ms. Gunnison was one of two finalists, but did not get the job.
Giving up plans to take an apartment in San Francisco, she soon moved back to her parents' home in Sacramento, lowering her sights as she retreated. "I am aware now of the recession, but I cannot understand why I cannot find any job," she said. In her latest attempt, she applied for an opening at a bakery, which did not bother to call her back.
Ms. Gunnison's pain is shared by young people a decade older, like Mr. Mickish and Ms. Griffin. Their income soared to $143,000 last January as they swung from dot-com to dot-com in Pittsburgh's high-technology world, and then they slid into unemployment.
Fleeing the debacle, they moved in September to Miami, where they have put together $90,000 in family income, he as a software engineer at a dot-com, she as a coordinator for a nonprofit organization that offers water sports for disabled vacationers and residents. 
"We found in The South Florida Business Journal a little write-up about a software company that was running in the black; no venture capital, no lines of credit," said Ms. Griffin, who is 31, two years younger than her husband. "We decided that was the only sort of dot-com that could survive, so Andy applied and got a job."
He earns $70,000. Gone now is the dining out in fine restaurants and the season tickets to jazz concerts, the symphony, the theater -- the life left behind in Pittsburgh. The second car is gone, and the $20,000 in credit card debt is nearly paid off, mostly by draining savings. The couple's biggest expense is $1,200 a month rent on their bungalow, but most months they get a discount by doing work on the building.
"The recession is bringing us a different conception of life," Ms. Griffin said. "We worked our heads off for money and it ended up being an illusion. So we made the decision to live simpler lives."

Added Pressure on Immigrants
What brought the recession into the life of Mr. Mejia, an immigrant from El Salvador, was a letter that Massachusetts sent to state employees in December warning that because tax revenues were falling, 5,000 jobs would be cut, including jobs in the Department of Mental Health, where Mr. Mejia works as a minivan driver. 
So like millions of Americans, the Mejia family is cutting expenses, which in turn threatens to deepen the recession.
Not that Mr. Mejia, 52, or his wife, Magnolia, 48, ever spent incautiously. Millions of immigrants do not earn even as much as he now does -- $30,000 in the state job and $9,000 as a night janitor at Harvard. Mrs. Mejia adds $4,000 as a nanny.
What frightens the Mejias is that he could lose his state job, a post he moved up to in 1999 after working for years as a lower-paid orderly.
So Mr. Mejia is taking precautions. He has stopped sending $200 a month to three grown children in El Salvador. The fourth child lives with the Mejias in their two-bedroom apartment near Boston University, which costs $1,300 a month, up 30 percent in a year, Mr. Mejia complains.
The Mejias gave up a trip to Colombia, Mrs. Mejia's homeland, and the family has all but stopped buying clothing, even for the youngest, a son, 10. Mr. Mejia canceled a cellphone, and put their tax rebate toward paying down debt.
The money he sent south had been for three children from his first marriage, children raised by his mother after Mr. Mejia emigrated 18 years ago. He tried before to bring them north, he said, but they did not want to leave their grandmother. "Now they want to come and I can't get them visas," he said.

Changes for the Rich and Poor
At the upper end of the work force, Mr. Smith, 49, is also beginning to experience the recession. Relatively few Americans earn more than he does as an executive at Lowe, Brockenbrough & Company in Richmond, Va., which manages investments for wealthy clients.
But his income, which had been rising 10 percent a year, leveled off in 2001 at nearly $140,000. And the bonus portion, $20,000, is being paid more slowly -- in four installments over 12 months instead of the usual two over six months.
"I had hoped to be earning at least $160,000 by now, but the company's performance has obviously been affected," Mr. Smith said. So he is cutting expenses, planning just one vacation in 2002 -- and only with his wife -- instead of the three vacations the family took in 2001, two with all six children.
He has put off many optional purchases, like buying a new computer to replace the oldest of the three PC's scattered through the family's six-bedroom home in a Richmond suburb. When his father-in-law purchased a new printer, Mr. Smith offered to buy the old one, and finally accepted it as a gift. Still, he sees this austerity as temporary. The recovery cannot be far off, he said, and he is already putting money into what he calls underpriced stocks, betting on a bull market ahead.
Mr. Acevedo, at the poor end of the national income scale, is not sanguine. A sometime actor, he had gotten by for five years by giving impromptu $10 massages at a boardwalk stand in Venice, Calif. Now, instead of 8 or 10 customers, a good day is 3 or 4, and Mr. Acevedo, 58, often discounts his price to get them.
"All the vendors are discounting," he said. "I guess people are afraid to spend."

Fears for Those Not Yet Affected
Some families suffer the symptoms of recession shock without yet being hurt by the recession. That is the story of the Henkenius family in Arcadia, Iowa, population 400.
Darrell Henkenius and his wife, Kerry, both 40, bring home $65,000 a year, he as the manager of a grain elevator, she as a part-time truck dispatcher. That is high-end income in Arcadia, and Mr. Henkenius is still getting raises, putting them even further above the nation's median family income of just over $50,000. Without hesitation, the couple added $500 to annual school tuition, when their youngest, 8-year-old Hope, joined her two teen-age sisters at a Catholic school.
But farmers have been in recession for months, suffering from weak crop prices, and the Henkenius family is gradually embracing the mood around them. By refinancing debt, the family has cut mortgage and car payments to $300 a month from $600. Rather than hire a carpenter to rebuild their front porch, Mr. Henkenius did the work himself. And rather than drive two hours to shop in Omaha, the family uses the Internet more often, and buys less.
For Mr. Henkenius, Sept. 11 was yet another blow to rural America. "Things have got to rebound," he said.

Retirees Face Uneasy Times
Mr. Colombo, 59, retired on July 7, unaware that the downturn he read about in his newspaper applied to him, too, and would soon upend his plans. His father, he notes, retired at 60 and never worked again, had not wanted to. Mr. Colombo had a different goal. He would roll quickly into a new job that employed the same media and public relations skills he had used as a service coordinator at the Tri-County Metropolitan Transit District of Oregon, the public transit authority in Portland.
"I did not sense a recession at all here in Portland until I looked for a job and started getting negative letters," Mr. Colombo said. He soon asked friends in the media what was happening. "I learned that people were being laid off behind the scenes," he said.
Mr. Colombo, who worked at Tri-Met for 20 years, earning $51,000 when he retired, counts on another job, one that pays at least $35,000, to supplement his pension. He took the pension as a lump sum of $161,000, rather than in monthly installments of $800 to $900.
A financial adviser invested the $161,000 in stocks, preferring that to interest-bearing deposits that are a problem now for many retirees because rates have fallen so low. But his portfolio today is worth $4,000 less, Mr. Colombo reports.
As if that were not enough, his wife, Jacqueline, 52, has had her hours as a receptionist cut, shaving more than $1,000 from her $12,000-a-year income.
Still, Mr. Colombo is persistently optimistic. He will soon begin to draw $1,200 a month from his pension fund, confident that rising stock prices will more than replace the outlay. His two children are grown and self-supporting. He and his wife have made the usual spending cuts: less eating out, no new clothing, and the biggest sacrifice of all, Mr. Colombo's decision to postpone for a semester the doctorate he is pursuing in public policy. "I could not right now take $700 and invest it in tuition," he said.
Asked if he would have retired in July, knowing what he knows now, he hesitated. He probably would have waited, he finally acknowledged, but quickly added that he hated the job. "The conditions in the office were not the best," he said.
Once the recovery comes, Mr. Colombo said, he will find a job. And the recovery will come. This 10th recession since World War II is not yet, for the optimistic Colombo family, life-changing.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Monday about the effect of the recession on Americans' lives gave an outdated name for a polling firm whose chairman, Humphrey Taylor, said 17 percent of the population felt directly affected. It is the Harris Poll, owned and produced by Harris Interactive, not Louis Harris & Associates.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Finding work is hard for recent graduates like Anne Turner Gunnison. (John Decker for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Darrell Henkenius is still receiving raises as a manager of a grain elevator in Arcadia, Iowa, but is watching his family's spending. (Steve Pope for The New York Times); Philip and Jacqueline Colombo in Portland, Ore., are revising retirement plans, and Daniel Mejia in Boston is worried about his job. (Michael Dwyer for The New York Times); (Shane Young for The New York Times)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); SIMPLE LIVING (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; LABOR; PUBLIC OPINION; WAGES AND SALARIES; HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: HARRIS INTERACTIVE INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

TICKER: HPOL (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (74%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); EL SALVADOR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



192 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: Year of a Shrinking Budget and Tough Choices in Albany 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
By all accounts, the 2002 legislative session promises to be one of the nastiest in memory, as lawmakers confront the financial crisis caused by the World Trade Center attack.
 Not only must Gov. George E. Pataki and legislative leaders close a multibillion-dollar budget gap, but they must also do it in an election year in which districts are being redrawn and all are trying to protect their political futures. The fireworks are set to begin on Wednesday when Mr. Pataki is to give his State of the State address before a joint session of the Legislature. 
 "It looks like it could be a painful year," said the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver. "The shortfall in revenues is going to make things very difficult." 
No one yet knows how big the shortfall might be. Governor Pataki has predicted revenues could drop $3 billion to $6 billion in the fiscal year that begins April 1. He has painted a fiscal picture darker than any the state has faced since the Great Depression. 
The leaders of the Assembly and Senate have not yet produced their own estimates. Privately, senior staff members on both sides of the aisle say they expect a budget gap that is smaller than the governor predicts, but one still hefty enough to require major cuts in service. "It's siren time," one of the Legislature's budget analysts said.
The inevitable clash over budget cuts does not bode well for other significant bills. Last year, the Legislature and the governor had high hopes to overhaul laws on drug crimes, automobile insurance, aid to schools and women's health insurance coverage. None of the changes happened, thanks to partisan strife, a protracted budget battle and the effects of the Sept. 11 attack.
Indeed, the 2001 session was widely seen as a great disappointment. The year's top achievements were a bill permitting up to six Indian casinos to be built and a ban on holding a cellphone while driving. 
Even so, some bills from last year's legislative agenda might have a better chance of passage in an election year, if a budget deal can be reached quickly. Mr. Pataki and all 211 seats in the Assembly and Senate will be up for re-election this fall, and some bills are politically valuable to the members -- as long as they do not cost much. 
"Issues like education and health care and the lagging upstate economy become more difficult after Sept. 11," said Mr. Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, "because they involve a lot of dollars. But things like the drug laws and auto insurance probably become easier in an election year." 
Politicians spend more freely in election years when times are flush, but this year many fear the struggle will be just to save other programs from the ax. Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader, also indicated some programs would have a tough time getting financed in the current climate. "I'm afraid the budget and the out years are now," Mr. Bruno said, "with the pain that is there financially going to be an inhibitor." 
Pataki officials and legislative leaders all seem to agree that the budget, and sagging revenues, will preoccupy lawmakers. 
Several financial indicators are worrying them. Income tax revenues flattened out, and barely grew in the first eight months of the fiscal year that ends March 31, while business and sales taxes dropped off sharply after Sept. 11, Tax Department records show. Spending, however, has continued at twice the rate of inflation, and the state appears to be rapidly spending down the $3 billion surplus it had last April.
As a result, the budget choices facing Mr. Pataki are prickly. He has said he does not want to resort to layoffs, and last month he met with union leaders to ask for their help in drafting an early retirement plan, and talked about a possible hiring freeze and other steps he might have to take to cut the state payroll. But it is unclear how much money might be saved through those measures, union leaders say, and the governor has not ruled out layoffs.
Mr. Pataki has vowed not to increase taxes, with one exception: He is considering raising the tax on cigarettes to $1.50 a pack, from $1.11. He may also propose postponing some of the $294 million in tax cuts, mostly intended to help businesses, that were to take effect next year, though he has said he is loath to do so. 
Once again, the governor is also expected to propose streamlining the state's cumbersome school-aid formulas to save money, his aides said. This year, however, the Board of Regents has thrown its support behind the concept, proposing an even greater simplification, with the cities gaining at the expense of wealthier suburbs. (About 38 percent of state taxes are spent on schools.) Mr. Pataki is also likely to try again to reduce Medicaid costs -- one of five state tax dollars is spent on Medicaid and other health care programs.
None of these ideas will be palatable to the Assembly's Democrat majority or to the Senate's Republican majority, especially in an election year. Voters tend to judge local representatives by how much school aid they bring home. Cutting health care benefits for the poor is never popular with Democrats, and raising taxes or putting off scheduled tax cuts are anathema to Republicans. 
"This is going to be a very difficult budget," said the governor's chief spokesman, Michael McKeon. "The governor has made it clear we are looking at everyone doing their share to tighten their belts."
Election years tend to focus politicians' attention on popular issues, lawmakers said. For instance, the Senate Republicans -- always concerned about preserving their majority in a state where Democrats outnumber Republicans -- agreed in the last election cycle to several proposals, among them handgun controls and a hate-crimes law.
Last year, Mr. Pataki offered proposals for easing the state's Rockefeller-era penalties for drug sale and possession, an idea with great appeal to the moderate, liberal and minority voters the Republicans have been trying to court. The Assembly Democrats said the governor's plans did not go far enough, in part because he did not give judges enough discretion in sentencing, but talks have continued and a compromise is possible.
Lawmakers in both parties also want to lower the cost of automobile insurance, an issue so potent, especially among suburban swing voters, that it nearly toppled Gov. Christie Whitman of New Jersey in 1997. New York is expected to overtake New Jersey as the state with the highest premiums, not a distinction politicians want used against them by their opponents. Republican proposals focus on limiting medical claims and increasing penalties for fraud; Democrats want to curb insurers' rates. 
Both sides are also interested in reviving bills that would force insurers to pay for cancer screenings for women, contraceptives and infertility treatments. Talks broke down last year over whether religious institutions should be exempt from the laws for their employees, but once again the need for the Republican governor to appeal to female swing voters in the suburbs might give those measures an extra boost.
Last year, Mr. Pataki's proposal to streamline the state's byzantine school-aid formulas died in the Legislature. The idea might have renewed life this year, given that the Regents have endorsed a similar concept, and that there is a real possibility of cuts to school aid. The debate will occur in the shadow of a state judge's ruling that the current formulas yield too little money for urban schools, a decision the governor is appealing.
Mr. Bruno, the Republican leader, said he was disappointed, "more with the Assembly than the Senate, that we couldn't close on some very, very important issues" last year. "It all went back to Square 1," he said, "and here we are." 
While the incumbents are cutting programs, their challengers -- starting with Andrew M. Cuomo and H. Carl McCall, the Democrats running against Mr. Pataki -- can be counted on to throw barbs from the sidelines, accusing them of being incapable of passing a responsible spending plan. 
To make matters even more complicated, the governor has sued the Legislature over constitutional questions about which branch of government ultimately controls the language in budget bills; that suit is expected to go to trial this spring. 
At the same time, based on the 2000 census, the Legislature must redraw the lines for its own districts as well as Congressional districts, in time for campaigns leading to the September primaries. The hardest part will be eliminating 2 of New York's 31 House seats in a year when no representative is leaving voluntarily. Redistricting almost always leads to fierce partisan battles that can paralyze progress on other bills. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REDISTRICTING (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (71%); DRUG POLICY (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (69%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); CASINOS (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS; REAPPORTIONMENT 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



193 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: ON PRO FOOTBALL; 
Cheap Sack Will Cost Favre and Strahan

BYLINE:  By Mike Freeman 

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD N.J. 

 BODY:
When Giants defensive end Michael Strahan broke the N.F.L. sack record yesterday, there was not a player who deserved it more. That is what Green Bay quarterback Brett Favre, the man Strahan sacked to bring his total to 22 1/2, said after the Packers' 34-25 victory.
 And Favre, a close friend of Strahan's, is right. Strahan is one of the hardest-working, classiest people the sport has seen in some time. But the next time Strahan sees Favre at a golf tournament, or they're having a beer, Strahan should slap his good friend silly. 
 Yes, Mr. Favre, Strahan deserves the record, but please, handing it to him the way you did, as if you were throwing change into a Salvation Army bucket, is the kind of mistake Favre may never live down.
It is not the Chicago Black Sox, or Nancy-Tonya, but it is u-g-l-y.
What the heck was Favre thinking?
Strahan broke the record set by Mark Gastineau, the former Jet, because of a gift from Favre with less than three minutes remaining in the game. Green Bay Coach Mike Sherman, with his team comfortably ahead, called for a running play to Ahman Green. Favre changed it, without telling his offensive line, to something called a key play, meaning Favre is to fake a handoff to a back and then run the opposite way, in this instance, toward Strahan's left defensive end spot.
Since the linemen thought Favre was handing off, they did not pass protect, and Strahan was free. He steamrolled right into Favre for a 7-yard sack. It went just as Favre had planned it.
Until that point, Strahan had no sacks, three quarterback hurries and two quarterback hits. He was not going to get the record.
There is no question that Favre knew this, so he changed the play so Strahan could get the sack. "Strahan can get sacks on his own," Sherman said, stressing that the original call was for a handoff. "We don't have to give it to him."
Sherman was clearly irritated. Favre had committed a basic sin in football: nothing is free. When Lawrence Taylor was in the same position in 1986 -- facing Green Bay, just a sack and a half behind Gastineau -- did the Packers' quarterback then do a little fixer-upper so Taylor could get it? No. Taylor was shut out.
When asked about the sack, Packers center Mike Flanagan, also irritated about Strahan's gift, said: "That's not something I'm talking about. Go ask Brett." Other offensive linemen were equally bothered.
Favre denied he gave his friend the sack, but he could barely do it with a straight face.
"We wanted to win the football game," Favre said. "If a sack happens, great. But when we leave today, we wanted to leave here as a winner."
Favre is missing the moon-sized point. By tanking it, he hurt his friend Strahan more than he helped him, because now, that is what the talk is about, not what Strahan did. It cheapens the record -- not a lot, but enough.
It would have been better for Strahan not to get the record than to get it the way he did.
Sport is a place for answers. You may not like them, but they are usually concrete. And records are part of that. They are supposed to be blemish free, honest and clear, everything that life is not. We may not know if our plane will land at its destination or if the economy will sour like a rotten apple, but we do know what we see on the field is real.
Strahan is happy to hold the sack record, and that is understandable. It has stood for 17 years, and he has worked extremely hard to get to this point. If he continues on this path, he will sack his way into the Hall of Fame.
And Strahan plays the most brutal position in a brutal game, where players are routinely kicked in the groin, gouged in the face, punched in the stomach, spat on and bitten. Things have been done to Strahan that dogs don't do to each other.
Some will maintain, who cares if Favre gave him the record? Just by virtue of playing nine rough years in the league, for him to get that close, he deserves it anyway.
And this is not to blame Strahan. He simply took advantage of what Favre did. Strahan said that if Favre did throw him the high, slow curveball: "I was not in the huddle calling the plays. I can just react to what happened."
Favre hugged Strahan after the sack, and even some Packers players -- not on offense, mind you -- applauded Strahan. There isn't a player in football who dislikes the defensive star. He's that good a guy.
But Favre, in the end, didn't do Strahan, or himself, any favors.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Giants' Michael Strahan recorded his 22 1/2 sack, an N.F.L. record, by tackling the Packers' Brett Favre. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); GOLF (73%); TOURNAMENTS (70%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (55%) FOOTBALL; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (91%) NEW YORK GIANTS; GREEN BAY PACKERS 

PERSON: FREEMAN, MIKE; FAVRE, BRETT; STRAHAN, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



194 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-7

India-Pakistan Rift Remains as Meeting Ends
The three-day gathering of South Asian heads of state in Katmandu, Nepal, ended in a stalemate between the leaders of India and Pakistan. India's prime minister, Atal Behari Vajpayee, remained adamant that India would not take part in any talks until he was satisfied that Pakistan had shut down Islamic militant groups. A6

Sharon Calls Arafat an Enemy
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon called the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, "a bitter enemy of Israel" and accused him of trying to smuggle arms into the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Israel said its commandos seized the arms before dawn on Thursday when they stormed a freighter in the Red Sea. Palestinian officials continued to deny any connection to the shipment. A3

Argentina Abandons Dollar Link
Argentina formally abandoned a decade-long policy of linking its peso to the American dollar at a value of one to one, an arrangement that brought an initial, illusory burst of prosperity but ends with the country bankrupt and on the brink of political chaos. A6

Italy's Leader Will Have 2 Posts
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi has decided to serve as the country's foreign minister, too, while mulling the choice of a successor to Renato Ruggiero, who resigned. A7

NATION CHALLENGED A8-9

On a Once-Fertile Plain, A Struggle for the Future
The people of the Shamali Plain, Afghanistan's breadbasket, proudly resisted the Taliban, and paid an extraordinarily high price. The enemy laid waste to the fertile land, leaving a desert barren of everything except mines that were laid by both sides. Now, all the strands of Afghanistan's recent agony, and all of the challenges of its future, are interwoven in this place, as its people return to build anew, or to feed off the scraps of their old lives. A1

Evolving Role for Special Forces
The mission assigned to the Army Special Forces is in transition across Afghanistan as the character of the American campaign shifts. Since late October their job was to infiltrate Afghanistan, organize feuding anti-Taliban militias and, under a withering air campaign, to take the offensive on the ground. But these days they are more likely to be found disarming unexploded bombs, trying to coax local warriors to turn in Stinger missiles for cash, and helping the fledgling government go about the job of rebuilding. A1

Preparing Jails in Cuba
Soldiers from domestic American military bases began arriving at the United States Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to help build maximum-security jails for up to 2,000 prisoners from Afghanistan. A8

Muslims Detained in Singapore
Singapore has arrested 15 Muslims and accused them of planning to blow up military targets and embassies in the small city-state. The government said at least some of them might have received training from Osama bin Laden's terrorist organization, Al Qaeda. The government said the men had been found with bomb-making instructions, and with photographs and videotape of buildings that were apparently being considered as targets. A8

NATIONAL A12-17

Big Increase Is Sought In Armed Services Budget
The Pentagon is pushing for a substantial increase, in the range of $20 billion or more, for its 2003 budget, confident that the war on terrorism has strengthened public support for rebuilding the armed services, senior military officials say. The Pentagon is arguing that it needs more money to cover rising health care costs, stockpile precision-guided munitions and accelerate an array of big-ticket programs, including fighter jets and warships. A1

Suicide Note From Tampa Pilot
A teenage pilot's fatal flight into a skyscraper in downtown Tampa, Fla., was a deliberate gesture of support for Osama bin Laden and the hijackers who brought down the World Trade Center, the city's police chief said. The incident has raised concern about the security of thousands of small planes at airports around the country. A12

Air Traffic Programs Delayed
The Federal Aviation Administration is pushing back some programs intended to reduce air traffic delays because neither the agency nor the airlines can afford them now, given increased spending on security and the slowdown in air travel. A16

Revelations on A-Bomb's Past
The leader of the Nazi atomic bomb program, Werner Heisenberg, revealed its existence in September 1941 in a meeting in Copenhagen with a scientist who later became part of the Manhattan Project, according to secret documents cited in a newspaper article. But contradicting several historical accounts, he never expressed moral qualms about building a bomb for Hitler or hinted that he might be willing to sabotage the project. A16

Water Quality Under Scrutiny
Water quality in 4 of the 12 watersheds in the Philadelphia area is among the poorest in the country, according to a federal study of pollutants, wildlife and geology. A12

Vehicle Found in Slaying Inquiry
A stolen vehicle linked to a man whose wife and three children were killed in Oregon was found at San Francisco International Airport, the Federal Bureau of Investigation said. A15

Monitoring Theme Park Injuries
Nearly 350 injury reports were filed last year under a new law regulating California theme parks. Many of the injuries were caused by restraining devices, and one-third were to children. A17

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Pressure Builds to Decide Future of Ground Zero
The cleanup of the World Trade Center site is proceeding faster than most people had ever expected. But the stunningly rapid work means that questions about what comes next may no longer be a comfortably distant debate. A1

Confronting a Financial Crisis
By all accounts, New York State's 2002 legislative session promises to be one of the nastiest in memory, as lawmakers confront the financial crisis caused by the World Trade Center attacks. The fireworks are set to begin on Wednesday when Gov. George E. Pataki is to deliver his State of the State address. B1

Duty on the Home Front
They are dedicated. But the 1,000 or so National Guard soldiers who remain stationed at ground zero and New York's transportation hubs are also weary and homesick. Many of them are living at Fort Hamilton in Brooklyn, New York City's only active installation. And they still have another month to go. B1

Attorney to Focus on Terror
As James B. Comey assumes the post of United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, his priority is preventing and prosecuting terrorist attacks. B4

Endorsements in Speaker Race
One of the leading contenders in the race to be New York's City Council speaker, Gifford Miller, picked up endorsements from several labor unions and one of his opponents, Bill Perkins, as the contest for votes entered its final days. B1

Debate Over Sept. 11 Fund
From the day the overseer of a fund to compensate victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks announced a set of draft regulations for distributing the money, there have been those who have criticized his guidelines. Now, with a deadline looming for changes to the regulations, some politicians and victims' relatives are questioning the amount of compensation to be given to families for noneconomic losses. B4

Neediest Cases B5

ARTS E1-10

Oscar Front-Runner Emerging
The murky Oscar race may have lurched ever-so-slightly into focus as the American Film Institute, in its first annual movie and television honors, named "The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring" the best film of 2001 at a nationally televised banquet. E3

SPORTS D1-9

Jets Bound for Playoffs
John Hall kicked a 53-yard field goal with 59 seconds left in the game, propelling the Jets into the playoffs with a 24-22 victory over the Oakland Raiders. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Feeling the Grip of Recession
College graduates find themselves unable to land jobs in their chosen careers. Retirees struggle with suddenly shrunken incomes. Immigrants send less money home. And a growing number of middle-income people squeeze luxury out of their lives. The recession is gradually forcing people to cut back in ways that contribute to the downturn. A1

Leading Designer May Retire
Yves Saint Laurent, 65, who has been considered perhaps the world's greatest designer for more than 30 years, may announce his retirement. A4

Reality TV Surviving
Despite widespread predictions of its demise, reality TV is still around, surviving an array of challenges. C7

Computer Chips Getting Faster
The Intel Corporation and Advanced Micro Devices are expected to announce their fastest microprocessor chips ever, analysts said. C5

Between PC and TV, a Rivalry
The rivalry between the PC and the television over which is destined to become the hearth of the home will take on new urgency when three prominent technology executives sketch out competing visions of their digital product lines. C1

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES B6

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Troubled seas; Senate inaction on nominations; let the mayor run the schools.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E7
TV Listings E9
Crossword E6
Weather D10
Metro Diary B2

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); PRISONS (83%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); RELIGION (76%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (75%); SMUGGLING (75%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); NAVIES (74%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); ARMIES (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); ARRESTS (70%); UNEXPLODED ORDNANCE (68%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (65%); WAR & CONFLICT (63%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RED SEA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (78%) INDIA (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); NEPAL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (93%); SINGAPORE (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); ASIA (92%); CUBA (90%); ITALY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



195 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE 

 BODY:
 Argentina Ends Dollar Peg
Argentina, bankrupt and on the brink of political chaos, abandoned its policy of linking its peso to the dollar at a one-to-one value. PAGE A6

Saint Laurent May Retire
Yves Saint Laurent has called a news conference for today in Paris, prompting reports that he will announce his retirement. PAGE A4

Challenges Ahead in Albany
New York State's 2002 legislative session could be nasty, as lawmakers confront the financial crisis after the terrorist attack. PAGE B1

Jets Make the Playoffs
John Hall, left, kicked a 53-yard field goal with 59 seconds remaining to lift the Jets to a 24-22 victory against Oakland and into the playoffs. They will either play Oakland again or face Miami in the first round next weekend. SPORTSMONDAY, PAGE D1

GRAPHIC: Photo (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); TERRORISM (53%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (83%)

PERSON: JOHN J HALL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) ARGENTINA (91%); UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



196 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 96 words

HEADLINE: Is Poverty at the Root of Terror? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 George McGovern (Op-Ed, Jan. 1) is correct to assert that global hunger and poverty helped foster hatred of America and other countries with high literacy and low poverty rates. 
It is our job to help increase food production and improve education in countries like Afghanistan, so that the chasm between richer and poorer countries doesn't rise exponentially in the next decade. 
 Making sure that some of the country's antiterrorism budget is used to reduce world hunger should be our first New Year's resolution. 

SHARON R. KIERNAN
Wellesley, Mass., Jan. 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POOR POPULATION (88%); POVERTY RATES (88%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (88%); LITERACY RATES (87%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (84%); COUNTERTERRORISM (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 

PERSON: MCGOVERN, GEORGE S; KIERAN, SHARON R 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



197 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 71 words

HEADLINE: Is Poverty at the Root of Terror? 

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 George McGovern's proposal that we take care of hungry children and mothers to improve the conditions of life in the world's poverty-stricken villages (Op-Ed, Jan. 1) is a noble idea. An important corollary is that at the same time we control population growth throughout the world. If this is not done, we will never achieve a modern world of peace and plenty.

GEORGE YASUKOCHI
Berkeley, Calif., Jan. 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (83%); POPULATION GROWTH (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 

PERSON: MCGOVERN, GEORGE S; YASUKOCHI, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



198 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1754 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: GROUND ZERO; 
Cleanup's Pace Outstrips Plans For Attack Site

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
The gargantuan cleanup is set to be finished by June. The caved-in subway line is slated to be rebuilt and running again by November. The first new office tower could start rising as early as the end of the year. And the PATH commuter line from New Jersey, for which hundreds of millions of dollars have already been made available, is scheduled to be back in service by the end of 2003.
 It is a pace of progress at the World Trade Center site that was unthinkable right after Sept. 11, and that has surprised everyone from city and state officials to real estate developers to victims' families. 
 But the stunningly rapid work also means that questions about what comes next may no longer be a comfortably distant debate: officials acknowledge in interviews that a 16-acre hole will occupy the site by summer's start, and they admit such a scene -- debris gone, a sense of promise palpable -- could well create pressure to have answers about downtown's future faster than anyone ever expected. 
"We don't want that hole to be sitting there with nothing going on. That would be the worst thing," said John C. Whitehead, the chairman of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, a joint state and city panel formed in late November to coordinate downtown's rebuilding. "So we are going to try to have plans lined up as quickly as possible to permit construction to begin as soon as possible."
The emerging recognition of an accelerated timetable for rethinking and rebuilding downtown is having a ripple effect, officials said last week. Public hearings on the best use of the site could begin within about six weeks; a temporary memorial park, created in part to reassure victims' families that some significant memorial will be built, is expected to be in place by year's end; and certain important participants are pushing to have the rough outlines of an overall redevelopment plan that includes offices, cultural institutions and residential buildings settled upon within three months or so.
"The faster things happen, the more positive it is for downtown," said David Shulman, a real estate analyst at Lehman Brothers. 
"Time is the great enemy of that whole area," he said. "If things go slowly, if there's a lot of foot-dragging, you'll lose downtown as a real financial center."
Actual construction on the biggest parts of a remade downtown could be three to five years off, most of the principals involved in the process agree. And there is no way to forecast precisely how litigation, insurance payments, environmental concerns, the economy or debate about the formal memorial might affect redevelopment.
Cities across the United States, including New York, have learned in recent decades that redevelopment plans typically take longer than expected to devise, and then years more than called for to build.
The redevelopment agency's board has met just once, with a second meeting set for today. It still has no staff or office of its own, not even an executive director. And even those close to Mr. Whitehead concede he knows little about the construction industry and is still being introduced to many of the important city government and civic leaders. 
Gov. George E. Pataki, who appointed 7 of the 11 members to the development group, said through a spokesman last week that he had found the pace of the cleanup to be inspirational, but urged the public to be patient as plans for the rebirth of Lower Manhattan were devised.
"We need to let the process move forward naturally so we have the broadest consensus, not rush it," said Michael McKeon, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki.
And a spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg said that the mayor's visit to the site on Jan. 1 and the meetings he and his staff had held in his first week with Mr. Whitehead and others illustrated the high priority the administration would place on the rebuilding effort.
What no one disputes is the striking pace of progress at ground zero, as the removal of burned-out shells of buildings and twisted piles of steel and concrete has progressed so quickly that the landscape changes weekly. A job that some believed might take two years is now set to be complete within nine months.
Already, 962,725 tons of debris and steel have been carried from the site. As a result, almost nothing remains above ground across an area where the twin towers and five other World Trade Center buildings once stood. Most of the remaining work involves digging out debris that was compressed into the basement levels.
"There were piles of compacted, twisted steel eight stories high into the air at first," said Capt. Raymond Reilly, a Fire Department official who has worked at the site since Sept. 11. "It was just overwhelming. You wondered, 'Where do you start?' Now it is a gaping hole four levels down into the ground. I just can't understand how they did it that quickly."
The Development Corporation, after hiring an executive director and naming committees from various constituencies -- real-estate executives, downtown residents, bankers and victims' families -- will hold public hearings to consider the various ideas. Then a conceptual plan will be drawn up, hopefully within three months, Mr. Whitehead said -- a timetable that even in theory reflects a stark departure from the early thinking after the disaster. 
By the end of this year, an interim memorial park, perhaps with trees, benches and flowers, would be built.
If there is sufficient market demand, the most frequently mentioned plan is to set aside at least four acres for a permanent memorial and then build an undetermined number of buildings each 50 or 60 stories tall, perhaps including a mix of office and retail space, apartments and a performing arts or cultural complex of some sorts.
Officials say that once the debris is gone it will still be at least two years before structural steel can start to go up for new buildings within the core of the site, because new subway tunnels, a new subway station and a PATH commuter rail station have to be built underground.
But they say there is still an urgent need to move ahead with planning, for the ultimate design of the new World Trade Center area -- how many people will work or live there and where they will be concentrated -- will heavily influence the rebuilding of the transit system, roadways and utilities.
Mr. Whitehead said he realized there would be pressure to move quickly, especially in light of the quick cleanup. The board has decided to meet every other week instead of once a month, as originally planned. "It is a combination of a desire for speed and a desire for quality," Mr. Whitehead said. "Things have to be built fast enough to change the psychology of this area, but not so fast as to not make it a great result in the end."
The first building to rise, various officials say, will most likely be a replacement for 7 World Trade Center, the 47-story former home to Salomon Smith Barney, as well as the mayor's emergency command center. The building, while considered part of the World Trade Center complex, was built separately and set off from the rest of the area, at its northern edge.
Larry Silverstein, the developer who built 7 World Trade Center and who in July had signed a $3.2 billion lease on the twin towers, said he hoped to start work on a replacement for 7 World Trade Center by the end of 2002, first by building a new underground substation for Consolidated Edison and then constructing a new 50-story office tower.
"It will be such a shot in the arm for all of Manhattan and the city at large to see new construction take place in Lower Manhattan," he said last week, adding that he had already chosen a lead architect, David M. Childs of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, who designed the new AOL Time Warner Center at Columbus Circle.
Yet despite Mr. Silverstein's enthusiasm, some government officials said he would have a hard time meeting his end-of-the-year goal, because building plans need to be approved by the Port Authority and decisions about transit and utility systems may take longer than he expects.
Given how intertwined each aspect of the redevelopment plan will be, there will also be pressure to move quickly to decide on the location and size of the permanent memorial to those killed on Sept. 11. Nikki Stern of Princeton, N.J., whose husband, James E. Potorti, was killed in the attack, said that the work to clear the site had progressed so quickly that families who want their voices heard in the debate over the memorial's size and location must organize now.
"What do you do when on the one hand you have the economic necessity of moving Lower Manhattan forward and on the other a group of victim families that say, 'You may not build on my loved one's head'?" said Mrs. Stern. "It will never be resolved. But it must be addressed, and the sooner it is addressed the better it is for all concerned."
One immediate benefit of the rapid pace of the work at the World Trade Center site is that the size of the restricted area has shrunk week by week, so much that now Church Street, which is on the eastern edge of the impact zone, was recently opened again to limited traffic. Con Edison reports that all its Lower Manhattan customers have had power restored, while Verizon puts the number at 99 percent. All this has meant that however haltingly, life is starting to return to the immediate neighborhood, though it still has a long way to go.
One Liberty Plaza, the adjacent 54-story office tower that had been falsely rumored to be at risk of collapse, reopened in late October. All but one of the 25 residential buildings at Battery Park City have reopened, the exception being 600 Gateway Plaza, which had many of its windows blown out when the towers collapsed.
And tenants, at least those who are returning, are gradually moving back into the World Financial Center, just west of the site. Six thousand Merrill Lynch employees have been back since December. American Express intends to start its return to its headquarters at 3 World Financial Center in April. Even Century 21, the department store across Church Street from the World Trade Center, is preparing to reopen soon.
Despite this progress, normalcy is still far off. The local multiplex and many restaurants remain closed. Battery Park City is still isolated. And memories of Sept. 11 are still fresh. But Mr. Whitehead said he understood how urgent it was to show the public that there was at least a real plan coming into place.
"There is still an outflow of people and companies and we have to reverse that," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 8, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A diagram yesterday with an article about the rapid pace of the cleanup effort at ground zero misidentified three buildings. Clockwise from the lower left, they were 90 West Street (not 1 World Financial Center); 1 World Financial Center (not 2 World Financial Center); and 2 World Financial Center (not 3 World Financial Center).

GRAPHIC: Photo (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. A8) Chart: "The Panorama"This photograph of ground zero was taken on Saturday with a Swiss-made panoramic camera, a Roundshot, that rotates around its own axis to record an image as wide as 360 degrees. At this point, much of the remaining excavation work at the site involves digging out material that was compressed into the basement levels of the World Trade Center. Already, 962,725 tons of debris and steel have been carried from the site. To date, so much has been removed that the slurry wall bordering the site is visible.(pg. A8) Map of the World Trade Center and the surrounding buildings.(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); HIJACKING (79%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); AIRLINES (71%); TERRORISM (70%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (63%); LITIGATION (63%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; HOUSING; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: LIPTON, ERIC; WHITEHEAD, JOHN C; LIPTON, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



199 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Argentina Unlinks Peso From Dollar, Bracing for Devaluation and Even Harder Times 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
Argentina today formally abandoned a decade-long policy of linking its peso to the American dollar at a value of one to one, an arrangement that brought an initial, illusory burst of prosperity but departs with the country bankrupt and on the brink of political chaos.
 Eduardo Duhalde, Argentina's fifth president in little more than two weeks, sought the change on Friday as part of a broader "public emergency law" giving him sweeping powers to deal with the collapse. Acting in record time, the lower house of Congress approved the plan without significant alterations before dawn today, and the Senate followed suit this evening. 
 "We are changing course," the economy minister, Jorge Remes Lenicov, said tonight in a televised address to the nation. He added that it was necessary to "begin to disengage the economy" from the dollar because there was no other way to "brake and reverse the crisis" that Argentina is facing. 
The decoupling marks a long-expected but nonetheless major shift for this nation of 36 million people, at one time the richest in Latin America. With the scrapping of the one-to-one policy, the daily newspaper Clarin said in a front-page headline today, "a new economy begins," one likely to demand even more sacrifice and forbearance from Argentines.
"There are going to be months of turbulence, and quite difficult ones," Sen. Oscar Lamberto, the secretary of finance-designate, warned the nation on Saturday. "The situation will began to normalize when economic activity resumes and the level of employment improves, but that process will be neither short nor quick."
In his speech, Mr. Remes Lenicov said that although the government hopes to let Argentina's currency float freely against the dollar "in four or five months," for now the peso's value would have to be fixed at 1.40 to the dollar. That is an approach many Argentines say they fear will cause a re-emergence of past economic problems, among them inflation, price controls and shortages of goods.
"Nobody dares guess what will happen next, but we all suspect the worst," said Daniel Vidal Gallardo, shopping at a bed-and-mattress store here in response to advertisements that urged him to take advantage of the "last 72 hours of one to one." He added that "I'm not happy with the situation we have now, but neither do I want to go back to what we had before, in the 1980's."
Argentina first adopted the policy known here as "convertibility" in March 1991. Carlos Saul Menem, president at the time, said the system would allow Argentina to modernize by "hitching its wagon to the front of the train" of the global economy, and his economy minister, Domingo Cavallo, confidently predicted that the system would last for 60 years or more.
Almost immediately, "the monster of inflation was forced into a bottle," as Mr. Lamberto remembered fondly today. With Mr. Menem having essentially ceded control of the money supply, the rate at which prices were rising fell from a high of 5,000 percent a year to less than 10 percent.
Foreign investors flocked to Argentina, attracted by the promise of stability that an economy anchored to the dollar appeared to offer. Inefficient state-owned utilities and other companies were auctioned off and tariff barriers were lowered, which led to increased availability of telephones and improved electrical, gas and water service.
The interchangeable use of the dollar and peso also brought a flood of cheapened imports, which drove inefficient local industries out of business, and encouraged middle-class Argentines to vacation in Miami and Cancun. "We were the rich men of the south," Mr. Lamberto said this morning.
The last decade has also been characterized by "a rigid monetary policy and expansionist fiscal policy," said Martin Redrado, director of Fundacion Capital, an economic consulting firm here. In other words, neither the central government nor the provinces were willing to restrain spending. They hired many new employees and embarked on costly new public works programs.
In Buenos Aires Province, which Mr. Duhalde governed for eight years, the budget deficit grew to more than tenfold its level, to $1.6 billion in 1999, his last year in office. But there as elsewhere in the country, banks were all too willing to help paper over the growing gap by continuing to lend.
As a result, Argentina began 2002 with its total public debt at $141 billion. About two-thirds of that total is owed to foreign banks and international lending institutions.
At the same time, with the peso tied to a dollar whose value was rising, it was becoming harder and harder for Argentina to export its products. With the country already in a recession, that became especially true after neighboring Brazil devalued its currency early in 1999.
Both Mr. Menem and his successor, Fernando de la Rua, continued stubbornly to defend the one-to-one policy. Last year, Mr. Cavallo was even brought back as economy minister, imposing austerity policies that pushed bankruptcy and unemployment to record levels.
"This model has destroyed me and destroyed the country," said Juan Patricio Longo Escalante, an engineer who lost his job two years ago. "After all that we've been through, now we're broke, back to point zero and having to start all over again." The devaluation of the peso, accompanied by provisions that cushion Argentines from its effects by converting dollar-denominated debts like mortgages, car loans and credit card payments into pesos, will give Mr. Duhalde room to maneuver. But it also leaves a lot of old problems unresolved, economists agree, and may create new ones.
The most immediate challenge is the government's decision to set not one but two new exchange rates -- a fixed rate for international trade and a floating rate for most other transactions -- and to try to defend the fixed rate with its remaining reserves, about $12 billion. That stands in sharp contrast to what Mexico and Brazil did in similar situations, letting their currencies float freely against the dollar.
"It's a big, big gamble they are taking," a South American diplomat said today. "You're talking about an approach that has proven unsustainable even in economies that weren't as sick as this one."
Government officials also admit that the country piled up an $11 billion budget deficit last year. They can only cover the gap by printing more pesos, which would lead to an immediate burst of inflation, or by drastically cutting expenditures -- which would allow them to once again approach the same foreign lenders who now regard Argentina as a pariah because it has defaulted on its debt.
But as the daily La Nacion noted in an editorial today, so far "there has been no announcement of convincing reforms that hint at a more efficient state and a genuine, sustainable and significant reduction of public expenditures." 
Or as Pedro Pou, a former president of the central bank, put it, "Something in this political equation doesn't add up."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Playing to inflation fears, a toy store window in Buenos Aires announces that the store has not raised prices. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); NEW ECONOMY (74%); TRENDS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); GLOBALIZATION (61%); MATTRESSES (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BANKRUPTCIES 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; DUHALDE, EDUARDO (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) ARGENTINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 



200 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: A Candidate For Speaker Gains Support 

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL 

 BODY:
One of the leading contenders in the race to be City Council speaker, Gifford Miller, picked up endorsements from several labor unions and one of his opponents, Bill Perkins, yesterday as the contest for votes entered its final days.
 Mr. Miller, who represents much of the Upper East Side of Manhattan, amassed such support -- visibly displayed in a news conference yesterday -- during a busy weekend for the candidates seeking to become leader of the 51-member Council. With the vote set for Wednesday, the last several days have been a whirlwind of swearing-in parties and get-togethers for many of the Council's 38 new members, with many phone calls and meetings among Democratic Party officials, labor leaders and consultants. 
 The speaker and a few heads of committees hold tremendous sway over what -- and who -- comes through the legislative branch. They wield power and influence over lucrative development deals and public programs. Then there are the comfortable jobs within City Hall, made more scarce because an independently financed Republican mayor occupies the west wing. 
As forces began to coalesce around Mr. Miller, the jockeying for influence began to spill into a more public arena. Possible endorsement deals surfaced, as did more fallout from the bitter ethnic politics of the Democratic mayoral primary, and efforts by labor to wield as much power over the process as the county political organizations had historically, if not more. Labor leaders have cozied up to the Council at a time when they have little relationship with the new mayor and less leverage at the bargaining table because of a weakening economy.
Surrounded by members of the city's Central Labor Council, an umbrella group representing hundreds of labor unions, Mr. Miller said: "This election on Wednesday is not about who gets a good office. What it is about is what kind of an institution are we going to have and what kind of work is that institution going to do on behalf of the working men and women of this city."
But in recent days, the contest has also been about recruiting backers and assessing support. In addition to receiving the backing from the labor council, Mr. Miller also won the support over the weekend of Dennis Rivera, leader of the city's powerful health care workers union, 1199/S.E.I.U.
Mr. Perkins, who was at Mr. Miller's news conference, conceded that it became clear that "the momentum wasn't there" in his quest to become speaker. His support of Mr. Miller carried with it the votes of four or five council members who had backed him.
Mr. Miller's emergence as the leading candidate signaled a developing agreement between the Democratic Party leaders of Queens and the Bronx, people close to the negotiations said. Thomas Manton, Queens Democratic leader, and Roberto Ramirez, the Bronx party leader, met or talked several times over the last few days, several officials said. Mr. Manton said yesterday that most Queens council members would now vote for Mr. Miller, while Mr. Ramirez gave the councilman a warm embrace at an event in Washington Heights. 
Although Mr. Perkins said that no specific promises were made for his support, he said he assumed he would be provided with a "leadership" position when committee chairmanships were doled out.
Precisely what that meant was not immediately clear yesterday, but the most powerful Council committees, and those that party leaders have historically cared about most, are Finance, because of its role in negotiating the budget, and Land Use, because of its role in zoning changes and large development projects.
Some of those trying to influence the process, as well as one speaker candidate, also touched on the racial and ethnic lines of the race. To that candidate, Angel Rodriguez, selecting a white speaker could bode ill for Democrats, who were divided during the mayor's race and are worrying about the coming race for governor.
"Does the Democratic Party have room at the table for Latino elected officials?" he asked. "I think that has to be a concern."
He said yesterday that his candidacy was still viable. He planned to meet with another competitor, Philip Reed, and other council members.
The winner needs 26 votes on Wednesday. While the four incumbent councilmen have spent their days stalking the corridors of City Hall, scurrying to holiday parties and inaugural events, and working the phones, others -- Democratic Party chairmen, labor advocates, business leaders, political clubs and council members -- have twisted arms to get votes for their candidates. They were driven by events and interests outside the Council.
That was evident in Mr. Miller's endorsement yesterday. Brian M. McLaughlin, president of the Central Labor Council, said that union advocates had wanted to influence the composition of the new Council, and had screened hundreds of Council candidates, then lobbied voters on behalf of about 30. Now his members would encourage council members to vote for Mr. Miller.
Although the days when county leaders controlled almost all of their delegations are gone, in part because of term limits and public campaign financing, even reduced influence is enough, consultants said, to allow party leaders to sway the election.
Even the freshmen who were elected without the help of their party organizations are hesitant to risk alienating leaders so soon. Many council members won their primary elections with just a fraction of the vote and are insecure about withstanding challenges from candidates backed by county organizations in the next election, which in this case is just two years away because of Council redistricting. There is the prospect that many of the three dozen members tossed out by term limits might try to come back. Then there is the possibility that the party leaders, along with whoever becomes speaker, could influence how Council districts are redrawn.
Yesterday, several new members expressed frustration with the influence the party leaders still tried to exert. "I think it's unfortunate that it was brokered by the party bosses," said one new councilman, David Yassky of Brooklyn, echoing sentiment that Mr. Miller's speakership is a foregone conclusion. "And it will be a test of the Council's independence to see how much we can operate without their influence."
Mr. Yassky said it has become even more important to change the operating rules of the Council to give individual members more power. The Democratic caucus plans to meet again today to address that subject.
Some consultants said that Mr. Miller managed to come this far in the race through hard work, especially in wooing the Queens delegation, and by accruing few negatives. For example, Mr. Rodriguez, of Brooklyn, had considerable support in that borough and among the Republicans at first, but he has had a chilly relationship both with organized labor and with Mr. Ramirez.
Mr. Perkins had his difficulties too, despite having secured more support among the Harlem leadership than his neighboring councilman, Mr. Reed, with whom he failed to reach an agreement on Friday night. According to several council members, Mr. Perkins encountered opposition from the Queens party leadership.
In the end, though, the process has been guided mostly by the desire to climb on board with the winner, council members and advisers said, so the forces involved have been closely monitoring the candidates' chances of winning. There are about 37 leadership positions on the Council, said one official, and nobody wants to be locked out.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gifford Miller, center, a contender for City Council speaker, was endorsed yesterday by Bill Perkins, left, and Brian M. McLaughlin. (Kelly Guenther for The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); WOMEN WORKERS (73%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (73%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CITY COUNCILS; ENDORSEMENTS 

PERSON: CARDWELL, DIANE; MILLER, A GIFFORD (COUNCILMAN); PERKINS, BILL (COUNCILMAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002 

 
