

201 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Technology Shares Extend Rally, While the Dow Falters

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
A rally in technology shares yesterday helped lift two broad stock market indicators to records for a fourth time this week while the Dow Jones industrial average faltered as traders paused to take profits on blue-chip issues.
At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 23.86 points, to 10,173.84. The average of 30 blue-chip stocks rose to record levels three times this week, including on Thursday, when it closed at 10,197.70. 
 Despite yesterday's decline, the Dow is up 10.81 percent so far this year.
The Nasdaq composite index added to Thursday's record with its 19.66-point climb, to 2,593.05.
Also reaching a new high, for the fourth time this week, was the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which gained 4.37 points, to 1,348.35.
"It was the Internet stocks leading today," said Larry Wachtel, market analyst at Prudential Securities.
"The Dow was just taking a breather," he said. "But when you think about what went on this week, taking a breather isn't so bad."
Helping the market, the Labor Department said that prices paid to producers like factories and refineries rose a milder-than-expected two-tenths of 1 percent in March, suggesting that inflation remains in check. With inflation mild, the Federal Reserve is unlikely to raise interest rates.
"The news today confirms that the American economy has found a vaccination for the inflation bug in the form of higher productivity and international competition," said David Huether, an analyst at the National Association of Manufacturers.
But the report on wholesale prices also noted that crude oil rose 29 percent in March, the biggest increase since the gulf war.
Despite higher fuel costs, airline stocks advanced on the New York Stock Exchange. Some of the gains were attributed to an announcement by Continental Airlines that it had raised its fares.
Continental rose 3 1/16 , to 40 7/8; Delta Air Lines rose 4 1/4, to 71 9/16 , and UAL, the parent of United Airlines, rose 1 7/8, to 78 15/16 .
Sending the Dow lower was Union Carbide, off 3 5/16 , to 48 1/16 , after Morgan Stanley cut its rating of the chemical company. Analysts have dismissed takeover rumors involving the company. Another Dow component, General Motors, was down 2 1/4, to 85 5/8.
Internet stocks continued their upward march. The on-line auction company Ebay rose 11 5/8, to 183 3/8, in Nasdaq trading.
Also on the Nasdaq, Theglobe.com soared 19 15/16 , to 78 15/16 . The Internet service provider announced a 2-for-1 stock split late Thursday. Investors also bought up Iturf, the teen-age clothing and chat site that went public yesterday. The stock was priced at 22 and rose to 57 3/4.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Fall
 (By Bloomberg News)
Treasury bond prices fell for the first time in six days as yields at the lowest level since February curbed demand for the securities.
"Investors are a little bit wary of buying at these yield levels," said Kevin Kennedy of Citibank Global Asset Management.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 8/32 , to 96 29/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.46 percent, from 5.44 percent Thursday.
"Today's decline shows we're starting to run out of steam," said Andrew Brenner, a director at Fimat USA Inc. "Ten-year yields touched 5 percent today, a level not seen since February, and that's not attractive enough." Yields on these notes returned to 5.04 percent.
Bonds also fell as prices for crude oil rose more than 4 percent, Christopher Rupkey, an economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 14, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A table in Business Day on Saturday headed "Hot and Cold," listing stocks with large percentage gains and losses in trading on Friday, misstated the amount of stock the Winfield Capital Corporation, an investment company, bought in Modacad Inc., a software maker that recently began selling apparel on line. It was $516,000, not $11 million.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since April 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (65%); MS (NYSE) (56%); DAL (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (65%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (65%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (65%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (53%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); THEGLOBE.COM INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); AIRLINES (88%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); STOCK SPLITS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); BONDS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); CHEMICALS MFG (73%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1999



202 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 11; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: The Poor Neighbor

BYLINE: By Jack F. Matlock Jr.; Jack F. Matlock Jr. is George F. Kennan Professor at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton and the author of "Autopsy on an Empire: The American Ambassador's Account of the Collapse of the Soviet Union."

 BODY:

RUSSIA UNDER WESTERN EYES
From the Bronze Horseman
to the Lenin Mausoleum.
By Martin Malia.
514 pp. Cambridge, Mass:
Harvard University Press. $35. 
 As Russia experiences a rocky transition from Communism to whatever the future may hold, the public has been assaulted by a litany of simplistic explanations for its obvious difficulties. Russia, some say, never experienced the Renaissance, Reformation, Enlightenment or Age of Discovery and therefore cannot be expected to develop the sort of society produced by these formative experiences in West and Central Europe. Some say, in addition, that Russia has always been expansionist and therefore is likely to resume an imperial course whenever its strength allows. And then there is the old argument, often combined with the other two assertions, that Russia is not part of "Europe" or "Western Civilization" since it borrowed its religion from Constantinople rather than Rome.
In "Russia Under Western Eyes" Martin Malia takes on and demolishes these and other cliches that continue to infest our debate about what went wrong in Russia. Western opinion, he points out, has traditionally "demonized or divinized" Russia "less because of her real role in Europe than because of the fears and frustrations, or the hopes and aspirations, generated within European society by its own domestic problems."
As for the first of the stereotypes mentioned, it is true that Russia did not experience the Renaissance or Reformation -- though what predictive relevance this fact has for the 20th century is questionable. The epicenter of the Renaissance was in Italy, which in our time produced Mussolini and Fascism; the Reformation spread from what is now Germany, which gave us Hitler and Nazism. The Enlightenment and Age of Discovery are more recent and Russia was a participant in both. In fact, the intellectual fathers of the Enlightenment, Voltaire and Denis Diderot, for a time considered Catherine the Great the embodiment of an enlightened monarch, in contrast to the French Bourbons. European "enlightened opinion" did not mind that Russia achieved its most notable territorial expansion in Europe during her reign.
Furthermore, every territorial acquisition by Russia in the 18th century was approved and abetted by other European great powers of the time, and the gains were accepted by all. The reason for this is clear: Russia played the imperialist game not out of some innate compulsion to dominate others, but rather because it was part of Europe and every European monarch sought to maximize his or her patrimony.
Western European attitudes toward Russia changed after 1815 and the Congress of Vienna. The "Holy Alliance" of Russia, Prussia and Austria was seen by countries to the west as a bulwark of reaction, and images of Russia as an alien, "Oriental" despotism abounded, most notably in the Marquis de Custine's "Russia in 1839." The problem, however, was not that Russia had suddenly become "un-European" (or had never been European), but that Russia, like Prussia and Austria at the time, was an Old Regime, while the countries to the west had established (or were in the process of establishing) states of a modern type. As Malia puts it, Nicholas I considered himself completely European, but his Europe was the Europe of his grandmother. When his armies put down revolts in Central Europe in 1848, "progressive" opinion in Europe stigmatized him as the "gendarme of Europe."
In fact, the differences in societies and regimes in Europe, as one moved eastward from the Atlantic seaboard, can be placed on what Malia, borrowing from German historians, terms a "cultural gradient." Social and political structures moved, in fits and starts, across the Continent from west to east. In the 19th century, Prussia was transformed from an Old Regime to a "modernized" German empire. Changes in Russia followed those in Prussia after an interval approximating a half-century (Prussian peasants were freed of feudal obligations in 1810 while Russian serfs were liberated in 1861).
Each country followed its own "special way," just as England and France had followed distinctive routes of development, but the general tendency toward secularization of governments, industrialization of economies and democratization of societies, was apparent throughout Europe up to the outbreak of World War I. As one moved east, however, there was a time lag, and this lag frequently created problems in both practice and perception.
Russia's belated development of a civil society was interrupted in 1917 by the Bolshevik Revolution and the Communist regime Lenin and his co-conspirators established, a regime that was not specifically Russian but international and ideological. The Communists' pursuit of a utopian goal by force, dictatorship and terror destroyed the incipient basis for a civil society by eliminating all institutions independent of the Communist Party and thereby atomizing society. Thus, when the Communist dictatorship collapsed under the weight of its own contradictions and irrationality, Russia was left more backward socially and institutionally than it had been in 1914. Developments since 1991 can be properly understood and assessed only with that heritage firmly in mind.
As an integral part of his analysis, Malia offers a devastating critique of Marxist Socialism and its various offshoots, and also of such fads as social science theories of "modernization" and "post-modern" deconstructivism. His unsparing assessment of the fallacies of Socialist ideology and other knee-jerk reactions to "bourgeois" society and market democracy will doubtless infuriate those whose thinking is still infected by the debris of discredited faiths. Malia's critics, however, should be challenged to defend their assumptions and allegations with the same factual rigor and detail that Malia offers for his conclusions. So far as Russia is concerned, it is difficult to quibble with his observation that Lenin's "leap into the full fantasy of Marxism" led to "a dead-end world whose totem is, appropriately, a mummy in a mausoleum."
Malia does not attempt to predict Russia's future. His conviction that history often takes unexpected turns would prohibit his doing so. He does, however, describe some of the limits within which Russia's future is likely to unfold. He considers Russia today "a poor power trying to modernize in the real world after the failure of its caricature modernization in the surreal world of Soviet Socialism," a country which "must first become rich if she wishes again to be powerful." Though this is likely to take "no small length of time," it is possible that "the predominance of private property and the market . . . will in the long run produce the same effects in Russia that they have everywhere in the contemporary world: the formation of a civil society and a pluralistic culture."
"Russia Under Western Eyes" is the product of decades of research and thoughtful reflection by a historian as familiar with the intellectual history of modern Western and Central Europe as that of Russia itself. His broad perspective allows him to avoid the exaggeration of Russian distinctiveness frequently encountered in writings by those who know Russia better than the rest of Europe, or the rest of Europe better than Russia. His prose, though erudite and nuanced, is clear and straightforward. Refreshingly, Malia never leaves his reader in doubt of his views. In fact, he shouts out his key judgments with eclat.
His generalizations are studded with brilliant, often epigrammatic, insights. Few readers will agree with every one. I would take some exception to his characterization of Gorbachev's perestroika and to his statement that the cold war ended with the collapse of the Soviet Union. (Didn't it really end in December 1988, when Gorbachev officially discarded the class struggle as the basis of Soviet foreign policy?) In the context of Malia's book, however, answers to such questions are not crucial to his overall conclusions. One can disagree about the aptness of a particular simile or with a judgment of detail without calling into question the main contours of the picture Malia presents.
"Russia Under Western Eyes" is the most insightful book published in any language to date on Russia's place in European intellectual and political history. It is likely to stand as the definitive treatment of the subject for years to come, a source of pithy quotations for those who agree and of propositions to refute for those who don't. But Malia has set a standard of proof that will be exceedingly difficult for his critics to match.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Dusan Petricic)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: RUSSIA UNDER WESTERN EYES (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ITALY (79%); UNITED STATES (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); AUSTRIA (72%); GERMANY (72%); WESTERN EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (52%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ITALY (79%); UNITED STATES (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); AUSTRIA (72%); GERMANY (72%); WESTERN EUROPE (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); ROME, ITALY (52%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); RELIGION (68%); 

PERSON: MATLOCK, JACK F JR (PROF); MALIA, MARTIN MARTIN MALIA (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



203 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 26; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Stalemate

BYLINE: By Tim Weiner; Tim Weiner is a Washington correspondent for The Times.

 BODY:

Endgame
Solving the Iraq Problem -- Once and for All.
By Scott Ritter.
240 pp. New York:
Simon & Schuster. $22. 
 Intelligence officers see the world differently from Rand McNally and Mercator. Their intellectual maps often resemble Saul Steinberg's famous New Yorker cartoon: an enormous Manhattan, an empty Midwest, a tiny China. Their intense focus can skew the perspective, sacrificing the background, the better to see the target.
Scott Ritter stared into the abyss of Iraq for seven years, searching for things unseen: missiles and bombs, nerve gas and anthrax. His mission with the United Nations Special Commission, charged with uncovering Iraq's hidden arsenal, was remarkable, as was the special commission: an international intelligence agency, invented to spy on Iraq, was trying to disarm it. Since Iraq had tried to build nuclear weapons, toxic bombs, nerve gas warheads and remote-controlled crop sprayers filled with poison, the mission mattered to humanity.
The inspectors destroyed far more weaponry than the Pentagon ever did with smart bombs and cruise missiles. But they fell short, and now they have fallen apart, without ever really knowing how much or how little Iraq has hidden. The inspectors performed difficult work with great courage; the grand panjandrums of American foreign policy have not. The United States has frittered away a grand international coalition arrayed against Iraq and betrayed Iraqi exiles with botched covert operations. Its policies have had greater success at starving innocent civilians than smoking out Saddam Hussein. Barring a miracle in months to come, the Iraqi tyrant will have built his bridge to the 21st century on the bones of his subjects, while the next American President will have to patch together some new strategy against him.
The failure of the United Nations inspectors to disarm Iraq fully, Ritter argues, is the United States' fault. Ritter, a former Marine intelligence officer who resigned from the special commission last year in protest, has argued publicly and forcefully that the United States deliberately undermined his mission with a muddled and mendacious foreign policy. In so doing, he became the most famous renegade Marine officer since Oliver North. He is in some sense a defector, and the problem with defectors, as many a weary debriefer knows, is that after a point they run out of fascinating facts observed firsthand and begin to opine and improvise.
If Ritter has a case for indicting the White House, the State Department, the Pentagon and the Central Intelligence Agency for subverting the inspectors -- and he well may -- he does not make it coherently here. If he has a clear idea of what to do now that the inspectors have been abandoned -- an idea more inventive than waiting out Saddam or blowing up Baghdad -- it is very hard to tell. "Endgame" reads like a sputtering argument written in anger, laid out in fits and starts, and printed hastily before the author's 15 minutes expire.
Ritter suddenly found himself out of the intelligence loop a year ago, and sorely out of favor with the C.I.A. He never quite explains why. The C.I.A. was playing an increasingly dominant role in the special commission's espionage and playing rough with Ritter, who found himself under investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation on the never-substantiated suspicion that he was secretly serving as an Israeli agent. By several accounts, a certain senior C.I.A. official responsible for Iraq did not like Ritter, in part because the spy saw the marine as creating an independent intelligence operation, opening up channels of cooperation with Israel outside the intelligence agency's ken and usurping information and power. Suddenly severed from the inner circle of intelligence, Ritter could no longer see his target clearly.
An interesting story, but interested readers will find little of this intrigue here. "Endgame" is a map without a key. More's the pity, since Ritter has blown a chance to tell a terrific story about a great adventure. He has been to places very few can see, and a reader approaches with high hopes for a privileged tour of a forbidden city. But "Endgame" is a lurching trip on a bus with smudged windows and a bitter guide speaking bad English -- something like the less successful inspections that Ritter conducted in Baghdad.
In fairness, Ritter has written several impassioned yet reasoned passages indicting aspects of American policy in Iraq, arguing convincingly that the economic sanctions against Iraq are killing tens of thousands of children without imposing political pain on Saddam Hussein. American leaders and the American people have chosen to ignore that suffering.
Some secrets are spilled here: in particular, how closely the C.I.A. was associated with some of the special commission's inspections. As far back as 1992, Ritter says, nine American intelligence officers were placed on the inspection team. Precisely what good this accomplished remains unclear. Ritter notes that the agency "failed to produce or flubbed" intelligence support for a crucial inspection of suspected Iraqi ballistic missile forces in 1997. He speculates, without apparent basis, that the intelligence agency used the commission as cover for a failed coup plot against Saddam in 1996.
Revealing these matters may land Ritter in trouble with the Government, but the only indictment he deserves is his disappointed reader's. For example, he mentions casually, in a paragraph, that he was "hot on the trail" of a "human guinea pig matter" last year -- a suspicion that the Iraqis had tested toxic chemicals and biological substances on prisoners. Fascinating, if true. Was it? Who knows? The question is never addressed. How much deadly weaponry might Iraq have left after eight years of intrusive inspections? Ritter offers no special insights.
What is the endgame he proposes? It is a starry-eyed diplomatic solution, including "an Iraqi Marshall Plan" to rebuild the shattered nation and "military-to-military contacts to assist in the modernization and training" of the Iraqi Army -- about as likely a plan as inviting Saddam to throw out the first ball at Yankee Stadium. At the end of this book, Ritter writes: "In the end, a military solution may prove to be the only certain way to solve the Saddam problem. At present, however, a military solution is impossible." Thanks, Major. Dismissed. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ENDGAME (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (87%); DISARMAMENT (75%); STARVATION (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); INDICTMENTS (70%); LITERATURE (61%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; RITTER, SCOTT SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



204 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 14; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: QUICK TREKS TO WILD ADVENTURES;
Colorado: Can man and ram coexist?

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE; JAMES BROOKE is chief of the Denver bureau of The New York Times.

 BODY:
Cold, clear waters of the Rockies rushed through a granite canyon, and on the far bank, a Rocky Mountain bighorn sheep grazed on rabbit brush and fringe sage. Belying this placid tableau east of Salida, Colo., the 125-pound ewe raised her head as we approached, her heart pounding wildly. It wasn't love at first sight. She bolted down the railroad tracks.
"That was 185 beats per minute," Darby Finley, a biologist for the Colorado Division of Wildlife, said, wielding a floppy antenna. Consulting a computer that tracked the wild ewe's heartbeat from a surgically implanted transmitter, he concluded that it had tripled once we came within 50 yards. 
 Tracking the blood pressure of a Rocky Mountain bighorn sheep might seem arcane, but for two reasons. With freight traffic dwindling, plans are afoot to tear out track along the Upper Arkansas River and replace it with a hiking and biking trail. And in this wildlife-worshipping state, Rocky Mountain sheep are nearly as sacrosanct as cows are in India. The sheep, with its elegantly curving horns, is Colorado's state mammal. In late autumn, tourists turn out to watch rams butting heads, trying to establish male dominance with sharp cracks in the high mountain air.
Despite this attention, the sheep have only recently prospered in 20th-century Colorado. While the state's elk population has increased a hundredfold in this century to 800,000, the sheep population barely made it to the 1970's. Wild sheep populations were decimated by hunters and by diseases that were introduced by domestic sheep. In the last 25 years, through intensive management, the state's wild sheep population has roughly tripled, to about 7,600.
Now, biologists are discovering that stress can cause their immune systems to collapse, rendering them vulnerable to pneumonia. And, as the heartbeat meter documented, people can cause stress.
The rails-to-trails project symbolizes the shift of Colorado's rural economy from selling minerals to selling scenery. Tourism is now the region's backbone. The Upper Arkansas is Colorado's most popular rafting river, with the number of boaters doubling in the last decade, to 250,000 a year. Beginning May 15, a scenic railroad will start taking passengers, for the first time in 32 years, from Canon City, about 12 miles west through Royal Gorge and back.
And if hikers and bikers have their way, tracks will be torn out west of Royal Gorge, allowing for a 160-mile trail from Canon City almost to Vail that passes through there at an easy grade at an altitude of 6,000 feet. The rails-to-trails movement now counts 1,000 rail trails nationwide, generating as much as $1.5 billion in food, lodging and bike shop rentals.
The Colorado project requires bureaucratic steps that will take several years. As it proceeds, sheep watchers can spot the animals from a respectful distance, from the four viewing sites across the river from the herds. The turnouts, on State Highway 50 west of Royal Gorge, have informative plaques and are supported by the Rocky Mountain Bighorn Society.
Wildlife officials have built almost all the planned raft and kayak launching facilities on the river's south bank, across the water from major sheep populations. The proposed trail, however, would introduce a steady flow of people and their pets on the other side of the river along a corridor that separates about 300 wild sheep in Bighorn Sheep Canyon from their water source.
Long ago, the bighorn sheep became habituated to the rumbling freight trains that have passed through here for over a century. But they are spooked by people.
"Their eyesight is amazing: they could pick us out if we were on that ridge over there," Mr. Finley said, pointing to a jagged peak half a mile from where two dun-colored ewes grazed.
Mr. Finley said that if people could be educated to leave the sheep undisturbed, it might be possible to reconcile the wild populations with a steady flow of visitors. Dogs on leashes, no motorized vehicles and bans on feeding would soften the intrusion and might allow man and ram to coexist.
Visitors can view bighorn sheep along a 43-mile stretch of Route 50 between Salida and Parkdale. There are five parking areas on the south side of the river from which the sheep can be seen on the other side. An all-day parking pass costs $2 a person, payable at self-service booths at any site.
East from Salida, these viewing areas are at the Lone Pine Recreation Site, mile marker 248; in Texas Creek, mile marker 252; at the Pinnacle Rock Recreation Site, mile marker 258; at the Five Points Recreation Site, mile marker 260 (where there is a station with photographs and literature about the area's wildlife), and at the Spike Buck Recreation Site, mile marker 262.
Experts say the sheep can be seen year-round, but perhaps less so in November and December, and during lambing in May. The best times of day for viewing are mid-morning and early evening.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bighorn sheep can be seen grazing in Colorado from turnouts on Route 50. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)
 
Map of Colorado shows location of the Arkansas River.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (96%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); 

COMPANY: UPPER ROOM (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (79%); COLORADO, USA (96%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MAMMALS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); HIKING (90%); BIOLOGY (76%); BOATING & RAFTING (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (66%); POPULATION GROWTH (58%); 

PERSON: ROCK RECREATION SITE (71%); DARBY FINLEY (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



205 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 5145 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW BERLIN -- Building on the Rubble of History;
Once Again, a City Rewards the Walker

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP

DATELINE: BERLIN

 BODY:
IT'S safe to go walking again in Berlin. In fact, the time has come for city lovers to reclaim Germany's once and future capital as a spiritual home. For it was here, in the early decades of the century, that flanerie -- the practice of strolling leisurely around a big city just to take in the sights -- came into its own as a modern art form. After 12 years of Nazi brutality and 44 years of cold war, this gentle art has once again become a possibility.
There are many new sights to take in. Buildings by Rafael Moneo, Dominique Perrault, Richard Rogers, Jean Nouvel, Josef Kleihues and other luminaries of contemporary architecture. Scores of office buildings in a crisp modern idiom. Vibrantly restored landmarks in the former Eastern sector, like the Hackesche Hof, a complex of galleries, design studios, cafes and courtyards that has become the center of Berlin's architectural life. The former showcase of the West is now a gateway to the East, a part of the globe caught up in writing a new chapter of world history. Berlin is suffused with the promise and anxiety of that enterprise. 
 The flaneur, initially a French type, entered literature in the 19th century in the writing of Charles Baudelaire. But, as Anke Gleber recounts in her fine new book, "The Art of Taking a Walk," it was in Weimar Berlin that the literature of city walking blossomed into an intellectual movement. Walter Benjamin's "One-Way Street," Siegfried Kracauer's "Streets in Berlin" and Franz Hessel's "Sightseeing Trip" celebrate flanerie as an essential education in modern sensibility.
These writers viewed Berlin through lenses cut and polished by the young century's art movements: Futurism, Cubism, Expressionism, Surrealism. For them, the modern industrial city might not be a work of art, but walking through it could be. Bustling crowds, shop windows, arc lights, neon signs, cinemas, hotel lobbies, grand cafes, posters, handbills, advertising kiosks, the rustle of newspapers, the movement of trams and cars, the accelerating pace of urban change: all this added up to something more than idle spectacle. It was the leading university for training minds to comprehend the modern world.
Benjamin's 1928 essay "One-Way Street" is perhaps the crucial text of flaneur writing. In it, Benjamin records the impressions of a walker forever seeking the next vista, the next streetscape, the next corner at which to turn. For the book's first edition, the cover shows a trio of one-way street signs: arrows pointing to the left, the word Einbahnstrasse emblazoned within them.
The sign evokes the arrow of time. Like the flaneur, the city is moving ever forward. After World War I, Wilhelmine Berlin, the imperial city, is breaking up like an ice floe. Its fragments recede into the past, along with the social stability that the imperial monuments were designed to reinforce.
Last February, I went to Berlin to follow in the footsteps of the Weimar flaneurs. A paradoxical task to assign oneself: even if much of the flaneurs' Berlin had not been physically obliterated by hot and cold war and urban redevelopment, retrospection runs counter to the flaneurial spirit. But Berlin is now a city of two-way streets. All those building cranes swiveling confidently on the skyline proclaim City on the Move! Advance! This Way Forward! But this has also become a city where much of the traffic is headed backward: toward history, memory and their traces.
And the post-cold-war years have revealed a Berlin that is a museum of itself. The city's International Style buildings have become period pieces that one passes on the way to other period pieces: The Reichstag. The Victory Column. The Schinkel buildings. The New Synagogue. Brandenburg Gate. Monuments of the Soviet era. In today's Berlin, a cup and saucer from the legendary Cafe Yosty, retrieved from the rubble around the wall, have acquired an aura nearly as precious as Schliemann's gold.Chunks of the wall itself, like the Elgin marbles, have entered museums. The limestone facade and gilded public rooms of the fabled Hotel Esplanade are enshrined within a new apartment block of steel and glass.
Walking eastward along the southern edge of the Tiergarten, we come upon the Culture Forum, a trio of modern buildings that are especially poignant: Mies van der Rohe's New National Gallery, Hans Scharoun's Philharmonic Hall and the same architect's State Library. Though built after the war, they were designed by architects who attained prominence in the Weimar years. Disconnected from one another by roads, traffic, parking and their own monumentality, the three buildings float in an urban vacuum: an art museum, a library, a concert hall in the center of a city where books were burned, paintings banned, music silenced, culture extinguished.
 
Metal Forest of Cranes
Beyond these modern landmarks lies the one-time heart of the flaneur universe: Potsdamer Platz. For the last five years, this has been the largest construction site in Europe: the densest part of the city's metal forest of cranes. Here, Germany has concentrated its hopes for Berlin: capital city, city of tomorrow, millennial metropolis.
But the three major commercial developments rising in and around Potsdamer Platz face daunting competition from ghosts. This was the hub of Weimar flanerie: site of Europe's first electric traffic sign (1924), installed to orchestrate the movement of cars, buses, trams and crowds of people on their way to work. Roughly equivalent, as a social magnet, to Times Square or Piccadilly Circus, this is where full-time flaneurs lolled in the lobbies of the Palast, Bellevue and Furstenhof hotels, browsed in the Wertheim department store or passed the time at Yosty, Haus Vaterland, the Pschorrhaus, and other cafes and beer halls. And here, in 1932, rose Columbus Haus, a commercial building designed by Erich Mendelsohn, the city's finest example of the New Architecture pioneered by the Bauhaus.
Then, in the cold war, this was the epicenter of the Death Zone, the flattened strip of rubble, weeds, wild rabbits and searchlight beams patrolled by East German border guards. Some think this blood-soaked wasteland had as much right to landmark status as the Brandenburg Gate. Many regard the corporate district of the new Potsdamer Platz as a classier kind of wasteland.
You are now entering the Sony Sector. The Daimler-Benz Sector. The A&T Sector. Like postwar Berlin, Potsdamer Platz and the adjacent Leipziger Platz are divided into zones of occupation, in this case three. Each is controlled by a different corporate giant and has been planned under the supervision of a different architect. The Sony and Daimler-Benz areas are now substantially built. The third, for the real estate development company A&T, is scheduled for completion next year. Plans for all the schemes are on view inside Info-Box, the red, rectangular high-tech structure that has become the symbol of a city in progress.
In the 19th century, architects sought to fix equations between period styles and architectural functions: Gothic for churches, Roman for government buildings and so on. Something like that has been attempted at Potsdamer Platz. The three architects have adopted different approaches, keyed to the ratio between masonry and glass and their connotations of tradition and modernity.
Sony's European headquarters, designed by Helmut Jahn, is the most compact of the three developments and the most assertively modernistic. It is a triangle of seven buildings, all with sleek glass curtain walls, set on a podium raised above street level. Runway lights blink from the corner of the most prominent tower, suggesting messages beamed upward toward communications satellites. Enclosed within the triangle is the Sony Forum, a circular, tent-roofed mall, ringed with theaters for Imax presentations and other amusements.
At the opposite end of the glass spectrum is Park Kolonnaden, a mixed-use project planned and partly designed by Giorgio Grassi for A&T. The most traditional of the three areas, the park is intended to knit the new Potsdamer Platz into the city's historical fabric. Its five large buildings face a landscaped strip that extends south from Potsdamer Platz to the Landwehrkanal. Their U- and H-shaped plans are modeled after classical town palace designs. The buildings are clad in light red brick, with entrance pavilions of light stone that protrude into the courtyards. Rectangular windows are punched through otherwise unadorned facades.
With 19 new buildings, the Daimler-Benz section is by far the largest of the new developments. In addition to those designed by Renzo Piano himself, there are projects by Arata Isozaki, Rogers and others. In his own buildings, Piano contrasts crisp glass and steel with thin panels of warm terra-cotta brick. This is the static Piano of the Ircam annex in Paris, not the dynamic Piano of the Pompidou Center across the way. The buildings are fiercely elegant, especially at the corners where streets meet at acute angles. Until you actually walk around them, the facades look like freestanding screens.
Rogers's glass office building on Linkstrasse is an hommage to two industrial age icons. The central portion is shaped as a half-ziggurat, recalling Joseph Paxton's original Crystal Palace, while a corner turret brings to mind the famous stair tower of the model factory designed by Werkbund Gropius for the Cologne Werkbund exhibition in 1914. Isozaki's office building for the Berliner Volksbank looks like an hommage to American motel wallpaper: a lackluster holiday for cafe au lait tiles. Are these feeble, patterned facades intended to mock the triumph of mass consumption?
 
Edge City, Capitalist Wall
So the new Potsdamer Platz conjugates space. Its three parts evoke three phases in the history of Berlin: the imperial city of baroque palaces, the industrial city of mechanical production and the informational city of advanced electronic communications. If this were a theme park, one might call these three sections Main Street (A&T), Factory Town (Daimler-Benz) and Cyber Land (Sony).
What Potsdamer Platz truly resembles, however, is an edge city: one of those private, development-driven urbanoid clusters that have sprouted up across the American landscape in recent years. It is reassuring that the new Potsdamer Platz is notably without nationalist expressions. The downside of this is that the place could be anywhere. Like other edge cities, it occupies a kind of nebulous international airport space.
Still, as edge cities go, Potsdamer Platz is going to be pretty fantastic. Not every edge city has a Hyatt Hotel designed by Rafael Moneo or a theater designed by Renzo Piano on a plaza named after Marlene Dietrich. Not every edge city is surrounded by the Reichstag, Brandenburg Gate and the Altes Museum or sits in the heart of one of Europe's most historically charged cities.
Despite the three esthetic approaches governing Potsdamer Platz, the effect is surprisingly homogeneous. This is partly the result of design guidelines devised by Hans Stimmann, Berlin's director of planning. Of course, anything this large put up this fast is bound to seem artificial. The result is bound to disappoint those who were hoping for the lively heterogeneity that prevailed here in the 1920's.
But the new version cannot be counted an insult to the memory of the old. In the Weimar years, the area offered a picture postcard version of the developed industrial city. Now it is a perfected portrait of the informational city. Its hallmark is abstraction. This is true even of Grassi's buildings for A&T. Aldo Rossi in his early years was not this severe. The buildings' derivation from 18th-century precedent only highlights the extent to which these buildings have been rendered as geometrically abstract diagrams -- X-rays of the baroque.
But people can be forgiven for regarding Potsdamer Platz as a continuation of the wall by capitalist means. All edge cities are, in effect, walls. Detached from older urban centers, they are visual and psychological screens between members of the global consumer society and those who, willingly or unwillingly, have not signed up.
The Info-Box, which was conceived as a temporary structure, looks more substantial than the buildings showcased in it. Designed by Schneider & Schumacher in 1995, the structure reckons with its immediate urban condition. Made of red enameled steel panels, inset with big picture windows, the box is held aloft on scaffoldlike prongs; it resembles an enlarged version of a construction crane cabin. Its provisional quality, simple geometry and airy defiance of gravity embrace with perfect poise the area's prevailing mode of abstraction. Here is a renewed version of Piano and Rogers's work from the 1960's, when these architects, inspired by Archigram's vision of Instant City, designed the Pompidou Center.
The Info-Box is a walk-in video screen. Visitors take a simulated helicopter flight over Potsdamer Platz. We learn that virtual streets will be among the Sony Forum's featured attractions. But won't they be redundant? How will we distinguish the virtual streets from the real? Simply by stepping into Potsdamer Platz, we've agreed to become virtual people -- or at least to behave like them. We're a featured attraction ourselves: the people in a would-be people place.
This is preferable to being gunned down in a Death Zone. It is also alienating, but no less valuable for that. The Weimar flaneurs were at home with alienation. They understood it to be one of the modern city's most poetic products.
 
Checkpoint Charlie Revisited
"Perhaps the cold war ended therefore as a result of a simple administrative error," Mark Mazower writes in his recent book "Dark Continent." "More than one Western journalist claims the credit for having posed the vital question at the 9 November press conference in East Berlin: from when did the newly liberalized travel regulations for East Germans -- just announced by Gunter Schwabowski, the Government's exhausted press spokesman -- come into effect? Without instructions on this point, Schwabowski replied off the cuff: From this moment.
"Later he admitted the authorities had not anticipated the rush, the emotional drive that drove thousands within hours to Checkpoint Charlie. Bewildered border guards had no idea what to do with them; by the time the politicians ordered them to let people through, they had started to do so anyway."
Philip-Johnson-Haus, an office building that now sits on the spot occupied a decade ago by Checkpoint Charlie, is strangely oblivious to the history of its site. It could be an emergency airlift from the Beverly Hills stretch of Wilshire Boulevard. But Johnson is a celebrity in Berlin, a fact exploited during construction by the building's developer, when a huge black-and-white billboard of the architect adorned the fence surrounding the site. One night, some students stole the billboard. Eventually, a ransom note turned up: "We've kidnapped Philip Johnson." Later, a package arrived containing the billboard's severed ear.
You know you've reached East Berlin when you come upon a little garden enclosed by chain-link fence that contains chunks of the wall. It's called the East Side gallery. The wall fragments are covered with graffiti. One of them depicts an R. Crumb-style bimbo, her hourglass figure bulging out of a devil red dress. It's a sin to tear down history, the sexpot pouts to passers-by.
Over the last few years, West and East Berlin have evolved into a kind of uptown-downtown division of urban life style. Kurfurstendamm remains the major spine for department stores, smart shops, elegant hotels, restaurants and movie palaces. The eastern edge of Mitte is where artists want to live. You could imagine you were in the Marais or the SoHo of an earlier day. It is the same paradox that cultural workers dedicated to the new are drawn to live amid the old. Buildings have been fixed up. Narrow streets are full of galleries, shops specializing in art books, trendy cafes. There is also a residual glamour from the Communist years, the sense that traces of political radicalism still linger from obsolete underground movements.
 
The Meaning of Glass
Berlin's flaneurs were not architecture critics. They were mainly concerned with states of mind. They used the stimuli of urban spectacle to heighten awareness of contradictions, ambivalence, conflicts between repulsion and desire, the splits, loose ends and discontinuities of the nervous system. Their writings prefigure what would later be called urban semiotics, a field explored by Francoise Choay, Roland Barthes, Umberto Eco and other writers, most of them French.
Jean Nouvel's design for Galeries Lafayette emerges from this school of thought. Situated on Friedrichstrasse, in the former Eastern sector, the building reflects a semiotic sense of the relationship between inner and outer worlds. Before World War II, Friedrichstrasse was Berlin's Fifth Avenue, the town's smartest shopping street. After the war, that role shifted to Kurfurstendamm in the West. Nouvel's design is part of a larger plan to restore Friedrichstrasse as a corridor of luxury shopping.
Nouvel does not attempt to avoid the task of disguising profit-taking by exciting desire. Rather, he embraces the task with a frenzy that pushes the design into the realm of surreal comedy. Typically, a shopping mall will adopt a unifying architectural motif: Swiss village, high-tech or Southwestern pueblo. At Galeries Layette, the motif is optical illusion.
Like a mall, this building is focused on the interior. Its main feature is a central glass atrium formed by two cones, their bases back to back. At once transparent and reflective, the cones resemble giant 19th-century optical devices. They fracture the interior into a kaleidoscope of luxury, status and fashion. Shoppers and sales counters appear to hover in the air: a trick effect, like the images in anamorphic mirrors.
In "Techniques of the Observer," Jonathan Crary argues that optical instruments were more than toys. These devices precipitated new ways of seeing. Breaking with classical ideas of perception established in the Renaissance, 19th-century scientists explored the idea that perceptions are shaped more decisively by neural apparatus than by the external reality the eyes behold. By the 1920's, this fragmented, disjointed way of seeing had worked itself into the writings of the Berlin flaneurs.
Galeries Lafayette's location in the East gives Nouvel's optical tricks an added historical dimension. For decades, West Berlin was sustained as a show window, a display of the material well-being afforded by free enterprise. One can imagine the atrium as the mental landscape of East Berliners peering over the wall into the Western showcase, visions of cashmere, blue jeans and credit cards dancing in their heads.
Norman Foster's dome for the Reichstag is a powerful civic symbol, precisely because it resembles a ghost -- an ectoplasmic cupola for a haunted building in a town of many specters. Beehive shaped, the glass dome harks back to the teens, when architects like Bruno Taut believed that the replacement of masonry by glass would help usher in a democratic utopia of transparency, freedom and social responsibility. Colored glass destroys hatred. Glass opens up a new age. So went two of the mottos inscribed at the base of the dome of the Glass Pavilion that Taut designed for the 1914 Werkbund Exhibition in Cologne.
If only. But the glass facades of Mendelsohn's Columbus Haus did not prevent the S.S. from converting the building's top six floors into a central "protective custody" prison. This was in March 1933, barely a month after Hindenburg signed into law the emergency measures following the Reichstag burning. Mendelsohn's ribbon windows were easily blocked off. His large, open floor plans could be converted as easily to penal use or to retail, as in the Woolworth store that occupied the ground floor. Loading bays at the rear of Columbus Haus permitted the inconspicuous transport of prisoners.
Between 1933 and 1936, an estimated 600 Communists, Jews, homosexuals and other political undesirables were detained at what was, in effect, the first Nazi concentration camp. By then, flanerie had given way to goose steps. On the night of Nov. 9, 1938 -- Kristallnacht -- the Nazis unleashed a new symbolism for glass.
So one sees Foster's transparent dome as, in part, a monument to doomed utopias. It has already begun to function as a kind of Duomo to Berlin. Visible from many distant vantage points, it gives the city an emotional and a physical scale as well as a suitably fractured scale of time. A spiral ramp winds within the dome. Accessible to the public, the ramp conveys the idea that citizens can keep an eye on Government proceedings. Viewed from outside, the spiral suggests another meaning, perhaps more apt: history does not unfold in linear fashion. And where is the point of orientation that would let a person or a people judge whether a turn is for better or worse?
 
Postwar Zigzag
Given Berlin's pivotal place in the cold war, people are naturally looking to this city for signs of the contours a post-cold-war world might assume. We look for cultural indicators as well as political and economic ones, and we expect their significance to be global. The cold war was, among other things, a clash of ideas, and for half a century it held the world within its nuclear, binary embrace. By rights, the city that embodied that clash should be bubbling over with cultural ferment.
Daniel Libeskind's Jewish Museum is as vital a cultural expression of this time as an architecture critic can hope to find. I approached this building with apprehension. It doesn't photograph well. In plans, it looks fragmented, which the building itself is not. The museum is not explicitly concerned with cold war issues; it is dedicated to the cultural history of Berlin's Jews. A corner of it is consecrated to the Holocaust, but the museum draws meaning from deep historical strata that were frozen during the cold war. A zigzag of concrete, steel and zinc, the building appears to reel through time from the Enlightenment to Prussian militarism, German Romanticism, Marxism, Fascism and on into the future.
Libeskind's building stands adjacent to the Berlin Museum in the Kreuzberg district. The museum is in an 18th-century classical edifice that was built as the city's high courthouse and is now being restored under Libeskind's supervision. The Jewish Museum is a five-story, rectangular-bar building that has been bent and folded into a zigzag shape, with 10 sharply angled turns. The segments veer now left, now right, now double back. They are clad in panels of unweathered zinc that reflect the changing light of hour, weather and season.
The segments gradually increase in length. In height and width they are scaled to the 18th-century building, which emphasizes the difference in form between the two. This contrast invites the idea that Libeskind is unfolding the irregular history that transpired in and around Berlin's classically ordered structures. The angled form is abstract but invites multiple meanings: a lightning bolt (from a cloud, or an S.S. uniform), a jagged tear at the fabric of a city and a civilization as well as a crude attempt to stitch the fabric back together, a river of time, a labyrinth, the unforeseen turns of history, a serpent, symbol of evil and wisdom both, a Star of David sliced apart and reassembled.
Not least, the shape evokes the flaneurs' rambling path through the city. A wall plaque in the lobby identifies Benjamin's "One-Way Street" as one of Libeskind's inspirations. But like contemporary Berlin, his building is in fact a two-way street, steeped in memory but able to press on. The design pays its debt to the past by resembling nothing ever before built.
The museum's irregular plan is echoed by its windows. Slashed into the zinc surface as if by a laser can opener, these openings range in size and shape from small, triangular gashes to conventional ribbon fenestration on the top floor, where the offices are. Most of the windows take the form of long, thin strips, sliced diagonally across the zinc, occasionally overlapping, suggesting a series of crossroads. Though seemingly abstract, this imagery is in fact cartographic. Libeskind has mapped the addresses of prominent figures in Berlin's intellectual history, Jews and non-Jews. The diagonal windows connect these points on the city's cultural map. They evoke the city's creatively fertile past.
The building entrance is not visible from outside. One gains access by descending a long staircase from inside the Berlin Museum. The stair suggests the site of an archeological dig. It prepares you to encounter layers of history and emotion. And it parallels the experience that with age we feel less and less distant from earlier times.
From the bottom of the stair extends a corridor, its floor slightly raked; to the eye, it looks convexly curved, like a roadbed. Eye and foot both relay the message that you are not entering a place dedicated to normalcy. The lobby expands upon the flaneur motif. Corridors lead off in several directions, past walls resembling street blocks or triangular corners. Strips of overhead lighting, recessed into black ceilings, suggest that in this underground city day and night are one. Overall, these crisp but slightly deformed spaces update Expressionist architecture and film design: a look back at Caligari from the end of the century that witnessed modernism's rise and fall.
Inside the museum, you are scarcely conscious of the building's zigzag envelope. Rather, the interior is dominated by what Libeskind calls the Void, a series of five spaces that form a kind of interrupted atrium. Disconnected but arranged along a single axis, these cavities of poured concrete rise the full height of the building and provide its organizing spine. Visitors cross through them on bridges that connect the galleries. The void spaces are unheated and will not be used to display art. For Libeskind, they represent the culture that was wiped out by the Holocaust.
Art will be installed in the galleries later this year. Installation will be a curatorial challenge, but this should not be a case in which architecture overwhelms art. In this context of geometric aberration, the galleries look almost conventional. They are irregularly sized and shaped, and the diagonal windows periodically interrupt the walls. But these features should counter museum fatigue and thus assist rather than hinder viewing.
Two parts of the museum stand outside the zinc enclosure. A garden, named for the writer E. T. A. Hoffmann, encloses a mazelike grid of tall, square columns that rise at a disorienting tilt from a bed of cobblestones that is itself slightly raked. The columns are in fact planters: a single tree sprouts from the top of each. Hoffmann was employed as a lawyer in the courthouse, and the garden could well be a setting for a tale of transformation. In its perverse way it is a classical composition, one of the most poetic expressions yet devised for the idea that columns originated as trees fabricated in stone. In this context religious connotations inevitably arise: an Eden and a cemetery, a paradise out of reach. All but one of the columns contains dirt from Berlin; the other has dirt from Jerusalem.
The garden's most impressive effect, however, is the optical distortion it imposes on the surrounding cityscape. Viewed through the lens created by the columns and ground, nearby buildings (housing blocks from the 1960's) appear to reel back from the street, as if buffeted by wind or taken by surprise.
 
Echoes and a Soul
Libeskind was born in Lodz, not far from Chelmno, where the first Nazi extermination center began operating in 1941. Most of the Jews killed there came from Lodz. In his documentary film "Shoah," Claude Lanzmann asks a Mrs. Michelson, the wife of a Nazi schoolteacher in Chelmno, whether she had ever seen the gas vans that were used there.
"No -- yes, from the outside," she says. "They shuttled back and forth. I never looked inside; I didn't see the Jews inside them. I only saw things from the outside."
Like James Ingo Freed in his design for the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, Libeskind extracts psychological meaning from the relationship between interior and exterior space. In one corner of the museum, he has attempted to evoke the experience of being inside with all possibility of escaping to the outside foreclosed. Through a metal door, you enter a tall chamber of gray concrete. The space is unheated and looks like something between a chimney and an abandoned, burned-out chapel. It is dimly lighted by a single spotlight and the diffused glow from a concealed window at the top. There is no sound. This is what it feels like to be incinerated by numbness, to be a living being imprisoned within cold gray ashes.
If Germany's new capital has a soul, it exists within this concrete corner. The space is dedicated to the Holocaust, yet it reverberates with other historical echoes. For example, it is a place to reflect on the moral condition of the Weimar flaneurs. Was there not, perhaps, something irresponsible in their attitude of detachment, their willingness to be be dazzled by spectacle in the pursuit of modernity? Did their passivity invite their fate? Did their preoccupation with subjective vision render them powerless in the face of objective political reality?
"I am a camera with its shutter open, quite passive, recording, not thinking," Christopher Isherwood writes in "Berlin Diary," a British flaneur's record of the city in 1930. This is a chilling attitude to profess three years before Hitler came to power. But Isherwood intended his words to be chilling. He was, of course, more than a camera. He wrote to convey the truth beneath the surface of things, including his own desire for detachment.
Benjamin, Hessel and Kracauer were more than critically engaged with the culture of their time. They belonged to its living fiber. In the Weimar years, work like theirs gave modernity its meaning. They gained authority thereby. Under Hitler, they paid for that gain with exile and death. They were eliminated, that is to say, not because they were passive observers of their times, but because they were active participants in shaping them. They were despised by people who, when they heard the word culture, reached for their guns.
The recollection of that savagery has become the starting point for culture in the post-cold-war world. This is where the walk resumes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The first free border crossing for traffic, a gap in the Berlin Wall, in January 1990. In a city that serves as its own museum, pieces of the Wall have iconic status. (Jacques Obers Berlin Wall Photo Collection); Daniel Libeskind's concrete, steel and zinc Jewish Museum zigzags through space, and through German history. (Bitter Bredt Fotografie, Berlin); The Daimler-Benz area, including buildings by Renzo Piano and Arata Isozaki, is one of three developments on the Potsdamer Platz sponsored by huge corporations. (Pierre Adenis/Sipa Press)(pg. 34); Jean Nouvel's Galeries Lafayette uses a pair of glass cones to fracture a department store interior into a kaleidoscope of luxury. It's part of a larger plan to restore Friedrichstrasse, in what was the Eastern sector, to its former glory as a shopping street. (Pierre Adenis/Sipa Press)(pg. 35); The rebuilt Reichstag, designed by the British architect Norman Foster, with its glass dome suggesting democratic transparency. The Brandenburg Gate, symbol of Prussian triumphalism, is on the right. (Pierre Adenis/Sipa Press)(pg. 1); JEWISH MUSEUM -- Daniel Libeskind's radical structure under construction. The tower at the left, devoted to the Holocaust, is where the soul of the German capital may lie, writes Herbert Muschamp. (Gunter Schneider); JEWISH MEMORIAL -- A detail of the American architect Peter Eisenman's proposed model for the site, still mired in controversy. An earlier version by Richard Serra, the sculptor, and Mr. Eisenman was rejected. (Reuters); FEDERAL STRIP -- The Federal buildings are laid out west to east to bridge the divided city and to counter Albert Speer's planned north-south axis for Hitler's "Germania." (New School University)(pg. 35)
 
Chart/Map: "Landmarks, New and Old"
A map of the center of Berlin, with the location of the former Wall indicated by the dotted line. The historic heart of the city was in the former East Berlin. New architectural projects are now springing up in both east and west, with some deliberately straddling the old boundary. (John Papasian/New York Times)(pg. 35)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (97%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WALKING & JOGGING (89%); HISTORY (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); WRITERS (72%); WORLD WAR I (70%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); 

PERSON: RICHARD G ROGERS (57%); DAVID DAVIS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



206 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property /High Technology;
Wiring as the Tip of the Telecommunications Iceberg

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
NOW that the 1920's vintage Graybar Building, on Lexington Avenue at 44th Street, has been rewired, tenants will be able to sign up for high quality digital telephone service, E-mail and direct access to the Internet.
The company that did the Graybar building, On Site Access, is also rewiring others in the 16-building portfolio owned by S. L. Green Realty Corporation. 
 On Site Access, is one of many recently organized companies that have jumped into the telecommunications field following the deregulation of local service. Each appears to have its own business model. Some physically rewire buildings in an arrangement with the landlord and sell their services to tenants either independently or in partnership with the building owner. Others say they have technology that can use existing wiring.
Since they install equipment and offer services other than voice communication, these companies are different from ones that buy time in bulk from the established telephone carrier -- in this region Bell Atlantic -- and resell it hoping to profit on the difference between wholesale and retail pricing.
Most of these companies, which are known as facilities-based carriers, are offering their services to small- to medium-size businesses who they say would be unlikely to attract the attention of larger telecommunications companies. But an official of Bell Atlantic, which is required by the Telecommunications Act of 1996 to share its facilities with competitors, said the newcomers were skimming the cream off the top of the market by offering service in densely populated areas, without the requirement to serve less lucrative rural areas.
"Many buildings are technologically obsolete," said Daren W. Hornig, executive vice president and a co-founder of On Site Access. "They have 50- to 60-year-old analog systems and are not prepared for the digital era."
Mr. Hornig said his approach was to make an agreement with a landlord and to pay for the cost of wiring a building in return for the opportunity to sell services to tenants.
"This is a value-added amenity that helps lease space and retain tenants," he said. He said it costs about 50 cents per square foot to wire a building.
Upgrading communications in an older building appears to fit in with the strategy of S. L. Green, which is a real estate investment trust specializing in owning and managing older buildings generally referred to as Class B. Class A buildings are the newest structures with the most up-to-date features and technology.
Steven L. Green, the chairman of the company, has said that Class B buildings are essential to Manhattan's economy because their lower rents allow companies that cannot afford Class A rents to stay in the city.
"People expect these kinds of services in A buildings," Mr. Green said. "Our agenda is to give the same level of service in older, well-located buildings at half the rent."
Mr. Hornig said the company runs parallel cables up the vertical shafts of a building for voice and data services. The voice calls are usually transferred to an existing carrier, such as Bell Atlantic, while the data -- E-mail and other Internet activities -- go to computers at the headquarters of On Site Access and are then sent out onto the net.
Tenants typically get one monthly bill for both the voice and data charges.
Executives of these telecommunications companies say having a direct link to the Internet eliminates the delays associated with dial-up systems and allows data to be exchanged much more quickly than connections utilizing a modem.
By turning telecommunications over to a third party, property owners and managers can concentrate on running their business without worrying about the latest developments in technology. "Most building owners don't know about technology," said Peter Fisher, the president of Netlink, a company that has wired 12 buildings in Manhattan.
One of the problems of wiring older buildings is the amount of wiring already in the vertical shafts, called risers. At the Graybar Building an unneeded air shaft provided the needed vertical access, but at others the task was more difficult.
IN the building at 50 Broadway, an old mail chute was converted to carry the cabling. The irony of using a device designed for one form of communication to enable electronic linkages was not lost on those involved. "How about that, E-Mail in the mail slot," said Jose Cordero, a technical supervisor with On Site Access.
Some executives warn that turning telecommunications over to a third party provider could worsen the jam in the risers. "People bring cables in and they don't take the old ones out and pretty soon the riser is full," said Richard M. Healey, the president of Rockefeller Group Telecommunications Services.
Indeed, in some locations building managers have taken elevators out of service to provide more shafts to run cables.
Mr. Healey, whose operation is a unit of the company that is scheduled to build a million-square-foot building on what is now a parking lot on Seventh Avenue between 49th and 50th Streets, said he works with building owners, rather than trying to take over communications management.. "Wiring buildings is a relatively new phenomenon," he said. "We work with owners to develop a plan that balances the needs of the building and the tenant."
Control is what it is all about to leaders of the Rudin Management Company, which started the whole smart-building business when it converted an empty, obsolete office building at 55 Broad Street into a high technology center in early 1996.
"We take a pretty long view of the future, and we will not allow our vertical risers to become clogged with the wires of companies that may not be around tomorrow or that may have different management," said John J. Gilbert, 3d, the chief operating office of Rudin Management.
He said that rather than choose a local and long-distance carrier, as some companies have, "we installed a carrier-neutral backbone so that tenants could choose their carrier." The backbone is a series of copper and glass fiber lines that allow carriers access to tenants wherever they are in the building. The building is equipped for live video conferencing, which involves the exchange of large amounts of data very quickly, a capability that will be installed in a center the company is helping develop on Long Island at Great River..
Mr. Gilbert said demand for advanced communications was developing in the mainstream economy as well as computer-based companies. "It's not just new media anymore," he said. "We are seeing law firms that are demanding broadband connections. If you are not communicating electronically with your customer today, you are out of business tomorrow."
Anthony DiMaso, the vice president for marketing management at Bell Atlantic, said the number of companies jumping into the telecommunications business was increasing rapidly. "There appears to be an exponentially increasing number of competitors," Mr. DiMaso said, "particularly in the dense cities where they can skim the cream."
Because it is required to provide service over its entire system, he said, Bell Atlantic cannot adopt a building-by-building approach. Instead, he said, the company has to upgrade its entire system and maintain reliability. "Our challenge," he said, "is to improve the system versus companies that can pick and choose their targets."
And in contrast to companies that wire buildings and dump their voice communications to a carrier, Mr. DiMaso said, "we have a better feel for what happens outside buildings." He said the company could use the diversity of its network to maintain reliability of service.
New technology can produce some novel real estate deals. Prism Communications Services is marketing a high speed communications service with the brand name Red. Prism said that while it had technology capable of operating over ordinary telephone lines, its equipment works best when it is near a telephone company switching station, or wire centers.
"Telephone equipment requires high ceilings, access to outside air and high floor loadings," said David Lederman, the president of Streetwood Management, which advised Prism on its search for eight locations in the city.
"We started looking next door to the wire centers and went from there," he said. "We had to negotiate the right to bring in new electrical systems , the right to outside air in addition to the building's existing supply and the right to take out windows and replace them with louvers."
A key problem in the fast-moving world of telecommunications was the right to hold onto a lease if the company's corporate structure changed, either through a public stock offering or a merger. "The assignment issue was as important as the technical issues," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jose Cordero, technical supervisor with On Site Access, shows new wiring installation in Graybar Building. (Photographs by Barbara Alper for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SLG (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SL GREEN REALTY CORP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; GRAYBAR BUILDING (NYC) TELECOMMUNICATIONS (93%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (77%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); CITY LIFE (69%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



207 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Wilmington, Del., to Renew a Key Historic Area

BYLINE: By MAUREEN MILFORD 

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Del.

 BODY:
WHEN Jack B. Coonin started work as a jewelry repairman in 1939, the southern end of North Market Street, this city's main thoroughfare, was a vibrant Jewish community with mouth-watering aromas wafting out of its bakeries and delicatessens.
"It was a little Europe," said Mr. Coonin, 77. "I would walk up Market Street on Fridays to collect the work from the jewelry shops for the next week. It was shoulder-to-shoulder people. I had to stop to talk to everybody -- they weren't customers, they were friends. It was a neat community, it really was. The only screaming you heard was from the mynah bird in the bakery." 
 But in recent years, Mr. Coonin has had to keep the door locked during the day at his cluttered jewelry and antique shop at 231 North Market Street, just north of the Amtrak passenger station.
Many of the buildings around him are vacant, and only 10 people live in the block. With hardly any pedestrian traffic, Mr. Coonin has kept afloat with customers he has had for more than 30 years. And his more than a century-old building was badly in need of extensive repair.
"It was dying of old age," said Mr. Coonin. "Pieces were falling out from the ceiling and we've scraped a lot of water off the floor. But I puttered along."
Now, thanks to an ambitious project being carried out by a private, nonprofit development group, Mr. Coonin is preparing to retire. His building is being bought as part of an estimated $70 million residential and retail restoration and redevelopment of a six-block area a block north of the Christina River -- the city's prime historic district.
Historians say the plan by the Wilmington Renaissance Corporation appears to be the first such single, major effort for residential development in that area since Thomas Willling laid out plans for the city in 1731. Willing developed a grid pattern of streets for what was then called Willingtown, and sold lots. The first house, dated 1732, was one block south of Mr. Coonin's shop.
"This is really the gateway to Wilmington," said Martin Berger, who owns Berger Bros. office-furniture store across the street from Mr. Coonin, as well as seven more buildings in the area.
The redevelopers have named the area the Ships Tavern District in honor of an 18th-century watering hole mentioned by George Washington in his diaries. Washington, Thomas Jefferson, John Adams and Aaron Burr all stopped there.
This is hardly the first redevelopment plan proposed for downtown Wilmington, but the Ships Tavern project has been getting a strong vote of confidence from residents, public officials and private business.
"The timing is right," said Mr. Coonin. "I don't think it will ever be depressed again."
THE optimism can also be attributed to the fact that the project is being spearheaded by the Renaissance Corporation, which since 1993 has had a string of small successes in revitalizing the downtown.
Supported by the city's biggest employers -- such as E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company and MBNA America Bank -- Renaissance is thought to have the kind of muscle necessary for success. Board members include representatives of Du Pont, as well as the city's major banks. Mayor James H. Sills Jr. and City Council President James M. Baker are also board members.
"These guys have the political and financial clout to pull it off," said David J. Wilk, a real estate consultant.
To oversee the project, Renaissance formed a separate development arm headed by Joshua W. Martin 3d, chief executive of Bell Atlantic Delaware. The development company reached an agreement with the city to play a role in its center city urban renewal plan. Under the contract, the group will have access to the city's condemnation powers, a weapon against land speculators. The city already controls 27 properties in or near the Ships Tavern District.
The redevelopment project, which comprises historic buildings from Martin Luther King Boulevard to Fourth Street, will be done in increments. The first phase of the development will focus on a row of 18 buildings in the 200 block of North Market Street, chosen because it features a strong inventory of architecturally significant buildings dating from the 19th century. This section, which could cost up to $20 million, will be renovated as 80 apartments and 15 shops and restaurants.
While most of the buildings from the original Willingtown have been lost, at least one structure with a brick Flemish-bond facade could have been built as early as the late 18th century, said Eldon du Pont Homsey, the architect on the project. The upper floors retain such details as brownstone trim, decorative tiles and cornices from the days when the area was a bustling commercial district.
Mr. Coonin's building at 231 Market Street once housed a jewelry maker. Mr. Coonin found that out a few years ago when be bought a pocket watch from an old man for the four ounces of gold it contained. When Mr. Coonin took the watch apart he found an engraving noting that it was made by "Charles F. Rudolph, 231 Market Street." The watch dates from 1875. "I almost fell down," said Mr. Coonin, who now keeps the watch tucked away in a safe.
The district has long had a strong Jewish identity. Historians say Jewish settlers were trading on the Delaware River in nearby New Castle in the mid-17th century, and that one of the earliest Jewish settlers in what is now Wilmington, in the mid-18th century, was Abraham Judah, a merchant.
In 1850, two brothers, Jacob and Daniel deSolis, began what grew to be the city's first Jewish community when they opened a dry goods store on Third Street.
After 1880, the Jewish population increased with a wave of immigrants from Russia, Austria and Poland. The Orthodox Adas Kodesch congregation was formed several doors south of Mr. Coonin's shop in 1889. By 1903, there were 800 Jewish immigrants in Wilmington.
Herman Cohen, 76, a partner in the 57-year-old Cohen Bros. furniture store, said that in the 30's the area was like the "East Side of New York on a small scale."
"These people had just come from Europe in the early 1900's -- they'd only been in the country 20 or 30 years," Mr. Cohen said.
BUT about 40 years ago the area began to lose its vitality. Many merchants say the decline was hastened by an 11-month occupation of the city by the Delaware National Guard following race riots in April 1968. Mr. Cohen moved his store outside the city in the 70's.
Mr. Coonin was one of the few who stuck it out. Now, he is cleaning out the shop he occupied for more than 30 years in anticipation of the start of construction. The initial phase of the work will be done by Struever Bros., Eccles & Rouse of Baltimore, a company that specializes in historic renovations. Struever recently handled the $25 million conversion of the American Can Company building in Baltimore's Canton section into offices and shops.
Since the Renaissance Corporation does not intend to be a landowner, it will hold options on properties, then turn them over to Struever at the settlement table.
Renaissance will work with Struever to arrange financing packages that could include bank loans made under the 1977 Federal Community Reinvestment Act, requiring banks to make low-interest loans in communities where they take deposits, as well as funds from the sale of tax credits for ronvation of historic buildings under a Federal program that gives investors credits for a certain percentage of restoration work that the investors can use to offset income taxes. said William C. Wyer, managing director of the Renaissance Corporation.
Part of the plan also includes building a 1.8-mile trolley line through the Ships Tavern District running from the new Riverfront Arts Center on the Christina River to the Brandywine Creek to the north as a way to tie the northern end of the city with the development on the southern end.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack B. Coonin in his jewelry-repair shop, above. Other buildings on 200 North Market Street block, left. (Photographs by Marty Katz for The New York Times)
 
Map of Northern Delaware, highlighting Wilmington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (94%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON (DEL); UNITED STATES (94%); DELAWARE, USA (94%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; JEWS REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (88%); MISC HOUSEHOLD GOODS REPAIR (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); JEWELRY STORES (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); TRENDS (71%); HISTORY (66%); FURNITURE STORES (63%); 

PERSON: MILFORD, MAUREEN; COONIN, JACK B JACK B COONIN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



208 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 10; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: For Bridgeport, Dreams Don't Die

BYLINE: By FRED MUSANTE

 BODY:
FOR 20 years, Bridgeport's harbor development has been a procession of glittery plans burning brightly -- only to disappear like smoke.
Most notable among the failures were Harbor Pointe, an extensive redevelopment plan in the 80's for an area of the city's east side near the water, and an attempt to develop a casino complex in the early 90's. 
 So when Alex Conroy of Greenwich -- the developer of a billion-dollar project, called Harbour Place, with $200 million of state and local funding -- recently disclosed that his investment capital had backed out, it gave many in the city a queasy feeling.
Mr. Conroy, who had had until March 1 to demonstrate that he had sufficient financing, was given an extension until the end of May by the Common Council.
Mr. Conroy, who characterized the setback as temporary, said he believed he would have little trouble lining up new investors. He said he was already negotiating with potential backers, and that he now has the advantage of a project already approved by the state and local governments (which was not the case in 1997 when the project was proposed).
City officials said they are not worried either. If Mr. Conroy is unsuccessful, they say, Bridgeport will simply ask for new proposals, and they expect that the land acquisition and preparation -- as well as the state and local government support -- will make the site all the more attractive and valuable.
Nevertheless, the stumble has called attention to the risks in staking economic development on large projects by single developers, and backing them with taxpayer dollars.
The reasoning behind the large-project strategy is that such developments, when successful, produce proportionally larger amounts of social benefit and investor interest than collections of smaller projects done piecemeal, even when the smaller projects add up to the same amount of capital investment.
Bridgeport's chief administrative officer, Dennis Murphy, said that a project "needed to be of sufficient scale to create a destination that would compel people to stop there."
It is one measure of Harbour Place's importance that Mr. Murphy, who is essentially Bridgeport's professional city manager, is overseeing it.
Harbour Place, which is proposed to be developed in three phases, would be situated on a 52-acre peninsula in the center of Bridgeport Harbor. The first phase is focused on retail and entertainment components, including a 1.3-million-square-foot factory outlet mall, an Imax theater, museums, restaurants and shops.
The second phase, scheduled to begin construction in 2002, features several hotels and a large conference center. The third phase, which would begin development in 2005, would add several large office buildings to the complex.
In addition, the project also proposes to have cruise ship and high-speed ferry services, a vocational school focusing on boat building, and other waterfront-related uses. Mr. Conroy's financial backer had been the Lend Lease Corporation of Australia, but he said they were shaken by the international financial crisis last fall -- continued problems in Asia, and Brazilian and Russian currency devaluations -- and decided to pull out of several projects, including Harbour Place.
It came as a complete surprise to Mr. Conroy. "We just met one day and they said because of these international financial problems 'we don't want to be involved any more as a partner'," he said.
He said he believed it was a matter of perception. "When they get up in the morning and read their newspapers," Mr. Conroy said, "they don't see the same good things as in our newspapers."
Although the loss of the Australian company's financial support will delay the start of the project, Mr. Conroy said new investors may allow moving portions of phases two and three into one and two.
Mr. Conroy said that because the site is a peninsula, it lends itself to development as a single project. If multiple developers worked on different parts, conflicts could develop, he added. But that is not the only reason that Bridgeport chose to develop it that way.
Mr. Murphy said that the private sector's view supported the city's choice. "A big splash, that's what you need," he said.
A professor of economics at the University of Connecticut who lives in Bridgeport, William Alpert, agreed in principle. "In my view, you need some scale," he said. "You can't put a small project there and let it hang."
Even Harbor Yard, the baseball stadium for the Bridgeport Bluefish that was also built with help from the city government, has an element of large scale to it, Mr. Alpert said. "When you have an event there," he said, "4,000 people show up."
The question of whether relying on a large-scale project to generate growth has more risk than dividing it among several smaller projects is a common one, said Will McEachern, an economist who is the editor and chief of The Connecticut Economy, a quarterly published by the University of Connecticut.
"It's always posed as an either-or proposition," he said. But the smaller projects are always there in the marketplace. Large-scale projects are more difficult to initiate, and usually need public backing because of the risk. Mr. McEachern added that it was usually posed as a trade-off, but that that was not really the choice.
When arguing for the state support for Harbour Place, city officials spoke of how tens of millions of dollars a year in state and local tax revenue and thousands jobs would result from it. But for Mr. Alpert, the economist, the question of how much public investment to make has to do with what he called the "social rate of return," the pay-off in lower crime rates, improved schools, and reduced unemployment.
He noted, for example, that Bridgeport's taxi services improved because someone bought the taxi companies in anticipation of the casino development. The casino may have failed, but the quality of life improved anyway.
Though he said he had not seen the economic analyses done for Harbour Place, Mr. Alpert said it appeared to be pretty diversified, with many investments that are not affected by recessionary dips in the business cycle.
Mr. Alpert said government subsidies should be given only when a substantial social return could be expected from a project, and even then public officials must be careful not to make the project risk-free for the private investors. "There's a big impulse for government to do that," he said, and that creates what economists call a "moral hazard," giving private investors too much incentive to walk away if the going gets tough.
"The real risk is a political one," he said, "that the thing would get started and then not be allowed to die, with the state stepping in."
Mr. Conroy said the current plan the city approved meets that criteria. Phase one is the most difficult part of the project because it is new. Though previously unknown to the public, once it is established it makes the second and third phase investments far less risky and more profitable, he said.
If Mr. Conroy is successful in finding new backing, Mr. Murphy promised the city would carefully determine if his new partner is acceptable, because the backer then "becomes the city's partner."
"We think it's a tremendous piece of property and we want to get the financing secured," Mr. Murphy said. "We don't want to give him forever."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: View from the roof of the People's Bank, right, overlooking Interstate 95 and the 52-acre development site in the Bridgeport harbor and, below, on the ground from the corner of East Main and Pierpont. On the site in Bridgeport where a large-scale project has been stalled by what is hoped is a temporary failure in private-sector financing. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LAND USE PLANNING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); FERRIES (73%); CASINOS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); APPROVALS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); BOAT BUILDING (63%); CRUISES (61%); RESTAURANTS (60%); 

PERSON: ALEX CONROY (94%); DENNIS MURPHY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



209 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 17; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Tuned In to the Past, and Repairing It, Too

BYLINE: By CAROLYN BATTISTA

 BODY:
BILL MORSE eyed two early-1920's radios in his shop. "The one on the right is homemade," he said. "Normally, back then, somebody on the block would make sets for the neighbors."
Not that he doesn't have newer, fancier models -- like an Atwater Kent table radio that cost about $150 when it came out in 1928. It is now worth about $185. 
 "The Mercedes-Benz of early radio," he said. His 1947 Howard chairside is a radio-phonograph combo in a cabinet that is designed to fit by the side of a chair, for comfortable listening. Mr. Morse's televisions go up to the very early 1950's.
Last September Mr. Morse, who is 42, opened Antique Radio and Television in downtown New London. There he repairs, restores, displays and sells old radios, phonographs, televisions and a few other items.
"I like to bring them back to life and have people enjoy them," he said. He also turns up bits of history, like the tale of a New London manufacturer who took one wrong step into the age of television.
The shop, all 200 square feet of it, is filled with sets, parts and assorted literature, including service manuals with schematics for radios made from 1928 to 1949.
"There's a marriage of art and science in this place," said Mr. Morse, who likes the style and craftsmanship of the old sets, from their consoles of wood or metal to their innards of tubes and wires. "There's a grace to these," he said. He peered at the Atwater Kent's tuning drive belt ("metal," he noted) and at its separate speaker, complete with curved grillwork. He pointed out the "magic eye," a tuning aid on a 1937 True-Tone radio in an Art Deco console. "It was put out by Western Auto," he said.
Nearby stood a 1936 Emerson chairside, with built-in ashtray. "You could sit down, tune in and smoke," he said.
His televisions include a Teleking made in New York City in 1948. Behind them stands the splendid shoulder-high, red, green and yellow 1957 Test-O-Matic Radio and Television Tube Tester. Such machines, found in radio and television shops, "were mostly gimmicks to get people to buy new tubes," said Mr. Morse, who has found another use for his. "I store tubes in it," he said.
In a brochure on display, the singer Kate Smith promotes radios made by the Templetone Radio Manufacturing Company, which operated in New London in the 1940's. Mr. Morse received the brochure from a former Templetone employee, and his inventory includes a 1947 Templetone radio called the lunchbox. It was an economy model that "probably sold for $15," he said. "It'll pick up four or five stations." It is worth about $45 now.
The radios did well, but the Templetone company ran into trouble. "They went out of business in 1949 after they made their first TV, which turned out to be an Edsel," he said, explaining that Templetone built sets with overloaded transformers.
"The transformers burned out," he said. "Templetone made a big mistake; it put them into bankruptcy." Mr. Morse has been listening and learning for a long time.
"My interest started with short-wave listening in the 60's," he said. Often, as a youngster, he tuned in to English-language broadcasts from such world capitals as Moscow and Peking, where coverage of the war in Vietnam was very different from what he heard on American radio.
"I like fiddling with things," he said. "Through a lot of reading, asking questions, and trial and error," he learned about the workings of the old sets. "I was driven by an appreciation for engineering and craftsmanship," he said. "Now, everything is made with plastic."
After years of living in New York City (where he most recently taught English as a second language), he returned to the area where he grew up. "I decided to come back and try to make a business out of a hobby," he said.
So far as he knows, Antique Radio and Television is the only business of its kind in Connecticut. The inventory now includes some 80 radios, televisions and phonographs, along with more than 1,000 tubes. Several items, including two Philco radios from the 1930's that sit in the front window, are on consignment.
Music usually fills the air in the shop.
"The radio you're listening to now is a Zenith AM," he said. Then he put a record (from a stack of 78's) on a Philco turntable. He attends swap meets and auctions around the Northeast, comes back with items that he thinks people will want, and works steadily on everything from the outside finish ("they have to be presentable") to inside wiring.
He pointed to the Howard chairside. "It's solid maple," he said. "It had a lot of scratches in it. I sanded it down, stained it, put on a protective coat."
Then, spotting an area that didn't look quite right, he grabbed a brush and gently worked in a little more stain.
"Probably the trickiest jobs are the TV's," he said, "because of the numerous adjustments that are necessary for the picture to be acceptable." He often resurrects old televisions to be used as video monitors, on which, he pointed out, "You can watch old movies."
His customers include people who simply enjoy having such pieces as Art Deco consoles in their homes and serious collectors who seek things like televisions with three-inch screens.
"Collectors into old TV's are looking for smaller screens, but these are collectors, not Joe Public," he said. Daily, customers call or drop by with problems. (He can be found on the Web at www.tuberadiorepair.com.)
Recently Eric Kendall, a musician from Groton, lugged in an amplifier from a Hammond organ. Then he went back to his car and got a plastic bin full of tubes for the amplifier.
"Can you figure all this out?" he asked. "I will, I will," said Mr. Morse, who tackles anything, including amplifiers, guitars and car radios, with tube equipment. He had to disappoint a fellow, however, who recently stopped in with a fairly new television.
"I can't fix a solid-state TV," Mr. Morse explained to him. "It doesn't have tubes." Mr. Morse said by the early 1960's most televisions were solid state.
His small shop, with a smaller workroom behind it, is cozy, but not adequate. "Where I live, it's also a storage area," he said. "Some people have furniture; I have carcasses, things that are too big to display here, or not restored enough to be displayed."
So in the middle of March he bought a big, stately but dilapidated brick building in the next block. He likes its corner location and large first-floor windows; he said he would renovate it and he plans to have living quarters upstairs with a roomy shop downstairs.
"This time next year," he said, stepping around the chairsides, "I'll be moving down the street."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Morse, above, at his New London shop, which currently has 80 radios, televisions and phonographs and more than 1,000 tubes (three shown below). Mr. Morse repairs, restores and sells the old equipment. (Photographs by Gale Zucker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

CITY: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: TEMPLETONE RADIO MANUFACTURING CO (68%); TELEVISION TUBE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: TELEVISION TUBE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (78%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



210 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 9; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: The Power of Violent Images

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH ATTEBERY

 BODY:
MATHEW KOSBOB, of Stamford, died recently, three weeks short of his 19th birthday, of injuries he received during a beating by several classmates three and a half years ago. Smashed in the head with cans of beer and kicked in the chest repeatedly, Mathew suffered irreversible brain damage that left him unable to walk, talk or eat.
With the young man's death, four youths convicted in the attack and serving prison terms ranging from 4 to 25 years, now face murder charges and possibly more time behind bars -- all because of a $300 windshield that they accused him, falsely, of breaking. 
 In another outburst of violence two years ago, Germaine Lewis, 18 years old of Waterbury, was shot and killed by a rival gang member. The motive was robbery -- Mr. Lewis ran a lucrative drug-selling operation -- but the inspiration for the attack, according to Mr. Lewis's brother, Jason, was a song with angry lyrics called "Shootout," by the group Nas.
Images of violence have become part of the American media diet and are often blamed for encouraging young people to solve their problems through force. What people do not talk about enough, according to Dr. Steven Marans, of the Yale Child Study Center, is why movies, television programs and songs depicting violence are so popular.
"In many cases," said Dr. Marans, "they're successful because they're exciting, because the idea of destructive power, for many people, can be exciting."
All too often, children exposed to violent behavior become perpetrators of violence, themselves. According to a 1992 study by a Yale team, 41 percent of 6th, 8th and 10th graders surveyed in New Haven had witnessed a shooting or stabbing the previous year and 75 percent said they felt unsafe in their homes, neighborhoods or schools. At Boston City Hospital, one out of 10 children treated in the primary care clinic reported witnessing a shooting or stabbing before age 6.
In an effort to shed more light on violence among youngsters -- its causes, consequences and possible solutions -- a Hartford filmmaker Michael King has created a one-hour documentary titled "Bangin'." The film will be broadcast on Connecticut Public Television on Tuesday at 9 P.M. and next Sunday at 6 P.M. The film has also been endorsed by the Connecticut Department of Education for use in conflict resolution and peer mediation programs in high schools around the state.
At a recent screening of "Bangin'," Mr. King talked about his inspiration for the documentary, which, he said, "breaks some of the myths associated with violence" and transcends racial, geographic and socio-economic boundaries.
"Fifteen children a day die of violence in the United States," he said, "so I thought it would be a good time to look in the mirror and see what we're offering these children. I wanted to generate more awareness of the issue of youth violence and provide a vehicle to promote civic dialogue, civil behavior, anger management and peaceful conflict resolution."
Mr. King, who also produces feature films and music videos, created the film using a combination of theatrical and documentary genres. In keeping with its title, the film opens to the sound of gunshots and maintains a staccato beat as the camera zooms in on a varied collection of street guns. Set against a backdrop of rap and popular music, the film then takes viewers on a fast-paced trip from a suburban ball park to a gang-ruled urban alley, from an arsenal of high-powered shotguns to a hospital operating room during emergency surgery. Along the way, Mr. King's camera cuts to children describing guns they can buy anywhere, at any price, and to photographs of victims killed by such guns.
The film, which Mr. King wrote, directed and produced, profiles five teen-agers who speak from their prison cells about their involvement with drugs, gangs and guns and the devastation that resulted.
The film also features Chuck D, founding member of the hip hop group Public enemy, talking about media influences on behavior, and members of the Kosbob and Lewis families. Speaking from experience of another kind is a former gang member, Dr. Tony Morgan, now chief of surgery at St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center in Hartford, who describes the frustration he experiences when treating young crime victims.
"You ask yourself what put them in that situation," he said. "What's going on in their lives that put them at such great risk?" Dr. Morgan credits his mother for saving him from a life of crime. "It was my mother's will and desire to get me out of the mean streets that saved us both," he said.
Mr. King said he hoped his film would help other young people escape the streets. Another resource that is aimed at decreasing violence among young people is the Child Development-Community Policing project, a partnership between Yale's Child Study Center and the New Haven Police Department. Designed by Dr. Marans about seven years ago, the program pairs veteran police officers with Yale clinicians to help children and adolescents who are exposed to, or victimized by, violence. Similar programs have been developed in at least seven other American cities. Despite these developments, violence will never disappear.
As Dr. Marans says in the film: "There is violence in all of us; this is part of the human condition. What we do with that aggression, what we do with our competitive strivings, with our wish to beat out the other in order to achieve position, etc., there lies the difference." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (76%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: YALE CHILD STUDY CENTER (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE CHILD STUDY CENTER (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (76%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); CHILDREN (87%); DEATHS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); MURDER (76%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (67%); VISUAL ARTISTS (65%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (65%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (65%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (62%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (62%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



211 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Age Ghosts Granted New Lives

BYLINE: By BILL RYAN

 BODY:
EASTERN Connecticut is dotted with old mills, reminders in brick and stone of a time -- the last half of the 19th century and first half of the this century -- when the region was famed worldwide for its textile industry.
After World War II, the textile companies started to desert the state, heading South for warmer climates and cheaper labor markets. Eventually, some went a step farther, seeking out third world countries where the climates were even warmer and the labor markets, including children not yet in their teens, were even cheaper. Just as an example: if one is flying a UConn Huskies flag these days, chances are it has a little tab that says it was made in Korea. 
 What remained in Connecticut after the exodus of the industry were the aged factories, industrial ghosts perched on the small rivers that had once supplied the energy for the mills. There they sat, year after year, prone to destruction by fire and near-destruction by vandals.
As the 21st century approaches, however, some of the mills have been reincarnated as homes of small businesses, as warehouses and office space as well as for manufacturing on a modern, but smaller, scale. They include the Kirby Mill in Mansfield, the River Mill in Thompson, the Prym Mill in Killingly, and three in Putnam: the Morse Cotton Mill, the Belding Mill Complex and the Rhodes Mill.
The Prym Mill in Killingly is a good example of innovative ways to rescue old mills. The first floor of one building is used as a fitness center, known as the Fitness Factory, and the upper floor, big enough that it was used as a hockey rink previously, has been converted into a ballroom for social functions and conferences.
Without question, the most dramatic example in Connecticut of an old mill brought back to life is the huge American Thread Company complex on Main Street in the Willimantic section of the town of Windham, now known as Windham Mills.
The original mill, created in 1854 by four investors as the Willimantic Linen Company, was almost a disaster at the start. The Crimean War had disrupted the European flax supply, used in making linen, and the investors had to change their plans. By 1857, they had converted the operation to making thread. It was a wise decision.
By the 1890's Willimantic was widely known as the Thread City, and with justification. The American Thread Company was the largest cotton mill in the world, a sprawling complex of stone and brick buildings, totaling more than a million square feet, on 40 acres of land on both sides of the Willimantic River. The company's production was awesome: 1,200 different kinds of thread and 90,000 miles of it each working day.
It was the state's biggest employer with 3,200 workers, and a pioneer of the industrial revolution. All its buildings but one were tall and narrow with lots of windows to let in sunlight. The exception was mill No. 4, a squat structure as big as seven football fields. Built in the 1880's, it was designed by Thomas Edison and is said to be the first illuminated factory. That made a second shift in factories possible; with electric lights, they could be busy 24 hours a day. By the 1990's, though, it was all over in Willimantic.
American Thread had hung on longer than most textile firms in eastern Connecticut -- in the mid-1970's it still employed about 1,300 people -- but in the mid-1980's it finally moved south, to North Carolina.
The big cluster of buildings that for so long had fostered prosperity in Willimantic now constituted a complex of liabilities. "They ran the town's economy, then were looked upon as white elephants," says John W. Shannahan, director of the Connecticut Historical Commission.
Earlier in the 90's the empty, deteriorating mills were eyesores that could not be avoided by anyone who lived in the town, or came to visit. To change that, Mr. Shannahan said, "Walter led the charge."
Walter is Walter M. Pawelkiewicz, now a State Representative from Windham but in the early 90's the First Selectman. He can still recall the woman whose whole family had worked at the mill, who came to the Board of Selectmen to ask if something could be done about reopening it.
It seemed almost an impossible request. The mill buildings, 33 of them in all "were in terrible condition and disarray," Mr. Pawelkiewicz said. Some roofs were in danger of collapsing inward.
But the alternative to trying to do something with the mills was even worse. "It would have taken $35 million to tear them all down, and destroy our history," Mr. Pawelkiewicz said. "We didn't want to do that just to put in a shopping center."
The decision was made to attempt to save the complex -- at least the parts that could be saved. The property was taken by eminent domain by the town and a nonprofit corporation, Windham Mills Development Corporation, established to run it.
The selectmen raised a "small pool of money" for a feasibility study on how best to reclaim the old structures, Mr. Pawelkiewicz said, then acquired $3 million under the state's Regional Development Act.
Early on, it was decided that the brick buildings were too deteriorated to be reclaimed and should be razed. The restoration emphasis would be on the big mills made of gneiss, a granite-like rock that had been quarried from the banks of the swift-flowing Willimantic River.
In the initial period of community ownership, the concept of saving the mills was still very iffy, Mr. Pawelkiewicz admitted, and there were an abundance of naysayers. "There were lots of conversations about 'Walter, he's mad'," he says. Considering Mr. Pawelkiewicz's credentials, that is a real barb. He is a psychologist, with a doctorate in that field.
The prevailing public attitude about reclaiming the mills has changed dramatically in the past few years, Mr. Pawelkiewicz said. "Everybody is on board now, and enthusiastic," he said, and we've kept much of our historical heritage. This is now a jewel in the center of town and it shows that this town can, and will, come back. It's a guaranteed success. The community at large has come to that conclusion after early misgivings. People are excited about it."
So far, the project has cost about $20 million in state and Federal money, some of it in the form of loans that must be repaid. Mr. Pawelkiewicz said he was confident that would be done. Indeed, he said, the project is sparking a renaissance of Main Street near the mills, including plans to resurrect an old theater and make it into a magnet school for the performing arts. There is also a plan to install old-fashioned street lights.
For someone visiting Willimantic for the first time in four or five years, the American Thread Company site has to be a delightful shock. What was a jumble of old buildings of brick and stone, occupying 70 percent of 40 acres, has been transformed into a cluster of stone buildings set well apart from each other, with a backdrop of a river and waterfall that could not previously be seen.
The main building, once identified as mill No. 2, but now the most prominent showcase for what is known as Windham Mills Technology Center, is a huge, gable-roofed structure, 400 feet long, 70 feet wide, 4 1/2 stories high, accented in front by a 110-foot tower. It is so clean that it looks almost new instead of being built in the last two years of the Civil War, 1864 and 1865.
Occupying most of the inside -- totally modernized with two huge staircases that were originally segregated by sex, one for women and one for men -- are the kinds of businesses that Willimantic is betting on to bring prosperity back to the town: small companies, mostly high-tech, some not.
The range of businesses includes absorbent materials used in surgery, bio-sensory pest controls, computer software, fiberoptics, educational materials, temporary employees and a brewery.
The president and chief executive officer of Windham Mills, Jeffrey L. Voce, has a degree in architecture from Wesleyan University and is an enthusiast for the role old buildings can play today in an increasingly technical world "I can envision a biotech corridor from Groton to the University of Connecticut in Storrs," he said.
That of course, would mean a new life for more of the old mills in eastern Connecticut, regarded as useless for a good part of this century, being seen in a new light as it ends.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Willimantic, a jumble of old mills and factories has been transformed into a well-spaced cluster of buildings. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Space is being renovated at Windham Mills, above, as Wayne Haeger checks equipment in nearby brewery. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: WILLIMANTIC LINEN CO (79%); WINDHAM MILLS DEVELOPMENT CORP (63%); AMERICAN THREAD CO (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TEXTILES (90%); BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (78%); HOUSEHOLD LINEN MILLS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); WORLD WAR II (72%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (64%); 

PERSON: WALTER M PAWELKIEWICZ (77%); MORSE COTTON MILL (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



212 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2549 words

HEADLINE: For the Market In Second Homes, No Vacation

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD 

 BODY:
KEN Davis has been looking for a second home in Vermont for several months now, but hasn't yet found what he wants at the right price. "I've put bids on a few properties," he said, "but they weren't my dream houses, so I could afford to let them go."
But with the nice weather coming, he is getting a little anxious. "My intention is to have a place in 30 to 60 days," he said. "I want to take advantage of the low interest rates now and have the house to enjoy in the summer and fall." 
 Real estate brokers say that the problem for Mr. Davis and other buyers is a pronounced lack of inventory in certain desirable categories in almost all markets from as far north as Vermont and the Adirondacks to as far south as the Jersey Shore and Bucks County, Pa.
The lack of inventory in turn reflects several seasons of strong markets in popular second-home areas. In the Town of Southampton on Long Island, the dollar value of property sales last year was $1.4 billion, more than half again the figure for 1997. In Connecticut's Litchfield County, sales were up 20 percent in 1998 over the previous year. And brokers report that, whether in the Berkshires, the Jersey Shore or the second-home market in the northern reaches of Westchester County, demand is especially strong at the highest end of the market, with regular sales of second homes carrying price tags of over a million dollars.
Mr. Davis, and his wife, Margie, are prepared to spend $200,000 to $225,000 for a four-bedroom house, with cathedral ceilings, a winding driveway and spectacular views. "My ultimate dream," Mr. Davis said, "is to sit out on the deck with a cigar and a glass of Grand Marnier, maybe barbecue, and watch the world go by."
At one time the couple thought about postponing their second-home purchase in favor of buying a larger permanent home or upgrading the four-bedroom bilevel they now have in Franklin Lakes, N.J.
"Then we decided that we really want to get out of the daily grind and have a place to go to decompress," said Mr. Davis, who works as a manufacturer's sales representative. "Instead of having my money sitting in a bank or mutual fund, it's better to enjoy it, and buying a second home helps diversify your portfolio."
Vivian Thomas, a sales agent with ReMax Star Properties in Manchester, Vt., has been working with the Davises and is clearly frustrated. "We're out of inventory in their price range," she said. "What we have people don't want, like the dated chalets with avocado appliances and the harvest gold shag carpeting."
And there are plenty of those available, Ms. Thomas said. She now has one under contract, a three-bedroom, two-bath chalet, with a deck and hot tub, that sold for $101,000. They can even go as low as $59,000 for a small two-bedroom, one-bath A-frame. "That's not what most people want today," Ms. Thomas said. "They're really for the bargain hunters."
The Davises represent, in many ways, the typical buyers now coming through her door, Ms. Thomas said. "They're primarily young families in their mid-30's," she said. "They're more sophisticated, less bargain hunters. They have a very specific idea of what they want."
Mr. Davis said that he was concentrating his search in and around Manchester "because I like that it's near skiing." (The closest areas are Stratton and Bromley.) "But there are also other activities, like fishing, hiking and biking. I plan to use the house year-round."
Manchester is, in many ways, a traditional New England community, with an idyllic Colonial-era town center comprised of a collection of white clapboard buildings. It is the kind of place where, in the evening, soft amber lights glow from the windows of historic inns.
"Everything slows down when you get up there," Mr. Davis said. "You can really feel it."
But Manchester is also known for its outlet shopping centers, which have been designed to fit in with the prevailing architecture, and attract large crowds, especially on the weekends. "I like the shopping and activity level," Mr. Davis said. "I want a country house, but I don't want to to be in the middle of nowhere."
Last year the people who walked into Ms. Thomas's office were looking primarily for properties priced from $100,000 to $150,000. Now, she said, it's $200,000 to $300,000.
Brokers in many second-home markets say they find people are ready to buy, and that money is not their first concern. Rather it's finding what they want. In some areas, with higher-priced housing stock, the high end of the market has really taken off, say brokers, even for properties over $1 million. But those, too, are in short supply.
"I think it's a reflection of interest rates," said Nora Preusser, who owns a real estate agency in Garrison, N.Y., where the market for second homes has moved up sharply in the last three years. "Buyers are realizing that the time to buy is now," Ms. Preusser said. "Trouble is, we often can't accommodate them because we don't have the listings. In the 20 years I've been in the business, I've never seen inventory this low. It's one-half what it was a year ago. We have twice as many buyers as properties available."
In the lake communities in the Adirondacks, interest has spiked in the last year and a half for "large houses with waterfront property," said Roger Friedman, a principal of Friedman Realty, in Schroon Lake, N.Y. "But we don't have the product," Mr. Friedman said."
"Inventory isn't low in all categories, only in the ones people seem to want," Mr. Friedman said. "People are interested in houses in the low $200,000's to mid-$300,000's. The majority of our listings are for cottages, selling for $170,000 to $190,000."
The lowest listing now is for a small three-bedroom shorefront cabin for $119,000. "There's very little over $200,000, that's the problem," Mr. Friedman said.
Friedman Realty's sales area encompasses five lakes, including Schroon, Loon, Brant, Friend's and Paradox. His office recently sold a four-bedroom contemporary with 250 feet of waterfront property and 4.8 acres on Schroon Lake for $495,000, which is the area's high end. "It sold for the asking price," said Mr. Friedman, "which is happening more and more."
The Adirondacks attract a particular kind of buyer, said Mr. Friedman's brother, Joel, a partner in the business. "What distinguishes us is the abundance of lakes we have and natural beauty," he said. The residential properties are part of a state park, with six million acres of mostly untouched wilderness, with little development.
"Everything's in its natural state here," said Joel Friedman. "You have to like the outdoors. Buyers up here are more conservative, not as tied in to the stock market and interest rates. They're buying a dream."
David Smith and his wife, Mary, decided to buy a house on Paradox Lake after visiting last summer. "It was the Fourth of July weekend, and there were maybe three boats on the water," Mr. Smith said. "We thought, 'Wow, we're less than four hours from Manhattan and look at this,' "
THE couple bought a three-bedroom, ranch with a knotty pine great room and an 8- by 42-foot screened in porch, "which is important during black fly season," said Mr. Smith, who owns an insurance company in Manhattan.
"I was looking to spend about $200,000 and realized that this same house would be $450,000 on Lake George or Bolton's Landing," he said. "Even if I could have afforded it I wouldn't have wanted those areas because they are insanely busy in the summers and one thing we definitely wanted was peace and quiet."
The commute to the Adirondacks can be off-putting to some, but some actually find it restorative. "When I turn off the Northway and the trees come together over my car," said Emilio Locascio, a Yonkers contractor who owns a house on Schroon Lake, "I feel like I'm entering the enchanted forest."
On most Fridays, the ride takes him about 3 hours and 40 minutes, he said. "The 40 minutes you drive past Lake George is the price you pay for privacy."
In the five-lake region, only Schroon Lake has a downtown, a main street with one supermarket, a convenience store and a few other shops. "For so long Schroon Lake was considered primarily a summer resort," Roger Friedman said. "But now people are discovering it for winter recreation as well." Just this year, the only movie theater in town installed its first heating system.
Such rustic surroundings don't appeal to everyone, which is why some buyers prefer to stay closer to New York City, where the market for second homes has been booming. From the mid-90's, the second-home market in Columbia County has improved between 30 and 50 percent in the areas that are considered the most popular, said Esther Anderson, who owns a real estate agency in Kinderhook, N.Y..
"People are primarily interested in the southern section of the county," she said. "There's also interest in the eastern section bordering Massachusetts. Most people don't want to go north of Kinderhook."
"Inventory is so low that people are now buying properties that have languished on the market for years because they need work, or they're on the main roads," she continued. "Most people want homes priced between $200,000 and $500,000. Bidding wars are common now."
Sales in Litchfield County, Conn., were up 20 percent in 1998 over the previous year, according to Elyse Harney, who owns a real estate agency in Salisbury.
"It was the best selling year in 10 years, since we came out of the 1987 slump," Ms. Harney said. "In 1997 things started to sell and it hasn't slowed down."
Most houses go for $300,000 to $500,000, she said, although it's possible to get something for less. One current listing is for a converted schoolhouse in Norfolk, Conn., with three bedrooms, two baths and cathedral ceilings on 3.4 acres. It is priced at $195,000.
Another area that has benefited from its proximity to Manhattan is Westchester County, where the second-home market has picked up in recent years, according to Ebie Wood, manager of the Pound Ridge office of Houlihan/Lawrence. "Some of our communities, such as Pound Ridge and Bedford, even though they're only one hour from Manhattan, are completely different environments," Ms. Wood said. "It's an alternative from the Hamptons. We're getting people who couldn't stand the commute."
People looking for a second home in Westchester want a unique property with some acreage, Ms. Wood added, noting that the houses tend to start at $650,000 and go into the millions. Second-home buyers are "not looking for a traditional colonial," she said.
In Garrison and Cold Spring, in Putnam County, "60 percent or more of my customers come from the city and use the houses here as second homes," said Ms. Preusser, who owns a real estate agency in Garrison.
"Business is a third better than a year ago," she said. "It's hard to find anything below $350,000. We're also very low in the $500,000 to $700,000 categories. Then it jumps to $1 million and up."
In the Berkshires, brokers are getting a lot of requests for houses that sell for more than $3 million, said Charlotte Isaacs, who owns a real estate agency in Stockbridge, Mass. "Years ago we used to sell one or two in the $1 million-plus category," she said. "In the past year we've sold a dozen."
The high end has also been booming in the ocean communities. "It's wild here," said Cheryl Vetovick, manager of Diane Turton Realtors, in Spring Lake, N.J. "Most listings are staying on for only a week or two," said Ms. Vetovick, who sells mostly in Spring Lake, Sea Girt and Belmar. "Bidding wars are common. A house listed at $600,000 recently sold for $100,000 over the asking price. I haven't seen a market like this in the nine years I've managed the office."
Her office recently sold a house in Sea Girt for $3.9 million. "That's the highest house price we've ever had and it sold in 10 days," Ms. Vetovick said.
Million-dollar properties in Cape Cod have also started to move, according to Larry Peters, co-owner of Cape Shores Real Estate in Wellfleet, Mass. "Everyone, it seems, wants to be near the ocean," he said, "but there's not a whole lot left." Mr. Peters sells properties in Truro and Wellfleet. "We're seeing million-dollar all-cash deals," he said.
In recent years, New Yorkers have increasingly been opting for houses in coastal Rhode Island. "It's like we've been discovered," said Raymond Mott, owner of Properties Unlimited in Charlestown. "We have people coming in pounding their chests with money," Mr. Mott said. "They want something by the water, and we have nothing for them. It's a lot less active a mile away from the water. The price range of $300,000 to $500,000 seems to be the most comfortable zone for most people."
THE east end of Long Island seems almost impervious to the normal fluctuations of the market elsewhere. In the Town of Southampton, for instance, property sales totaled $822 million in 1997, and rose to $1.4 billion in 1998. "The market has gone up 1 to 1.5 percent per month during that time," said Tim Cunningham, president of Cunningham Real Estate in Southampton. "All price ranges are active. The buyers are in their early 30's to mid-50's, at the peak of their careers."
These days, he said, buyers are more particular about being on streets with little or no traffic and they tend to use the houses all year long, not just in summer. "They're making a high investment," Mr. Cunningham. "I guess they feel compelled to use it more."
Sales so far this year have also been healthy on Fire Island, said Rose Ann Larson, who has an agency in Saltaire and also sells in Kismet. "In the last 12 years, sales were a little bit late, at the end of the season," Ms. Larson said. "Sales have already started this year. All price categories are moving, from a low of $225,000 to over $1 million."
While Bucks County, Pa., doesn't have the ocean, it does have the Delaware River and canals, and is a 75-minute commute from midtown Manhattan. "It's been a wonderful market," said Troy Baker, director of sales for Kurfiss Real Estate in New Hope, Pa. "At the end of March, we did $60 million of business, which is exactly the same as the first half of last year."
The so-called "weekender," Mr. Baker said, wants acreage and a swimming pool. "The high end here is $1 million. Anything at the low end, or $200,000, hardly lasts a week," he said. "For that you'd get an attached duplex house or town house, not a single-family home. Most people want a three-bedroom single-family home with a couple of acres for $300,000."
People come to Bucks County for a rural feeling, the recreational opportunities of the Delaware River and the canals, Mr. Baker added. "We get a lot of artists and writers," he said. "We have the Bucks County Playhouse. Sally Jesse Raphael just sold her bed and breakfast, but still maintains a home here." Popular towns include New Hope and Solebury.
"New Yorkers are now also looking into the northern part of the county more than they used to," Mr. Baker said, "places like Durham and Riegelsville. Nine months out of the year we have mild weather. It's a very short winter here.
"We're not for the winter-sports enthusiasts. But if you love canals and recreating by a river, then this is your place."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sea Girt N.J. -- A 6 bedroom, 5 1/2 bath oceanfront home at 651 Ocean
Avenue in Monmouth County with a pool and a 2-car garage is on the market for $3,995,000. Schroon Lake, N.Y. -- 3-bedroom log cabin on Paradox Lake, $119,500; a 3-bedroom house nearby with garage, barn, fireplace and 252 feet on lakefront is $229,500; both, $325,000. (Paul Boisvert for The New York Times); Manchester Center, Vt. -- 5-bedroom, 3 1/2 bath house (1 bedroom and 1 bath are over the garage) on 5 acres at 48 Hard Farm Road, $395,000. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Above, 3-bedroom, 2-bath house in Manchester, Vt., $166,000; right, 2-bedroom 1790's farmhouse on Old Manitou Road in Garrison, N.Y., $310,000. (Chris Ramirez for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (96%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; BUCKS COUNTY (PA); SOUTHAMPTON (NY); NEW JERSEY; VERMONT; ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS; NEW YORK STATE; LITCHFIELD COUNTY (CONN); CONNECTICUT; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (96%); VERMONT, USA (96%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SALES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (77%); MOUNTAINS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); CITIES (72%); SALES FIGURES (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (60%); 

PERSON: ;VIZARD, MARY MCALEER MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



213 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: WORKING;
First Strikes Against Bias

BYLINE: By MICHELLE COTTLE; Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer.

 BODY:

Q. I am black and a middle manager at a large company. Before joining it several years ago, I made sure the company had strong anti-discrimination policies and rising numbers of black and Hispanic employees. But now it's apparent that members of racial minority groups are concentrated in departments like public relations and human resources, with limited prospects for promotion. Some colleagues are considering a group complaint to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Should I join them, or should I try to find a department that gives blacks the best chances? Or should I leave?
 
A. What you should do depends a great deal on what kind of person you are -- and what cost you are willing to pay -- because there really is no way forward without a price tag. 
 "Some people are revolutionaries," said Ralph Dechabert, director of diversity and employee relations at American President Lines, a shipping company based in Oakland, Calif. "When they perceive injustice, they voice displeasure, push overtly, try to kick in doors. Other people are reformers who say, 'I will work from within.' " The risk for revolutionaries is to find themselves marginalized; for reformers, to appear to have been co-opted.
Filing a complaint with the E.E.O.C. is the revolutionary's path. You will get your employer's attention, but it is often not the best first step.
Executives can "get into a defensive mode," said Kevin Bradley, diversity manager at R. R. Donnelley & Sons, the commercial printer in Chicago, which was sued by a group of African-American former employees in 1996 over allegations of discrimination in layoffs and transfers. Once a threat of legal action is in the air, he said, opportunities to discuss the issue rationally and professionally are more limited.
Opening lines of communication and gathering information about the problem -- the reformer's path -- is generally a smarter way to start, said Mr. Bradley, who advised finding both minority and nonminority managers with whom you feel comfortable airing concerns. "Talk to people who have been in the trenches and may be able to help you," he said.
On a personal level, if you feel undervalued for whatever reason, you may want to transfer to another department. But gravitating toward bosses who are seen as giving blacks the best opportunities may be what caused the imbalance in the first place. Rather than being shunted there deliberately by the company, employees may be choosing to work in peripheral departments because that's where the most enlightened bosses are. Consider whether a move to a more supportive department is "putting you in the mainstream or taking you out," Mr. Dechabert said. "Then decide if you're willing to make that kind of trade-off."
Of course, you can leave the company, but even that has a price. A common corporate excuse for falling short of diversity goals is a lack of good candidates in the pipeline, Mr. Dechabert said. "If you move on," he said, "you make that real."
 
Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer. Each week, she responds to readers' questions about career and workplace issues. Send them by E-mail to working@nytimes.com or by mail to Working, Money & Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

TICKER: RRD (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS323120 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR PRINTING (54%); NAICS323117 BOOKS PRINTING (54%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (54%); SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: R R DONNELLEY & SONS CO (54%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: DISCRIMINATION; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT EMPLOYMENT (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LITIGATION (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



214 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
Capturing Ears on the Internet

BYLINE: By ALEC FOEGE

 BODY:
"HELL'S BELLS," a raucous anthem by the rock group AC/DC, blared from loudspeakers as Michael Robertson, the chief executive of MP3.com, walked to the podium. It seemed an unlikely introduction at last month's New York Music and Internet Expo for a man who wore a conservative camel hair sports jacket -- and who had an evangelical Christian background.
Yet after his keynote speech, Mr. Robertson, a 32-year-old entrepreneur with blond surfer looks, received warm handshakes from teen-agers with nose rings and hip-hop artists in baggy jeans. In the 16 months since he started his San Diego-based business, which distributes music over the Internet with a digital compression technology known as MP3, Mr. Robertson has been embraced by struggling musicians as a fellow revolutionary. 
 Even though he says he really isn't.
"I'm no revolutionary, I'm a purebred capitalist," Mr. Robertson said later. "I'm just talking about a new way of delivering music."
Still, Mr. Robertson is hoping that his outsider reputation will be a plus. When he introduced his service, which enables musicians to distribute their music cheaply over the Internet, he was virtually ignored by top labels. But now that MP3.com offers free music from 7,000 artists and gets 250,000 visitors a day, the labels, as well as investors, are noticing. That brand recognition should come in handy on Tuesday, when Microsoft will introduce a rival music site and its own compression software, MS-Audio.
Mr. Robertson says he doesn't worry much about competition, even if it's Microsoft. Over takeout chicken and french fries in his New York hotel room, he asserted that in the Internet world, timing and instincts could be as valuable as capital. It is a lesson he says he learned observing his idol, Steven P. Jobs.
"He did it with Apple; he did it with Pixar," Mr. Robertson said. "I've got a lot of respect for him because he zigged when everybody else zagged, and that's what we're doing."
MP3.com began two and a half years ago as the Z Company, a Yahoo-style search engine founded by Mr. Robertson. In October 1997, Greg Flores, now MP3.com's director of sales, showed the MP3 software to Mr. Robertson, who was impressed enough to buy the rights to the MP3.com domain name and to rename his company.
At that point, MP3.com had four employees, including Mr. Robertson, working out of their homes. Last summer, it expanded into a 1,000-square-foot loft. "We had this sign up for new employees," he recalled. "It was the steps you had to do to join the company: Order chair. Put chair together. Order desk. Put desk together." The business has since moved to a larger office and employs about 35 people.
For now, Mr. Robertson's gamble appears to have paid off. In January, Sequoia Capital, a venture capital firm, invested $10 million in the company. Then Tom Petty posted a new song on MP3.com to promote an album. At the end of March, Theodore W. Waitt, chief executive of Gateway, signed on to MP3.com's board. The computer mainstream has, in effect, signaled that Michael Robertson is the leader in his field.
Musicians also like Mr. Robertson's enterprise, which uses free music as a lure to sell compact disks, because he pays a generous 50 percent royalty rate. He can pay more than the 7 to 10 percent offered by record labels because he has none of their overhead or distribution costs and he pays no advances. Like other commercial sites offering free downloads, MP3.com makes money selling advertising and marketing information about its visitors.
Skeptics argue that Mr. Robertson has not built a viable business model and that any free download policy can facilitate piracy. "If he sells music, more power to him," said Hilary Rosen, chief executive and president of the Recording Industry Association of America. "I think it's the notion that music can be given away for free forever and there not be a return that is the economic joke."
But observers like Ken Hertz, a partner in the law firm Hansen, Jacobson, Teller & Hoberman, which represents popular acts like Alanis Morissette and No Doubt, said the association was misinterpreting Mr. Robertson's intentions. "Michael Robertson is not interested in being in the record business," Mr. Hertz said.
Mr. Robertson is the first to say that he is a music industry novice. Before starting MP3.com, his main music credential was playing clarinet in his high school band in Huntington Beach, Calif. He grew up in a working-class, fundamentalist household -- his late father was a handyman -- where listening to popular music was discouraged. He graduated from the University of California at San Diego in 1990 with a degree in cognitive science.
After college, he started a computer consulting firm and later sold software tools he had developed. Looking to expand, he started Media Minds, which sold digital-camera software -- a business that ultimately failed. To start MP3.com, Mr. Robertson, who is married with two young children, took out a second mortgage on his San Diego home. Before getting capital from Sequoia, he said, MP3.com made a modest profit.
These days, he spends most of his time traveling to meet with investment bankers, artist organizations and other Internet companies.
Mr. Robertson anticipates a battle between his company and the recording labels, something that has not been cause for concern so far. "I don't have any friends in the music industry," he said, "so I didn't have to worry about upsetting anybody."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Robertson, chief executive of MP3.com, is hailed by some musicians as a revolutionary because of his distribution of music on the Internet. But he says he's just "a purebred capitalist." (Robert Burroughs for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (56%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MP3.COM CBS INTERACTIVE INC (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MP3.COM

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC, OPERA AND MUSICAL RECORDINGS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); INTERNET AUDIO (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); DOMAIN NAMES (72%); RAP MUSIC (72%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); RELIGION (71%); BRAND EQUITY (64%); SEARCH ENGINES (60%); BRANDING (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERTSON, MICHAEL STEVEN JOBS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



215 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 3; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: MAKING IT WORK;
Help for the Chutzpah-Challenged

BYLINE: By MARCIA VICKERS

 BODY:
BARRY GREENBLATT, a 911 supervisor for the New York Police Department, was standing in front of a class of eight, somewhat anxiously describing a science show he had watched on television the night before. He fidgeted momentarily and stuttered slightly. Then Mr. Greenblatt was asked to walk across the room in front of everyone.
"How did that feel?" asked the instructor, Charles di Cagno. 
 "I'd say it was a 4," Mr. Greenblatt said. That's 4 on a scale of 1 to 10, with 10 signifying the most intense feelings of social anxiety. But the other participants in this Upper West Side support group said he didn't seem all that nervous.
"I've been pretty shy all my life," said Mr. Greenblatt, 39, who grew up in Queens. "It's hard for me to get dates and to be assertive on the job. I have to force myself not to be overly polite."
In a city famous for brusque waiters, crude cabbies and Howard Stern, there also exists the chutzpah-challenged. "Shy people are just as common in New York as in any other place; you just might not notice them as much," said Dr. Diane Britton, a Manhattan psychologist, whose ad in The New York Observer says she offers counseling on "shyness, conversation skills and dealing with aggressive New Yorkers."
Some 50 percent of Americans consider themselves chronically shy, according to the Shyness Research Institute at Indiana University Southeast. And New York appears to have its fair share, judging from the various programs in the city that offer solace and schooling on the subject.
At the Learning Annex, an adult education center in Manhattan, one of the most popular classes is called "Are You Shy? Is It Holding You Back? How to Live Successfully in an Aggressive World." Another class being offered is "Dating Strategies for Shy New York Singles." There are at least three support groups for shy city dwellers, and therapists who specialize in treating shyness and social anxiety.
"In New York you've got so much coming at you," said Jonathan Berent, director of the Center for Shyness and Social Therapy in Great Neck, N.Y., and a psychotherapist who treats some shy people who live in the city. "It's more fast-paced and intense, so it can be difficult for shy people."
Mr. Berent, the author of "Beyond Shyness: How to Conquer Social Anxieties" (Simon & Schuster, 1994), said that in New York, it is easier for shy people to become anonymous. "There are more people to blend in with, more places to hide," he said.
The catch for shyness support groups, of course, is persuading the shy to attend. Mr. di Cagno, who has counseled shy New Yorkers for eight years, said, "I get a lot of calls from people who are interested, but they're afraid to show up, and many drop out after one or two sessions."
He said that 75 percent of his clients were women. "Men think if they admit they're shy, they're admitting weakness," Mr. di Cagno said. His workshop consists of 10 weekly sessions, costs $260 and offers what he calls "a supportive atmosphere and manageable steps." The steps include such things as standing and responding to simple questions from the group or describing a pet using gestures and movement.
Mr. di Cagno's students also do mock job interviews in front of one other. According to therapists who treat shy people, job interviews and work-related presentations are often big stumbling blocks.
"Especially in a city like New York, where the job market is so competitive and it's often difficult to move up in a job, interviewing and presentation skills can be crucial," said Dr. Bernardo Carducci, who teaches the courses for the shy at the Learning Annex and is the author of "Shyness: A Bold New Approach" (HarperCollins, 1999). "The shy are often at a disadvantage." In extreme cases, Dr. Carducci said, people remain unemployed for years because they are afraid to go on a job interview.
According to Dr. Britton, very shy people often end up working in such fields as computer programming or accounting, where they don't have to interact much with others. And often the timid miss out on promotions, raises and recognition, she said.
Still, some shy New Yorkers do work in intense, high-pressure environments. Charles, 47, a Wall Street investment banker, who spoke on condition that only his first name be used, said his shyness had almost caused him to lose his job. "I've always been somewhat shy," he said. "One negative result was that I was involved in a nasty political work situation and basically, I wasn't aggressive about it."
Soon after he was hired two years ago, Charles said, he realized he was being undermined by two senior managers who had applied for his job. Because he was afraid to confront the situation head-on, his performance wavered. His boss put him on probation. Though he considered quitting Wall Street altogether, Charles said, "Shyness therapy made me realize that I needed to stay and fight it out." Using such tactics as not viewing the situation too personally and focusing on his work rather than on the situation helped him. He has since gotten positive performance reviews, he said, and gained a solid foothold in the company.
Kelly, 28, who also would speak only on condition that her last name not be used, has a job one would not normally associate with a shy person: exotic dancer at a Manhattan nightclub. Kelly said she has been in a shyness support group as well as individual therapy for two years. As a result of her efforts to overcome her timidity, she said, she took to the spotlight a year ago.
"I'm incredibly shy in most one-on-one or group situations, but I've found I don't feel shy when I perform," said Kelly, who worked as a dominatrix before becoming a dancer. "I'm acting a role. It's not really me, so I feel free," she said. Still, she said, she sometimes has trouble dealing with customers. "Sometimes it's hard for me to keep them in line," she said, adding that she is working on being "not afraid to complain or get mad."
Don Gabor, who teaches a class at the Seminar Center in Manhattan called "How to Overcome Nervousness and Speak Up in Any Situation" and is the author of "Talking With Confidence for the Painfully Shy" (Crown, 1997) suggests these strategies for shy New Yorkers: Don't be shy about being the first person to strike up a conversation on the bus or subway. And greet people you see regularly, like neighbors. "Often New Yorkers seem disinterested or in too much of a hurry, but once you break the ice, they'll usually come around," he said.
Mr. Gabor also advises displaying a sense of humor. "New Yorkers are famous for their humor," he said. "Use it."
Finally, say those who counsel the shy, it's important to remember that though shyness can limit one's life experience, there's nothing inherently wrong with being bashful. "We could use a few more shy people in this world," Dr. Carducci said, "particularly in New York where everything is faster and louder and the greasy-wheel-gets-oiled mentality prevails."
Besides, he said, shy people bring a balance to society and their quiet demeanors can be a reminder of the need for civility. They also tend to be good listeners. And, Dr. Carducci said, "Heaven forbid we're all like Howard Stern."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barry Greenblatt works for the Police Department and says it's hard for him to be assertive on the job. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "TESTIMONY: CITY SHY-STERS
 
Some prominent New Yorkers confess to being shy . . . or at least formerly shy. Most have found ways to transcend their reticence and often, turn it into an asset. Here are some examples:
 
Jane Alexander, actress and former chairwoman, National Endowment for the Arts
 "I took my cue from Eleanor Roosevelt . . . and accepted every public-speaking engagement asked of me. Over time I became relaxed speaking in front of groups and more easy-going with people generally."
 
Mario Cuomo, former Governor
 "Sometime after I became Governor my old elementary school sent me a copy of my first-grade report card. There was nothing special about it -- except that I was absent so much! I asked my mother why I had stayed home so many days. She said: 'You were afraid. You couldn't speak the language.' In the end, it was my public-school teachers that made all the difference because they didn't lose patience or mock me for being too slow."
 
Ray Romano, actor and standup comedian
 "My best performances have come at times when I was feeling the least confidence, constantly wondering, 'Am I good enough?' 'Did I do this right?' 'Should I do this?' . . .
 "There is a certain shyness in every great performer. Self-doubt, shyness, lack of confidence -- these are all ingredients for greatness."
 
Gloria Steinem, feminist and author
 "I am far from naturally confident. But I realized that male-dominant cultures direct a lack of self-confidence into women, even defining it as feminine. Women . . . have to band together and work to erect an equal confidence."
 
Gay Talese, journalist and author
 "When I was in high school, I was very shy. The way I could (and did) indulge my curiosity most effectively was through my job on the school newspaper. Journalism is ideally suited to people who are both curious and shy; it affords such individuals a license to ask questions and expect answers -- even to questions that, in any other circumstance, would get the interrogator a bop on the nose."
(Source: "How I Overcame Shyness," compiled and edited by Gary Simon (Fireside Books, 1999))

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (51%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (59%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (59%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (54%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (59%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (59%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (54%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); CITY LIFE (87%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CITIES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (64%); 

PERSON: HOWARD STERN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



216 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
Whiskey Rare as Fine Wine?

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
A BROKEN barrel stave found in the 1970's. Britain's wartime energy pinch. What could such historical flotsam have to do with modern American liquor chic?
Ask the drinkers who pay up to $980 to taste one shot of fine single-malt whiskey. Their palates and wallets, and their interest in the curious origins of some of their favorite tipples, have set off a scramble by Scottish distillers and their American marketers to uncover ever rarer, more exotic single malts. Unlike blended whiskeys, single malts are those produced in a single distillery in a single production run. 
 Single-malt drinking has become something between a mini-boom and a cult phenomenon in some American bars, and the most prized bottles can be as avidly pursued by as fine old Bordeaux: the Macallan '46, for instance, is sold (mainly to collectors) at $2,500 a bottle, and the Bowmore 40 -- referring to its age, not a year -- brings $7,000.
The cachet of top single malts like these rubs off on sibling whiskies. "In marketing jargon, it's the halo effect," said David Cox, marketing controller for the Macallan brand at Highland Distillers. "It elevates the quality image of the whole range."
Scarcity is part of the appeal. "People love the fact that it can never happen again," said James French, of Remy Amerique, the unit of Remy Cointreau that markets the Macallan in the United States. "Once you've got a bottle of that, there's no more left." The Macallan distillery turns out 220,000 12-bottle cases a year these days, but only 250 cases were ever made of the Macallan '46 -- and 150 of them were exported, mostly to the United States.
The Bowmore 40, produced by Morrison Bowmore Distillers, is even rarer. Just 294 bottles were produced, said Anne Riives, who handles the company's public relations in New York, and only 60 were shipped to America. Burglars stole a bottle from a Canadian store, Ms. Riives said, and told the owner, " 'Pay us $3,000 or the bottle gets it.' " The store did not pay and the whiskey was not returned.
Collectors buy by the bottle, but drinkers buy by the shot, at astonishing prices. A shot of Bowmore 40 fetches $980 at the Hole in One bar on Second Avenue in Manhattan; other rare malts cost up to $385 a shot, and the Macallan '46 usually runs to $250.
Who is paying those prices for a single drink? Recent recipients of fat Wall Street bonuses are often cited. "It's the result of a very healthy economy for six years," said Michael Stoner, of Schieffelin & Somerset, which markets the huge United Distillers and Vintners line in the United States. "This is an indulgence that people can afford."
COMING at a time when Americans are buying less imported blended whiskey, the high-end single-malt phenomenon has distillers hunting for ever more arcane whiskies to offer. "There has been an enormous proliferation of expensive, rare bottlings," Mr. Stoner said. But though the special bottlings grab the headlines, the single malts selling for $30 to $60 a bottle drive the market.
 From 1992 to 1997, imports of leading single-malt Scotch whiskies almost doubled, to the equivalent of 512,000 nine-liter cases, according to the Adams Liquor Handbook; the much larger volume of blended Scotch imports fell 2 percent.
Experts don't think drinkers of blended Scotch are switching to single malts. "They are not the same guys," Mr. Stoner said. "The single malt game is 25- to 50-year-olds coming in without drinking Scotch," or perhaps any whiskey, before. If blended Scotch is associated with run-of-the-mill watering holes, single malts evoke upscale spots where a shot is accompanied by a fine cigar or, at least, a discussion of the whiskey's pedigree.
"There's a fair amount of ritual that goes along with it," Mr. Stoner said. "The first sip is so important: they look and smell it first, swirl it around and they love the ritual of it. For a moment there, they are very alone with their favorite malt."
Single-malt whiskies are usually aged in wooden casks previously used for other beverages, most often Spanish sherry or bourbon. Distillers now try to invent new candidates for special single-malt bottlings by shifting liquor among different combinations of casks as it ages. But the top single malts got their special characteristics largely by chance.
While taking inventory in late 1997, David Robertson, Macallan's whiskey maker, found six vats that had been aging unnoticed since 1946. On tasting it, he found a remarkable smoky "nose," Mr. Cox said, which was traced to a short-lived wartime switch to burning peat for fuel in the distillery when coal was rationed.
The Bowmore 40 was another accident. "When it was made, nobody had any intention of keeping it for 40 years," Ms. Riives said. But, 20 years into its maturing, an apprentice cooper, Jim McEwan, discovered a broken stave on a sherry cask full of whiskey. He salvaged what he could and put it in a bourbon hogshead.
His career took him away from the distillery, and the switched barrel was overlooked for another two decades, until Mr. McEwan returned to Bowmore as general manager and recognized his handiwork.
"It tastes absolutely amazing," Ms. Riives said. "At the end you get a little whiff of spice. If anything, it's exotic tropical fruit.
"The whole thing was a complete fluke."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gary Logan, a worker at the Macallan distillery in Scotland, storing full whiskey barrels for maturation. Single malt whiskeys are now in vogue, and a bottle of the Macallan '46 is selling for as much as $2,500. (Ken Paterson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RCO (PAR) (54%); DGE (PAR) (50%); DGE (LSE) (50%); DEO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (54%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (54%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (54%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (50%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (50%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); SCOTLAND (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: REMY COINTREAU SA (54%); MORRISON BOWMORE DISTILLERS LTD (53%); DIAGEO PLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); SCOTLAND (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES DISTILLED LIQUORS (91%); DISTILLERIES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEVERAGE PRICES (77%); WINERIES (75%); BURGLARY (61%); 

PERSON: DAVID B COX (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



217 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
In Papers, Making White Excite

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
CAN Great White really do for printer paper what Frank Perdue did for chicken? Can Xerox persuade consumers that a paper by any other name would not print as sweet? Does the public believe that one company's sheet of white stuff is all that different from another's?
Apparently, the answers are yes, yes and yes. "Consumers are not as sophisticated as corporations when it comes to paper, and branding is what they rely on most," said David C. Rocheleau, a director of the Supplies Advisory Service at Lyra Research, a market analysis firm in Newton, Mass. 
 As a result, the consumer paper market, once a quiet backwater, is now burning with high-wattage advertising and branding campaigns. Forest products companies long accustomed to business-to-business marketing have had to learn all about in-store promotions, flashy package design, even the economics of national television campaigns.
"For the first time in this industry's history, you're seeing office papers on TV," said Michael Winters, a national sales manager for the Georgia-Pacific Corporation, which will be eclipsed as the country's largest cut-paper producer at the end of this month when International Paper and Union Camp complete their merger.
It is easy to see the retail market's allure. These days, even the cheapest new printers can produce attractive greeting cards, brochures, presentations and photographs -- but not on plain-vanilla, penny-a-sheet paper. The fancy coated papers that give the best results can retail for as much as $1.50 a sheet; paper makers' margins on such sheets are a guarded industry secret, but they are certainly higher than those on the copier paper that corporations buy by the palletful. High margins and quality distinctions are the classic recipe for a market ripe for building brand names, even on commodity products.
The prices for the high-end papers are not scaring consumers. According to Lyra Research, the overall market for cut paper is growing at an annual rate of only 3.8 percent. But sales are climbing 11.1 percent a year in the SOHO market -- the initials stand for small office-home office, but marketers often use the term for all sales to consumers and small businesses. And branded papers are selling best.
"In the retail arena, brand identity is what separates the survivors from the losers," said Jack Plomgren, president of the Union Camp Corporation's Great White Consumer Products Group, which makes Great White papers.
The printer companies, engaged in fierce competition themselves, have also caught on to the trend. Companies like Xerox and Hewlett-Packard welcome any chance to plunk their names in a consumer's sight line -- particularly if they can profit along the way. So they, too, are peppering the shelves at Office Depot, Staples and other stores with branded specialty papers.
"Xerox-branded paper enhances awareness of our overall brand," said James Lesco, president of Xerox's supplies group. He said Xerox's paper sales to the SOHO market grew 35 percent last year.
The printer companies haven't bought or built paper mills; the paper they sell is made for them by the same paper companies whose branded products compete with theirs in the stores. But the printer companies say their offerings still have an advantage: Because their hardware, ink, toner and paper specialists are on the same product development teams, they say, paper manufactured to their specifications, and bearing their name, will give the best results on their printers.
"Other companies can only guess at what our ink formulation is going to be," said Susan M. Schindelar, marketing manager for Hewlett-Packard's Inkjet Media division, who added that paper "is definitely growing in importance to our top and bottom lines."
IT'S also growing more visible in stores, where competition has transformed the once-staid printer-paper aisles. Gone are the days when white paper came wrapped in white paper; most companies now use splashy colors to catch the eye. And several pack their highest-quality paper in clear shrink wrap to show off its brightness.
Few of the packaging choices are haphazard. Georgia-Pacific's new line of Microprint photographic-quality printer paper comes in a bright yellow package because "packaging consultants said bright yellow would be associated with Kodak yellow, and that would give us great brand awareness," Mr. Winters said.
Until recently, research showed that men bought most home-office supplies, so Great White tried to appeal to its customers' macho side with a package that bore a shark baring a mouthful of sharp teeth. But now that women are buying close to half of all office supplies, Great White has made its shark much less ferocious. "We've softened the teeth, and we're focusing on the fin," Mr. Plomgren said.
Nor are the brand names chosen willy-nilly. Indeed, many companies shove aside corporate egos and venerable trademarks when they believe a fresh new name would do better with consumers.
Georgia-Pacific, which until recently put its corporate name on all of its consumer papers, chose the name Microprint for its most expensive coated papers "because we wanted a brand name with a high-tech sound to it," Mr. Winters said.
Great White, itself a nom de papier for a company few consumers know, decided that even detoothed sharks might not appeal to children, so it licensed the Crayola name for new, brightly colored papers for party banners, stickers and T-shirt transfers.
Hewlett-Packard has made perhaps the ultimate ego sacrifice: it's sharing the logo glory with others. Its photo-quality paper packaging trumpets that it is made for Hewlett by Eastman Kodak, and its new line of restickable paper shares branding with Post-It notes. "In photography, we knew that Kodak's name would enhance the appeal, and most everyone knows what a Post-It note is," Ms. Schindelar said.
International Paper, meanwhile, is ruefully recognizing that its Hammermill brand, long associated with classy writing paper, is not sending the right message for more fanciful uses. So, while it still markets printer paper as Hammermill, that name does not appear on Jetprint Photo papers, Invent-It greeting-card paper, or other products meant more for fun than work.
"We want to appeal directly to the consumer's playful side," said Kenneth J. Krieg, the company's business manager for office papers, "but we don't want to water down the Hammermill name."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Feeding Fenzy at the Stationary Store"
Hungry for the fast growth and high profit margins in the consumer market, paper makers and printer companies are promoting new brand names like Great White. Here are sales growth projections for the U.S. market from 1998 to 2002.
 
All cut papers
 
Over all: 3.8%
Small office/home office: 11.1%
 
Premium papers
 
Uncoated ink jet: 12.1%
Coated ink jet: 16.8%
Uncoated laser: 9.0%
 
(Source: Lyra Research Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (91%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (91%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (91%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (91%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (91%); UNION CAMP CORP (82%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PAPER AND PAPER PRODUCTS PAPER MFG (91%); PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); PAPER MILLS (90%); BRANDING (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); PRINTER MFG (89%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (89%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); AWARENESS MARKETING (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); IMAGE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); HOME BASED BUSINESSES (74%); SALES PROMOTIONS (73%); PAPER BAG & COATED PAPER MFG (71%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (71%); BUSINESS TO BUSINESS MARKETING (69%); TRENDS (68%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



218 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 2; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: The World: Lonely Hearts;
Libya Wearies of the Cold Shoulder

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

 BODY:
HIGHLY placed visitors invited lately to the palatial desert tent of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi sensed in the Libyan leader's conversation a yearning to be readmitted to the world. Me, a terrorist? he would plead. Of course, he was always an unpredictable loner and he did spend decades bankrolling revolutionaries and guerrilla leaders, especially in Africa. But why are they -- now often heads of government just as he is -- getting all the invitations to London and Washington while he is left stranded in the sand?
Arabs, Africans, a procession of international lawyers and Kofi Annan, the Secretary General of the United Nations, have been telling Colonel Qaddafi for months that only he can end his isolation, by turning over for trial two Libyan intelligence agents accused of masterminding the bombing of Pan Am 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, in December 1988, an attack that killed 280 people. Last week, running out of hope for any further concessions from Britain and the United States, Colonel Qaddafi finally agreed to deliver the suspects to a former military base in the Netherlands, where they will be tried under Scottish law. 
 Was it Libya's oil-dependent economy, in a tailspin because of world petroleum prices, that did it? Was it threats from Washington that things could get worse for Tripoli if there was not a break in the decadelong standoff? Was it that Colonel Qaddafi's options had run out and that, like Saddam Hussein, he had failed to persuade his Arab neighbors to defy international law and break sanctions on his behalf? Or was his search for a new kind of Arab nationalism, rooted in the 1950's and 60's, hopelessly out of date, rendering him an irritant as well as an anomaly in the Arab world?
No one explanation seems to suffice, say those who have dealt with the Libyan leader.
In the end, the once-flamboyant Colonel Qaddafi -- who spent much of last year in a wheelchair, on crutches or leaning on a cane after what he brushed off as broken bones but what his critics suspect may have been an ambush or attempted assassination -- had to battle his own secret demons. A quixotic leader who 30 years ago transformed an Arab monarchy into something he chose to call the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, or state of the masses, Colonel Qaddafi took a political risk in turning over two citizens to foreign powers he had spent years vilifying as enemies of his people.
"It was a very important step," said Hussein Hassouna, the Arab League's representative at the United Nations. "It will change everything in the region." Arabs say Colonel Qaddafi was aware he had boxed himself in with his refusal to cooperate in the Lockerbie case and was being bypassed by developments in the Arab world and the Mediterranean, where links between North Africa and the European Union are expanding.
"Everybody said to him, 'Once you take that step, it will open up a lot of potential; you have a lot to gain,' " Mr. Hassouna said. Investors and tourists alike seem poised to pounce on the novelty of Libya, a Mediterranean nation with historical sites as old as Phoenicia.
MORE important than advice, however, were the cover and strong shoulders to lean on that Arab leaders, Mr. Annan and President Nelson Mandela of South Africa gave Colonel Qaddafi. Mr. Mandela went to Libya more than a year ago (to the annoyance of Washington) and honored Colonel Qaddafi with South Africa's highest award for Libya's assistance to the African National Congress during the long years of apartheid. With trust established, Mr. Mandela was able to play a major role -- later to be joined by President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt and Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia -- in persuading Colonel Qaddafi to accept the creative Arab proposal that the two Libyan agents be tried in a third country.
"It was easier to accede to the urging of Mandela than to be seen to be surrendering to the United States," said Thomas Franck, director of the Center for International Studies at the New York University Law School. "The main task in arranging an outcome like this is to find a way that one of the most eccentric of leaders can climb down the tree he's climbed up without appearing to be giving in."
Clovis Maksoud, a former representative of the Arab League at the United Nations and now director of the Center for the Global South at American University in Washington, said: "Mandela assumed a fatherly approach. Mandela said, 'He helped us in the past, and we will help him now.' "
Contrary to suggestions that Colonel Qaddafi stalled because he feared a foreign court he could not control, Professor Franck said the Libyan leader has been one of the most frequent users of the International Court of Justice in the Hague (unrelated to the specially created Scottish panel that will try the Libyans) and has abided by its rulings -- not a claim that can be made by Washington. The Libyans allowed the international court, better known as the World Court, to adjudicate sea rights in a dispute with Tunisia and Malta, and also obeyed the court's order to return to Chad a strip of territory fought over in a long and costly war.
Last week, international sanctions on Libya, though not separate American restrictions on travel and trade, were suspended as promised. As a result, Libya is now free -- assuming the suspension becomes permanent in 90 days -- to reopen airline links with the rest of the world, upgrade its oil industry, rebuild a decrepit communications system, construct a railroad and pursue other long-delayed development projects with the help of foreign investors.
Yet people who have dealt with Colonel Qaddafi say it was not economic considerations alone that made a settlement possible. The Libyan leader is too complex for that.
Sanctions on Libya, imposed in 1992 and widened in 1993, bit into the economy, but not too hard. Unlike Iraq, Libya was able to continue selling oil and gas, its big money earners, and spend the money on anything it chose except arms and certain equipment for the petroleum industry.
NOR was Washington's threat of wider sanctions crucial, since it was assumed that the Clinton Administration would find it hard to persuade the Security Council to take such a step, given Washington's growing alienation from the United Nations and a general wariness there about the long-term wisdom of embargoes, with their unfortunate side effects on civilians. Moreover, the United States is deeply involved in Kosovo and monitoring a critical Israeli election and an unfinished war in Iraq, among other crises. So Libya has slipped down the scale of policy concerns.
A need to end his isolation and salvage his place in history may have been the most important factor to Colonel Qaddafi.
"He has definitely got out of the cage he was in," Mr. Maksoud said. "But it is not a defeat for him or a triumph for the Americans."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi and his wife, Safiya, at left, with a Libyan-American family at his bomb-damaged Tripoli home. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%); 

COUNTRY: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); SCOTLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%); 

CITY: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC; UNITED NATIONS PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC; UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOCKERBIE (SCOTLAND); SOUTH AFRICA; LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); SCOTLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TERRORISM; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); LAWYERS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); ASSASSINATION (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); BONE FRACTURES (65%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; QADDAFI, MUAMMAR EL- (COL); ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); MANDELA, NELSON R (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



219 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.;
On Interest Rates, Don't Let the Data Lull You

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
INVESTORS worried about rising interest rates were calmed recently by news of a decline in manufacturing jobs in March and a slowdown in the rise of average hourly earnings, a key measure of inflationary pressures.
The decline in manufacturing jobs offset the "bad news" of the strong rebound in the level of manufacturing, as measured by the National Association of Purchasing Management. Last month, its manufacturing index jumped to 54.30, its highest level since November 1997. Initially, the surge was taken as a sign of a rebound in American manufacturing, which would make it less likely that the economy could slow to the sustainable pace sought by the Federal Reserve without an increase in interest rates. 
 The slowdown in the pace of wage increases helped relieve another fear, that pressure here would become too much for the Federal Reserve, even though there are few signs now that companies can pass along the cost of these increases as higher prices.
That relief, coming on two fronts, helped set off a nice rally in the bond market, bringing the yield on the 30-year bond down to 5.46 percent on Friday from 5.67 percent on April 1, the day before the March jobs data were released. And that rally helped lift the stock market, with the three major gauges -- the Dow Jones industrial average, the S.& P. 500 and the Nasdaq composite -- repeatedly reaching new highs last week.
But investors may be taking more comfort from this new data than they should.
Over the last decade, there has been a pretty good correlation between the movement of the purchasing management manufacturing index and long-term interest rates adjusted for inflation. Right now, that index is pointing to a sharp rise in long-term rates -- into 6 percent territory -- according to Robert J. Barbera, the chief economist at Hoenig & Company in Rye Brook, N.Y.
Mr. Barbera agreed that the decline in manufacturing jobs and the continued weakness in industrial production may mean that that the purchasing management index is sending a false signal. But he said weekly jobless claims, which have remained below 300,000 for 10 weeks, are a signal of strength.
And he argues that if the global economy, especially Asia's, begins to rebound, a recovery in American manufacturing is even more certain. The cut in official interest rates on Thursday by the Bank of England and the new European Central Bank just add to the likelihood that a rebound in global economic growth will give another boost to the United States economy.
"The hard part is guessing what will happen to global momentum," Mr. Barbera said. But if it is picking up, then the past correlation between the purchasing management index and interest rates is far more worrisome for American investors.
Mr. Barbera also has a doubt about the deceleration in average hourly earnings. He agrees that the pace of growth has declined, to 3.6 percent last month from 4.4 percent in April 1998. But he says the underlying data show that the rise of earnings in the service sector is actually accelerating. What has slowed the overall pace is a sharp decline in the growth rate for manufacturing.
But, again, if the purchasing management index is right -- and the bet on a global turnaround is correct -- that trend will also reverse, adding to the pressure on wages.
ALL these trends will be watched closely by Fed policy makers, who next meet in May. If Mr. Barbera is right in his bets, the Fed could be in a tight spot.
Going into this year, policy makers were betting on a growth slowdown to bring the pace of the economy to a sustainable rate that would not add to inflationary pressures.
But even the Fed is acknowledging that the economy will be much stronger than it expected. In the minutes of the February meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, released a week ago, Fed governors and Federal Reserve Bank presidents said it was now possible that the economy, even after slowing from the breakneck annual growth rate of 6 percent in the fourth quarter, could still be running ahead of the central bank's sustainable pace of around 2.5 percent.
That means the Fed will be more likely to lean toward higher interest rates -- and Mr. Barbera's interest rate indicator, which is clearly pointing higher, will be right.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Yields: Heading Up?"
The manufacturing index of the National Association of Purchasing Management has tended to follow the same path as the yield of the 30-year bond, adjusted for inflation. Graph plots the yield of the 30-year bond vs. the manufacturing index, Since 1989. (Source: Hoenig & Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HOENIG & CO INC (64%); HOENIG & CO LTD (64%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (62%); BANK OF ENGLAND (51%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INFLATION (90%); BONDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); BOND MARKETS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: ROBERT J BARBERA (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



220 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
A Doctorate Too Dry For Its Own Good?

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
THE Depression inspired thousands of young people to become economists. The War on Poverty and the Great Society in the 60's were similarly inspiring, and the upheavals today should be, too. What more noble work, after all, than coming to understand, and perhaps alleviate, the wage stagnation, the global pressures, the layoffs, the job insecurities and the long working days that weigh on so many people.
But, in fact, fewer and fewer Americans are entering graduate programs and seeking careers in economics. 
 The Depression made a hero of John Maynard Keynes, the British economist whose prescriptions for reviving the economy -- and softening capitalism -- seemed so promising and insightful, even romantic. And out of the crowded graduate schools of that era came future giants like Paul Samuelson, Milton Friedman, James Tobin and John Kenneth Galbraith. They are all in their 80's and 90's now, and no longer the role models they were in their heyday.
Who are today's heroes? Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman so often given credit for the current prosperity, is one. So are Lawrence H. Summers, the combative Deputy Treasury Secretary and former Harvard whiz, and Paul Krugman, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor whose fame comes as much from his vivid, prolific writing in newspapers and magazines as it does from his economics. But somehow, they aren't Pied Pipers.
IS it them or the times? Could Keynes do any better if he were resurrected today? Or Adam Smith, who was a popular lecturer and teacher with a wide following? Probably not. The profession is so changed.
The Ph.D. program in economics today, combining a master's degree and a doctorate, calls for five to seven years of hard, technical work, harder perhaps than medical school. For bright young people, higher wages with much less study can be had in management, or consulting, or law, or on Wall Street. "I have a son who went to work right out of Harvard as a currency trader," said Angus S. Deaton, a Princeton economist and a mentor in his profession.
High wages, of course, would not divert a young idealist seeking to help the world through economics. But the graduate school training in economics, with its heavy emphasis on mathematics and mathematical modeling of abstract situations, does not relate easily to the issues of the day. The idealist, in sum, is too often put off.
A commission of august economists recognized this shortcoming in a 1991 report. It recommended more attention to "real-world linkages" -- a bit of advice that graduate schools have so far largely ignored.
"There is something about the nature of economics training that is driving off the student," Mark Blaug, an economics historian, said in a recent interview. "The training is technically demanding but does not seem to be related to anything out there."
The shortage of trained economists is still unfolding. More than 1,000 Ph.D.'s in economics are now granted annually in the United States, a 17 percent increase from 1986. But that is because, until recently, foreign students enrolled in large-enough numbers to more than offset the American decline. No longer: The number of new doctorates will begin to slip next year or the year after, because new enrollment in graduate programs has been falling since 1994.
And this despite the fact that economists are well paid in their first posts relative to other Ph.D's. The median starting salary was close to $75,000 for economics Ph.D.'s who took private-sector jobs last year, here and abroad, and roughly $50,000 for those who took academic posts, mainly as assistant professors. Only engineers are in the same ballpark.
These findings are laid out in a soon-to-be published article in the Journal of Economic Perspectives. The authors, John J. Siegfried of Vanderbilt University and Wendy Stock of Kansas State University, surveyed new Ph.D.'s at 91 universities.
But for economists who take private-sector jobs, money isn't everything. The typical graduate, 32 and married, spent 6.8 years in graduate school, only to land in a job that often underutilizes those hard-won skills. "They get paid a lot more than in academia, but they are grumpy," Mr. Siegfried said.
Americans, who now make up less than 45 percent of each year's graduating class, find the going tougher than foreign students do. The latter often have better preparation in the all-important math, and the prestige of an American doctorate opens all sorts of doors for them back home. The Americans find their training useful mainly in teaching and research, and academia has cut the number of these jobs that lead to tenure.
"People who 20 years ago might have chosen economics are now choosing law," said George Akerlof, an academic economist and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. "One reason they are doing this: Economics has become a lot harder."
But in that direction might lie a solution, or a partial one. Economics, practical, nonmathematical economics, is increasingly practiced by lawyers and by people trained at graduate business schools or at public policy institutes -- training that belongs in the graduate schools that "license" economists. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (68%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); HISTORY (78%); TRENDS (78%); MODELING & SIMULATION (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); MATHEMATICS (70%); 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (73%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (54%); ADAM SMITH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



221 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Sometimes a Tax Cut Can Be a Hard Sell

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THIS is the time of year just as Americans are grousing over their tax returns -- when Republicans and their allies try to stoke the flames of tax rebellion.
Come mid-April, they like to re-enact the Boston Tea Party, America's original tax revolt, or stage mock funerals for the tax code or toss the thick tomes that contain the nation's tax laws into trash cans. This year the National Federation of Independent Business, a lobbying group for small business, is planning to hand out aspirin at post offices to last-minute tax filers. 
 But these stunts seem only to highlight what's missing: the kind of grass-roots uprising that inspired California's Proposition 13 restrictions on property taxes and swept Ronald Reagan into office nearly two decades ago.
This public quiescence is puzzling to the proponents of tax relief who think that now more than ever it is the time for significant tax cutting or an overhaul of the tax code. They point to the fact that Federal tax receipts, which are estimated to reach $1.8 trillion by the end of the Federal fiscal year this October, will amount to 20.6 percent of the gross domestic product. That is a level unmatched since World War II. They also argue that the Federal surpluses that began appearing last year after a decade of deficits make the idea of sweeping tax cuts feasible again.
Americans, however, appear to have turned their political energies and interests elsewhere. It is not that they would reject a tax cut. A private poll that the National Republican Congressional Committee distributed to House Republicans at a retreat in February found that 67 percent of Americans favored a tax reduction of 10 percent across the board.
But voters seemed more ambivalent about tax cuts when they were asked how they wanted the Government to use the Federal surplus. Given a list of options, 31 percent of those polled said they wanted the money devoted to Social Security, 26 percent to reducing the national debt and only 18 percent to tax relief.
Congressional Republicans are now telling Americans they don't have to choose. They argue that the Republican budget plan for the new fiscal year will protect Social Security funds and still have money left over for tax cuts that grow to $800 billion over a decade.
Political analysts say it is economic expansion that has decreased the public interest in tax cutting. The unemployment rate is nearing a 29-year low and the flush times have left most Americans with money in their pockets and blunted the anti-Government animus.
"Anytime you have good times it makes it harder for tax cutters like myself and Republicans to make the case you're being bit in the wallet," said Stephen Moore, an economist with the Cato Institute, a conservative research center. "Ronald Reagan wouldn't have been elected in 1980 with the tax cut proposal if we weren't in a time of economic crisis."
But in charting the change in attitudes, it is also instructive to remember the nature of the 1970's economic crisis. That was when Gerald R. Ford made "Whip Inflation Now" his motto. When Howard Jarvis caught the imaginations of Californians and propelled Proposition 13 to victory in 1978, double-digit inflation was pushing taxpayers into higher brackets unaccompanied by any real increase in income. It was also increasing the assessed values of their homes -- prompting higher property taxes. The biggest victims were lower- and middle-income Americans, who could be easily moved into higher tax brackets.
IN response, Ronald Reagan's 1981 tax act not only cut taxes, it indexed tax brackets, adjusting them so that inflation alone would not push people into higher brackets even if they had seen no real increase in their income.
"Some of the irritants in the tax system, like inflation pushing people up through brackets, have been taken care of now," said Iris Lav, the deputy director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal non-profit research group.
In the 1990's, inflation nearly disappeared. And instead of viewing their home as their most important nest egg, many middle-class Americans are now relying on investments and 401k plans -- wealth that is not taxed until the stocks are sold.
Another reason for the lack of rebellion is that the tax burden is not shared equally. Because of the deficit reduction plans of 1990 and 1993, the rich are paying a larger share of Federal taxes than before. But the tax burden on the middle class and working class has decreased. Examining an array of taxes, the Congressional Budget Office found that the 20 percent of families at the middle of the nation's income scale earned an average income of $38,400 in 1995 and paid 20.2 percent of that in Federal taxes. This year, this group is projected to earn $45,100 on average and pay 18.4 percent.
Such tax trends have led Americans to look beyond the present. "We're in a period now where in a variety of fronts, particularly education, Social Security and Medicare, Americans actually want government to do something," said Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic pollster. "They are not willing to sacrifice government's ability to deal with those problems for the sake of a tax cut."
The prosperity has even caused some Republicans to question the supply-siders, who still hold enormous intellectual sway in their party. "Republicans have always been dominated by supply-siders who said, 'cut taxes' at every possible moment," said Representative Joe Scarborough, a Florida Republican. "The lesson of '95 and '96 has been if you cut Federal spending, the markets respond, interest rates drop and the economy explodes that way, too.
"I don't know what you call that," Mr. Scarborough said. "It's not Keynesian. It's not supply side. Maybe its Greenspan economics."
Of course, even without a tax rebellion, it is likely that Congress will enact some kind of tax relief this year. President Clinton now uses the tax code as his chosen instrument of social policy instead of direct-spending programs. His budget proposed tax credits for child and health care amounting to $4.1 billion in tax reductions in fiscal 2000 and $32.6 billion over five years.
Republicans, who are determined to put new muscle in what has long been their signature issue, have proposed a modest $15 billion in tax cuts for 2000 growing to $800 billion over a decade.
"My rule of politics is nobody ever lost an election by cutting taxes," said Mr. Moore. "It's always a good bread-and-butter issue for the Republican Party."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tax forms at a "problem solving day" set up by the Internal Revenue Service in 1997, in New York City. (Associated Press)
 
Graph: "Living With Taxes"
1970's -- High inflation bumps many taxpayers into higher tax brackets
 
1980's -- President Reagan's tax bill -- which cuts taxes and indexes for inflation -- passes.
 
1990's -- Tax receipts are higher than ever, and Congressional Republicans want a tax cut. But many Americans say they want any surplus used to reduce the national debt and shore up Social Security.
 
Graph tracks tax receipts as well as the inlation rate, from 1970 until 1998.
(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics; Federal Budget Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%); SIC5947 GIFT, NOVELTY, & SOUVENIR SHOPS (58%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: PA ACQUISITION CORP (58%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INDEXING (ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT SYSTEM); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); TAX REFORM (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); POLITICS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON RONALD REAGAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



222 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Bringing Markets To Milk

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN

 BODY:
PONDER a perverse question: What public policies would pummel the poor? Here is one answer: Impose a levy that falls more heavily on them than on the rich, singling out a staple in the diet of poor families and driving up its price.
No one would seriously entertain such an idea -- no one, that is, except members of Congress. 
 Federal milk-pricing rules dating from the 1930's drive up the price that consumers pay for milk, in effect taking money from urban parents, among others, and handing it over to rural dairy farmers.
Proponents say the rules stabilize milk prices, thereby assuring reliable supplies across the country. But opponents say the system is archaic, Byzantine and unnecessary -- a giveaway to the dairy farm lobby. And it's regressive: poor families spend about twice as much of their income on milk as do other families, on average.
Consumer advocates took heart three years ago when Congress told the Agriculture Department to improve the program. But their hopes were dashed recently when the department released its proposals, scheduled to go into effect on Oct. 1.
The new rules, the department said, would be "simpler, more market-oriented." But rather than taking a mallet to the program, the department wielded a toothpick. John M. Schnittker, an economist at Public Voice for Food and Health Policy, a nonprofit research group in Washington that plans to merge with the Consumer Federation of America, estimates that the current program raises the cost of milk an average of 18 cents a gallon. The department says its plan will cut prices by about 2 cents -- a trim Mr. Schnittker calls "almost an insult."
The current rules impose a complex set of minimum prices that processors are required to pay farmers in each of the 31 marketing regions.
The department starts by setting a base price for milk used in the manufacture of products like cheese from a survey of prices in Minnesota and Wisconsin. Then it tacks on additional charges, mostly reflecting location, to set the minimum price for so-called fluid milk.
Kenneth C. Clayton, deputy administrator of the agency that runs the system, says the controls stop milk prices from gyrating wildly and make sure that milk flows from areas where there are surplus supplies, like upstate New York and Wisconsin, to areas where there is scarcity, like Boston and Chicago.
But he concedes that those flows would occur without Government guidance. What the rules do, he says, is "divide up the pie -- insuring that diary farmers capture more of the dollar that consumers pay to processors." Another set of complex rules dictates how the processors' payments are divided among farmers.
Many economists challenge Mr. Clayton's benign interpretation. Processors operate in reasonably competitive markets, the economists say, so if they are forced to pay more for milk, they have little choice but to pass on the added cost to customers. Mr. Schnittker points to studies that show consumer prices rising along with Government-imposed charges on processors.
He also challenges another rationale for the milk-pricing rules: preservation of the family farmer. "Two-thirds of milk production comes from only about a quarter of the nation's dairy farmers," he said. "The milk-pricing rules overwhelmingly line the pockets of mega dairy farms."
The Government's overhaul would simplify things by collapsing the 31 regions into 11. But it would also make the system more complicated, by setting the base price for milk used in manufactured products according to surveys around the country, rather than just the Midwest, and by adjusting the price to take into account the milk's protein content and other qualities using complex mathematical formulas.
Add charges to take account of location and some transition rules, and out come 600-plus pages of regulations. Some economists suggest that the rule-making would fit comfortably in the playbook of the former Soviet Union.
And though the proposal would bring down average milk prices a small amount, it would leave most of the high prices intact. Indeed, the proposal would actually raise the minimum price in some places, like Chicago, a decision more political than economic.
Critics point out that this is not the first time the Agriculture Department has sided with dairy farmers over consumers. It also approved the creation of a dairy cartel among farmers in the Northeast that blocks low-price imports. Milk prices in New England rose about 20 cents a gallon after the compact went into effect in July 1997. The New York Legislature, yielding to pressure from upstate dairy farmers, has applied to Congress to join the cartel.
Connie Tipton, a senior official at the International Dairy Foods Association, a group of dairy processors, says the Government should have rethought the entire system. "Sixty years ago, it might have been hard for milk to flow from rural farms to heavily populated cities," she said. "Price spikes and supply shortages were potential threats. But modern transportation and refrigeration have wiped out that threat."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The system for pricing milk has long been a maze, as depicted at left by the Citizens Against Government Waste. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIZENS AGAINST GOVERNMENT WASTE (59%); CITIZENS AGAINST GOVERNMENT WASTE (59%); PUBLIC VOICE FOR FOOD & HEALTH POLICY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITIZENS AGAINST GOVERNMENT WASTE (59%); CITIZENS AGAINST GOVERNMENT WASTE (59%); PUBLIC VOICE FOR FOOD & HEALTH POLICY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REGULATION AND DEREGULATION; FOOD AND COOKING AGRICULTURAL PRICES (91%); MILK (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); DAIRY FARMING (90%); FAMILY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); PRODUCT PRICING (77%); FLUID MILK MFG (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CHEESE (76%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); LOBBYING (76%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (75%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); 

PERSON: JOHN M SCHNITTKER (69%); KENNETH C CLAYTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



223 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
Taxes 1999: Paying More Without Complaints

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
As the procrastinators among us prepare to send in our tax returns this week, there are a few certainties: Well-off people will be paying a lot, but the companies whose stock they own -- and whose success may have made those people rich -- will pay much less than they would have a generation ago.
That trend is an international one, reflecting the fact that in an increasingly global economy it is much easier for a company to pick up and move. Both states and nations are more likely now than ever before to reduce taxes as a lure to corporate employers. 
 "Even small variations in local tax rates may have important effects on capital flows and, by implication, on the economy as a whole," reported James Hines Jr., an economist now at the University of Michigan, after studying the flow of investment within this country.
In Europe, Ireland has achieved rapid growth by offering low corporate taxes. That infuriated Oskar Lafontaine, the former German Finance Minister who wanted to raise taxes on German business. Before he lost his job in a power struggle, he was pushing for "tax harmonization" within Europe as a way to force Ireland to raise its taxes.
Instead, with Mr. Lafontaine gone, Germany is likely to cut corporate tax rates while also reducing preferences that have allowed favored companies and industries to pay relatively low taxes while those in other industries are hit hard.
To be sure, at any given tax rate corporate income-tax payments fluctuate with the economy, falling in recessions and rising when business is good. American companies are expected to pay income taxes equal to 2.1 percent of the gross domestic product this year, up from 1.6 percent in the recession year of 1990.
But the overall trend can be seen more clearly by comparing the two longest economic expansions of American history -- the one from 1961 through 1969 and the current one, which began in 1991. During the 1960's boom, corporate income-tax collections peaked at 4.2 percent of G.D.P., twice the current level. But individual income-tax collections never got as high as the current figure, about 9.9 percent of G.D.P.
Just how you view the downward trend of corporate taxes depends on your politics. To many on the left, and some on the right, it demonstrates "corporate welfare" that lets powerful companies avoid paying their fair share. Most Congressional Republicans ignore the drop in corporate tax collections, however, while railing against the rising overall level of taxes.
But Republicans have been stunned to see how indifferent voters are to calls for tax cuts this year. In part, that reflects President Clinton's success in making those who call for lower taxes appear to be endangering Medicare and Social Security. But it also reflects the fact that changes in tax law have made it more certain that high-income taxpayers will pay more while moderate-income families are hit less. Thanks largely to the $500-per-child tax credit, a family of four earning the national median income now faces a lower effective tax rate than at any time since the 1960's.
In the current boom, the number of people with high incomes has soared. In 1992, just under a million tax returns showed adjusted gross income of more than $200,000. In 1996, the latest year for which figures are available, that number was up more than 50 percent, to 1.5 million.
The increase reflects surging capital gains and stock-option profits for corporate executives, and taxes on that income help to explain why tax receipts have been higher than expected in recent years.
For the Government, there is a risk in growing increasingly reliant on stock market-generated profits. If those profits stop coming, tax receipts could be surprisingly small. But for now, both the rich and the Government are raking in the cash. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; CAPITAL GAINS TAX TAXES & TAXATION (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); RECESSION (89%); TRENDS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); TAX INCREASES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (74%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); TAX TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); DISMISSALS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); HISTORY (68%); POLITICS (64%); MEDICARE (60%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (55%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD BILL CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



224 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Senior Citizens on the Bread Line

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

DATELINE: SCOTTSDALE, Ariz.

 BODY:
Getting enough to eat has sometimes been a problem for Dolores Heuser. She lost an arm to cancer and her savings are gone. While much of America was experiencing an economic boom, she was making a demoralizing move from her comfortable home in the Phoenix suburb of Youngtown to a low-income residence in nearby El Mirage. Having reached her 70's ("I won't tell you exactly how old I am," she said), Ms. Heuser, a widow, frequently found herself without money for food.
"I was in a very bad situation," she said. "I only had Social Security coming in and I couldn't get by on that." 
 Hunger is an awful, debilitating companion. You can test this by missing a few meals. Ms. Heuser learned, like many thousands of other elderly citizens, that after her essential monthly expenses were paid, the money she would have spent on food had mostly vanished. She was helped through her crisis by donations of food distributed by the Second Harvest food-bank network.
"Without that, I don't know what I would have done," she said.
Scenes of poverty-stricken Americans standing in bread lines are standard in documentaries about the Depression, which ended more than half a century ago. What is not generally acknowledged -- perhaps not widely known -- is that there are bread lines all over the United States right now.
Early on Thursday morning older residents of El Mirage began lining up at a senior citizens center for donations of food provided by the West Side Food Bank in the neighboring town of Surprise. They did not discuss their portfolios or the surging Nasdaq. The heralded free-market economy had left them far behind.
"Well, this helps, you know," said Carol Lorig, who is 80. "I have to take care of my son, who's ill and can't work. We don't have enough money."
William Yakubik, who is 86, said: "You cut down the food if you have to. Eat less. The cost of living, you know how it is. Robbing Peter to pay Paul. Feast or famine."
Debbi Ennis, one of the directors of the food bank, said the elderly residents who line up for food supplies are especially vulnerable to unexpected expenses. "These are people who cannot afford food if they experience an illness and have to buy medicine, or if their car breaks down and has to be repaired, or if there is some kind of unexpected housing expense, like a leaking roof or a break-in. Then they are in serious trouble."
A study a few years ago by the Urban Institute, a research organization in Washington, found that nearly two million elderly Americans had faced at least one of two terrible dilemmas: whether to pay their rent or buy food, or whether to pay for medicine or buy food. Those are choices no American should have to make.
Referring to the nation's population as a whole, Doug O'Brien, the director of public policy and research at Second Harvest, said: "We are finding a great deal of pain and anxiety and some instances of malnutrition. Hunger is disguised in this country. It's not like it is in North Korea, where people have to eat grass, or in East Africa, where they just waste away. It's not life-threatening in most cases. But it is a serious, insidious problem that affects many million Americans.
"We have a hunger problem. And other Western industrialized nations do not have a hunger problem. And that is just not acceptable when we have such abundance."
Second Harvest is the largest nonprofit clearinghouse in the U.S. for donations to soup kitchens and food pantries. Officials said a recent comprehensive survey showed that over the course of a year, more than 21 million people sought emergency food assistance through the Second Harvest network. The officials stressed that the 21 million figure referred to separate individuals, not the total number of emergency meals served. And they said they believed that there were many more Americans, millions more, who did not have enough money to pay for an adequate diet.
Dolores Heuser, whose situation is typical, is resigned to her new circumstances. "I can't go to a lovely restaurant," she said. "I can't get my hair set anymore. But I am thankful for the assistance. I'll go on Monday for a food box." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SECOND HARVEST SECOND HARVEST (82%); SECOND HARVEST (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECOND HARVEST SECOND HARVEST (82%); SECOND HARVEST (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; AGED AGING (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (65%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB DOLORES HEUSER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



225 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: April 5-9;
Europeans Show Appetite for Lower Rates

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
For rallying stock markets, it was just sugar on the creme brulee: The European Central Bank reduced interest rates on Thursday to one of the lowest levels European nations have ever seen.
 Stocks rose in London for the ninth day in 10 on Friday. The FTSE 100 ended the week 2.3 percent higher, closing at 6,472.80. Other European markets rose, too. The cut in the central bank's benchmark rate, to 2.5 percent from 3 percent, followed a smaller cut by the Bank of England. 
 David Kiddie, the head of European equity management at Hill Samuel Asset Management, told Bloomberg News on Friday that the rate cut was larger than expected. We're likely to see growth expectations pick up, Mr. Kiddie said. With interest rates at these levels, the outlook looks good.
 Shares of companies that rely on consumer spending, including Unilever and the EMI Group, benefited from the rate cuts.
 Key market gauges in the United States responded by surging to new highs. After some profit-taking on Friday, the Dow Jones industrial average ended the week up 3.4 percent, at 10,173.84. The Nasdaq gained 4 percent, to a record 2,593.05. MICKEY MEECE
 
Aspen Technology
NNM: AZPN
The maker of chemical engineering software said it expected a significant loss for the third quarter. Aspen cited economic difficulties in the refining sector. Analysts had predicted earnings of 18 cents a diluted share.
Friday's Close: $9.03125
Week'S Change: -31.84%
EST. '99 P/E: 39.96
 
Cable and Wireless
nyse: cwp (A.D.R.'s)
Shares of the telecom-munications company climbed on a report that it was considering a proposal to merge the $7 billion of residential assets of its cable-TV unit with a rival operator, Telewest.
Friday's Close: $39.375
Week'S Change: +7.14%
EST. '99 P/E: 27.16
 
Pairgain Technologies
NNM: PAIR
The telecommunications equipment-maker returned to gravity, but not before soaring to $11.125 on Wednesday after a false report on the Internet said that ECI Telecom of Israel had agreed to buy it.
Friday's Close: $9.5625
Week'S Change: +0.66%
EST. '99 P/E: 24.33
 
Harnischfeger Indus.
nyse: hph
The maker of equipment for the pulp, paper and mining industries was the S.&P.'s biggest gainer for the week, up 72 percent. A major investor revealed that the company had received an offer to buy it at a premium.
Friday's Close: $10.00
Week'S Change: +72.04%
EST. '99 P/E: 17.95
 
Reed International
NYSE: RUK (A.D.R.'s)
Shares of Elsevier and Reed International - the parent companies of Reed Elsevier, the giant British-Dutch publisher - rose after a report that a rival, Wolters Kluwer, was in talks to merge with Reed Elsevier.
Friday's Close: $37.50
Week'S Change: +5.63%
EST. '99 P/E: 20.72
 
Sinclair Broadcasting
NNM: SBGI
The Baltimore-based owner of television stations affiliated with the Fox network said a plan by Fox to reclaim a portion of prime-time commercial spots would hurt its cashflow and revenue by $10 million.
Friday's Close: $11.9375
Week'S Change: -17.67%
EST. '99 P/E: 149.22
 
Liberty Media
NYSE: LMG/A
The cable-TV program-ming company said it would acquire an 8 percent stake in the News Corporation for about $2.1 billion. Liberty also plans to transfer its interactive and Internet assets into TCI Music.
Friday's Close: $69.25
Week'S Change: +26.48%
EST. '99 P/E: N.A.
 
Charles Schwab
NYSE: SCH
The largest on-line brokerage firm could split its shares again sometime after its annual shareholder meeting next month, The Wall Street Journal reported. Shares have risen 91 percent this year, split-adjusted.
Friday's Close: $126.00
Week'S Change: +33.69%
EST. '99 P/E: 104.74 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UNIA (AMS) (56%); UNA (BIT) (56%); UNA (AMS) (56%); UN (NYSE) (56%); ULVR (LSE) (56%); UL (NYSE) (56%); AZPN (NASDAQ) (55%); RUK (NYSE) (50%); REL (LSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (83%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (83%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (52%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EMI GROUP LTD (83%); BANK OF ENGLAND (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (56%); ASPEN TECHNOLOGY INC (55%); ECI TELECOM LTD (52%); PAIRGAIN TECHNOLOGIES INC (52%); ECI TELECOM INC (52%); REED ELSEVIER PLC (50%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); RECORD REVENUES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); PAPER INDUSTRY EQUIPMENT MFG (70%); MINING EQUIPMENT MFG (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); CHEMICALS (67%); ENGINEERING (66%); COMPANY LOSSES (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (51%); MINES & MINING (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



226 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Recipients Of Welfare Are Fewest Since 1969

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 10

 BODY:
President Clinton announced today that fewer people were on welfare than at any point in the last three decades.
Welfare caseloads have dropped by 4.6 million, or 38 percent, since Mr. Clinton signed the Republican-initiated overhaul of the welfare system into law in August 1996. There are now 7.6 million people on welfare, according to the Government's just-collected figures from December, down from 14.1 million when Mr. Clinton took office in January 1993. 
 As the nation's economy continues its expansion, the new welfare numbers, the lowest since 1969, not surprisingly coincide with record drops in unemployment -- to 4.2 percent in March, the lowest level in 29 years.
In announcing the new welfare figures in his weekly radio address, President Clinton said that the Federal Government had been doing its share to help move welfare recipients into the work force.
He said the Government had hired 12,000 welfare recipients in the last two years, surpassing the goal he set in March 1997 to hire 10,000 welfare recipients by September 2000. Private companies participating in the nonprofit Welfare to Work Partnership have hired more than 410,000 welfare recipients, he said.
Mr. Clinton said he wanted to continue to drive down the number of welfare recipients by implementing the final two rules that were part of the 1996 welfare law. These would hold states accountable for moving people off welfare, and make it easier for states to use their welfare block grants to pay for child care, transportation and other needs to help welfare recipients hold jobs.
More than half the states failed to use the full amounts of their Federal welfare grants last year. State officials have said that their welfare rolls dropped much faster than they anticipated, in part because of the strong economy, making it difficult for them to use all the Federal money they were entitled to. Others have admitted to just socking the money away to use in a recession.
All 50 states have reduced their welfare rolls since January 1993, with 29 states cutting their rolls by more than 50 percent. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SEELYE, KATHARINE Q BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



227 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk;
Soft Money and Some Not-So-Hard Promises

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 10

 BODY:
Bookshelves in the capital are sagging with countless handsomely bound, carefully researched, long-forgotten reports proposing laws and policies that, were they ever to be adopted, would affect millions of Americans.
One characteristic of these studies -- about Social Security, taxes, health policy, education and dozens of other areas -- is that the people who conduct them and make the recommendations often do not themselves follow the prescriptions in their own daily lives that they would impose on the body politic. 
 A case in point involves the report advocating sweeping changes in campaign finance laws published last month by the Committee for Economic Development, an organization of business executives. The report's principal recommendation is that soft money, the unregulated donations that corporations can give to political parties, should be outlawed.
Corporations and unions have long been prohibited from giving money directly to political candidates, but in recent elections, they have gotten around the restrictions by donating large sums to the parties.
In the 1998 elections, corporations and business trade groups gave a record $121 million in soft money.
"The public cannot help but believe that these donors enjoy special influence and receive special favors," the report stated. "The suspicion of corruption deepens public cynicism and diminishes public confidence in government. More important, these activities raise the likelihood of actual corruption."
At a news conference where the report was released, a co-chairman of the subcommittee that conducted the study, Edward A. Kangas, chairman and chief executive of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, the accounting and consulting firm, declared, "Bad government is bad business."
He added: "We fundamentally look at our campaign financing and election processes, and we see many of the same fissures and cracks in the foundation that led to the collapse of financial markets elsewhere in the world, and we ask, 'What might that hold for us here in America?' "
Afterward, he told a reporter, "Until I understood the depth of the problem, I was like a lot of Americans: I don't think I cared too much."
Now, it appears that Mr. Kangas's firm has no intention of restricting its own soft money donations. For the 1998 elections, Deloitte & Touche, the American subsidiary of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, gave $185,300 to the Republican Party and $41,725 to the Democratic Party, Federal Election Commission records show.
Mr. Kangas was in Europe this week and told associates to say he was too tied up in meetings to return a reporter's telephone calls. But Ellen Ringel, the spokeswoman for Deloitte & Touche, provided this statement: "Mr. Kangas's views with regard to his participation in the C.E.D. report are his personal views and do not necessarily represent the views of Deloitte & Touche in the U.S. and will not require Deloitte & Touche in the U.S. to do anything but what is in the best interest of the partnership within the law."
Ms. Ringel said Mr. Kangas had approved the statement.
Mr. Kangas is not the first corporate executive to conclude that soft money donations were a bad investment. In 1997, as a Senate committee was exposing widespread abuses in campaign finance practices by both parties, four large American corporations announced that they were forswearing soft money donations.
A review of Election Commission records shows that the companies have basically kept their word, but three have reneged to a minor extent. For example, General Motors, which gave more than $400,000 in soft money in the 1996 elections, gave no corporate money for last year's races, but it allowed its political action committee to donate $40,000 to the Republican National Committee after the 1997 announcement.
Political action committees are run by corporate officers, but the money comes from ostensibly voluntary donations, usually from executives. They are allowed to give up to $25,000 to political committees set up by the parties. Presumably, the Republican Party classified G.M.'s 1997-1998 donations as soft money because they exceeded that limit.
Harry J. Pearce, vice chairman of G.M., said in an interview that the company's policy applied to corporate funds, not to the political action committee. Mr. Pearce said that he was satisfied with the self-imposed ban on corporate spending on politics and that it would not be changed.
The Ameritech Corporation, the Midwest telephone company, which gave nearly $200,000 in the 1996 elections, gave about $60,000 in 1997 and 1998. Some of this was also from a political action committee. Most of the rest, said Gary Lytle, head of the company's Washington office, apparently resulted from executives around the country not understanding what the rules were.
Allied Signal, the aerospace company, which gave about $200,000 in the 1996 elections, gave $15,000 a year to the Republican Party in 1997 and 1998. Ken Cole, vice president for government relations, said that the money had been earmarked for conferences of the Republican Governors' Association and that the company had been assured that it would not be used for election campaigns.
The one corporation that has completely stuck by its guns is the Monsanto Company, which donated about $75,000 in 1995 and 1996 and has given no soft money since then.
"When we said what we were going to do, we meant it," said Philip Angell, a spokesman in Monsanto's Washington office. As for making an exception for PAC money, Mr. Angell said, "Either you are or you aren't, and we've decided we're not." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GMR (LSE) (90%); GM (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (84%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU; COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; AMERITECH CORP; ALLIED SIGNAL INC; MONSANTO CO DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (84%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (83%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU; COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; AMERITECH CORP; ALLIED SIGNAL INC; MONSANTO CO COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (83%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; ETHICS ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (89%); ETHICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); POLITICS (74%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (68%); ACCOUNTING (64%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; KANGAS, EDWARD A EDWARD A KANGAS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



228 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Ban Lifted, Libya Is Set To Retool Oil Works

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: LONDON, April 10

 BODY:
The decision by the United Nations to end economic sanctions against Libya will give its underdeveloped oil industry access to the spare parts and money needed to expand production.
That should also be a boon to foreign oil companies that do business in Libya, but American companies will be left at a competitive disadvantage because sanctions imposed by the United States remain in place. 
 The United Nations on Monday suspended its seven-year restrictions on trade with Libya, ending a ban on international flights. The move came after Libya handed over two citizens suspected of blowing up a Pan Am jet over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988, killing 270 people.
"We see a great future in Libya, and certainly the lifting of sanctions will make life a whole lot easier," said Andrew Harber, a manager for the Swedish company Lundin Oil AB.
But the United Nations action is unlikely to set off a fresh wave of European oil companies into Libya, analysts say, because most firms with an interest are already operating there. For them, the sanctions were more of an inconvenience than a real impediment. Still, direct flights to the Libyan capital will save time for visiting oilmen, who previously had to drive to Tripoli from neighboring Tunisia, a five-hour journey.
The new relations will also probably mean faster international money transfers.
With proven reserves of 30 billion barrels, Libya has as much oil as Norway and Britain combined. Its reserves are smaller than Mexico's 50 billion barrels, but larger than those of fellow OPEC members Nigeria and Indonesia. And its low-sulfur crude fetches a premium.
The Libyans have managed to keep up steady levels of crude production despite the United Nations and the American sanctions, pumping 1.39 million barrels a day last year, according to the International Energy Agency. Promising areas of the country remain to be explored.
Conoco Inc., based in Houston, first struck oil in Libya in 1955. Since withdrawing from Libya 13 years ago, Conoco has had to forego the production and sale of 300 million barrels of oil worth $5 billion, said a spokesman, Carlton Adams.
European energy companies like ENI in Italy, Repsol of Spain and OMV in Austria helped fill the void created by the American exodus.
The competitive position of American companies will erode further if non-American firms are the only ones allowed to do business in Libya, Mr. Adams said.
Sanctions have hurt Libya most by blocking imports of certain types of oil equipment. The American embargo continues to deny Libya access to specific technologies. Sanctions also have stifled investment. Since 1996, the United States' Iran-Libya Sanctions Act has barred foreign firms from making new investments of $40 million or more -- a limit European companies seem to be respecting. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (85%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (85%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (85%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (85%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); SCOTLAND (93%); INDONESIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SPAIN (79%); NIGERIA (79%); NORWAY (79%); AUSTRIA (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

CITY: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC; UNITED NATIONS CONOCOPHILLIPS (85%); TALISMAN ENERGY SWEDEN AB (69%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC; UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOCKERBIE (SCOTLAND); UNITED STATES (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); SCOTLAND (93%); INDONESIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SPAIN (79%); NIGERIA (79%); NORWAY (79%); AUSTRIA (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; TERRORISM; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; PRODUCTION EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); CARTELS (77%); AIRLINES (75%); IMPORT CONTROLS (71%); TERRORISM (69%); AIR SERVICE (68%); 

PERSON: CARLTON ADAMS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



229 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-17
 
NATO Is Prepared For Weeks of Bombing
With the NATO bombing of Serbia now in its 17th day, a senior allied diplomat said in Brussels today that the alliance was prepared to continue the campaign "for many more weeks." 1 

Ethnic Albanian refugees allowed to cross back into Kosovo describe it as a wasteland of burned villages and wandering farm animals. 1
 
A secret Air Force inquiry has concluded that it was a combination of tactics, quick learning and improvisation that helped the Serbs shoot down a stealth jet two weeks ago. 1
 
A senior Yugoslav official says 300 civilians have been killed in NATO's raids and 3,000 have been wounded. The figures are the most concrete so far available, though no data have emerged on military casualties. 10
 
Winnie Mandela Emerges
Winnie Madikizela-Mandela's political obituary may have been premature. When the African National Congress published its list of candidates in late February, she was in the No. 10 spot, which virtually assures her return to Parliament. 3
 
Charity for Italy's Priests
Fund-raising ads movingly convey the efforts of Catholic missionaries to relieve suffering around the world. But donors may not realize that half their money will go to pay priests' salaries. 4
 
Talking About Sex in China
A more open approach to matters sexual is not helping China control its rate of sexually transmitted diseases. 6
 
NATIONAL 20-28
 
Shooting Leads Arkansas To Rethink Juvenile Justice
After two boys shot up their schoolyard in Jonesboro, Ark., last March, killing five people, there were angry calls for laws that would make it easier to imprison youngsters. Last week Gov. Mike Huckabee signed into law what experts say is one of the most carefully drawn provisions on juvenile justice in the country. It includes the option of trying children as adults, as long as prosecutors meet significant burdens. 20
 
Gas Prices Hit Hard in California
Although gasoline prices around the country have increased over the past several months, prices in California have soared the most, leaving some drivers in this auto-dependent state wavering between anger and resignation. 20
 
Boeing Seeks Exemptions
The Boeing Company and four airlines are seeking an exemption from Government rules so the company's 777 jet can fly farther from land. The effort has created a dispute with Airbus, Boeing's only major competitor, as well as a re-evaluation by safety experts of whether it is still appropriate to set safety rules governing oceanic flights based on how many engines a plane has. 24
 
New, Lower Welfare Figure
President Clinton announced in his radio address that fewer people were on welfare than at any point in the last three decades. Welfare caseloads have dropped by 4.6 million, or 38 percent, since Mr. Clinton signed the Republican-initiated overhaul of the welfare system into law in August 1996. 22
 
NEW YORK/REGION 31-37
 
Interest Is Growing in Private Girls' Schools
Girls' schools no longer have to convince parents of of the benefits of single-sex education. Most of Manhattan's seven private girls' schools had 10 applications for every kindergarten opening this fall. 1
 
New Allies For Business
New York's business leaders have long worked with Republican allies in the Capitol in an unsuccessful effort to scale back environmental restrictions on commercial development. But now business has some new allies: Democrats from inner-city neighborhoods seeking economic growth, but find the state's stringent environmental rules difficult to follow. 31
 
OBITUARIES 38-39
 
Morey Bernstein
An amateur hypnotist who in 1956 wrote a book in which he described how he had repeatedly hypnotized a woman, coaxing her to recount a presumably previous life. He was 79. 39
 
Chess 37
Weather 37 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (85%); BAB (BRU) (85%); BA (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (85%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (52%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); KOSOVO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ALBANIA (92%); CHINA (92%); ITALY (79%); BELGIUM (58%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (72%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (85%); AIRBUS SAS (52%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); KOSOVO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ALBANIA (92%); CHINA (92%); ITALY (79%); BELGIUM (58%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHILDREN (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); AIR FORCES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); AIRLINES (70%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



230 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Has Urban Allies in Bid to Ease Environmental Rules

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 10

 BODY:
New York's business leaders have long worked with their Republican allies in the Capitol in an unsuccessful campaign to scale back rules requiring companies to conduct extensive cleanups of polluted industrial sites that they want to develop.
But now business has found a new ally: black and Hispanic Democrats from poor inner city neighborhoods where developers say they would transform abandoned industrial sites into attractive commercial properties if it were not for the state's stringent environmental rules. 
 While business groups and minority leaders differ over the details of the changes they support, there is growing agreement that the environmental rules may be stifling economic growth in the state's inner cities as well as other industrial centers.
"To see these properties languish when we have such needs in our community makes you question the principles that we have operated under with regard to environmental protection," said Jeffrion L. Aubry, a prominent black Democratic Assemblyman from Queens.
"It's important to maintain standards of protection for your community," he added. "But at the same time you want to see these properties put back into some economic use. So the question is: how do you spur development of these properties in our community and at the same time retain the public protections?"
The issue is expected to be one of the most hotly contested environmental matters the Governor and the Legislature take up this year. The main element in the state's effort to clean up hazardous waste sites, the Superfund program, is running out of money, and business leaders are pushing to overhaul its rules and standards as part of any final agreement to refinance it.
The budding alliance involving minority politicians, business leaders and civic leaders threatens to fracture the traditional Democratic alliance with environmentalists and give momentum to those who want to see the standards eased.
The Democrats and their allies in the environmental community have generally held that polluted former industrial properties, known as brownfields, should be cleaned to a fairly high standard and that the companies that own them should pay the costs, even if a previous owner was primarily responsible for the contamination.
Business, in turn, has argued that a high cleanup standard is not needed for brownfields that will be used for factories instead of homes and that holding property owners fully responsible for the cleanup costs, no matter their role in the pollution, is sure to inhibit investment. As evidence, they point to thousands of industrial tracts that they say have been shunned by developers because of concerns over legal liability for pollution and contamination.
"Not only are the standards not necessary, but they are self-defeating because you end up with no cleanups at all," said Robert B. Ward, the research director for the Business Council of New York State, a statewide chamber of commerce.
"This is in large part an economic development issue, and the areas in greatest need of economic development tend to have large minority populations," he said, adding: "But it's more than a minority issue. It is an urban issue."
Even the business community's staunchest critics acknowledge that redeveloping brownfields is appealing, particularly to residents of beleaguered urban areas. But the critics accuse business leaders of trying to gut environmental safeguards in the name of economic development, particularly for sites considered dangerous enough to require extensive work under the Superfund program.
"The issue of brownfields redevelopment is a double-edged sword," said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester County Democrat who is the chairman of the Assembly's Environmental Conservation Committee. "On the one hand, there is legitimate pressure for economic development of these abandoned sites. But on the other hand, that can be perverted into an excuse for lowering cleanup standards and the responsibility that polluters have to clean up their mess."
He added, "The business community is going to have to back off from using brownfields as a beard for an agenda that reduces cleanup and liability across the board."
The critics of the business community's efforts also argue that the current rules have not actually discouraged development. 'We are developing hundreds of brownfields every year," said Walter Hang, a former environmental lobbyist who now helps businesses identify and develop brownfields. "As near as I can tell, the cleanup and liability standards are not a major impediment to developing brownfields in New York. The deals are flowing like crazy."
No one can say how many brownfields exist in the state, according to the state's Department of Environmental Conservation. But in New York City alone, officials have identified more than 6,500, most of which are in the old industrial sections of Brooklyn, the Bronx and Queens.
The debate over brownfields comes as a special panel appointed by Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican, considers a plan to overhaul the laws governing liability and cleanup standards for brownfields, ranging from sites with relatively little toxic waste to those deemed hazardous enough to qualify for money under the state Superfund program. Mr. Pataki and his aides said he intended to introduce a bill on the issue in the current legislative session.
The major questions in the debate over brownfields include whether prospective developers should be granted liability protections from unforeseen cleanup costs and whether the state should continue to require all polluted properties to be cleaned to a single high standard or instead should make the standards dependent on a site's eventual use. Put another way, does a brownfield being used to build a gas station need to be as clean as one being used for a nursery school?
Peggy Shepard, the executive director of the West Harlem Environmental Action Group, said she supported many of the changes being sought by business leaders because the current laws are not working.
"There are many people who argue that brownfields should be cleaned up to pristine conditions," Ms. Shepard said. "And in a perfect world, we would like to return some of them to pristine conditions. But I think the bottom line should be a cleanup that protects public health while promoting economic development."
Roberto Ramirez, a Hispanic Assemblyman and the Democratic Party chairman in the Bronx, said he too saw an opportunity for business groups and minority communities to begin restoring some abandoned properties. But he warned that redevelopment of those sites ought to be done in close consultation with community leaders.
Although he is open to changing cleanup standards, he said, he also has some concerns. One, he said, was that changes might allow a developer to clean a site to a standard that is only good enough for a factory, when, say, new housing might benefit a community.
"What you are seeking to strike here is a balance," he said. "Is there a meeting point where a law can be proposed that allows development of sites that up to now were not economically viable, while at the same time insuring that environmental concerns are addressed?" 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS REAL ESTATE (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BROWNFIELD SITES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); SUPERFUND (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); CITIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (52%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; AUBRY, JEFFRION L (ASSEMBLYMAN) ASSEMBLYMAN RICHARD L BRODSKY (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



231 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Hundreds Gather to Protest City's Auction of Garden Lots

BYLINE: By ANNE RAVER 

 BODY:
About 500 community gardeners, many from other states, rallied in Bryant Park yesterday, chanting "Stop the Auction! Stop the Auction!" singing along with Pete Seeger and vowing to preserve the 700 community gardens that have been grown on trash-strewn vacant lots.
The administration of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has put 114 of the city-owned lots on the auction block for May 13. As the date nears, advocates of the gardens on those lots are pressuring the city to save them. 
 "This is our way of letting New York know -- and we hope the Mayor is listening -- that we need community gardens," said Leslie Lowe, the executive director of the New York City Environmental Justice Alliance. "When people say it's houses versus gardens, that's a lie. There are more than 11,000 vacant lots in the city."
Ms. Lowe, a lawyer, said that 29 community planning districts in the city, most of them low income, have less than 1.5 acres of open space per 1,000 people. "Low-income children have no place to play, except on asphalt," she said. "These gardens are where children learn about nature, and we have to fight to save every piece of green space."
The gardens scheduled to be auctioned are the first wave of more than 700 community gardens that the city could sell at any time because they have been leased to gardeners on only a temporary basis. The Giuliani administration has said the purpose of the auction is to promote economic development and the creation of housing.
In January, when the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development confirmed its plans to sell more than 100 garden lots, Deputy Commissioner Hector Batista said that the agency was trying to sell off any city-owned properties not slated for housing or economic development.
The rally was part of a two-day conference called "Standing Our Ground," sponsored by the New York City Community Garden Coalition, the New York City Environmental Justice Alliance and the city chapter of the Sierra Club. The conference began on Friday at St. Augustine's Episcopal Church on Henry Street, in the Lower East Side.
"I feel this is one of the most important battles right here, right now," said Mr. Seeger, who has spent much of his life rallying people to clean up the Hudson River. Now he has turned his attention to another cause: plants. And he has concluded that they will win, anyway.
"A hundred years from now, the city is going to be all green," he said. "It's just a question of whether people are going to be here -- or just vines growing up all the fallen-down buildings."
New York advocates of gardens and open space were joined by others yesterday, from Boston, Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Madison, Wis., to pledge their solidarity and tell their own stories.
Betsy Johnson, the director of Garden Futures, a land trust coalition in Boston, said, "We've saved 150 gardens in Boston. The first thing we did was realize that it wasn't housing versus gardens. Our constituency was the same for both."
New York City Council members Kenneth K. Fisher of Brooklyn and Kathyrn E. Freed of Manhattan, and State Senators Thomas K. Duane of Manhattan and Velmanette Montgomery of Brooklyn urged gardeners to write their city and state legislators to stop the auction, and to support bills that would halt the proposed sales and funnel state and Federal money into preserving urban green space.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Flower puppets led a procession at Bryant Park yesterday to protest the auction next month of city lots that were converted to community gardens. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ST AUGUSTINE RECORD (52%); NEW YORK CITY ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE ALLIANCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE ALLIANCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GARDENS AND GARDENING; AUCTIONS; PUBLIC PROPERTY; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS GARDENING (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); CHILDREN (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (52%); 

PERSON: RAVER, ANNE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



232 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Joblessness Is Down. Prices Aren't Up. Go Figure.

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
MEETING in February to review interest rate policy, members of the Federal Reserve fretted, as they always do, about the possible resurgence of inflation. But their discussion soon turned to whether the central bank's system of spotting incipient wage and price pressures might be malfunctioning.
This early-warning system -- built around interrelationships between unemployment, growth and inflation -- assumes that when joblessness falls below a certain "natural" level, prices will rise. As a forecasting and policymaking tool, the framework provided a reasonably accurate way of knowing when inflation would strike and enabling the Fed to head it off by adjusting monetary policy. At least until the last few years. 
 Unemployment has been falling for seven years, and last month dipped to 4.2 percent, its lowest level in nearly three decades and well below any mainstream estimate of the natural unemployment rate. Economic growth, while slowing somewhat, remains robust. Yet the predicted inflation is nowhere to be found. And although theoretical economists have been debating the issue of a natural rate for years, concern about the concept's reliability now are beginning to change the way the Fed thinks about inflation and sets policy.
The sketchy minutes of the central bank's February meeting -- the only account made public -- suggest that even Fed officials are struggling to find answers. The combination "over an extended period of strong economic growth, very low rates of unemployment, and the absence of any buildup of inflation could not be explained in terms of normal historical relationships," the minutes said.
A number of Fed officials, according to the minutes, "suggested that the inflation process was not well understood and that inflation forecasts were subject to a wide range of uncertainty."
The Fed does not understand the inflation process? It is like a conference of top cardiac surgeons deciding that it did not really know how the heart works, or NASA admitting that it was not sure what happens when the countdown reaches zero.
Many economists believe that since the Fed has less confidence in its ability to predict inflation, it will be less likely to act preemptively against inflation -- its strategy through much of the last several decades -- and more likely to wait for evidence that wage and price increases are actually accelerating.
The natural-rate theory, which is encompassed in such arcane concepts as the Phillips Curve and the non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment, still has its advocates, including some Fed officials. Even skeptics acknowledge that there is a long-term tradeoff between unemployment and inflation. The question is whether the tradeoffs are consistent enough in a rapidly changing economy to be of any use in predicting inflation and setting interest rates at the appropriate level.
"These various road maps or rules that we use are valid at times," said L. Douglas Lee, chief economist at HSBC Securities. "But what you always have to remember is that the U.S. economy is a very dynamic creature and things don't remain fixed. What works at one point in terms of understanding inflation may not work at another, but then may change and work again."
The trick for policymakers, Mr. Lee said, is to remain flexible and to recognize when their old assumptions are no longer working -- something that he and many other economists credit Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, with doing well in the last few years. Mr. Greenspan has consistently resisted pressure to raise rates over the past few years just because the old models have been sending warnings signals.
"Policymakers have to keep on top of what's going on so they don't use the old road map on a new road," Mr. Lee said. "We've had quite a lengthy period of time now where the economy has grown faster and inflation has been less than the Fed's forecast expected. The longer the economy surprises you, the more you have to question your fundamental assumptions."
ECONOMISTS have offered a raft of explanations for the apparent breakdown in the old relationships between employment, growth and inflation, some suggesting that the change is temporary, others seeing it as emblematic of a fundamental shift in the way the economy works.
Those in the fundamental change camp, which includes an increasing number of Fed officials, say that inflation is being dampened by improved productivity in American business. Faced with a shortage of labor, employers are paying somewhat higher wages. But because of intense competition, at home and abroad, they are unable to pass on the higher costs to consumers. So they are investing heavily in computers and other cost-saving equipment, and re-examining the way they operate to reduce expenses at every turn.
Although the statistics are fuzzy, economists increasingly believe that the result has been the first lasting improvement in productivity -- output per worker -- since it inexplicably turned down in the early 1970's. Higher productivity means the economy can sustain higher rates of non-inflationary growth.
The relationship of inflation to unemployment, Mr. Greenspan told Congress earlier this year, "is clearly a far more complex process" than implied by the natural-rate concept. "At some point," he said, "the general notion that a different type of process is involved here is going to probably gain, in my judgment, a majority view among economists."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 18, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A chart accompanying a story on the relationship between joblessness and inflation was mislabeled. The correct figures for gross domestic product, in 1992 dollars, are: $6.2 trillion in 1992, $6.4 trillion in 1993, $6.6 trillion in 1994, $6.8 trillion in 1995, $7 trillion in 1996, $7.3 trillion in 1997 and $7.6 trillion in 1998.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Where Theory Meets Reality and Reality Wins"
THEORY -- Strong growth means low unemployment but higher inflation. REALITY -- Strong growth still means low unemployment but inflation also remains low (and no one knows why). Graph tracks the annual change in GDP (adjusted for inflation), 1992-1998, the average annual unemployment rate, 1992-1999, and the annual changes in the consumer price index, 1992-1999. (Sources: Commerce Department; Congressional Budget Office; Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W L DOUGLAS LEE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



233 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 2022 words

HEADLINE: The News at The Daily News Is Not Good;
Financial Problems Bring Cutbacks and a Growing Sense of Distrust

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER 

 BODY:
Helen Kennedy, The Daily News's reporter in the Balkans, is heading home. On-the-spot coverage of the war and refugee crisis in Kosovo is more than her newspaper can afford right now; its newsroom budget has just been trimmed by 5 percent. She is returning to a newsroom where no raises will be given this year and where reporters must get approval before taking a source to lunch.
The Daily News, the in-your-face tabloid that in the early 1990's survived union confrontation, revolving-door ownership and bankruptcy, has been knocked back on its heels by a series of financial reversals. Just when the newspaper was ready to print a snazzy new color edition, balky pressroom equipment scuttled the attempt. The newspaper's owners, Fred Drasner and Mortimer B. Zuckerman, have had to pay more than $2 million for replacement parts and overtime by its pressmen in the last few months. 
 Just when The News had amicably reached terms with its eight craft unions, a labor arbitrator a month ago gave a ninth union, representing the drivers, a far more expensive settlement. Since the craft unions are entitled to the same raises, the paper faces unexpected costs of $18.5 million in 1999 alone, executives say, and millions more in the future.
Just when the paper was unveiling its expanded Sunday edition, in which it is investing about $2 million, the new Sunday staff finds itself coexisting with colleagues who are on a severely restricted financial diet.
No, this is not a reprise of the paper's near-death experience less than a decade ago. But the pinch is making the paper's owners testy, its journalists angry and its union leaders nervous. "If you're asking, is the timing exquisite," Mr. Drasner said dryly, "the answer is no."
Mr. Drasner and Mr. Zuckerman said they would ask for help from all the newspaper's constituencies -- from employees to advertisers to suppliers. But such assurances do not resonate in a newsroom already bruised by cutbacks, low raises and the departure in the last 18 months of "enough colleagues to make up a baseball team," as one reporter put it.
The newspaper's editor, Debby Krenek, says the problems are manageable.
"Now, the key is to be very judicious about what you spend your money on," she said. "You can do that. It's not fun. But it's just managing things a little tighter. And if you do that, you don't have to make the major cuts none of us want to make."
There will be no layoffs, she said, and no cuts in the space that the paper devotes to news.
But no amount of explanations can dispel the suspicion and resentment the latest cutbacks bring. For nine months, the monthly budgetary bulletins from The Daily News have seemed an exercise in mathematics. Spend. Cut. Spend. Cut. Look, we are really investing in the Sunday paper. Look, this labor arbitration award is going to cost a lot -- we will have to make some real cuts.
 
A Newsroom Buffeted By Financial Reversals
And while all newsrooms are roiled about something at any given time, roiled is too mild to describe the feelings at The Daily News, the country's sixth-largest newspaper, where anger and financial unease have made the place seasick.
In part, the nausea has been provoked by unforeseen reversals -- or, from a less forgiving perspective, failed gambits. The paper might have gotten more relief from the pressroom labor and equipment bills if it had not lost a lawsuit against Goss Graphic Systems, which supplied the $62 million press equipment. It might have faced lower labor costs if it could have reached accommodation with the drivers' union two years ago. Now, it is appealing the March award to the Newspaper and Mail Deliverers' Union of New York, which represents 418 drivers who ferry 723,000 copies of the paper across the five boroughs and into the suburbs every day.
These unexpected bills come on top of significant investments the owners have made in the paper over the years. A new Unisys newsroom computer system is costing at least $4 million, and hundreds of thousands of dollars are supporting two extra reporters and seven extra pages a week devoted to Brooklyn and Queens.
The newspaper's most heralded investment -- an expanded Sunday section, for which the newspaper hired a marquee editor, Edward Kosner, a former editor of Newsweek, New York magazine and Esquire, -- was upstaged by the most stinging reversal, the labor arbitration agreement. The Sunday expansion added about 6 people to a newsroom staff of about 370. Mr. Zuckerman said he has increased the newsroom budget by 50 percent since 1993.
All the upheaval has left the newsroom bruised. And what makes the chronic discontent far worse, some on the staff say, is their belief that the pain is not being shared equally. For all the demoralizing cuts in the rest of the newsroom, Mr. Kosner's Sunday budget appears untouchable.
"The best reporting we have on the story of the year is being yanked," said one senior newsroom executive of the Balkans coverage. This person, like all but two of the newsroom employees interviewed extensively, spoke on the condition of anonymity. The cutbacks "send an extremely unfortunate psychological message," the executive added. "It suggests that we don't have the money to gather the news in the traditional way. Internally, the juxtaposition of this and the Sunday launch is sending people into orbit."
Even some of those who resent the Sunday staff's special status readily concede that the new edition, with its expanded opinion pages and pull-out feature sections, is clean, well-packaged journalism that may pull in more readers. And an emphasis on the Sunday paper would appear to make economic sense, since Mr. Zuckerman says it brings in about one-third of the newspaper's advertising revenues.
But when reporters and editors learned that the Sunday staff had held a congratulatory dinner for 24 people -- employees and some others -- at the pricey restaurant Cite on Wednesday, they were quick to calculate how many days of Kosovo coverage that money would have bought.
Mr. Kosner, who said he had paid for the dinner himself, said that the Sunday staff was already "very lean." He added, "I haven't been approached about cuts, and I'm not making them."
 
Despite a Price Cut, Readers Drifted Away
In December 1995, after the demise of a rival, New York Newsday, The News's Sunday circulation reached about one million. By last September, it was 815,000. The clear culprit in the decline was the Sunday edition of The New York Post, the tabloid owned by Rupert Murdoch. Its original price was 25 cents -- much less than The Daily News, which responded by cutting its Sunday price to $1 from $1.50.
But the readers still drifted away. At a time when all three city dailies -- The Post, The News and The New York Times -- were losing circulation, The News suddenly started hemorrhaging Sunday readers. More than 20 percent of the circulation disappeared in three years.
The decline coincided with a period of rapid-fire newsroom turnover, as Martin Dunn, the editor, left in 1996, to be replaced by Pete Hamill, whom Mr. Zuckerman ousted nine months later. Mr. Zuckerman then selected Ms. Krenek as editor, but after a little more than a year, he diluted her authority by naming Mr. Kosner to run the Sunday paper.
"I've never viewed the world of journalism as static," Mr. Zuckerman said in an interview. "It's always ongoing. I never have been satisfied and will never be satisfied with any work in progress. We've worked to improve it year after year after year. I haven't taken money out of these entities. I've put money into them. The editorial product is more important than anything. More of the money has been invested in the editorial side of my products than anything else."
In the month since the bad news on the labor front, no one in management has publicly uttered the words "bankruptcy" or "sale." "Those are the least agreeable options," Mr. Drasner said in a telephone interview last week. If The News had the corporate equivalent of galloping pneumonia with its strike, sale, bankruptcy and resurrection in 1990 and 1991, the current situation is "a bad cold," he said.
But the two owners of this privately held company have little inclination to open their books. Mr. Zuckerman says that the paper's advertising revenues have risen every year. Mr. Drasner says that "The Daily News was profitable from the time we acquired it until we began experiencing significant production problems resulting from breaking in the new plant" in late 1997 and early 1998. "These problems negatively affected distribution and circulation," he added, in a reference to the balky printing equipment.
Mr. Drasner added, "The recent arbitration decision will have a substantial adverse affect on our profitability going forward."
Without a public balance sheet, it is impossible to know how badly the labor arbitration ruling could hurt the business. People are treading cautiously.
Leaders of the eight labor unions that make up the Alliance of Printing Trades, whose battles with previous owners were visceral and violent, say almost nothing about the current situation, on the record or off. Those eight unions already have negotiated wage agreements.
But as they were negotiating, all were aware that the one maverick union, the drivers union, had reached an impasse with Mr. Zuckerman and Mr. Drasner, and that the parties had entered binding arbitration in April 1997. The craft unions' agreements stipulated that whatever the drivers got, the craft union members would get as well. Those "me too" clauses added millions of dollars to the total labor bill when the arbitrator's award was announced.
A tenth union, the Newspaper Guild, has no part of any of those agreements, and the journalists in it are less hesitant to criticize management. "I think that the owners of this paper have given short shrift to the people who produce it day in and day out," said Tom Robbins, a reporter who covers labor. "I think that Mort and Fred take a lot for granted in this newsroom."
Some reporters have asked one another if savings could not be achieved by cutting back on contracts with suppliers, particularly since some of them are companies in which Mr. Zuckerman and Mr. Drasner hold an interest.
One of these, Applied Graphics Technologies Inc., helps prepare advertisements for publication for clients like General Motors, The Walt Disney Company, The New York Times -- and The Daily News. For several years, Applied Graphics personnel have created ads for the newspaper and helped to digitize its photo library, services that cost $6 million in 1997.
Such dealings between companies with common ownership are legal, providing that all the services are provided at market rates. "Whatever we do, we do on a market-based basis," Mr. Zuckerman said. "One of the things you learn in business is you don't subsidize one company with another."
If newsroom employees are concerned about such matters, Mr. Drasner said, they would be better advised to worry about their own work.
The effect on the paper's journalism is not immediately evident. The newspaper that offered a ground-breaking series on the spread of asthma among inner-city children a year ago is also breaking ground on aspects of the Amadou Diallo shooting. The Washington columnist, Lars-Erik Nelson, is probing to find the appeal of potential Presidential candidates like Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona. And reporter Helen Kennedy, through this weekend, was putting a face on the Kosovo crisis.
But that kind of coverage is less affordable than it used to be. And, as Ms. Krenek observed: "When we covered the war in Bosnia we didn't cover the war the entire time. And for the amount of time we did cover it, we ran up a bill of $70,000.
"We're not giving up on the commitment to cover" the Kosovo crisis, Ms. Krenek said, "but we're trying to be judicious about it. Helen went over on a relief flight. She's coming back on a reasonably priced commercial flight. If the United States sends in ground troops, we'll send somebody back."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 23, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on April 11 about The Daily News's recent financial setbacks referred incompletely to circulation at The New York Post. While The Post's circulation decreased from March 1992 to March 1994, its daily circulation has since increased in each twice-yearly reporting period, reaching 437,467 in September 1998. Since 1996, when The Post began Sunday publication, its Sunday circulation has increased, not decreased; it stood at 382,382 last September.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "Days and Nights of The Daily News"
Editors: James G. Wieghart (1982-1984)
F. Gilman Spencer (1984-1989)
James P. Willse (1989-1993)
Lou Colasuonno (1993)
Martin Dunn (1993-1996)
Pete Hamill (1997)
Debby Krenek (1997-Present)
 
DEC. 18, 1981 -- The Tribune Company of Chicago announces plans to sell The Daily News, citing losses of $11 million a year and sharp drops in circulation and advertising. The company changes its mind the following May, but warns union leaders that steep cost cuts are necessary.
 
JANUARY 1990 -- Collective bargaining begins, bitterly. Management demands an end to what it calls overstaffing and waste. It seeks up to $70 million in labor savings and free rein to make huge cuts in staffing and other changes.
 
OCT. 25, 1990 -- After months of stalled negotiations, a confrontation at The News's Brooklyn plant provokes a walkout by nine of the paper's 10 unions. Using replacement workers, the paper keeps publishing during the five-month strike, but circulation plummets.
 
MARCH 20, 1991 -- The Tribune Company agrees to pay Robert Maxwell $60 million to take over The News. Union members agree to go back to work.
 
NOV. 5, 1991 -- Mr. Maxwell is found dead at sea. His publishing empire, deep in debt, soon collapses. The next month, The News files for bankruptcy.
 
JAN. 8, 1993 -- Mortimer B. Zuckerman and Fred Drasner take over The News.
 
MAY 4, 1995 -- The News leaves its landmark building on 42d Street for cheaper office space on the West Side.
 
MARCH 8, 1999 -- Truck drivers at The News win large wage increases in arbitration. Under a contract clause, the paper's craft unions are entitled to the same raises.
(pg. 31)
 
Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Circulation Slide"
The Daily News, once the most widely circulated general-interest paper in the country, saw its circulation begin to drop sharply in the 1980's. Graph tracks daily and Sunday circulation, from 1981 to 1998. (Source: Audit Bureau of Circulations)(pg. 35)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK DAILY NEWS AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK DAILY NEWS AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; FINANCES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES CHRONOLOGIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REFUGEES (78%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); OVERTIME (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (67%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (67%); BASEBALL (60%); LAYOFFS (55%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY; DRASNER, FRED; ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER B MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



234 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2823 words

HEADLINE: Refereeing The Future

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
AS Bill Kennard raced through a whirlwind of meetings in Southern California one day last month, his passions and preoccupations as the nation's top telecommunications official quickly became clear.
To a small group of studio and network executives in a screening room at the William Morris Agency, Mr. Kennard, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, offered his assurances that he had no interest in regulating the Internet, the medium on which many people in Hollywood are staking new fortunes. 
 Earlier that rainy morning, over breakfast with executives of the local chapter of the National Urban League, he pledged to fight for more jobs for minority executives and greater investment in minority-owned broadcasting and telecommunications companies so that, in the words of one league official, blacks would not become "hitchhikers on the information superhighway."
He also dropped by the inner-city elementary school where his mother had once taught to celebrate its connection to the Internet. The connection came courtesy of the e-rate program, a subsidy financed by a new fee on telephone users that he worked to establish with Vice President Al Gore.
Mr. Kennard, a black telecommunications lawyer raised in an integrated Los Angeles neighborhood, was in many ways more comfortable in these settings than he is back in Washington. That he devoted so much time on this fairly typical trip to minority issues -- issues that have been low priorities even within the Democratic Administration he serves -- revealed the depth of his predicament.
Though he runs an agency that rules on issues of central importance to the nation's fastest-growing industries, Mr. Kennard has found himself politically hemmed in from the start. A compromise appointee who has had little influence at the White House, he lacks the traditional sort of political base that would let him either stake bold positions or achieve consensus among warring factions with interests before the F.C.C.: local and long-distance phone companies, cable operators and broadcasters, small radio stations and large media conglomerates.
As a result, he has come to rely for support and advice on Washington's black power structure -- the Congressional Black Caucus, for example, and Vernon E. Jordan Jr., the lawyer who serves on many corporate boards when he is not advising his close friend Bill Clinton -- and to emphasize causes that match their priorities.
Simultaneously, he has struggled to write the rules that will put in place the most contentious telecommunications legislation in the nation's history, a three-year-old law that has largely been tied up in court fights between the agency and the industries it oversees.
Mr. Kennard's supporters agree with him that telecommunications deregulation is inextricably linked to goals like increasing minority ownership of TV stations or getting basic phone service to Indian reservations.
"In implementing the telecom structure for the next decade and beyond, he's determined to retain the steady pressure for increased diversity that he rightly believes has been one of the most powerful forces for retaining America's lead in the world economy," said Andrew Jay Schwartzman, a friend who is also the president of the Media Access Project, a public-interest law firm in Washington that promotes consumer rights and diversity on the airwaves.
But to his critics, Mr. Kennard has overstepped his bounds, diverting the agency from its basic mission and moving too slowly to deregulate the most dynamic sector of the nation's economy.
"Chairman Kennard has been off on these other agendas before he has completed the work he was assigned to complete -- the deregulation of the marketplace," said Representative W. J. (Billy) Tauzin, the Louisiana Republican who chairs the House telecommunications subcommittee. "If I had an employee who did that, we would have had a very, very short conversation before that employee would be out looking for another job."
 
Disharmony With the Hill
Though his detractors concede that Mr. Kennard is perhaps the most genial official in Washington, his style has done little to blunt the alienation of many lobbyists and lawmakers from the F.C.C.
His predecessor, Reed E. Hundt, had notoriously bad relations with Congress, though he had greater access to the White House, having gone to St. Albans prep school with Al Gore and Yale Law School with Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton.
Under Mr. Kennard, relations with Congress have only deteriorated, in part over policies he has advocated and in part because of early political blunders. The F.C.C. has few allies on its oversight committees, even among Democrats, and a movement has gradually been building steam to cut the agency's budget and pare its authority.
Mr. Kennard's isolation stems from the agency's repeated decisions to spurn applications by the Baby Bell companies to enter the long-distance markets, on the grounds that they have failed to open their own local markets to competition from the long-distance carriers. The Baby Bells, which have many powerful friends in Congress, say that they have complied with the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which set the ground rules for competition, and that Mr. Kennard's decisions have cost them billions of dollars.
"It takes forever to get these sorts of issues out of the F.C.C." said Roy Neel, a former Clinton White House official who is now president of the United States Telephone Association, which represents the Bells. "There is a pervasive culture at the agency which has kept a stranglehold on the industry."
Hugh B. Price, president of the National Urban League, praises the chairman for his work on issues of concern to minority groups. But as a director of Bell Atlantic, he says the agency has moved too cautiously.
"On some of the regulatory issues, they've got to let the marketplace rip a little bit and let these things roll," Mr. Price said. "They have not been able to do it yet."
Nonetheless, some of the Bells have adapted to Mr. Kennard's style and agenda. When Bell Atlantic officials recently sought regulatory relief on an obscure telephone issue, they sent an all-black lobbying team. Mr. Kennard recalled the episode with humor, and said the company ultimately got what it had sought -- but on the merits.
And last week, GTE announced that it would join with Georgetown Partners -- a private investment firm headed by a black executive, Chester C. Davenport, who has had no telecommunications experience -- for a $3.3 billion purchase of about half of Ameritech's wireless telephone business. Because Ameritech has sought the F.C.C.'s permission to be acquired by SBC Communications, and GTE has sought approval to be acquired by Bell Atlantic, executives close to the wireless deal said the parties brought in Mr. Davenport's firm in part to try to curry favor with Mr. Kennard.
Broadcasters, another powerful lobby, have also found themselves at odds with Mr. Kennard. They say he all but declared war on them a few weeks ago by proposing a new rule that would enable thousands of churches, schools and community groups around the nation to operate low-power FM radio stations. The broadcasters see the new stations as a source of signal interference. Mr. Kennard says the rule would provide a new voice to the traditionally voiceless.
More often than not, the Federal courts have ruled in Mr. Kennard's favor on big regulatory issues -- most notably when the Supreme Court recently affirmed the agency's authority to implement some core provisions of the Telecommunications Act. But the courts have also handed setbacks to Mr. Kennard and the Clinton Administration on the F.C.C.'s affirmative-action agenda.
 
The Building Blocks
William E. Kennard was born 42 years ago, the third child and only son of middle-class parents in Los Angeles. His father, Robert, a World War II veteran, was a successful architect; his mother, Helen, was a bilingual elementary school teacher.
His parents, Mr. Kennard said, instilled a faith in the value of cultural diversity. He and his sisters attended Hollywood High, at the time one of the more integrated schools in Los Angeles.
But the larger world was often less accommodating. The fact that successful blacks were rarely portrayed on television made a deep impression.
"It was an event in my household when an African-American appeared on a show," Mr. Kennard recalled. "People would run out of the bedroom in excitement at those fleeting moments of images of black people on television. When Bank of America featured a black teller in one of its commercials, my mother was so excited that she changed the family bank account."
At Stanford University, where he studied communications, Mr. Kennard spent many hours producing a show called "Black Perspectives" for the college radio station.
During an internship at a local NBC television affiliate -- he wanted to become an investigative reporter -- Mr. Kennard was advised by the station manager to go to law school. He wound up at Yale, worked briefly after receiving his law degree at the National Association of Broadcasters, specializing in First Amendment issues, and then settled in as an associate at the Washington law firm of Verner, Liipfert, Bernhard, McPherson & Hand, specializing in telecommunications deals. Among his clients were NBC and a number of minority broadcasters, including Robert L. Johnson, the chairman and founder of Black Entertainment Television, the cable network; Mr. Johnson remains a close friend and adviser.
Mr. Kennard also nurtured friendships with two of the most important black lawyers then in Washington: Ronald H. Brown, whose photograph is now on Mr. Kennard's office credenza, and Mr. Jordan, whose stepdaughter he had befriended at Yale.
During the 1992 campaign, Mr. Kennard was part of the network of Yale Law graduates that helped get Mr. Clinton elected President. Backed by Mr. Brown, the Democratic National Committee chairman who became Commerce Secretary, and Mr. Jordan, the co-chairman of the Clinton transition team, he was offered the job of general counsel at the F.C.C.
By all accounts, he and Mr. Hundt, then the chairman, worked well together, though their personalities could hardly be more different. Mr. Hundt quickly made enemies in Congress with his confrontational style. Mr. Kennard, by contrast, was never seen flashing a temper or raising his voice.
As general counsel, Mr. Kennard reversed the agency's mediocre court record, compiling an impressive victory rate of about 85 percent in the appeals courts. Still, he has also lost some big cases: An appeals court ruling last year, for example, threw out the requirements that radio and TV broadcasters take special steps to seek minority and female job applicants.
When Mr. Hundt stepped down in 1997, Mr. Kennard was on no one's list to succeed him. But with four of the five commission slots opening, his allies waged an ultimately successful campaign to get him nominated as chairman as part of a political compromise.
Mr. Jordan, he recalled, "would call me up, and in this low voice he would say, 'You can be chairman, but wait.' " Even before the question could be posed, Mr. Kennard volunteered that Mr. Jordan, one of Washington's most influential lawyer-lobbyists, "never has asked me for anything."
"He gives me advice because he's been a good friend and because he wants to help me out," Mr. Kennard said.
 
An Albatross and a Storm
Little more than a year before Mr. Kennard's confirmation as chairman, Congress passed the Telecommunications Act, the first major overhaul of Federal communications law since the F.C.C. was created in 1934. The law was hailed by both Congressional leaders and President Clinton as a landmark that would deregulate the telephone and cable industries, benefitting consumers. But it had many hidden problems. It was poorly written, creating ambiguities that prompted the industries that didn't get everything they wanted to file huge lawsuits, slowing its implementation by the commission.
Moreover, the act left the most difficult rule-making decisions -- from the possibility of relaxing television-station ownership rules to assuring universal phone service and money for the e-rate program -- to the five unelected commissioners.
While the law has promoted competition and driven down some prices -- notably for long-distance and cellular service -- it has not achieved many other objectives, like making cable TV and local phone services truly competitive. Some say that its main effect has been to promote corporate consolidations.
Mr. Kennard had barely settled into the chairmanship when he encountered his first maelstrom. Without consulting either Congress or his fellow commissioners, he told reporters that he thought liquor advertising should perhaps be banned from television. A few weeks later, again without consultation, Mr. Kennard announced that the F.C.C. would consider new rules requiring radio and television stations to give free time to political candidates, a proposal the President had made in his State of the Union Address a day earlier.
The resulting complaints from both the broadcasting industry and many members of Congress forced him into a hasty retreat -- and frittered away what little political capital he might have otherwise enjoyed as a new agency leader.
(Mr. Kennard recently said that he had learned several lessons from those setbacks -- including to refrain from issuing proposals that are unlikely to succeed. "I've learned to be much more guarded," he said. "Musing is not allowed.")
The two announcements poisoned whatever relationship Mr. Kennard could have hoped to establish with many key lawmakers.
The venom was evident last month, when Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, the ranking Democrat on the House Commerce Committee, delivered a scathing public attack. "In terms of substance, the current chairman may be a few affiliates short of a network," he told the National Association of Broadcasters.
At an oversight hearing a few weeks later, Mr. Kennard tried, with little success, to parry Mr. Dingell's thrusts as lobbyists watched with the glee of ancient Romans at a gladiator match. Mr. Dingell called Mr. Kennard "inept" and "ignorant." Republican members of the committee sat silently, grinning. The Democrats sat mostly silent.
Where were Mr. Kennard's allies? Shortly before the hearing, Mr. Kennard had dined with Mr. Johnson of Black Entertainment Television, who had offered to ask lawmakers to persuade Mr. Dingell to tone down his criticisms. Clearly, the effort didn't work.
 
Bound for Moving On
If anything could win Mr. Kennard some breathing room, it would be the F.C.C.'s finally permitting the Bells to enter the long-distance business. He and other commissioners have hinted that they may relent later this year, particularly if state regulators concluded that some local markets are becoming more competitive.
He has also been careful not to pick new fights, moving cautiously on the other huge issue that has confronted him this year: whether to order the opening of the high-speed cable pipeline being developed by AT&T to other Internet service providers.
The pipeline promises to revolutionize cyberspace as millions of Americans gain access to the Internet at speeds up to 100 times faster than ordinary telephone lines. AT&T's rivals say that if they cannot offer services over the lines, AT&T will be able to dominate the Internet much as it controlled telephones for nearly a century.
Mr. Kennard has indicated that he will not intervene in the debate at this point -- a decision he made after C. Michael Armstrong, chairman of AT&T, threatened to scuttle the company's pending acquisition of Tele-Communications Inc. TCI's cable systems not only will provide the basis for the high-speed system but will also make it easier for AT&T to offer local phone service -- thereby ending the Bell monopolies and easing the way for the Bells' entry into the long-distance business.
Mr. Kennard is also learning to use his office as a bully pulpit when the courts rule against him. In light of his court defeat on affirmative action, he has persuaded the networks to voluntarily keep minority hiring a goal of their recruitment efforts, and he has offered to support further loosening of the limits on broadcasters' station holdings if they help increase the number of minority-owned stations. He has also held a series of conferences to encourage advertisers to buy time on radio stations aimed at minority audiences.
"Sure I've been frustrated, because I think in some of these areas the progress we've made has been reversed," Mr. Kennard said. But his conciliatory streak runs deep. "You've got to move on," he said, "to do the work that's necessary if you ever want to get things done."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: William E. Kennard says his mother, Helen, far right, and his father showed him the value of cultural diversity. As F.C.C. chairman, he has tried to show how telecommunications issues are linked to social issues. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. 11);
 
Photo/Chart: "A Spectrum Of Regulators"
The five members of the Federal Communications Commission, all of whom were nominated to their posts by President Clinton, rule on issues crucial to the nation's media, telecommunications and technology industries.
 
Michael K. Powell (Republican)
Term ends June 30, 2002
Professional background
* Was chief of staff of the Justice Department's antitrust division.
Priorities
* The son of Gen. Colin L. Powell, he oversees all national security emergency preparedness efforts for the commission.
 
Susan Ness (Democrat)
Term ends June 30, 1999
Professional background
* Headed the communications industries division of American Security Bank.
* Founded and directed a project of the National Women's Political Caucus aimed at increasing the representation of women on the Federal bench.
Priorities
* Has shaped policies for efficient management of the radio spectrum and helped forge agreements on children's educational television and standards for digital TV.
 
William E. Kennard (Democrat)
Term ends June 30, 2001
Professional background
* Was the F.C.C.'s general counsel, the commission's principal legal adviser and representative in court.
Priorities
* Focuses on broadening access to technology and competition in telecommunications.
 
Harold W. Furchtgott-Roth (Republican)
Term ends June 30, 2000
Professional background
* Was chief economist for the House Committee on Commerce.
Priorities
* Believes in a minimal role for the commission. As the most conservative member, he often finds himself in dissent.
 
Gloria Tristani (Democrat)
Term ends June 30, 2003
Professional background
* Served as chairwoman of the New Mexico State Corporation Commission.
Priorities
* Promotes the pro-competitive policies of the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
(pg. 11)
 
Chart/Photos: "Trip Wires"
 
As chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, William E. Kennard faces an array of billion-dollar issues.
 
DEREGULATING THE PHONE INDUSTRY: The commission has repeatedly denied the applications of local Bell companies to enter the long-distance business, saying they have not done enough to open their local markets to competition. Some F.C.C. officials say the agency may relent this year.
 
PHONE CONSOLIATION: Officials are considering whether to block or to impose conditions on two big proposed mergers: SBC Communications' $62 billion acquisition of Ameritech and Bell Atlantic's $53 billion purchase of GTE.
 
UNIVERSAL SERVICE: The F.C.C. is in a tug-of-war between law-makers from the Farm Belt, who want to maintain subsidies for rural phone customers, and others, like Vice President Al Gore, who want the money to finance school access to the Internet.
 
INTERNET DATA POLICY: The agency is considering whether AT&T and other major developers of cable pipelines, which will offer fast Internet service, should be forced to open their systems to competing providers.
 
DIGITAL TELEVISION: As broadcasters slowly convert their signals to transmit high-definition television, the commission is exploring whether to require cable operators to carry the digital signals.
 
AGENCY OVERHAUL: Frustrated by the F.C.C.'s slow pace on some of these issues. Republican leaders in the House and Senate have vowed to introduce legislation that would shrink the agency's authority. Mr. Kennard is preparing a premptive plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WILLIAM MORRIS AGENCY INC (58%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); NATIONAL WOMEN'S POLITICAL CAUCUS (59%); NATIONAL WOMEN'S POLITICAL CAUCUS (59%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); NATIONAL WOMEN'S POLITICAL CAUCUS (59%); NATIONAL WOMEN'S POLITICAL CAUCUS (59%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (91%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (77%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (74%); TALENT AGENTS (72%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); LAWYERS (68%); CAUCUSES (64%); HISTORY (62%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (71%); BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1999



235 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 62; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3492 words

HEADLINE: The Pilgrimage From Tiananmen Square

BYLINE: By Ian Buruma; Ian Buruma, a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, is the author of "Anglomania."

 BODY:
How do revolutions get started? Obviously rebellions begin with serious discontents, about oppression, corruption and so on. The protest movement that began at Tiananmen Square in Beijing 10 years ago this month was not really a revolution, although it could have turned into one. Oppression and corruption were certainly two of its root causes. But there were other influences, of a more cultural nature, that inspired the protesters. One of them was a television movie made a year before, in 1988. It was titled "Yellow River Elegy."
This six-part series emerged from a general intellectual fashion in China in the late 1980's, known as culture fever. Culture, like religion, is often a substitute for political expression. After decades of wooden Communist culture, slash-and-burn revolutionary modernism and murderous political campaigns, Chinese intellectuals turned to traditional Chinese culture to find answers to China's contemporary problems. 
 China's descent into impotence has been an intellectual obsession of Chinese writers and thinkers since British gunships exposed its weakness during the Opium Wars in the middle of the last century. How could the Middle Kingdom, the center of civilization, have been so easily humbled by long-nosed barbarians and, later, by the "dwarf bandits" from Japan? These were the questions asked by Chinese intellectuals in the 1890's, in the 1910's, in the 1930's and yet again in "Yellow River Elegy."
Chinese civilization, as presented in the film, is compared to the Yellow River, sluggishly following its changeless course through a vast, agricultural continent, isolated from the world by the Great Wall and governed by despotic, semidivine emperors. This is contrasted to an idealized image of the West, enlightened by science and democracy, conquering the seas, trading with all the world. China has a closed, "yellow," land-bound civilization; the West is as open and "blue" as the oceans. The message, then, is that China has to discard its nostalgia for past glory, reject the symbols of its ancient civilization and become just like the West. The more hidden message is that Communist rule is as oppressive and closed as the old imperial system.
The "reformists" inside the Government, like the Communist Party chief, Zhao Ziyang, approved of the film. Conservatives hated it. It split the Chinese leadership. After Zhao was ousted in 1989 and the tanks restored order in Beijing, party hard-liners blamed the film for helping to incite the rebellion. Party newspapers denounced it in editorials. Its authors were put on the wanted list.
Four of the movie's five writers escaped to America. And while living here, an odd and drastic change came over all but one of them. Two became evangelical Christians, one seriously considered it and one is a decidedly secular businessman, who sells bridal clothes, French wines, men's wear and expensive crystal knickknacks out of the Sheraton Hotel in Flushing, in the New York City borough of Queens. Why? What made three out of four ardent promoters of science and democracy want to receive Jesus?
It was my curiosity to find out that took me, in January, to a Christian evangelical church in Glendale, Calif. This might seem an odd place to meet a well-known political dissident from China, but if that same dissident has convinced himself that only the word of Christ can save China, it is as good a place as any.
If he were simply a crank, a lonely man in exile whose mind has gone wobbly, there would be no reason, beyond a morbid interest, to meet him. But political crises have turned into bouts of religious zeal in China before. The most notable was in the 1850's, when a failed Confucian scholar named Hong Xiuquan claimed to be the younger brother of Jesus and tried to build the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom in southern China. By the time Hong's enterprise was crushed by Government troops, his murderous Taiping Rebellion had cost millions of lives. There are signs of a new religious fever in China today, including an upsurge in the popularity of Christianity -- an indication, I think, of political despair. So when famous Chinese dissidents get religion, they deserve to be taken seriously.
I took my place in the church hall, located next to a Chinese Christian kindergarten, where the congregation has just had its evening meal. Everyone but me is Chinese, from Taiwan, Hong Kong or mainland China itself. Some are old, some very young, but most are middle-aged. Parents speak mostly Chinese; children more often English. A young pastor from Hong Kong, dressed casually in slacks and a sport shirt, leads his flock in the singing of hymns, asking the Lord to bless China. The pastor then says how much he himself loves China. It is, indeed, as though the 60-odd immigrants have gathered in this corner of Los Angeles to worship the motherland they left behind as much as their Lord. Like Marxism before, Christianity can be a vehicle for Chinese nationalism.
New members are asked to stand up, introduce themselves, and say where they are from, so that fellow Shanghainese or Hunanese or Hong Kongers can take them under their wing. Then the hall goes dark and a video screen comes to life. We are about to see a film of the famous dissident and Christian convert I have come to meet. His name is Yuan Zhiming. The film is the story of his conversion.
After some sketchy shots of Tiananmen Square in 1989, where Yuan played a relatively minor role as a prominent intellectual supporting the students, the action quickly shifts to Paris, where Yuan found himself in political exile that same year, before moving to the United States. His voice tells us how he felt rejected by his homeland, and how he went into a deep depression. As the camera jerkily pans to his tear-filled eyes, Yuan talks about his father, who died soon after Yuan's escape from Beijing; the strain had been too much for the worried old man. And he talks about his wife, a young woman with a sharp, intelligent face, who stayed behind in China with their daughter.
The marriage had been unhappy, littered with quarrels and broken crockery. But now that Yuan is in exile, first in Paris, then in Princeton, he misses his family desperately. The West, which was like a utopian dream, now seems like a cold and lonely place. But then, encouraged by some Christians in Princeton, Yuan makes his first moves to "receive Jesus." After hearing about his father's death, he prays all night to a postcard of Jesus he picked up from a street in Paris. He prays for his family's exit visas from Beijing. He prays for all the sinners in China. And on April 28, 1992, Yuan is baptized at the Princeton Chinese Church.
Soon after that, his family is finally permitted to come to America. His wife is reluctant to become a Christian at first. She observes that she had not escaped from one authoritarian faith simply to join another. But the folks in church seem friendly, and it is an opportunity to learn English. So she ends up receiving Jesus, too, though perhaps without her husband's fervor.
After the film is over, the lights come back on, and there, behind the pulpit, is Yuan himself, a sleek, handsome man in his late 40's, wearing a gray tweed jacket. He says that Jesus saved him, and that he, Yuan that is, still loves China. Indeed, he loves China more than ever. He has been able to go back once, and noticed how unhappy people were and how empty their hearts. It has become clear to him that China cannot be changed only politically. First a complete spiritual transformation is needed. Democracy is not just a political mechanism. The root of democracy is the spirit of Christ. Only God can save the Chinese. And it is Yuan's aim to spread God's word to his people. That is how he intends to save China.
One month later I am sitting in the coffee shop of the Sheraton Hotel in Flushing. Opposite me is Xie Suanjun, a pale, slim man in his late 40's. Before 1989, he wrote a number of respected books on world religions and mythology. He, too, had been an intellectual supporter of the student rebels in Beijing. In fact, Xie's story is quite similar to Yuan's. He came to the United States via Japan. His wife and daughter were stuck in Beijing. Even though he talked to his wife weekly on the phone, the marriage, already tempestuous, suffered further as a result of his exile. Feeling miserable, he met Yuan in Princeton, but felt Christianity wasn't for him.
Then, one night, in a trough of despair, when he thought he might die alone, far away from China, he had a dream of being lifted in the arms of Christ. It gave him the most wonderful sense of floating free, he says, above all the cares in the world. But he still resisted conversion. For one thing, he was Chinese, and Christ was a Jew, a foreigner. Thankfully, he says, he discovered in the Gospel according to Matthew that Christ's spirit was already present before Abraham was born, so Christ could not really be a Jew. And so with intense relief Xie was able to convert at last.
He called his wife to announce the news. It made him feel happy and yet oddly guilty: receiving Christ was also a sign that he couldn't cope with life on his own. And, having grown up in a Communist country, atheism had been drummed into him as a child. But Xie's wife was not shocked. She had already been baptized in one of China's many clandestine "house churches," small churches located in private homes. Yet she still finds it hard to believe in the Resurrection, without which Xie thinks you cannot be a proper Christian. Like Yuan, Xie is convinced that Chinese must first find God, before a political solution can be found to their problems. But the trouble in China, he says, is that too many people simply want to use religion for political aims, instead of cultivating their spiritual lives.
The stories of Yuan and Xie are not especially rare or eccentric. Immigrants and refugees, alone in a foreign country, are always receptive to the promises of salvation in a religious community. Most of the older immigrants in the evangelical church in Glendale are from Taiwan, but the newly baptized members are almost all young people from mainland China.
In China, the destruction of traditional beliefs by the Communist Party, and the subsequent disillusion with Communism itself, have created a spiritual hunger for all kinds of Christian, non-Christian or pseudo-Christian beliefs. The officially sanctioned "patriotic" Christian churches in China, including the Catholic Church, could have as many as 20 million members. No one knows how many unofficial, underground Christians there are, but it is assumed to be 10 times the number of official Christians. They meet in private homes, in improvised halls, indeed anywhere away from the beady eyes of authority.
The Chinese Government is deeply antagonistic to the unofficial Christians, who refuse to register as members of the patriotic churches, and so are beyond party control. Many areas of daily life are beyond party control, to be sure, but the Communist Party has a particular fear of the evangelical zeal that combines faith and political subversion. That is, after all, how the party itself once came to power. Communism brooks no rivals. Of course, by crushing popular demands for political participation, most notably in 1989, the Government itself has provoked such zeal. Religion is all that is left when the expression of secular politics is blocked.
There is, however, a deeper reason for the appeal of evangelical religion for dissidents, embedded perhaps in the Chinese tradition itself. Sun Yat-sen, the leader of China's first modern revolution in 1911, was a Christian convert who believed, as he put it in a speech in 1912, that "the essence" of the revolution "could be found largely in the teachings of the church." This statement would not have startled most Christians in the West. But by that time most Western democracies had separated church from state. This had never been the case in China, where emperors were secular as well as semidivine leaders. Political institutions were part of a cosmic order, and it was this order that crumbled in the 19th century and collapsed in the 20th. Chinese intellectuals have been looking for new cosmic orders to solve their political problems ever since.
In 1919, dissident intellectuals in the so-called May 4 Movement, who opposed authoritarian government, adopted "Science and Democracy" as a slogan. But it was more than a political slogan. For many Chinese, they were like the mantras of a new religion. It was but a short step from this to the blind faith in scientific socialism and dictatorship of the proletariat. It is odd, but not surprising, that the radicalism of Mao Zedong owed something not just to the spirit of 1919, but also to the murderous fanaticism of the Taiping Rebellion of Hong Xiuquan in the 1850's. Mao, in his imperial pretensions and his radicalism, was not unlike Christ's "younger Chinese brother." Indeed, Mao counted himself as an admirer of the Taipings.
It would be grotesque to suggest that the pale Mr. Xie, of Flushing, would wish to be anything like Hong Xiuquan or Mao Zedong. It was he, after all, who told me that religion should not be used for political ends. Yuan Zhiming's conviction, however, that China can be free only when all Chinese have received Jesus, does have something in common with the zealotry of former Chinese revolutionaries. Like them, he believes in the wholesale spiritual transformation of China. As he put it in an essay: "Democracy is not merely an institution nor simply a concept, but a profound structure of faith."
The Westernization of China, which he advocated in "Yellow River Elegy," simply lacked one component, he explains, in his bungalow in Torrance, Calif.: "I now realize that our film was superficial. It left out the most important element, religion. Chinese conservatives think we have to preserve our traditions. But Sun Yat-sen was right. If China wants to be as great as the West, we have to go to the root of Western civilization."
So the road from the Yellow River to the church in Glendale was not as long as it seemed. But what about the other two authors, now living in America? How did they resist the blandishments of the church? The story of Su Xiaokang, his struggles with Christianity and his final rejection of it tell us as much about the modern state of China as do the conversions of his colleagues. Su is the most famous of the authors of "Yellow River Elegy," and contributed most of the work. He, too, has a troubled personal history.
I talk to him at his house in Princeton. He sits in front of his word processor. Once in a while his wife, Puli, who was badly injured in an auto accident six years ago, passes from the bedroom to the kitchen, very slowly, with the support of a steel frame. Su, once a celebrated author in China, finds it difficult to write about anything anymore. He told a Japanese reporter that the old Su Xiaokang had died. The new one is simply surviving.
"We intellectuals in exile," he says, "all struggled with Christianity. I was very depressed after the accident. I felt it was a punishment for me. I felt that without some contact with God, a Chinese God, I couldn't survive. So I read the Bible all the time and even went to church. Twice a week a young American came to my house to read the Bible with me. He is now a successful computer engineer."
Su's pain, however, is more than just personal; it goes back to that old despair about China, the source of "Yellow River Elegy." The tragedy of China, he says, is that the Chinese don't see a difference between China and the Chinese Government. The Chinese have an idea of tianxia, meaning everything under Heaven, not of the state or the nation. Everything under Heaven is a cosmic concept. It is where politics, religion and cultural identity are rolled up into one.
Like many exiles, Su feels ashamed to have survived, while others were arrested or killed. And he feels guilty about the failure of the 1989 rebellion. But the shame of his generation, the generation of former Red Guards, now in their late 40's and 50's, goes back further than 1989. He says: "We all feel deep guilt. All of us who lived through the Cultural Revolution, beating up our teachers, unleashing all that violence. At least we intellectuals can talk about it, but the ordinary people have it all bottled up inside them."
So why, I ask, did he end up rejecting the Christian faith? He gives a two-part answer. "I cannot believe in Christ. I tried, but I can't. He is a historical figure, like Confucius. I can't believe he is the son of God." This is a rational, secularist answer, which any agnostic might have given. But then he gives a different answer, more to do with the experience of his generation in China: "Since we lost faith in Maoism, we felt cut off at our spiritual roots. This made it impossible for me to believe in any religion, or ideology. I cannot have faith in anything anymore." Su added that he finds the post-Tiananmen generation in China baffling. He says that all they care about is material things. Perhaps the difference between Su and them is that Su feels anguish at his loss of faith, while younger Chinese never had one.
It is rather refreshing, after hearing these stories of painful conversions and spiritual despair, to talk to the fourth author of "Yellow River Elegy," now living in Flushing as well. Zhang Gang is a tall, bluff, chain-smoking figure, with a Chinese Army greatcoat wrapped around his shoulders. He has a loud laugh and a raspy voice, and is the kind of man for whom waitresses jump to attention as soon as he enters the Sheraton coffee shop. The Chinese expression for his type is Big Brother. Big Brothers get things done, take care of others, run businesses, start rebellions. Yet business is not Zhang's main interest. "Business," he tells me, "is just a matter of survival. My real life is at home, staying in touch with Chinese affairs on the Internet and talking to Chinese friends."
It turns out Zhang was quite a Big Brother in China. He was born in Nanjing, the son of a high Communist official. During the Cultural Revolution, he was a leader of the Red Guards, with memories of seeing his most respected teacher beaten almost to death. Being an upper-class Communist, as it were, gave him the opportunity to read a large number of forbidden books. Zhang concluded that Marxist analysis didn't apply to China. Pre-modern China wasn't really feudal. It was ruled by an authoritarian system based on ancient agricultural practices.
Zhang's main contribution to "Yellow River Elegy" was to introduce this idea of "Oriental despotism," as he (and others before him) called it. But he couldn't write for the television series openly, for Zhang was working for the Government as an economic adviser to the reformists around Zhao Ziyang. He understood the nature of power in China, he says. Zhang never got openly involved with the Tiananmen demonstrations, but he did play a shadowy role as an intermediary between reformists in the party and the students. For this, he, too, was put on the wanted list after June, 4, 1989.
I ask him about religion. He pulls himself up, and says he is no stranger to Christianity. His mother is a Catholic. And he respects the "gentleness" of Catholics. But the thing is that unlike the others, he is self-sufficient. "I trust myself, rather than putting my faith in outside forces. The others need God to cope with their frustrations. But I'm very tough, independent. I can't see a difference between what I want to do, and what they want God to do for them."
Zhang has no interest in joining any dissident group either. "Not as long as I have a brain and I see what they do. You see, these dissidents are very inferior people. They have never touched real power and money." He snorts derisively. The implication is that he has.
Some might call Zhang Gang self-confident, others might view him as arrogant. His air of Chinese machismo reminds me of Wei Jingsheng, the dissident leader who is often accused of being unable to listen to or compromise with anyone. Tough guys like Wei and Zhang can be indispensible, however. How could Wei have survived for so long in jail if he hadn't been convinced of his own righteousness? Big Brothers are natural leaders.
Christians and other religious people can have a role, too, by resisting political orthodoxy and staking out moral positions independent of the state. Things only become dangerous when Big Brothers take a religious view of their political missions and want to affect a moral transformation of China. It was Xie who observed to me, with the wan smile of a man who had known despair, "The problem with China is that instead of adopting Christ's ideals, too many Chinese think they are Jesus Christ themselves."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: From "Yellow River Elegy" to the Jordan, via California: Yuan Zhiming, leading his Christian choir. (Gail Albert Halaban for The New York Times); "Elegy" alumni, from left: Xie spreading the Word in Chinatown (N.Y.); Zhang (smoking), who is his own god; Su, whose faith is in exile. (Chen-Chi Chang/Magnum, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

COMPANY: GREAT WALL FRANCE (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; EVANGELISM; CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT RELIGION (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICS (88%); WRITERS (87%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING (75%); FASHION & APPAREL (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); OPIUM (56%); 

PERSON: BURUMA, IAN; YUAN ZHIMING; XIE SUANJUN

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999



236 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: THIS WEEK

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:

EVENTS
 
Of Long Ago
 
Out of the tombs of pharaohs and the highest officials of ancient Egypt come more than 200 objects reunited for the first time since they were excavated in the mid-19th century. Dating from 3110 B.C. to 2258 B.C., these statues, bas-reliefs, painted decors and items of jewelry have been assembled at the Grand Palais in Paris in "Egyptian Art at the Time of the Pyramids." The exhibition closes on July 12 and will be seen from Sept. 16 through Jan. 9 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in Manhattan. Information: 011-33-1-44-13-17-17. 

In the Lion's Cage
 
Accompanied by a live performance of Charlie Chaplin's original score by the New York Virtuosi Chamber Symphony led by Gillian B. Anderson, Chaplin's 1928 comedy "The Circus" will be shown at 6:30 tonight at the annual spring gala of the Sylvia and Danny Kaye Playhouse at Hunter College. The event introduces film to the lineup of dance, theater and music at the Kaye Playhouse. In "The Circus," Chaplin, in the guise of the Little Tramp, samples life under the big top. Information: (212) 650-3860.
 
Through the Years
 
What will the future be like? That subject and themes in art, architecture, economics and fiction will be discussed from 6:30 to 8 tomorrow night at the Kaplan Penthouse at Lincoln Center in the opening program of "The Best of the Millennium," a six-part series of lectures, commentary and discussions. The series, a collaboration between Lincoln Center and The New York Times Magazine's six-part Millennium series, is intended to bring together leaders in many disciplines to explore themes prevalent through the millennium, examine the century's issues and achievements and identify forces likely to govern the achievements of future centuries. Tomorrow's discussion will be moderated by Frank Rich, a columnist on the Op-Ed Page of The Times and a senior writer for The New York Times Magazine. Information: (212) 721-6500.
 
On Their Mind
 
In the spring Georgia O'Keeffe seems to be flowering everywhere. At the Phillips Collection in Washington from Saturday through July 18, she is the subject of "Georgia O'Keeffe: The Poetry of Things." An effort to illuminate the artist's esthetic, this exhibition assembles 69 paintings and works on paper from O'Keeffe's major series of flowers, fruit, leaves, shells, bones and crosses. The works, from museums and private collections around the country, are presented alongside real objects of the type she collected. Information: (202) 387-2151. . . . At the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford, five of O'Keeffe's groundbreaking paintings will be shown with 112 photographs and photogravures in "Alfred Stieglitz, Georgia O'Keeffe and American Modernism." An exploration of these artists' creative legacy and a chronicle of Stieglitz's artistic evolution over 50 years, the show runs from Friday to July 11. Information: (860) 278-2670. LAWRENCE VAN GELDER
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CIRCUS, THE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (64%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC); PHILLIPS COLLECTION (WASHINGTON, DC) NEW YORK TIMES / MAGAZINE GROUP (53%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC); PHILLIPS COLLECTION (WASHINGTON, DC) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (64%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; MOTION PICTURES; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); ART HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); FILM (90%); PAINTING (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); WRITERS (86%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); DANCE (69%); POETRY (60%); THEATER (54%); 

PERSON: CHAPLIN, CHARLES (1889-1977); O'KEEFFE, GEORGIA (1887-1986) FRANK RICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



237 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 98 words

HEADLINE: Machine Tool Orders Drop

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11

 BODY:
Domestic orders for machine tools declined in February for the fifth straight month, according to an industry survey.
Orders from American companies for domestic and foreign-produced machine tools fell 2 percent in February to an estimated $341 million from $348 million in January, according to a joint report from the Association for Manufacturing Technology and the American Machine Tool Distributors' Association. 
 "Manufacturing has been hit fairly hard" by the global economic slowdown, said Robert Gardner, a spokesman for the Association for Manufacturing Technology. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

COMPANY: MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY LABORATORY (58%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY STRATEGIES (58%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY INC (58%); AMERICAN MACHINE TOOL DISTRIBUTORS' ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MACHINE TOOL DISTRIBUTORS' ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES MACHINE TOOLS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY WHOLESALERS (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



238 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA;
A Champion of the Tourist Class

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
A nymphet in a clingy ski top gazing out from a chalet. A couple locked in an embrace, backlit by the fingered rays of a Caribbean sunset. A tanned woman in a white bikini walking a solitary line on a Palau beach. These images -- those that grace the current covers of travel magazines -- suggest a world of Zen serenity and connubial bliss.
But with the economy roaring and consumers ready to spend Dow-fattened travel dollars on summer vacation, the competition for readers is hotter than for a round-the-world ticket on the Concorde for New Year's Eve 1999. 
 And 1998 brought a new foe. The two mainstay travel magazines -- Travel & Leisure and Conde Nast Traveler -- are dealing with a feisty newcomer: Arthur Frommer's Budget Travel, a quarterly which met with such newsstand success that it will be published bimonthly starting September and, its publishers predict, monthly within the next year.
Its newsstand sales -- twice those of its larger cousins -- made the stalwarts take note. But it was Mr. Frommer's editor's letter in his premiere issue last summer that really stung.
Mr. Frommer, who publishes a series of travel guidebooks, called the current crop of travel magazines inane, irrelevant, "elitist, haughty and high-society." He argued that 90 percent of the country cannot afford the vacations the magazines espouse. They were, in fact, "a public scandal, a disgrace."
That hurt.
"I thought that was stupid and untrue," said Nancy Novogrod, editor in chief of Travel & Leisure, which is produced by the American Express publishing unit. "It was graceless to attack us in his first issue."
Jacob Hill, the publisher of Budget Travel, stood his magazine's ground. "We're not an armchair book," he retorted, using the term aficionados use to refer to magazines intended for armchair travelers and wishful thinkers. "We're about real people."
Even as they acknowledged Mr. Frommer's shots, Travel & Leisure and Conde Nast Traveler have so far tried to ignore his magazine and have reasons to celebrate their own successes. Both have been nominated for National Magazine Awards this year. Travel & Leisure has just published its largest issue ever, at 212 pages. Thomas J. Wallace, the editor in chief of Conde Nast Traveler -- put out by the Conde Nast unit of Advance Publications -- has won four National Magazine Awards for General Excellence in the last seven years.
Ad pages, as estimated by the Publishers Information Bureau, are up in both, with Travel & Leisure weighing in at 1,552 for 1998, up 36.3 percent since 1994, and Traveler with 1,428, up 32.9 percent since 1994. Travel & Leisure, though, often features advertising by its parent corporation; in the April issue, for example, a 40-page advertorial about Europe is sponsored by the American Express card.
Unlike most consumer magazines, travel magazines are almost entirely dependent on subscriptions for circulation. Travel & Leisure's circulation is the largest, at 1,013,327, according to the Audit Bureau of Circulations, but its subscribers -- many of whom are drawn from American Express card data bases -- make up 97 percent of that number; only 28,418 are sold on newsstands. Conde Nast Traveler is second, with a circulation of 766,338, only 32,535 of which are newsstand sales. National Geographic Traveler and Hachette-Filipacchi's Travel Holiday follow with circulations of 715,437 and 558,610, respectively.
The Frommer magazine, which is published by Group XXVII Communications L.L.C., is not yet audited by the Audit Bureau of Circulations. According to Mr. Hill, it outsells both Traveler and Travel & Leisure on the newsstand, selling roughly 70,000 copies an issue that way, of a total of about 350,000. Its newsstand appeal, he said, is its budget-consciousness.
What also rankles Mr. Frommer's magazine rivals is that he has accused the entire category of the worst kind of collusion between advertising and editorial: accepting free trips. Writers for the competition, he wrote in his first editor's letter, "get sent on paid junkets and write rapturously of three-star restaurants and deluxe hotels."
That is not true, executives at Travel & Leisure and Conde Nast Traveler said. And Mr. Hill conceded that while expense-paid trips were out of the question at the Frommer magazine, junkets -- organized trips for groups of journalists -- were not.
"We do not take 'comps,' " he said, meaning that a Budget Travel writer would not accept free travel for a specific story. He did, however, acknowledge that "an organized press trip is a little bit different, but there's never a quid pro quo for advertisers."
For example, he said, the magazine's executive editor, Bill McCoy, went to Poland on a junket at the expense of the Polish tourism office earlier this year. When he decided to stay in Warsaw for a few extra days, the magazine covered his expenses, but the initial costs for his trip were covered by the tourism office -- a practice neither Traveler nor Travel & Leisure say they allow.
Keith Bellows, the editor in chief of National Geographic Traveler, said that no writers on assignment may accept free trips, but that editors may occasionally travel on press trips, paying reduced rates so that they can familiarize themselves with a destination.
John Owen, editor of Travel Holiday, said his magazine spends "hundreds of thousands of dollars" a year to send writers and photographers on assignment. "Do we sometimes work with people to get press rates? Sure. But we make the itineraries. It's not driven by public relations."
Other publishers consider Mr. Frommer's approach hypocritical. Lisa Henriques Hughes, who was named publisher of Conde Nast Traveler two weeks ago, said Mr. Frommer's magazine could not be considered uninterested in promoting certain destinations. "He is not an objective reporter, because he promotes travel guides," she said.
Mr. Hill dismissed the charge. "Travel guidebooks are nonadvertising-supported, and they are where you find the most objective journalism," he said. "The irony of her saying that is that Arthur has made his reputation for 40 years by writing guidebooks and being known as America's most objective critic of travel." Mr. Hill added that Mr. Frommer is not involved in the day-to-day administration of the guidebooks.
Ms. Hughes also criticized Travel & Leisure. "They are owned by the largest travel-related services company in the world," she said, "so by definition they are not objective."
Mr. Kelly, the Travel & Leisure publisher, said the American Express connection helps market the magazine, but has no effect on content. For all he cared, he said, "Lisa can go back to selling shower curtains," a reference to Ms. Hughes's recent stretch as publisher of House & Garden.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arthur Frommer's Budget Travel has tried to shake the status quo of the leading travel magazines, Conde Nast Traveler and Travel & Leisure.; Arthur Frommer 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: ARTHUR FROMMER'S BUDGET TRAVEL (MAGAZINE); TRAVEL & LEISURE (MAGAZINE); CONDE NAST TRAVELER (MAGAZINE); GROUP XXVII COMUNICATIONS LLC AMERICAN EXPRESS PUBLISHING CORP (53%); PUBLISHERS INFORMATION BUREAU (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARTHUR FROMMER'S BUDGET TRAVEL (MAGAZINE); TRAVEL & LEISURE (MAGAZINE); CONDE NAST TRAVELER (MAGAZINE); GROUP XXVII COMUNICATIONS LLC

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); SKIING (78%); NEWSSTANDS (76%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (76%); PRINT ADVERTISING (76%); SCANDALS (64%); PARENT COMPANIES (50%); 

PERSON: KUCZYNSKI, ALEX; FROMMER, ARTHUR MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



239 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: The Victimless Income Gap?

BYLINE: By Robert H. Frank; Robert H. Frank, an economist at Cornell University, is the author of "Luxury Fever" and co-author of "The Winner-Take-All Society."

DATELINE: ITHACA, N.Y.

 BODY:
Presidential aspirants since Ronald Reagan have urged us to ask whether we're better off now than we were four years ago. At any time from 1945 to the early 1970's, the answer for most Americans would have been a resounding yes. Throughout that period, incomes grew at about 3 percent a year for families up and down the income ladder.
Today, however, this question is more difficult to answer. Although the top 1 percent of earners now have more than twice as much purchasing power as in 1979, the real earnings of families in the middle have scarcely grown since then. The "income gap" between the rich and the middle class has thus grown sharply, and the conventional wisdom says that's bad. 
 But the conventional wisdom is now under challenge. Some revisionists, respected economists among them, are arguing that inequality doesn't really matter so long as no one ends up with less in absolute terms. They invoke the venerable Pareto criterion, first proposed by the Italian economist Vilfredo Pareto, which holds that a change in circumstances must be counted as a good thing if it makes at least some people better off without harming any others.
Using income levels to measure the well-being of individual families (standard practice among economists), the inequality optimists argue that since the rich now have much more money than before and the middle class doesn't have less, society as a whole must be better off.
But income level isn't everything. What the revisionists ignore is that increased spending at the top causes real, unavoidable harm to families in the middle, even those whose incomes have risen slightly. It harms them by raising the cost of achieving goals that almost every family cherishes.
Few middle-income parents, for example, would rest easy with the knowledge that their children were attending below-average schools. But since the quality of public schools is closely linked to local property taxes, which in turn are closely linked to local real estate prices, you cannot send your child to a public school of even average quality if you buy in a school district whose house prices are well below average.
The problem is that the average house built in the United States today (some 2,200 square feet) is roughly 50 percent larger than the average house in 1970, which means that the buyer of the average-priced house must now carry a much larger mortgage than before.
Increased income inequality is the reason that the average house has gotten so much bigger. The process starts when sharply higher incomes prompt top earners to build larger houses. Perhaps you don't really care if your neighbor's house is bigger than yours. But -- just as you know that half of all drivers are below average (even though more than 90 percent of us insist that we're above average) -- you also realize that many others do care about relative house size. Thus when top earners build 25,000-square-foot houses, others just below them find their own 10,000-square-foot houses no longer adequate, and so on all the way down the income ladder.
So what? If you're an average earner and don't envy your neighbor's larger house, you can simply buy the same 1,500-square-foot house that people in your position bought in 1970. That would be a fine solution -- unless your goal is to make sure your children attend schools of at least average quality, in which case you'll have to spring for the bigger house, even if you don't care about the extra space. Or, worse, you may end up with an existing 1,500-square-foot house whose price has been bid up sharply because of its location in a good school district.
Increased spending at the top also imposes other costs on those below. If you buy a typical 3,000-pound sedan, your family will incur risks that didn't exist in the 1970's, since you'll now be sharing the road with 6,000-pound Lincoln Navigators and 7,500-pound Ford Excursions. So in self-defense, you may want to spend more for a bulkier vehicle.
And if you managed to choke down the cost of a home in a good school district, you'll need to spend more on your children's clothes or else endure the embarrassment in their eyes as they mingle with wealthier classmates. Your own clothes might have to come up a notch as well, since others are wearing more expensive clothes now and in job interviews you'll want to make a good impression. The gifts you give, the night out at the theater, the family vacation -- all are affected by the upward pull exerted by the sharply higher affluence of top earners.
So it's little wonder that our national savings rate is now negative, or that American families now carry an average of more than $7,000 in credit card debt. Even though our economy is in the midst of the longest sustained boom in history, with the unemployment rate at a 29-year low, 1 American family in 68 filed for personal bankruptcy last year, more than seven times the rate in 1980.
No, it would not be great to turn back the clock to the 1970's. But let's not sugarcoat the prosperous present. Because the plain truth is that expansion of the income gap causes trouble after all -- even for middle class people who earn a little more than they used to.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Paul Corio)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); HOME PRICES (85%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (85%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (85%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); CHILDREN (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (67%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (61%); PROPERTY TAX (61%); 

PERSON: FRANK, ROBERT H RONALD REAGAN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



240 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

I.R.S. Doing Fewer Audits On High-Income Returns
Tax returns from Americans earning more than $100,000 a year and from the biggest corporations are increasingly escaping the scrutiny of the Internal Revenue Service, new agency figures show.
While audit rates over all have fallen substantially since 1986, some tax experts and former I.R.S. officials are worried that the steepening decline in high-income and corporate audits may mean that reporting by many of the richest taxpayers is now effectively on an honor system, inviting abuses. Page A1. 

3 Industries Pass Year 2000 Tests
Three major industries racing to prepare their computers for the Year 2000 -- securities, the electric utilities and the airlines -- all passed important testing milestones recently. C2.
 
A trickle of new lawsuits in recent months is expanding the legal landscape of the Year 2000 problem. But so far, the cases offer little support for the dire predictions that courts will be choked by litigation over the issue. C4.
 
A Magazine for the Tourist Class
The two mainstay travel magazines -- Travel & Leisure and Conde Nast Traveler -- are dealing with a feisty newcomer: Arthur Frommer's Budget Travel, a quarterly that has met with such newsstand success that it will be published bimonthly starting in September. Its newsstand sales -- twice those of its larger cousins -- made the stalwarts take note. But it was Mr. Frommer's editor's letter in his premiere issue last summer that really stung. Mr. Frommer proclaimed that current travel magazines are "elitist, haughty and high-society." C8.
 
Microsoft to Offer Audio Alternative
Microsoft is expected on Tuesday to enter the battle to deliver music to consumers who download files through the Internet, according to people close to the company. The software giant's MS Audio 4.0 will be an alternative to the popular MP3 format. C2.
 
Telecom Italia Defense Is Rejected
Telecom Italia, Italy's No. 1 phone company, has failed to win shareholder support for fending off Olivetti's $65 billion unsolicted offer. The rejection opens the way for foreign rivals to join the bidding. C2.
 
China Sets Up Commerce Web Site
In the first official foray into electronic commerce for the world's fastest-growing economy, the Government of China has set up an Internet site intended to help its companies market goods to American corporations. C9.
 
Fan Material Finds Niche on Line
Although on-line entertainment programming initially turned out to be a disappointment for many companies, there is a resurgence of entertainment-based material on the Internet. Rather than original programming, though, the biggest successes are mostly on-line extensions of music, TV shows and movies that fans already know. C8.
 
A Century of Advertising
In an exercise likely to cause lively debate, the trade publication Advertising Age is offering a special retrospective issue devoted to what the editors label "the advertising century," including top icons, campaigns and people. First among the issue's most contentious designations would undoubtedly be the declaration of the Marlboro Man as first on a list of the top 10 icons. Other leading icons are Ronald McDonald, the Jolly Green Giant, Betty Crocker and the Energizer bunny. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C10.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow Industrials -- 10,173.84, up 341.33
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.46%, down 0.13
The Dollar -- 120.98 yen, up 0.43

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); TIT (BIT) (52%); TI (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); ITALY (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (53%); TELECOM ITALIA SPA (52%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); ITALY (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TAXES & TAXATION (92%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); AUDITS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MILLENNIUM (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); LITIGATION (73%); TAX CONSULTING (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); NEWSSTANDS (72%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (72%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (68%); INTERNET AUDIO (68%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (63%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (62%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (54%); 

PERSON: ARTHUR FROMMER (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



241 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: China Sets Up Its Own Web Site To Lure U.S. Concerns' Business

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI 

 BODY:
In the first official foray into electronic commerce for the world's fastest-growing economy, the Government of China has set up an Internet site intended to help its companies market goods to American corporations.
The site, www.meetchina.com, which was announced today, is operated for China by U.S. Business Network Inc., a San Francisco-based company. According to Ken Leonard, the company's chief executive, the site will be a clearinghouse of sorts for businesses in mainland China that wish to connect with American customers via the Internet. 
 The Chinese Government will help U.S. Business Network solicit companies that will pay $1,500 to $3,000 to participate in the site, and receive help developing American contacts, with 20 percent of the proceeds going to the Government. Participating Chinese companies will be able to post information about themselves and their products or services, along with contact information that includes E-mail addresses.
Until recently, Mr. Leonard said, Chinese companies were not allowed to make direct contact with foreign companies, but instead were required to first seek export licenses from the Government. In recent months, the China has been more liberal in issuing such licenses, particularly for smaller companies, and dealing directly with Western businesses. It is smaller companies that China is trying to promote through the new site, he said.
"From China's perspective, it fits perfectly," said Patrick Meehan, research director for the Gartner Group, a technology consulting firm. "It's kind of open, but not all the way. It's part of the 'great fire wall of China' strategy, where they have a way to funnel information in and out of the country."
According to Michael Borrus, co-director of the Berkeley Roundtable on the International Economy, the site's launch is more notable for its political implications than as a breakthrough on E-commerce. Observing that the Government has been trying to privatize China's state-owned industries, Mr. Borrus said, "This will facilitate that process by pushing them to reform via contact with the West."
"It also falls into the classic Chinese model of dabbling in something long enough to see the various impacts before you commit to it completely," Mr. Borrus said.
Mr. Leonard, who lobbied the Chinese Government for a year before receiving its go-ahead, said the site would focus first on Chinese businesses that are involved in the information technology industry. He added that the site was being marketed on the Internet -- through banner advertisements on Yahoo, for example. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IT (NYSE) (54%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US BUSINESS NETWORKS INC GARTNER INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US BUSINESS NETWORKS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ELECTRONIC MAIL INTERNET & WWW (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (66%); EXPORT CONTROLS (66%); LICENSES & PERMITS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB KEN LEONARD (74%); MICHAEL BORRUS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



242 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Losing Track of the Main Objective of War

BYLINE: By Caspar W. Weinberger; Caspar W. Weinberger, the Secretary of Defense under President Ronald Reagan from 1981 to 1987, is the chairman of Forbes.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
As the United States faces the prospect of a deepening but ambiguous military involvement in Kosovo, some observers have been judging this campaign against the criteria for overseas military intervention that I suggested during the Reagan Administration. This comparison tells us much not only about NATO's strategy in Yugoslavia, but also about the state of the United States military in general.
Of course, the global situation was different in the 1980's, when the Soviet Union was still standing. Nonetheless, our military criteria were meant to be adaptable to changing circumstances. They proved useful, after all, in formulating American strategy in the Persian Gulf war. 
 Have these guidelines been met in the current crisis? To some extent, yes. The principle feature of my thinking was that the United States should enter a conflict only if it was vital to our national interest. That is the case here. The Balkans have been at the heart of two world wars in this century, so stability in the region is important.
In addition, we have both a strategic and moral obligation to support our allies. As a NATO member, the United States cannot ignore an assault in Europe against all our values by a thug who has directed brutal atrocities in Kosovo and Bosnia.
This is not to say that we should eagerly intervene in the world's conflicts. On the contrary, American forces should be used only after other means have failed. That is clearly the case in the Balkans. We negotiated too willingly with Mr. Milosevic and for too long. We should have intervened two or three years ago, when Mr. Milosevic began his reign of terror.
But we should not commit our troops unless we intend to win unconditionally. Sadly, the Clinton Administration is now taking us into a war without any apparent intention to win. In fact, we have neither defined victory nor established any real goals.
Some in the Administration have said winning means getting Mr. Milosevic back to the negotiating table. In my view, that would be a useless exercise. Within 24 hours, he'll violate whatever agreement is reached and break any promise he makes.
Some say we should be careful not to humiliate the Serbs and Mr. Milosevic. But why? We didn't worry about whether we should humiliate Hitler or Tojo after World War II. Victory must include putting Mr. Milosevic in jail, either for life or awaiting execution as a war criminal. This is what we did with Gen. Manuel Noriega of Panama in 1992, and compared with Mr. Milosevic, Mr. Noriega was an errant Sunday school teacher.
Instead, we are told our goal is to "degrade his military capability." What does that mean? Every time you hit a tank you've "degraded" the enemy's forces. Taking out the enemy's military is a means, not an end.
Some have also suggested that the war should not be permitted to crowd out the Administration's domestic agenda. This is a restatement of the folly we committed in Vietnam, when we sent more than 500,000 troops to fight a war we did not intend to win. Of course, the American people soon gave up their support for that conflict.
Another lesson of Vietnam was that there must be a reasonable basis for the American people to support our military efforts. We cannot fight a war against both an enemy and the Congress.
For now a loss of public confidence is not a concern. News accounts and images of refugees fleeing Kosovo have reinforced our horror of the violence being committed in the name of "ethnic cleansing." Americans are a compassionate people who understand that our peculiar status in the world -- our enormous military and economic strength -- carries obligations to rectify injustices of this kind in areas of vital concern to us.
But the United States is no longer as strong militarily as it should be. In 1997, the Clinton Administration said the country could fight a war on two major fronts simultaneously -- our stated strategy for many years. We are discovering this is not the case. The Balkan conflict has drained our resources in other key areas.
The European Command has had to move jet fighters and other aircraft from an air base in Turkey to bases in Italy. This means that air patrols over northern Iraq have been weakened. Our ability to defend South Korea has been put in question by transferring naval strength first off Iraq, where it was not used, and now to the Balkans.
The Administration has also insisted on having no defense at all against missiles, although now the pressure of public opinion has forced Mr. Clinton to suggest he might not veto a bill that simply suggests it will be our policy to develop such a defense. We have slashed the research and development money that gave us the high-tech weaponry that helped win the gulf war.
Even so, I have no doubt that NATO can win this conflict -- if we decide what winning requires and if we have the courageous leadership needed for victory.
Victory in this war must mean getting and keeping the Serbian army out of Kosovo -- permitting the Kosovars to return to their homes (most of which will have to be rebuilt) -- and the elimination of Mr. Milosevic. If that humiliates him or Serbia, so much the better.
NATO has been right to step up the air attacks. This is in keeping with one of the most important criteria we developed in the 1980's: in any given conflict we must reassess and adjust our use of forces on short notice.
While support for the war continues, our leaders must make clear that their objective is victory, and nothing less. It is time to stop talking about "exit strategies" and to concentrate instead on winning. That is, and should be, the only objective of war. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (79%); PANAMA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (73%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (79%); PANAMA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; VIETNAM WAR MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WORLD WAR II (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); WAR CRIMES (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); 

PERSON: WEINBERGER, CASPAR W; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



243 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE SUPPLIERS;
Convoy Sent From Russia Is Blocked By Hungary

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, April 11

 BODY:
A Russian relief convoy headed for Yugoslavia was stopped by Hungarian authorities today after they determined that it was carrying fuel and equipment that could be used by Belgrade's military, NATO officials said.
The incident, which occurred as the convoy was trying to cross into Hungary from Ukraine, is the latest irritant in the rapidly deteriorating relationship between Russia and the Western alliance. 
 Russian officials accused the alliance of harassing its relief efforts. NATO officials insisted, however, that it was strictly enforcing the United Nations Security Council embargo on military supplies for Yugoslavia.
"NATO members are not blocking humanitarian aid but trying to filter out those elements that could have a military use," said the NATO civilian spokesman, Jamie P. Shea.
Western relations with Russia have been severely strained by the conflict over Kosovo. While Russian officials say they have been frustrated by the refusal of the Yugoslav President, Slobodan Milosevic, to work out a peace settlement for Kosovo, Russia also staked its prestige on trying to avert military action.
After NATO began bombing, President Boris N. Yeltsin drew a new line in the sand: stopping a ground invasion that NATO says it does not currently plan to carry out but that has been prepared by the alliance as a contingency plan.
As Mr. Yeltsin's political standing and physical stamina has waned, his comments seem largely intended for a domestic audience.
But they still worry NATO, which would like Russia to be part of an eventual autonomy agreement for Kosovo and even to contribute troops to an international force to police an accord. In an effort to achieve that, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright plans to meet in Oslo on Tuesday with the Russian Foreign Minister, Igor Ivanov.
The deterioration in relations is also a concern to Western military officials, who worry that Russia might provide intelligence to Yugoslavia or dispatch military advisers or arms there.
One focus of concern is a Russian intelligence ship, the Liman, which is now in the Adriatic Sea. It has positioned itself near the aircraft carrier Theodore Roosevelt and appears to be trying to count the planes taking off from the carrier, among other things, a Pentagon official said.
The Russian Foreign Ministry, for its part, says the information gathered by the Liman is being transmitted to Moscow. But it has not said how it might be used -- specifically whether some might be shared with nations friendly to Russia.
Russia, however, has not sundered all cooperation with NATO: More than 1,000 Russian peacekeeping troops are deployed in Bosnia. They are not formally under NATO command but report to Gen. Wesley K. Clark, NATO's military commander.
Still, the confrontation over the convoy epitomized the problems.
The episode began when a convoy of 73 trucks carrying supplies from Russia and Belarus was stopped at the border of Ukraine and Hungary, one of NATO's newest members.
The convoy carried food, medicine and toys for children. Russian officials said they had hoped the convoy would reach Yugoslavia in time for Christian Orthodox Easter celebrations today. The convoy also included eight fuel tankers, which Russian officials insisted were carrying gasoline for the convoy.
Hungarian authorities, however, ruled that the fuel tankers could be used by the Yugoslav military and refused to allow them to pass. A major aim of the allied bombing campaign has been to destroy fuel supplies for the Serbian military.
Hungarian authorities also refused to allow the armored vehicles and armored Kamaz trucks to enter. At NATO headquarters, Mr. Shea insisted that the Hungarians were simply enforcing the arms embargo.
This evening Russia said it hoped to work out an arrangement so the supplies could proceed on civilian trucks. They said money would be sent so fuel could be purchased in Hungary.
"We regard any stalling of the humanitarian cargo as an attempt to block its passage," the Russian Foreign Ministry said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); HUNGARY (96%); SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UKRAINE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELARUS (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BELGIUM (58%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (72%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS WESTERN ALLIANCE BANCORP (70%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; RUSSIA; HUNGARY; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); HUNGARY (96%); SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UKRAINE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELARUS (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BELGIUM (58%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (72%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (77%); ARMS TRADE (75%); BOMBINGS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



244 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Russian Nuclear Power Company Looks to West for Bailout

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The company that operates 29 nuclear power plants in Russia, long unable to collect cash for its electricity sales, is looking for investments from Western governments or companies interested in sharing control of the reactors.
The director general of the Russian Electric Power Company, touring the United States with a group of Russian nuclear officials, said in a recent interview that the enterprise is expected to run a deficit of $60 million this year, $200 million next year and $400 million the year after that. 
 The company lacks money to pay workers, perform maintenance and repairs, inspect crucial pipes and even buy fuel, said the official, Sergei N. Ivanov. At times the plants have only two or three days of fuel on hand, he said.
"To prevent possible catastrophes in the field of nuclear power, we need to organize some kind of new international body that will supervise the work of this network, not only from the point of view of technical support, which is usual, but financial investment support," Mr. Ivanov said. The international group, he said, would manage the investments in the plants directly, rather than sending the funds through "well-known Government thieves." Day-to-day operations would remain in Russian hands.
The prospects for such investments seem uncertain at best. The proposal is another sign of the tremendous change in Russia, and in the nuclear industry that, through most of the post-Soviet era, was tightly linked to weapons production. While cash shortages are endemic throughout Russian business and industry, nuclear power officials point to the obvious fact that reactor problems in Russia could affect other nations. They argue, therefore, that other nations, including the United States, should help find solutions.
One anticipated difficulty is that Mr. Ivanov would like to use some of the foreign investment money to complete three partly built reactors -- one of which has the same design as the reactors at the Chernobyl nuclear plant in Ukraine, scene of the 1986 explosion and fire. Two others are similar to Westinghouse plants in the United States.
"They're in a state of intense desperation," said Stephen Kotkin, director of Russian studies at Princeton University. He met with Mr. Ivanov and other Russians when the delegation visited a conference on the world economy last month at the Milken Institute, a research organization in Santa Monica, Calif.
"They have some knowledge of market economies and they have a fantasy that outsiders will invest," said Professor Kotkin. "Equity interest, bonds -- they'll go for anything. Everything is negotiable."
"Without some help, though," Professor Kotkin said, "this is going to blow."
Clinton Administration officials said the effort seemed highly preliminary. One Administration expert said the Russians have little of the data they would need to interest Western investors -- including estimates of their costs. They also lack clear prospects of selling power to customers who can pay cash that, in turn, could be used to repay loans or provide dividends on investments.
In addition, groups in the United States that usually oppose operation of nuclear reactors in this country have argued that giving aid to improve safety at Russian plants may only prolong the lives of those plants, when it would be even safer to let the plants be closed. The idea of spending Western money to build additional reactors in Russia, especially a graphite-moderated model like the one that exploded at Chernobyl, would be extremely unpopular with some groups.
The unfinished graphite reactor is at Kursk; there are unfinished water-moderated reactors, similar in outline to American models, at Kalinin and Rostov.
A Russian delegation -- which includes the director of the company that owns the non-nuclear generating stations and the transmission network and the director of the agency that regulates nuclear safety -- has been meeting with Government and private officials in Los Angeles and New York.
The Russian problem, say members of the delegation and Americans who have studied the Russian situation, is in part the structure of their electric industry, which has many inefficient plants. But, on top of that, only 30 percent to 40 percent of electric bills are paid in currency. The rest is paid in barter goods, priced by the producer, often at unrealistically high values.
The money goes to provincial utilities and to the Unified Energy System of Russia, which owns the nonnuclear generating stations and the transmission lines. Unified Energy spends much of the money on natural gas and coal to fuel its own plants, because miners and drillers can demand money or export their product to other countries that will pay in hard currency, American analysts say. But the nuclear power company has no such leverage.
The nuclear power company receives only about 10 percent of its payments in currency, said one American official. Another 60 percent or so is barter, and some of the bills simply go unpaid. Mr. Ivanov confirmed this. He said that industrial customers tend to offer whatever they produce as payment -- steel, chemicals or manufactured goods -- but that others, like hospitals and army bases, offer nothing at all.
One Clinton Administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said many of the Russian plants are approaching the end of their 30-year design lives and show symptoms of age.
The Russian company would like to close nine of its older reactors, but it says it has no money for decommissioning them. It says its best prospect for earning that money is to build additional reactors and sell the power. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RUSSIAN ELECTRIC POWER CO PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUSSIAN ELECTRIC POWER CO

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS NUCLEAR ENERGY (94%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); BONDS (73%); FIRES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (55%); 

PERSON: IVANOV, SERGEI N; WALD, MATTHEW L SERGEI IVANOV (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



245 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Raul Silva Henriquez, 91, Chile Cardinal, Dies

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
Raul Cardinal Silva Henriquez, who led Roman Catholicism in Chile for more than two decades, championing human rights and sharply criticizing Gen. Augusto Pinochet's military dictatorship, died on Friday in a home for retired priests in Santiago, Chile. He was 91.
The cause was a heart attack, church officials said. 
 Cardinal Silva Henriquez became Bishop of Chile's great Pacific port, Valparaiso, in 1959 and Archbishop of Santiago, the country's capital and largest city, in 1961. He was elevated to the rank of Cardinal by Pope John XXIII in 1962.
By 1963 the Cardinal had become one of the foremost figures of Latin America in campaigning for immediate sweeping reforms to improve the lives of the masses. He retired from his episcopal duties in 1983.
General Pinochet overthrew Chile's elected President, Salvador Allende, a Socialist, in a coup in 1973 and held power as the country's President and dictator until 1990, after he lost a plebiscite. He was succeeded as President by Patricio Aylwin, a Christian Democrat.
Under Cardinal Silva Henriquez, the Chilean church made demands during the Pinochet years for the return of democracy. When the Cardinal preached about the sacredness of human rights, worshipers frequently cried out: "Raul! Our friend, the people are with you!"
Despite death threats and other would-be intimidations, the Cardinal also helped gather documentation about human rights abuses, including torture, during the Pinochet era. And he sponsored efforts to help people who had lost their jobs because of political persecution to get new ones. He also sponsored legal assistance for political prisoners.
When an organization that the Cardinal had set up to alleviate the sufferings of victims of repression was broken up by the Pinochet Government, he founded a successor group that managed to carry out similar activities.
At a dinner in his home in 1985, he looked back on his attempts from 1973 to 1983 to deter the Pinochet Government from its use of terror.
A guest at the dinner, the Rev. Robert F. Drinan, a professor of law at Georgetown University and a former United States Congressman, wrote later that that the Cardinal had "concluded by saying that the Government's oppression of the church is as bad as persecution of the church in the Roman Empire in the early centuries of Christianity."
"Chile is harassing the church because, almost alone among social institutions, it represents the tortured, the exiled, the unemployed and the poor," Father Drinan wrote.
The Cardinal also played an important role in forestalling a war in 1978 between Chile and its neighbor, Argentina. He is credited with persuading both Governments to consent to mediation of a border dispute by Pope John Paul II.
Cardinal Silva Henriquez was born in Talca in central Chile, received a law degree from Catholic University in Santiago and was ordained a priest in 1938. From 1939 to 1959 he held a succession of educational posts, and from 1951 to 1959 he concurrently headed a charitable organization.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Raul Cardinal Silva Henriquez (Associated Press, 1989) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (51%); 

COUNTRY: CHILE (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SANTIAGO, CHILE (94%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHILE (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); TORTURE (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (86%); CLASSICS (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); COUPS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUEZ, RAUL SILVA (CARDINAL); PACE, ERIC PATRICIO AZOCAR AYLWIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



246 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
An Advocate for Refugees With Her Hat Firmly in Hand

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
SHEPPIE ABRAMOWITZ barely had time to toss aside her red slouch-brim hat before she was working the telephone -- cajoling and hectoring Administration officials to do favors big and small for the masses of Kosovo refugees who now wander the earth in despair.
"I found the guy," she hurriedly told a fellow refugee worker who needed her to root out some specialist or other in the Federal maw. "Now we'll figure out how to do it," she added, ending the call with the clipped determination of a bookmaker used to long odds. 
 "I'm shamelessly squeezing people I know in the Administration," Mrs. Abramowitz explained without a scrap of apology. She is in her fourth decade of work on the harrowing refugee problems she first encountered in the Vietnam era, when she was a foreign-service spouse volunteering for what has mushroomed into a most passionate career.
"I hope I have a sense of propriety and don't overdo it," Mrs. Abramowitz added, coyly lightening her brassy, importuning voice with a blink of innocence. Actually, her friends in the field say the art of Sheppie Abramowitz is to know precisely when to overdo it, and with whom, in working the amorphous capital underbrush where Government and relief organizations overlap.
Her title is vice president of the International Rescue Committee, one of the private refugee aid organizations with years of experience in the human disasters of the Balkans. But Mrs. Abramowitz, a lean, scrappy figure with salt-and-pepper hair, has the larger reputation of canny pest and benevolent fixer. She traffics in a deep knowledge of diplomats and Administration workers to hack away at red tape and bolster refugee services in the field, where, she insists, the true relief workers are.
"It's a young person's game," said the 63-year-old relief strategist, dropping the names not of the celebrated Washington officials she regularly strokes and prods but of a dozen field specialists and relief organizations she finds more deserving of attention. It is this connection to both worlds that colleagues rate as her singular strength.
"When something goes nuclear, as Kosovo has, and you have to deal with a broader group of people in this town, Sheppie is so much more an authority than the twentysomethings, bless all their work," said Mark Malloch-Brown, a vice president and refugee specialist with the World Bank. He first encountered Mrs. Abramowitz two decades ago when she led a caravan of embassy wives in providing first-hand help in the Cambodian refugee camps in Thailand, where her husband, Morton I. Abramowitz, was the United States Ambassador.
"A spectacular amateur," Mr. Malloch-Brown said of Mrs. Abramowitz, who quickly became known as the Bangkok embassy person to see about refugees. "I've watched her grow and grow and grow to be one of the great champions, one of the handful who can affect policy and really knows this issue at the field level."
Hyperkinetic with the Kosovo disaster, Mrs. Abramowitz seems appalled by praise. She prefers to discuss how long-running refugee crises in Sudan, Afghanistan and beyond must not be overlooked as Kosovo flames up.
Asked about herself, Mrs. Abramowitz pauses warily and then offers the simplest summary of her life: "I was unformed, and refugees became a passion." She met her future husband while she worked as a Congressional aide after graduating from Bryn Mawr College. Their first foreign service posting was Taiwan in 1959, then Hong Kong, where she began dabbling in the cause, helping mainland Chinese refugees learn "hotel English" to get jobs.
"This is a passion for both of us," she said of herself and her husband, who is retired from the State Department but is an advocate on the refugee issue. It engulfed both of them in Thailand and in Turkey, where Mr. Abramowitz was Ambassador during the Kurd refugee crisis earlier this decade. "Mort offers advice, but whether we follow it depends on how desperate we are," she added with equanimity.
Born in Baltimore, where her father ran a record store, Mrs. Abramowitz is proud that well before she faced the sufferings of Cambodians and Kurds, her mother, Ida Glass, set the flame in her.
"My mother worked for refugees in the Second World War," she said, recalling German Jewish families living in her house. "I come by this very rightly."
She of course exploits her famous brother, Philip Glass, the composer. "He does great fund-raisers for our cause," she said, adding that her other brother, Marty, a businessman, "puts up with all this." Her two grown children, Rachel and Michael, were raised on volunteer refugee work.
HER office, four blocks from the White House, is a babel of refugee causes and aid workers coming and going.
"You're going to hear me do my number right now, but remember, I don't really like being a bully," she said before another phone call in which she pressed a friend for the gist of a Government meeting on Kosovo refugees. "I heard it from the Pentagon," she persisted, flashing a trump card that produced success.
"Me? A bully?" she later trilled self-mockingly. To a departing visitor Sheppie Abramowitz offered a farewell that veered from amiable to bullying: "Now you guys must continue to press in on this refugee story, right?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sheppie Abramowitz of the International Rescue Committee. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (91%); THAILAND (79%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (82%); INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (82%); INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (91%); THAILAND (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES REFUGEES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: ABRAMOWITZ, SHEPPIE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINES, FRANCIS X BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



247 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: Some Backtracking on Term Limits

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: SPOKANE, Wash., April 8

 BODY:
George R. Nethercutt Jr. was the big giant slayer five years ago when, in his first race for public office, he unseated a Speaker of the House of Representatives for the first time since the Civil War.
Mr. Nethercutt, pledging to serve no more than three terms in the House, scoffed at arguments of the Speaker then, Thomas S. Foley, a 30-year House veteran, that his influence and experience were vital. 
 "No one is indispensable in this district," Mr. Nethercutt told voters at the time. "The state is bigger than one man."
But now, as Mr. Nethercutt, a Republican, travels the Fifth District in what is increasingly looking like a re-election bid, he is telling voters that his term-limits pledge, a potent campaign tool at the time, may have been a mistake.
"I know what I said and I wish I hadn't said it," he told a town hall meeting at the Garfield County Fairgrounds last week. "I have lived and learned."
Once seen as the poster child for the term-limits movement, which seemed to be catching fire in 1994 but has cooled down after adverse court rulings and flush economic times, Mr. Nethercutt is one of 58 members of Congress who have set a limit on their time in office, and one of 10 House members whose pledges come due next fall.
And of those 10, all but 1 of them Republicans, at least 4 are wavering on their pledges, driven in part by the urgings of party leaders and the high stakes involved in the 2000 races: with the Democrats needing just six seats to retake control of Congress, every seat is vital, and Republicans seem loath to sacrifice strong incumbents to the term-limits cause.
Interviews in the district here strongly suggest that, so far anyway, few voters are waking up in the morning enraged over the possibility that Mr. Nethercutt might run again.
On the other hand, those that do break their vow to leave can already have a taste of what may be in store for them in a television advertisement run in Spokane by United States Term Limits, an advocacy group that is threatening to spend millions of dollars in next year's elections to express its outrage over those who betrayed their cause.
The advertisement features footage of Richard Nixon's "I am not a crook" speech, George Bush's "Read my lips -- no new taxes" pledge and Bill Clinton's finger-wagging declaration, "I did not have sexual relations with that woman." And then it asks: "Will George Nethercutt be next?"
Mr. Nethercutt has sought to turn the advertisement against its creators, describing them as part of an "outside group that wants to poison the atmosphere in eastern Washington."
His spokesman calls the advertisement "off the deep end" and says that despite the group's call for voters to flood the Congressman's office with calls demanding that he leave office, most people are actually calling to urge him to run again.
The 54-year-old Congressman, who now says it is not a good idea to have a district "perpetually served by freshmen," promises a firm decision sometime this spring. Though he has toyed with the notion of what would be an uphill race for governor against the state's popular Democratic incumbent, Gary Locke, most indications are that he will run for re-election here.
The term-limits group is based in Washington, D.C., and run by a libertarian, Paul Jacob. So far, its rumblings have delighted the Democrats, who feel they have an excellent chance to win in some of the districts where Republicans are in the hot seat over term-limits pledges.
Republicans, who scored a stunning takeover of Congress in 1994 in part over the pledge to put more "citizen legislators" in the body, are openly torn on whether to stick with the theme, which could force them to jettison incumbents and create many more "open races" in coming years. Brett Bader, a Republican consultant based in Seattle who has worked on races across the West, said in an interview, "We are in danger of eating our own over this issue."
Not everyone who promised to leave in 2000 is agonizing over the pledge. Representative Matt Salmon of Arizona, who was elected in 1994 and who shortly after his swearing-in theatrically handed a resignation letter effective in 2001 to the Congressional clerk, said he had no ambivalence about honoring his promise to leave Washington.
"Let me tell you, it is a terrible thing to have to do," Mr. Salmon said, tongue in cheek, in a telephone interview. "I'm going to be forced to play a lot more golf with my son. I'm going to attend a lot more of my daughter's school plays."
Actually, Mr. Salmon, 41, a father of four, may stay very busy even after he returns to Arizona full time. In a state where polls have shown a significant degree of support for term limits, honoring his pledge has helped vault him into the circle of candidates prominently mentioned for the 2002 governor's race.
The term-limits group lists 58 members of Congress as serving under self-imposed term-limit pledges. Of the 10 who the group says pledged to step down after next year, 6 say they still intend to do so. In addition to Mr. Salmon, they are Charles T. Canady of Florida, Helen Chenoweth of Idaho, Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, Jack Metcalf of Washington and Mark Sanford of South Carolina. All are Republicans.
Mr. Nethercutt is perhaps the most visible incumbent who is still undecided. Others who are listed by the term-limits group as "wafflers" are Martin T. Meehan, a Massachusetts Democrat described by an aide as leaning toward running for re-election, Tillie Fowler, a Florida Republican who won in 1992 with the slogan "Eight Is Enough," referring to the years she pledged to spend in the House, and Scott McInnis, a Colorado Republican.
Mr. McInnis's case may well illustrate the limited perils involved in breaking a term-limits pledge. After saying when he first won the seat in 1992 that he would serve just three terms, he abandoned that commitment last year and nevertheless won re-election handily.
Representative Fowler, who is considering a bid for an open United States Senate seat, has said she may run for re-election to the House despite the "Eight Is Enough" slogan.
"It was not a big issue in the election," she told The Florida Times-Union in December. "My problem was, I was too honest with you the first time."
Though the term-limits group says the issue still resonates with voters, others question its impact.
"I don't think the American people were ever living and dying term limits to begin with," said John David Rausch, a professor of political science at West Texas A&M University, who has studied term-limits initiatives. "Now it's even less of a movement."
Interviews with voters here suggest that the recent television advertisements may have backfired, with many people describing them as too negative and others expressing such cynicism with the political process that they said they had not taken Mr. Nethercutt's pledge seriously to begin with.
"It's just the same old say-this, do-that," said Doris Speicherof Spokane.
But that is not to say the incumbent faces an easy ride next year. Pressed on the issue, some people said that it might be a factor in their vote next year.
"I like him and all," said Bob Sjogren, 54, a probation officer from Colville, Wash., and a Republican. "But maybe he should be held accountable. The man made a pledge."
Still, in a district that sent a Democrat to Congress for three decades before electing Mr. Nethercutt, and that voted for Mr. Clinton in both 1992 and 1996, many people do not seem to think the incumbent is right on the issues, which could pose a more ominous challenge.
"I really don't care so much on this term-limits stuff," said Jim Lawrence, a computer support technician, who voted for Mr. Nethercutt in 1994 but regrets it now. "He let us down on schools; he let us down on health care."
Playing down the specific issue of term limits, Mr. Nethercutt, a lawyer and Spokane native, has sought to argue that he has kept a wider trust with the voters. In response to the "Keep your word, George" bumper stickers handed out by the term-limits group, Mr. Nethercutt said, "I assume they mean my promise to cut taxes, balance the budget and end the welfare system as we knew it -- that's what I promised too."
And he has often said that though he meant it when he first said he would step down after three terms, reconsideration is not a terrible thing. Asked about the issue before a high-school class in Pullman in February, he said, "Only fools and dead people never change their minds."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Among the members of Congress who made term-limits pledges but who are now seen as "waffling" on them are, from left, Representatives George Nethercutt of Washington, Tillie Fowler of Florida, Scott McInnis of Colorado and Martin T. Meehan of Massachusetts. Only Mr. Meehan is a Democrat. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 211 THOMAS S. FOLEY UNITED STATES COURTHOUSE AND WALTER F. HORAN PLAZA (90%); 106 H.R. 898 SPANISH PEAKS WILDERNESS ACT OF 1999 (90%); 106H.R. 193 SUDBURY, ASSABET, AND CONCORD WILD AND SCENIC RIVER ACT (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: SPOKANE, WA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ;HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; FLORIDA; MASSACHUSETTS; WASHINGTON (STATE); COLORADO; UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); SPOKANE, WA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TERM LIMITS (POLITICAL OFFICE) TERM LIMITS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; FOWLER, TILLIE (REPR); NETHERCUTT, GEORGE (REPR); MEEHAN, MARTIN (REPR); MCINNIS, SCOTT (REPR) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (72%); RICHARD NIXON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



248 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: With Casino, St. Regis Mohawks Hope to Reverse Their Fortunes

BYLINE: By PAUL ZIELBAUER 

DATELINE: ST. REGIS MOHAWK RESERVATION, N.Y., April 11

 BODY:
In the Mohawk language, there is a word for "greetings" -- sekon -- and a word for "money" -- ohwista -- but there is no word for what tribal leaders see in the crimson-red Akwesasne Mohawk Casino, now open for business.
And what they see is profit. 
 Yet as hundreds of visitors turned off wind-whipped Route 37 today and into the casino, only the second licensed casino to open in New York State, profit and ohwista and the good they could bring were uppermost in the minds of just about everyone who lives here.
"We've been waiting for 10 years for this to happen," declared one Mohawk Chief, Paul Thompson, rapping his knuckles on one of the casino's 62 green-topped blackjack tables, fully stocked with both Canadian and American gambling chips.
Casino gambling, the only economic engine that has ever worked on any American Indian reservation, is about to become a way of life for the St. Regis Mohawks. But here on New York's border with Canada, where people drive to Ottawa and Montreal and fly to Albany and New York City, it is a gamble borne of desperation.
Few communities in America need more than the St. Regis Reservation, with a population of 10,000, does. The reservation, wedged between rural Franklin and St. Lawrence Counties, is a grim patchwork of weeds, liquor and convenience stores and gas stations, with no industry to employ its people, no high schools to teach its children and no great future to offer its few college graduates.
"We have no other alternative," Chief Hilda E. Smoke, who once opposed the idea of a casino on her ancestral land, said while strolling through the $30 million casino on Saturday. "We need a way to get out of poverty. We need 20 miles of water lines, double that of sewer lines. From that money, we could build our schools."
At Akwesasne, the name the Mohawks have given to their territory, gambling was once regarded as a road to despair. The emergence of private, unregulated gambling operations in the 1980's bitterly divided the tribal leadership. They made a few operators rich, but the wealth did not spread. In 1990, two men were killed in a fight over gambling after the Federal Government closed the parlors.
Today, all that seems like ancient history. The Akwesasne Mohawk Casino, towering over acres of black ash and poplar trees still waiting for the green kiss of spring, will be a unifying and liberating force, not a divisive and deadly one, Mohawk elders said.
Virtually overnight, the casino, with its 1,000 workers, became a larger employer than the General Motors powertrain plant in Massena, five miles to the west, and about equally as large as the sprawling Reynolds aluminum plant a few miles farther west along the St. Lawrence River. About half of the casino workers are Mohawks, and that ratio is expected to rise over time.
In addition, there is pride of ownership, even if it is, for now, shared with an outside management company. Most of the $30 million needed to build the casino came from Ivan Kaufman, a Long Island investor who drew casino managers from around the country and set up the management company to run the casino on a five-year contract. After five years, the tribe will have the option of assuming full ownership.
Mr. Kaufman said he expected the casino to reap $100 million annually. More than $40 million of that will be profit, casino operators say. And 75 percent of the profit will go to the tribe, Ms. Smoke said.
And that, she and other Mohawk leaders hope, will pay for much more than water and sewer mains. They envision guaranteed health care for every tribal member, a youth center, a nursing home and, if the money really flows, a Mohawk high school, built by Mohawk hands for Mohawk children. Now, teen-agers must leave the reservation to attend high school.
"It's just unbelievable," said Mr. Thompson, marveling at the casino's purple-accented Art Deco interior, where ceramic-tiled columns and old-fashioned neon lettering suggest the Roaring Twenties. "It's really going to turn the tide of unemployment," which grips about half of the reservation's adult population, he said.
The casino has already become a lodestone to many young Mohawks who fled the crushing poverty of the reservation years ago. Jason Cree, 24, came back in January, along with his wife and brother, after three years working at Turning Stone, a casino built by the Oneida Indian Nation near Syracuse.
"I've always wanted to come home," said Mr. Cree, the Akwesasne Mohawk Casino's food and beverage manager, who sees the casino as a family business. His wife is a chef in the kitchen, his brother manages the cage where customers exchange chips for cash, and his mother is a casino auditor.
"I've always wanted to do something for our people," he said. "And I think this will do it." As talk turned to his 8-month-old son, Skyler, he added, "I wanted him back home so he can learn his language."
Despite the enormous riches casinos have heaped upon other Indian tribes -- the New York Oneidas and the Mashantucket Pequot tribe in Connecticut each reap hundreds of millions of dollars in profits from their casinos each year -- a windfall of cash for the St. Regis Mohawks is not a sure thing.
Their casino is smaller and more remote than the others. For now, the Akwesasne casino must earn its riches solely from its 90 gambling tables, which include blackjack, craps and roulette. But its long-term success depends upon the 1,100 video lottery terminals, the low-maintenance, dollar-gobbling electronic slot machines that generally account for about 80 percent of any casino's profits.
The video lottery terminals have not been installed yet. Their arrival depends on negotiations with the State Racing and Wagering Board, which by law can tax a percentage of those profits.
Perhaps the biggest challenge the casino faces, however, is attracting customers. To make millions, casino managers acknowledge, they must lure more than 4,000 people a day to blighted Hogansburg, best known for its central location between the rural towns of Massena and Malone.
So everyone with a stake in the casino is counting on one particular type of gambler to flock here. "We're banking on the Canadians," Mr. Kaufman conceded at the casino's black-tie opening gala on Saturday.
With Ottawa to the northwest and Montreal to the northeast, Hogansburg and the new casino form the lower tip of a triangle from which the casino is expected to draw 4,000 customers daily, said Richard F. Duda, the casino's marketing manager.
To better compete with casinos in Ottawa and Montreal, the Akwesasne Mohawk Casino will operate 24 hours a day every day and is equipped to accept American and Canadian currencies.
One hour after opening at 10 A.M. today, that strategy seemed to be working, as tourists, most of them Canadians, crammed many of the blackjack tables. "The casino in Montreal makes this look not so nice," said Dan, a Canadian gambler who refused to give his last name. "There's four floors, you can't get a seat." But he said he believed that the Akwesasne casino would make money, too. "There will be a big percentage of Montreal people in here this summer, because they'll get frustrated" by the crowds, he said.
The link between American Indians and casinos began with the Federal Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, which was designed to generate wealth on impoverished Indian reservations by allowing tribes to operate for-profit games of chance.
And, in many cases, the law has worked. After opening in 1992, Foxwoods, the Connecticut casino run by the Pequots, takes in more than $1 billion annually, making the tribe wealthy. Foxwoods is the most profitable casino in the nation.
Turning Stone, with its 385-room hotel and convention center, has also become a pillar of financial stability for the Oneidas, though that casino is not as large and does not make the wild profits of Foxwoods.
Some questions about the propriety of making the casino the fundament of the community linger. But they will probably fade if gambling proves to be the ladder that helps the St. Regis Mohawks out of their well of poverty.
"It is 100 percent good? No," said Chief Ed Smoke after cutting the ribbon during Saturday night's gala, "because nothing is 100 percent. But it's a 180-degree turnaround from 10 years ago."
If and when the money comes, Mr. Smoke said, he and the other tribal elders will have another ancient word on their minds. That word is "niawen," which is Mohawk for "thank you."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Canadian dollars are welcome at the 62 blackjack tables at the Akwesasne Mohawk Casino. About half the casino's employees are Mohawks. (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)(pg. B1); The main lobby of the $30 million Akwesasne Mohawk Casino, which opened yesterday on the St. Regis Mohawk Reservation in New York. It is the second casino in the state; the Oneida tribe runs the other. (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 
Map of New York. The state's first casino, Turning Stone, is on Oneida land near Verona, in central New York. (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); QUEBEC, CANADA (76%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (76%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); QUEBEC, CANADA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (76%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; MOHAWK INDIANS; INDIANS, AMERICAN GAMING (91%); CASINOS (91%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); CARD GAMES (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%); CONVENIENCE STORES (64%); GAS STATIONS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (61%); MOTOR VEHICLE POWER TRAIN MFG (60%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (60%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (50%); RETAILERS (50%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: ZIELBAUER, PAUL; THOMPSON, PAUL (CHIEF)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



249 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
Whitman May Meet Her Rematch

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, April 9

 BODY:
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman begins her run for the United States Senate with so many political advantages that it would be easy to mistake her for a prohibitive favorite.
The Governor, who announced this week that she would seek the seat being vacated next year by Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, a Democrat, has been blessed with a robust economy and low unemployment rate. She faces no major primary challenge and can trumpet her own record of enacting 17 separate tax cuts. It is also clear that Mrs. Whitman relishes the possibility that her Democratic opponent may be former Gov. Jim Florio, the man she unseated in 1993 after his $2.8 billion tax increase enraged many New Jersey residents. 
 But political experts in both parties warn that the volatility of the New Jersey electorate, together with the fact that Mrs. Whitman has never managed to win more than 50 percent of the vote, will make the 19 months leading up to the general election tumultuous and unpredictable.
Registered Democrats outnumber registered Republicans in New Jersey by 25 percent to 19 percent -- nearly 300,000 voters -- and that gap has widened in recent years.
And even though Governor Whitman has nationwide stature as a tax-cutting Republican with moderate views on social issues, she has never won the overwhelming support of New Jersey voters.
There are two predominant theories for Mrs. Whitman's lackluster performance at the polls. Her supporters tend to blame her political opponents' negative advertising, which often portrays her as a patrician out of touch with the everyday concerns of the poor and middle class. Others say that her cool management style projects an image of competence -- the Governor as C.E.O. -- but does little to forge an emotional bond with voters.
Her 1997 re-election bid, which many New Jerseyans expected her to win handily, nearly ended in disaster. James E. McGreevey, the little-known Mayor of Woodbridge, lambasted Governor Whitman for New Jersey's high property taxes and auto insurance rates and came within 1 percentage point of an upset.
If Mr. Florio does run against Mrs. Whitman -- which is not a sure thing, given many Democrats' reservations about the former Governor -- their rematch is likely to be fierce.
In their last contest, the Whitman campaign was so rocked by Mr. Florio's relentless criticism that Republicans ran a television commercial that featured Mrs. Whitman's 16-year-old daughter, Kate, defending her mother's honor. Mr. Florio, whose tax increase had incited a recall effort early in his term, pulled ahead in the polls within six weeks of Election Day. Mrs. Whitman then unleashed her most potent weapon, a proposal to cut income tax rates by 30 percent. Although voters were initially skeptical of the promise, it helped her eke out a narrow victory.
Mr. Florio appears eager for a rematch. He maintains that the tax increase was the only responsible way to pay for a court-ordered increase in school aid, but concedes that he did not explain it well enough to voters. Mr. Florio also contends that Governor Whitman's vaunted tax cuts have forced the state to increase its debt and have brought higher local property taxes.
But Mr. Florio still faces a difficult battle to win the Democratic nomination. Many party leaders outside his political base in South Jersey are openly courting other potential candidates, like Representative Frank J. Pallone Jr., a Congressman from Long Branch; Susan Bass Levin, the Mayor of Cherry Hill; Michael Murphy, the Morris County Prosecutor; B. Thomas Byrne Jr., the former chairman of the state party, or Jon S. Corzine, co-chairman of Goldman, Sachs & Company.
Whoever ends up opposing Governor Whitman, even some Republicans say she will also face the personal challenge of focusing her message so she connects with voters. Carl Golden, press manager for her 1993 campaign, said the criticism he heard most often was that Mrs. Whitman gave intellectual answers to emotional questions.
When Governor Whitman was asked Thursday why her approval rating among voters was not as high as previous second-term governors, she said she hadn't a clue. She also showed little interest in a drastic make-over of her campaign style.
"Fortunately, I don't rely on polls for anything I do, and just as fortunately, I've managed to win my last two elections," she said. "Would I have wished to have rode in on the people's shoulders with a huge plurality? Of course. Everybody does." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) A/S C AARSLEW-JENSEN (65%); A/S C AARSLEW-JENSEN (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); INCOME TAX (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (61%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



250 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
Enduring the Unendurable in Postwar Japan

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

 BODY:
The United States occupied and ruled Japan with an iron grip for six years and eight months after World War II, a period nearly twice as long as American involvement in the war itself. Yet because of lingering sensitivity over that anomalous moment in history, little discussion or reflection has occurred in either country about what happened and how people felt during the occupation, at least compared with commentary about the war and Japan's economic rebirth.
With America increasingly frustrated over bending others to its designs around the world, it is startling to remember that only 50 years ago the United States actually tried and largely succeeded in remaking a hated enemy in its own image. A powerful new book, "Embracing Defeat" by John Dower, draws on archives, diaries and recollections to recount the events after 1945 in great detail, shattering one myth after another about the occupation era. 
 By any measure, the occupation was a success. For all its current economic problems today, Japan is an egalitarian and democratic state that continues to embrace an American-imposed Constitution renouncing war. But from Emperor Hirohito on down to the lowliest peasant, Japanese behavior in the immediate postwar years comes across in Mr. Dower's book as far more clever and complex than is suggested by the cliches of a happily liberated people embracing democracy and pacifism from on high. Resentment and fear of the occupiers were never far below the surface.
Americans, on the other hand, emerge in this account as basically humane rulers whose behavior was often appallingly hypocritical. The Japanese effectively encouraged prostitution to protect the rest of their womanhood from defilement. Hundreds of thousands of American G.I.'s exploited this arrangement, treating the country as a giant brothel at a time when the occupation enforced equal rights for women.
Mr. Dower, a professor of Japanese history at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has written a sobering monument to the law of unintended consequences. He shows how much of the mysteriously hierarchical conduct that frustrates Japan's trading partners today is rooted in crucial decisions imposed by the occupation forces under Gen. Douglas MacArthur. The so-called "Asian model" of state capitalism, in which government bureaucrats provided "administrative guidance" to business and industry, is often discussed by experts "in a vapor of rhetoric about Confucian values," he notes. In fact, it arose in large part from a conscious decision by the occupying forces to preserve Japan's wartime economic structure, and to use Japan's elite bureaucrats to carry out their policies.
The occupation's initial goal was to instill "democratization and demilitarization," but American authorities also did not hesitate to suppress left-wing disruption and criticism. "This was not a screen for weeding out threats to democracy (as official justifications claimed)," Mr. Dower writes, "but rather a new chapter in an old book of lessons about acquiescing to overweening power and conforming to a dictated consensus concerning permissible behavior."
Mr. Dower's prize-winning "War Without Mercy," published in 1986, opened many people's eyes by documenting the racial hatred and cruelty on both sides. The most explosive chapters in this book will surely be Mr. Dower's unflinching study of Emperor Hirohito, much of it based on material only recently available. Mr. Dower shows that General MacArthur insisted on keeping the Emperor in office to guard against chaos and Communism in Japanese society, but that he secretly used the threat of Hirohito's removal to get the Japanese parliament to accept the Constitution. Mr. Dower theorizes, however, that not holding Hirohito accountable for his wartime conduct effectively transformed him into a false symbol of innocence. That step, along with the arbitrariness of the war-crimes trials, allowed the Japanese people to think that they, like the Emperor, had been hijacked by militarists and bore no responsibility for the war themselves.
Far from the aloof, dithering image cherished by many Japanese, Hirohito is seen here as a wily survivor who managed to convince Americans that he did not know about Pearl Harbor in advance, when the evidence shows that he did, and that he had unequivocally renounced his divine status in a speech, even though Japanese listeners understood him to be doing no such thing.
Only 50 years later it is possible to see that the destitution and destruction of Japan could lead one day to reconciliation and prosperity. In defeat, Emperor Hirohito called on the Japanese to "endure the unendurable." Mr. Dower has provided the most human and moving account yet of how that struggle led to a triumph over fear, hatred and humiliation. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: EMBRACING DEFEAT (BOOK)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE WORLD WAR II (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HISTORY (78%); WOMEN (76%); LITERATURE (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); GENDER EQUALITY (67%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (67%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R; DOWER, JOHN (PROF) EMPEROR OF JAPAN HIROHITO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



251 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Guest Visits Broncos and Other Mysteries

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, April 11

 BODY:
Prime Minister Zhu Rongji of China took his tour of America to the heartland today, tossing footballs with Denver Broncos, inspecting a Black Angus bull and listening to a Tibetan sing Chinese nationalist songs.
Visiting Denver and Chicago after sharp exchanges in Washington over trade and human rights, Mr. Zhu tried to show an interest in everyday Americans and their culture. But he refused to relax the grueling pace he has set since he began an American tour in Los Angeles a week ago. 
 He zipped around the two cities in his 40-car motorcade for most of the weekend, slackening the pace slightly this evening for private meetings with members of the Chinese-American community in Chicago.
Protesters calling for independence for Tibet made scattered appearances in both cities, usually in groups of two dozen to three dozen, sometimes stationed on highway overpasses along the motorcade route. One group of 30 protesters outside the Hilton Chicago & Towers in downtown Chicago chanted, "Red China, shame on you" loud enough to be heard on the upper floors of the hotel where Mr. Zhu was staying.
Some wariness toward China followed him from Washington. Over a dinner of fillet of beef and Colorado spring greens, Gov. Bill Owens instructed Mr. Zhu, who stands third in China's political hierarchy, on liberty and the "American way of life." But the comments elicited only smiles from the Prime Minister.
In the tradition of senior Chinese leaders who visit America, Mr. Zhu, well known for his economic focus, sought to show that his interest in America went beyond trade and technology. In late 1997, President Jiang Zemin visited the United States and explored Revolutionary War sites. Mr. Zhu had a more modern passion: football.
Local officials said that although he was told that spring was not football season, Mr. Zhu insisted on visiting the Denver Broncos and expressed a particular interest in meeting John Elway, the quarterback who led the Broncos to back-to-back Super Bowl victories in the last two years.
The visit was a fumble of sorts. Mr. Zhu's interest in football exceeded his familiarity with the game. When he visited the Broncos' elaborate training site outside Denver, he joked that the uniforms and shoulder pads "look like the garb on ancient warriors." He said he did not dare wear the equipment. "I am afraid my legs would buckle and I would fall down if I tried," he said.
Mr. Zhu experimented with throwing a football on the Broncos' heated practice turf. He first tried shoving it away from his chest, like a medicine ball. Given a second chance, he side-armed a blistering pass into a group of television cameras, hitting a reporter in the face.
The Prime Minister seemed slightly upset when none of the champion Broncos' big stars showed up for the event, including Mr. Elway. There had been rumors that Mr. Elway, whom some local politicians are hoping to recruit to run on a Republican ticket, did not want to have his picture taken with a Chinese Communist. But Mr. Elway put those to rest when he appeared at a dinner for Mr. Zhu on Saturday night. Mr. Zhu also accepted a gift of a blue-and-orange Broncos shirt, with "Zhu" and No. 7, Mr. Elway's number, on the back.
Mr. Zhu also made a quick stop at Denver's open-air Red Rocks Amphitheater. The program featured some local music. But in what seemed like a deliberate effort to counter the ubiquitous protests against Chinese rule of Tibet, the organizers included a performance by a Tibetan opera singer, Dorji Ciren. He belted out a version of "My Homeland, Kind as a Mother," a song of homage to mainland China akin to "My Country Tis of Thee."
Though he was presented with gifts at every stop, none compared with the 1,500-pound black Angus bull, genetically engineered by scientists at the University of Illinois to produce calves that make the highest grade of beef. The bull was a gift from Thomas J. Pritzker, president of the Hyatt Corporation, who also owns a farm outside of Chicago.
Mr. Zhu briefly inspected the young bull. But he seemed more intrigued by a 10-ton Caterpillar combine parked nearby. To the consternation of the Secret Service officers surrounding him, he climbed the steep stairs to enter its cab and peppered the operator with questions.
He also continued his energetic politicking for China to be accepted by the World Trade Organization. China failed, at least temporarily, to win entry when talks on admission fell through last week.
While most of his delegation remained inside buses and limousines to escape bitter winds, Mr. Zhu courted local farmers gathered on the farm. He urged them to call President Clinton personally and relate how much they want China to join the world trade body.
"He told us to call the President directly and tell him how much we want this W.T.O. thing," said Pete Tekampe, 57, who grows corn and beans on a 1000-acre spread nearby. "I don't know if I can do that for him, but maybe I'll call my local representative."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Zhu Rongji of China showing off a cowboy hat given to him by Gov. Bill Owens of Colorado, left, at a state dinner in Denver on Saturday. Mr. Zhu has gotten a broad taste of American culture on his trip. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); TIBET (93%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); XIZANG, CHINA (88%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (96%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DENVER BRONCOS FOOTBALL CLUB (72%); DENVER BRONCOS (96%); DENVER BRONCOS (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: DENVER BRONCOS (96%); DENVER BRONCOS (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); TIBET (93%); COLORADO, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); XIZANG, CHINA (88%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (96%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; FOOTBALL; LIVESTOCK; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS PRIME MINISTERS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); ATHLETES (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); ASIAN AMERICANS (57%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (53%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; ZHU RONGJI (PRIME MIN) ZHU RONGJI (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



252 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14
 
Fewer Bombs Dropped On Cloudy Day in Balkans
NATO held back from intensive bombing on a day of cloudy weather over Kosovo, even as alliance officials accused the Serbs of carrying out new atrocities against ethnic Albanians in their southern province. Alliance officials released aerial photographs, including one of freshly turned earth, that they said could be mass graves, and another of clusters of people described as ethnic Albanians driven from their homes. A1
 
A Russian relief convoy headed for Yugoslavia was stopped by Hungarian authorities after they determined that it was carrying fuel and equipment that could be used by Belgrade's military, officials said. A8 

Gunmen killed Slavko Curuvija, a well-known opposition publisher, outside his apartment building in central Belgrade, sending a message to the few remaining independent news outlets in Yugoslavia. The Government has moved to shut down all independent media in recent weeks. A10
 
Serbian forces are heavily fortifying their positions in Kosovo, particularly around Pristina Airport, and are moving antiaircraft batteries, tanks and other heavy weapons into villages and large civilian buildings, refugees arriving in Albania say. A9
 
Several hundred Albanian-Americans are to fly from Kennedy International Airport this week to Europe, and from there to Albania, to serve as volunteer soldiers. A1
 
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright arrived in Brussels for a gathering of foreign ministers intended to show NATO unity as it pursues air strikes against President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia. A8
 
The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Administration officials talked more openly about the possibility that American ground troops would be sent into Kosovo. A10
 
India Tests Missile
Eleven months after exploding a series of nuclear bombs, India test-fired an intermediate-range missile that reportedly traveled more than 1,250 miles in 11 minutes and left no doubt about the nation's plans to develop a modern system for delivering its nuclear weapons. A3
 
Chinese Leader Tours America
Chinese Prime Minister Zhu Rongji took his tour of America to the heartland, tossing footballs with Denver Broncos, inspecting a Black Angus bull and listening to a Tibetan sing Chinese nationalist songs. Some wariness toward China followed him from Washington. A4
 
Tokyo Elects Nationalist Leader
Voters humiliated Japan's governing Liberal Democratic Party in elections, choosing a maverick nationalist, Shintaro Ishihara, as the new Governor of Tokyo. A4
 
Croat's Hague Trial Opens
The trial of an influential Bosnian Croat politician, a former ally of the Croatian President, opens today at the international war crimes tribunal in The Hague. A14
 
NATIONAL A16-21
 
Poor Lose Health Coverage As Welfare Law Takes Hold
Hundreds of thousands of low-income people have lost health insurance as an unintended consequence of the 1996 welfare law, Federal and state officials and policy experts say. In New York City, poor people seeking welfare benefits have often been unable to get Medicaid. Moreover, across the country, many people who obtained jobs and left the welfare rolls have lost Medicaid and become uninsured, even though, under the law, they were supposed to be able to keep their Medicaid coverage. A1
 
Wavering on Term Limits
Representative George R. Nethercutt Jr., Republican of Washington, is one of 58 members of Congress who have set a limit on their time in office, and one of 10 House members whose pledges come due next fall. Of those 10, all but one of them Republicans, at least 4, including Mr. Nethercutt, are wavering on their pledges. A20
 
F.A.A. Ready for 2000
A large portion of the air traffic control system appeared to function smoothly as the clocks in radar centers across Colorado rolled over from Dec. 31, 1999, to Jan. 1, 2000, in a dress rehearsal for New Year's Eve. The test was intended to insure that the system's computers could handle the so-called year 2000 problem. A16
 
Abuse Rates Higher for Inmates
More than a third of the women in state prisons and jails say they were physically or sexually abused as children, twice the rate of child abuse reported by women overall, the Justice Department said. The rate for male inmates who suffered abuse, while far smaller, is also about double that of the overall male population. A19
 
New Risks to Nation's Rivers
Urban sprawl in Atlanta, Seattle, Chicago and other cities is polluting water and posing new risks to rivers, an environmental group said. A20
 
Trying to Save a Satellite
The Air Force struggled to rescue a missile-warning satellite that was left stranded in a useless orbit hours after takeoff on Friday. A16
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Grieving Mother Emerges As Star of a Protest
Kadiadou Diallo has has gone from paralyzed public grief to telegenic celebrity in the months since the Feb. 4 killing of her son Amadou in a barrage of 41 police bullets in the Bronx. She has blossomed amid a nascent national movement focusing on the mistreatment of blacks and other minority groups by the police. A1
 
CUNY May Avert Risk
Test results suggest teacher education programs at the City University of New York may be doing better than previously believed and may not be at risk of being shut down. B1
 
Mohawk Casino Opens
Akwesasne Mohawk Casino, with its 1,000 workers, has opened for business, the second licensed casino to open in the state. It is a move of economic desperation for the St. Regis Mohawks. B1
 
Fraud Trial Over J.F.K. Papers
Lawrence X. Cusack 3d goes on trial today on fraud charges in Federal District Court in Manhattan. Mr. Cusack is accused of a forgery scheme involving documents supposedly written by John F. Kennedy. B1
 
ARTS E1-8
 
Oral Traditions for Poets
Poets, poetry lovers and the simply curious met in Manhattan at the first People's Poetry Gathering. E1
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-10
 
Victorious Again at the Masters
Jose Maria Olazabal was truly masterly as he walked away with the sweetest victory of his career. D1
 
OBITUARIES A23
 
Raul Silva Henriquez
The Cardinal who led Roman Catholicism in Chile for more than two decades was 91. He championed human rights and sharply criticized Gen. Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship. A23
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-14
 
Decline in High-Income Audits
Tax returns from Americans earning more than $100,000 a year and from the biggest corporations are increasingly escaping the scrutiny of the Internal Revenue Service, new agency figures show. A1
 
Passing Year 2000 Tests
Three major industries racing to prepare their computers for the Year 2000 -- securities, electric utilities and the airlines -- all passed important testing milestones. C2
 
Microsoft's Audio Alternative
Microsoft is expected on Tuesday to enter the battle to deliver music to consumers who download files through the Internet, according to people close to the company. Microsoft's MS Audio 4.0 will be an alternative to the popular MP3 format. C2
 
Setback for Telecom Italia
Telecom Italia, Italy's No. 1 phone company, has failed to win shareholder support for fending off Olivetti's $65 billion hostile offer. The rejection opens the way for foreign rivals to join the bidding. C2
 
China Marketing on the Web
The Government of China has set up an Internet site to help its companies market goods to American corporations. C9
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A24-25
 
Editorials: Reform test in the House; mergers that foster competition; Steven R. Weisman on postwar Japan.
 
Columns: William Safire.
 
Bridge E6
Public Lives A16
Crossword E6
TV Listings E7
Metro Diary B2
Weather D10
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ALBANIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); CHINA (93%); CROATIA (93%); JAPAN (85%); TIBET (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); HUNGARY (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (85%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (65%); 

COMPANY: DENVER BRONCOS FOOTBALL CLUB (52%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); CHINA (93%); CROATIA (93%); JAPAN (85%); TIBET (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); HUNGARY (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (85%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (65%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (86%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); GENOCIDE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); WAR CRIMES (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); REFUGEES (72%); AIRPORTS (67%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (67%); GOVERNORS (65%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (62%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); 

PERSON: SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



253 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE RUSSIANS;
Hostility to U.S. Is Now Popular With Russians

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 11

 BODY:
The NATO bombing of Yugoslavia may or may not free the ethnic Albanians in Kosovo, but a thousand miles away, it has already had a profoundly liberating effect. After eight long-suffering years, it is once again acceptable -- even de rigueur -- for Russians to dislike Americans.
Enough Russians have embraced animosity, and with such sudden fervor, that some experts here say it threatens to become the guiding force in a relationship with little else going for it. 
 Anti-Americanism is not universal -- not by a long shot -- but in this cosmopolitan capital, the shift in public sentiment in the three weeks since the NATO bombing began has been both swift and palpable. It is not rare for Americans to be denounced or harassed on the street.
The mainstream Moscow newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda captured the prickly nature of popular feeling this week in a full-page article bearing the eye-catching headline: "This is the way we shoot down Americans! Yugoslav pilots share their first combat experience."
In a nationwide survey of 1,600 Russians, the All-Russian Center for Public Opinion Studies concluded that only 39 percent of respondents felt positive about the United States in March, compared with 67 percent just three months earlier. The share of Russians who said their view of America was "mainly bad" or "very bad" more than doubled, from 23 percent to 49 percent.
Russia's Communist-trained political class has always held the United States in low regard, said Andre Piontovsky, a well-known political expert here. But never -- until now -- has the contempt made the leap to large segments of the general public.
"Anti-Americanism really may be becoming the Russian national idea that we have been searching for," he said.
Many would dispute that. Like much of the world, Russia seems to carry on a love-hate relationship with the United States, envying its wealth and power while soaking up its culture and exports. But there is no doubt that anti-American feelings are now driving Russian policy, both foreign and domestic.
The welling up of anti-Americanism has put one of the United States' more reliable Russian allies, President Boris N. Yeltsin, in an exquisite political vise. He surely faces another economic disaster if he cannot win another multi-billion-dollar loan this spring from the Western-run International Monetary Fund. But he also faces possible impeachment this week by the Communist-controlled Parliament, which has stationed itself at the head of the anti-American charge.
And so Mr. Yeltsin has juggled the two sides all month, suggesting to the Communists last week that he favors political union with Yugoslavia while playing down the notion elsewhere -- and rumbling publicly about aiming nuclear missiles at Washington while privately considering nothing of the kind.
Mr. Yeltsin's Government has sounded so tough toward Washington, joked Valentin V. Chikin, editor of the reliably Communist newspaper Sovetskaya Rossiya, that both the Defense and Foreign Ministers sounded like clones of Communist Party leaders in the national legislature.
Russia's anti-American angst over Yugoslavia may understandably puzzle Americans. Russians and Serbs share an Eastern Orthodox tradition, but Yugoslavia, after all, has no border with Russia and was not even a reliably pro-Moscow ally during the days of Soviet empire. Its President, Slobodan Milosevic, is hardly the sort of leader most governments would willingly endorse.
But Russians view the bombing of Yugoslavia through a different and darker lens. To most of them, the NATO bombing campaign is the latest and most flagrant instance in which the United States has rubbed Moscow's nose in its new second-tier status.
Rightly or not, Russian illusions about democracy and the American character already have been shattered by Russia's disastrous introduction to capitalism, said Sergei M. Rogov, who directs the Institute for the Study of the U.S. and Canada here.
Many Russians were led to believe that the United States would spend billions of dollars, Marshall Plan-style, to ease Russia's transition from Communism to market capitalism, he said. When the money failed to arrive and the transition foundered, the Russian reaction was to feel betrayed.
"The outcome," he said, "created the perception that the United States was doing it on purpose -- trying to undermine Russia as an economic and political competitor."
American military policy has only reinforced the average Russian's suspicions, he said.
"Russians felt that we ended the cold war and started to behave nicely by dissolving the Warsaw Pact, withdrawing troops, cutting arms," he said. "And thus the very maintenance of NATO was seen as strange. But the enlargement of NATO, with NATO absorbing former Soviet clients -- that was interpreted as a symbol of Western mistrust toward Russia, and some even said hostile intentions."
NATO intervention in Yugoslavia, in addition to the American and British bombing of Iraq, has only galvanized Russian fears that the Soviet propagandists may have been right -- and that Americans are in fact bent on imposing their will on the world, by force if necessary.
The weight of such disillusionment might be more bearable were the United States' relationship with Russia strong. But Mr. Rogov said the two nations' relations are in deep crisis, with disagreements over everything from economics to military and strategic policies.
Vyachaslav Nikonov, who directs the Russian research institute Politica, agrees.
"I don't think it can influence the relationship between the two countries, because the relationship is nonexistent," he said. "Except for I.M.F. issues, I don't think there is an agenda."
The average Russian reacts more viscerally to events in Yugoslavia.
"It's the same as what Russia did when we wanted to have Chechnya," a beefy 39-year-old driver named Igor -- now unemployed -- said as he stood in Pushkin Square here on Friday. "Now Yugoslavia, next us; that's what I think."
"They never wanted to help us, not sincerely," he said. "Politicians are never sincere. They just say nice things. Watch what they do."
With that, he wheeled about and followed the throng into a Pushkin Square theater to catch the Moscow premiere of a new movie: the Hollywood science-fiction potboiler "Lost in Space." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); SERBIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA MINE (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); SERBIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; PUBLIC OPINION BOMBINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL BORIS N YELTSIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



254 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2002 words

HEADLINE: Remote Control of Cable Sports;
Region by Region, Murdoch's Fox Networks Now Rule

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
Although Rupert Murdoch has an obsession with sports, no one has ever accused him of being a team player. And last week he put on a remarkable individual performance.
Even before last week, Mr. Murdoch's News Corporation -- already a power here and overseas in broadcast sports coverage -- had became a dominant force in sports cable television. With a three-year string of investments, he had turned the News Corporation's Fox Entertainment unit into a partial owner of all but four of the nation's 23 regional sports networks -- cable networks that arrange with professional teams to carry all games that are not picked up by national networks or local broadcasters. 
 But it was last week that Mr. Murdoch swung for the fences. In intricate deals worth billions of dollars, Fox Entertainment moved to take outright control of two of the nation's top five regional sports networks, as measured by number of cable subscribers. And he raised his stakes in 13 other regional networks -- including the two in the lucrative New York market that together carry the games of all the local professional baseball, basketball and hockey teams.
In very short order, in other words, the Australian-born Mr. Murdoch, who seldom watches games on the tube or in person, has acquired all or part of the regional cable rights to most of the United States' professional teams. (That does not include teams in the National Football League, which deals only with the national networks -- like Fox's broadcast network.)
With the Walt Disney Company's ESPN still dominating cable sports -- 75 million subscribers nationally, compared with the 65 million total for all of Mr. Murdoch's various regional pacts -- the playing field may not yet be level. But the topology has changed: Not only must many of the nation's cable operators now pay homage to Mr. Murdoch or his partners if they want to offer some of the most popular local programming on cable. But suddenly ESPN, long the star of cable sports, may have a viable, voracious competitor.
Neal Pilson, who heads a sports television consulting firm, considers the Murdoch game plan a smart one because it offers advertisers a form of one-stop shopping for most of the teams in three major professional sports. "They are creating an alterative to ESPN for advertisers and sponsors that want to buy into baseball, hockey and N.B.A. basketball on a national level," Mr. Pilson said.
Among the professional teams carried on local cable, Mr. Murdoch now has access to all but a half-dozen holdouts that have forged local pacts: the San Diego Padres, Florida Marlins and Tampa Bay Devil Rays baseball teams, the Florida Panthers National Hockey League team, and the Phoenix Suns and Portland Trailblazers National Basketball Association teams.
Mr. Murdoch was traveling last week and not available for an interview. But he is known for his oft-stated conviction that sports -- like movies, news and children's programming -- is a format with universal appeal. And as he tightens his grip on the regional sports services, he appears intent on creating the equivalent of a a national network that can rival ESPN for advertiser dollars.
ESPN says it is not worried about Mr. Murdoch's moves, the centerpiece of which was an agreement to buy the cable titan John C. Malone's interest in the Fox/Liberty Sports cable venture in exchange for a 5 percent stake in the News Corporation.
"Even after the deal, we are facing the same competition against the same teams," an ESPN spokeswoman said. "All that has changed is the ownership. The thing is, our prime time viewership was up 12 percent last year."
In some ways, ESPN and Fox are attacking the same market from different ends. ESPN's is primarily a top-down, national network approach, based on relationships with professional and college leagues.
In contrast, the Fox cable model is based on local and regional fare, with a supplemental national overlay.
One of its regional networks, Fox Sports West 2, for example, carries games of the Los Angeles Dodgers baseball team -- which the News Corporation owns -- along with Los Angeles Clippers basketball and Anaheim Mighty Ducks hockey.
Fox Sports West 2's three million subscribers also get some professional and college games of national interest, including some Pacific 10 Conference football and basketball, but much of the nonprofessional fare involves local offerings like University of Southern California baseball, high school basketball and football and horse racing from Santa Anita.
The real national overlay comes from Fox/Liberty Sports Net, a 24-hour service filled with talk and news shows, which is owned jointly by the Cablevision Systems Corporation and the News Corporation, which also manages the service. It is in this arena where Fox and ESPN compete most directly, as when Fox Sports News Prime Time goes up against ESPN Sportscenter -- and where Fox is intent on building a cable brand that can attract national advertisers.
"What we are doing is growing the network feed," Tracy Dolgin, Fox/ Liberty chief operating officer, said. "As that gets better, people who are not as passionate about the home teams will want the regional service anyway."
Whether or not Fox lures new subscribers to its local offerings, its greater control of the regional networks could let it move more quickly to buy programming rights and might allow it to raise the monthly fees it charges cable operators.
That influence worries some sports-business experts.
Andy Zimbalist, a sports economist who teaches at Smith College, is one who expresses concern about the concentration of financial and media power Mr. Murdoch has amassed. Not only does the News Corporation own the Dodgers, but Fox is a partial owner of other teams, including the New York Knicks basketball and the New York Rangers hockey teams, through its partnership with Cablevision.
One example illustrates the sporting experts' concerns. Mr. Zimbalist said that some Major League Baseball team owners were already worried about the Dodgers' seven-year, $105 million contract with the pitcher Kevin Brown.
"It represents Brown's value not only to the Dodgers but to the Fox media empire -- since what Fox is trying to do is to develop a name for its network by assuring a winning team," Mr. Zimbalist said. "Part of the value of the contract is the expectation of the double return. That means Rupert Murdoch has the reason to spend more for contracts, creating the issue of salary imbalance."
Cable operators are also worried. As long as Mr. Malone's Liberty Media Group was a Murdoch partner, the intricate web of alliances with cable operators made it tough for the venture to foist pay increases on cable operators. After all, Mr. Malone's ties to Tele-Communications Inc., the nation's second-largest cable operator, provided a buffer.
Liberty Media itself was originally spun off from TCI. And even though the AT&T Corporation bought TCI last year, Liberty Media remains an AT&T tracking stock with a close relationship to the cable company. And Liberty has investments in other cable companies, owning 10 percent of the cable leader Time Warner Inc., and in programming services like the Discovery Network, in which Cox Communications and other cable companies also own a stake.
"Liberty was partnered with the cable operators, so they couldn't be too aggressive about jamming rate increases through," said Niraj Gupta, a media analyst at Schroder & Company. "Now it will be easier."
Last year, Fox did manage to raise rates about 18 percent. But Disney's ESPN, which has no ties to cable-system ownership, has been even more aggressive. Last year, the service, which charges an average of 85 cents per subscriber per month, said it would raise rates 20 percent. And this year it plans to add a 20 percent surcharge to defray costs of its rights to some N.F.L. games.
"Now all the sports are controlled by two companies, neither of which owns any cable systems," said one bitter cable operator, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "ESPN announced a 20 percent rate increase," he said. "When we raise our rates 5 percent, people cry out for reregulation."
John Mancel, who follows the sports business for Paul Kagan Associates, a media consulting firm, said regional sports services generally get less per subscriber than the 85 cents a month ESPN charges, probably about 75 cents.
And there are other limits to Mr. Murdoch's power. It would be difficult, for example, to prime the pump by buying more sports teams.
The N.B.A.'s rules give an owner the ability to have multiple stakes in as many teams as desired, but only as long as the total combined percentage of all teams is under 50 percent. After Mr. Murdoch's deal with Liberty is completed, the News Corporation will have 40 percent of the Knicks.
Baseball is another matter. A person or organization that is a managing partner of one team is forbidden to own even the smallest stake in any other baseball team. By the same token, the News Corporation's 40 percent stake in the Rangers would prohibit any further investment in an N.H.L. team.
Still, even without acquiring any more teams, the power Mr. Murdoch has consolidated over regional cable sports is extraordinary.
The regional business was born in the 1980's, when the Englewood, Colo.-based TCI started sports services in cities like Pittsburgh and Seattle. And at times, the sports team owners also had a stake in the service -- a tradition that continues in cases like Cablevision's ownership of the Knicks and Rangers.
TCI was by no means the sole player at this game. Cablevision was starting regional sports services in areas where it owned cable systems, including New York, Chicago and San Francisco.
Over the years, as was Mr. Malone's wont, TCI transferred ownership of its sports services to its programming arm, Liberty Media, which in turn bought up more services. And in April 1996 Rupert Murdoch joined with Liberty to gain half ownership of Liberty's stake in nine regional sports services.
The acquisitive Murdoch-Malone alliance, in turn, made an $850 million investment in Rainbow Media, as Cablevision called its six regional services. That deal paved the way for a matrix of regional services that could also deliver national programming. Thus was the groundwork laid for Mr. Mudoch's coup last week.
By the end of last week, Mr. Murdoch held an interest in all but four of the nation's regional cable sports networks. He would probably like to own them all, but there are sticking points. Sportschannel Florida, for instance, is majority owned by the financier H. Wayne Huizenga, with Cablevision and Fox merely minority investors. And any change in ownership triggers a provision that lets Mr. Huizenga buy out his partners, should he choose to do so.
Meanwhile, the Comcast Corporation has no plans to sell its sports service, which dominates the Philadelphia market.
Still, whether or not Mr. Murdoch makes a clean sweep of the industry, his work is far from finished. Already he has plans to offer Fox Sports Net Interactive, a joint venture with Access TV that would let viewers pay $9.95 to select among various camera angles while watching games.
And some purists worry that Mr. Murdoch's quest for team -- or athlete -- ownership is not over.
Take the case of Joe Sakic, center of the the Colorado Avalanche hockey team, whose games are carried on a regional Fox network. In 1997, when the New York Rangers offered $21 million for Mr. Sakic, the Denver-region Fox Sports Net effectively provided the cash for the Avalanche to make a competing bid by extending the team's cable contract and committing $15 million for construction of a new arena. Mr. Sakic remained in Colorado.
It might have seemed as if Mr. Murdoch were an old-time movie mogul, angling to keep a star within his studio. But in fact it was simply further evidence of Fox's remote control over cable sports.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 17, 1999, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about the News Corporation's growing role in regional sports television misidentified the company that is working with the News Corporation's Fox Sports Net unit to create a service called Fox Sports Net Interactive. It is ACTV Inc., not Access TV.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andy Italiano shot the Anaheim-Cleveland game for Fox on Thursday. (Kim Kulish/Saba for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Building Market Share"
After its deal with Liberty Media, the News Corporation, through its Fox Sports subsidiary, will have significant or controlling stakes in the five largest cable sports networks.
 
FOX SPORTS SOUTH
Subscribers -- 7.3 million
 
Ownership (still being negotiated)
Fox -- 44%
Liberty Media -- 44%
Scripps Howard 12%
 
Sports programming
Baseball -- Atlanta Braves
Hockey -- Atlanta Thrashers, Nashville Predators, Carolina Hurricanes
Basketball -- Atlanta Hawks, Charlotte Hornets
 
MSG
Subscribers -- 6.9 million
 
Ownership
Fox -- 40%
Cablevision -- 60%
 
Sports programming
Baseball -- N.Y. Yankees
Hockey -- N.Y. Rangers (owned by Cablevision and Fox)
Basketball -- N.Y. Knicks (owned by Cablevision and Fox)
 
FOX SPORTS SOUTHWEST
Subscribers -- 6.0 million
 
Ownership
Fox -- 100%
 
Sports programming
Baseball -- Texas Rangers
Hockey -- Dallas Stars
Basketball -- Dallas Mavericks
 
FOX SPORTS WEST
Subscribers -- 5.0 million
 
Ownership
Fox -- 100%
 
Sports programming
Baseball -- Anaheim Angels
Hockey -- L.A. Kings
Basketball -- L.A. Lakers
 
FOX SPORTS NEW YORK
Subscribers -- 4.4 million
 
Ownership
Fox -- 40%
Cablevision -- 60%
 
Sports programming
Baseball -- N.Y. Mets
Hockey -- N.J. Devils, N.Y. Islanders
Basketball -- N.J. Nets
 
(Source: News Corporation) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (93%); NWS (ASX) (93%); DIS (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (85%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (82%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP; FOX INC; DISNEY, WALT, CO; ESPN FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%); NEWS CORP (93%); ESPN INC (85%); WALT DISNEY CO (82%); TEXAS RANGERS (84%); SACRAMENTO KINGS (59%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (59%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK RANGERS (59%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (59%); NEW YORK METS (59%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (59%); NEW JERSEY NETS (59%); CAROLINA HURRICANES (59%); DALLAS STARS (59%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); CHARLOTTE HORNETS (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); NASHVILLE PREDATORS (59%); ATLANTA HAWKS (59%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (59%); ATLANTA THRASHERS (59%); NEW JERSEY NETS (59%); CHARLOTTE HORNETS (59%); CAROLINA HURRICANES (59%); ATLANTA THRASHERS (59%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (59%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (59%); NEW YORK RANGERS (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); SACRAMENTO KINGS (59%); NASHVILLE PREDATORS (59%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (59%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (59%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEWS CORP; FOX INC; DISNEY, WALT, CO; ESPN TEXAS RANGERS (84%); SACRAMENTO KINGS (59%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (59%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK RANGERS (59%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (59%); NEW YORK METS (59%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (59%); NEW JERSEY NETS (59%); CAROLINA HURRICANES (59%); DALLAS STARS (59%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); CHARLOTTE HORNETS (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); NASHVILLE PREDATORS (59%); ATLANTA HAWKS (59%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (59%); ATLANTA THRASHERS (59%); NEW JERSEY NETS (59%); CHARLOTTE HORNETS (59%); CAROLINA HURRICANES (59%); ATLANTA THRASHERS (59%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (59%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (59%); NEW YORK RANGERS (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); SACRAMENTO KINGS (59%); NASHVILLE PREDATORS (59%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (59%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (59%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; TELEVISION SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BASEBALL (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); ICE HOCKEY (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (77%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (76%); 

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE; MURDOCH, RUPERT KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999



255 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: NEWS BRIEFS
 
 
INTERNATIONAL A3-14
 
SQN##182460##FEWER BOMBS DROPPED ON CLOUDY DAY IN BALKANS
NATO held back from intensive bombing on a day of cloudy weather over Kosovo, even as alliance officials accused the Serbs of carrying out new atrocities against ethnic Albanians in their southern province. Alliance officials released aerial photographs, including one of freshly turned earth, that they said could be mass graves, and another of clusters of people described as ethnic Albanians driven from their homes. A1
 
 
SQN##177113##A Russian relief convoy headed for Yugoslavia was stopped by Hungarian authorities after they determined that it was carrying fuel and equipment that could be used by Belgrade's military, officials said. A8

 BODY:

 
SQN##177814##Gunmen killed Slavko Curuvija, a well-known opposition publisher, outside his apartment building in central Belgrade, sending a message to the few remaining independent news outlets in Yugoslavia. The Government has moved to shut down all independent media in recent weeks. A10
 
 
SQN##180467##Serbian forces are heavily fortifying their positions in Kosovo, particularly around Pristina Airport, and are moving antiaircraft batteries, tanks and other heavy weapons into villages and large civilian buildings, refugees arriving in Albania say. A9
 
 
SQN##182389##Several hundred Albanian-Americans are to fly from Kennedy International Airport this week to Europe, and from there to Albania, to serve as volunteer soldiers. A1
 
 
SQN##181099##Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright arrived in Brussels for a gathering of foreign ministers intended to show NATO unity as it pursues air strikes against President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia. A8
 
 
SQN##182044##The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Administration officials talked more openly about the possibility that American ground troops would be sent into Kosovo. A10
 
SQN##176885##INDIA TESTS MISSILE
Eleven months after exploding a series of nuclear bombs, India test-fired an intermediate-range missile that reportedly traveled more than 1,250 miles in 11 minutes and left no doubt about the nation's plans to develop a modern system for delivering its nuclear weapons. A3
 
SQN##180530##CHINESE LEADER TOURS AMERICA
Chinese Prime Minister Zhu Rongji took his tour of America to the heartland, tossing footballs with Denver Broncos, inspecting a Black Angus bull and listening to a Tibetan sing Chinese nationalist songs. Some wariness toward China followed him from Washington. A4
 
SQN##177016##TOKYO ELECTS NATIONALIST LEADER
Voters humiliated Japan's governing Liberal Democratic Party in elections, choosing a maverick nationalist, Shintaro Ishihara, as the new Governor of Tokyo. A4
 
SQN##178748##CROAT'S HAGUE TRIAL OPENS
The trial of an influential Bosnian Croat politician, a former ally of the Croatian President, opens today at the international war crimes tribunal in The Hague. A14
 
NATIONAL A16-21
 
SQN##180599##POOR LOSE HEALTH COVERAGE AS WELFARE LAW TAKES HOLD
Hundreds of thousands of low-income people have lost health insurance as an unintended consequence of the 1996 welfare law, Federal and state officials and policy experts say. In New York City, poor people seeking welfare benefits have often been unable to get Medicaid. Moreover, across the country, many people who obtained jobs and left the welfare rolls have lost Medicaid and become uninsured, even though, under the law, they were supposed to be able to keep their Medicaid coverage. A1
 
SQN##179221##WAVERING ON TERM LIMITS
Representative George R. Nethercutt Jr., Republican of Washington, is one of 58 members of Congress who have set a limit on their time in office, and one of 10 House members whose pledges come due next fall. Of those 10, all but one of them Republicans, at least 4, including Mr. Nethercutt, are wavering on their pledges. A20
 
SQN##178012##F.A.A. READY FOR 2000
A large portion of the air traffic control system appeared to function smoothly as the clocks in radar centers across Colorado rolled over from Dec. 31, 1999, to Jan. 1, 2000, in a dress rehearsal for New Year's Eve. The test was intended to insure that the system's computers could handle the so-called year 2000 problem. A16
 
SQN##177237##ABUSE RATES HIGHER FOR INMATES
More than a third of the women in state prisons and jails say they were physically or sexually abused as children, twice the rate of child abuse reported by women overall, the Justice Department said. The rate for male inmates who suffered abuse, while far smaller, is also about double that of the overall male population. A19
 
SQN##177563##NEW RISKS TO NATION'S RIVERS
Urban sprawl in Atlanta, Seattle, Chicago and other cities is polluting water and posing new risks to rivers, an environmental group said. A20
 
SQN##177474##TRYING TO SAVE A SATELLITE
The Air Force struggled to rescue a missile-warning satellite that was left stranded in a useless orbit hours after takeoff on Friday. A16
 
METRO B1-8
 
SQN##178411##GRIEVING MOTHER EMERGES AS STAR OF A PROTEST
Kadiadou Diallo has has gone from paralyzed public grief to telegenic celebrity in the months since the Feb. 4 killing of her son Amadou in a barrage of 41 police bullets in the Bronx. She has blossomed amid a nascent national movement focusing on the mistreatment of blacks and other minority groups by the police. A1
 
SQN##182427##CUNY MAY AVERT RISK
Test results suggest teacher education programs at the City University of New York may be doing better than previously believed and may not be at risk of being shut down. B1
 
SQN##179418##MOHAWK CASINO OPENS
Akwesasne Mohawk Casino, with its 1,000 workers, has opened for business, the second licensed casino to open in the state. It is a move of economic desperation for the St. Regis Mohawks. B1
 
SQN##182435##FRAUD TRIAL OVER J.F.K. PAPERS
Lawrence X. Cusack 3d goes on trial today on fraud charges in Federal District Court in Manhattan. Mr. Cusack is accused of a forgery scheme involving documents supposedly written by John F. Kennedy. B1
 
OBITUARIES A23
 
SQN##178730##RAUL SILVA HENRIQUEZ, 91, Chile Cardinal.
SQN##177407 ##COL. LEOFRIC BOYLE, 100, Briton who helped save the poor Oryx.
SQN##178241##DANIEL J. SULLIVAN, 72, judge on the Bronx bench for 20 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (96%); ALBANIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); HUNGARY (92%); CHINA (92%); CROATIA (92%); TIBET (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (68%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (67%); 

COMPANY: DENVER BRONCOS FOOTBALL CLUB (54%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); DENVER BRONCOS (54%); DENVER BRONCOS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); DENVER BRONCOS (54%); DENVER BRONCOS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (96%); ALBANIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); HUNGARY (92%); CHINA (92%); CROATIA (92%); TIBET (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (68%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (67%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MEDICAID (89%); GENOCIDE (85%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (85%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (85%); ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); WAR CRIMES (76%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (74%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); TERM LIMITS (73%); AIRPORTS (71%); REFUGEES (71%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); GOVERNORS (69%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (65%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); POOR POPULATION (65%); 

PERSON: SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2003



256 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1653 words

HEADLINE: Will the Voices Grow Ever Quieter?;
Conductors Ponder the State of Choral Music After Robert Shaw's Death

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH 

 BODY:
Although the death of the American choral conductor Robert Shaw in January -- at 82, after a number of appearances were canceled in recent years because of illness -- could not have surprised anyone in itself, the shock waves have yet to subside. To call it the end of a generation is mild. Perhaps it is the end of an era.
"It sort of feels like the roof blew off," James Conlon, the American orchestral and choral conductor, said recently. "As long as I've known choral music, he's been there. He was a gigantic figure, and it feels like a different world without him." 
 Edward Maclary, a professor of choral studies at Bowling Green University in Ohio who knew and worked with Shaw, offered another variation on the familiar theme: "We're at a continental divide, looking down."
By varying accounts, the world of choral music, especially in the United States, lost a founder, a model, a mentor, a friend, a father figure; even, in the words of Kurt Masur, the music director of the New York Philharmonic, a sort of "musical priest" when Shaw died on Jan. 25.
How do you replace such an institution? Although there are promising candidates to pick up some of those roles, there is no obvious heir to assume them all. One has to wonder whether any single figure could dominate the field in the same way, now that the musical scene has become so fragmented and diverse.
Shaw, who founded the Collegiate Chorale in 1941, the Robert Shaw Chorale in 1948 and the Atlanta Symphony Chamber Chorus in 1967, was the foremost figure in a generation that lifted the standard of choral performance in this country, if not the world, to a remarkable new height. Others were Margaret Hillis, who founded the Chicago Symphony Chorus and died last year at 76, and Roger Wagner, who founded the Roger Wagner Chorale and the Los Angeles Master Chorale and died in 1992 at 78.
When it comes to the landscape of American choral conducting after Shaw, all the unanimity that greets mention of his name evaporates. Indirectly, at least, Shaw wielded an influence on virtually everyone in the field today, and he had a direct impact on most, through the quality and impact of his performances if not through actual contact. His disciples range from the 71-year-old Robert Page, who was one of Shaw's successors as director of the Cleveland Orchestra Chorus, from 1971 to 1989, to relative youngsters like Charles Bruffy, the 40-year-old director of the Kansas City Chorale.
Shaw did not teach conducting as such but worked mostly through example, presiding over institutes and workshops for specialists in the field. He might train and conduct an amateur chorus one week and an ad hoc group of choral directors the next.
It was just such an institute, in France, that turned Mr. Bruffy into a Shaw follower. "It changed my life," Mr. Bruffy said. "My chorus at home had a whole new sonority after my first experience with Shaw." Mr. Bruffy sang in Shaw choruses many times, and although he was never a part of Shaw's wide circle of friends, he said, "I sponged from him as hard as I could."
 
Dwindling Number Of Specialists
In addition to Mr. Page, who directs the Mendelssohn Choir in Pittsburgh, leaders of the generation or two after Shaw include Joseph Flummerfelt, the artistic director and principal conductor of the Westminster Choir College in Princeton, N.J.; Vance George, the director of the San Francisco Symphony Chorus; John Oliver, the director of the Tanglewood Festival Chorus in Massachusetts, and Gregg Smith, the founder of the Gregg Smith Singers.
"There aren't that many of us anymore with our feet above the ground," said Mr. Page, still obviously trying on his new-found status as elder statesman for size.
Others of great promise were lost early to AIDS: Michael Korn, who founded the Philadelphia Singers and died in 1991 at 44, and Thomas Peck, who founded the St. Louis Symphony Chorus and died in 1994 at 56.
Of the younger generations, in addition to Mr. Bruffy, Robert Porco, who teaches at Indiana University and directs the Cleveland Orchestra Chorus, and Dennis Keene, the director of Ascension Music in New York, are often mentioned as rising stars. Other obvious talents are Norman MacKenzie, Mr. Shaw's longtime assistant at the Atlanta Symphony Chorus and elsewhere; Judith Clurman, who directs choruses in New York, including the Judith Clurman Chorale, and Amy Kaiser, who leads the St. Louis Symphony Chorus.
The 45-year-old Mr. Keene is the younger leader most widely touted to pick up Shaw's mantle as not only conductor but also mentor. Mr. Keene started a summer festival last year in Kent, Conn., breaking the Shaw mold in offering specific instruction in conducting and singing as well as choral technique.
Even without Shaw, the field of choral conducting is rich. Perhaps never before has there been such a stock of fine chorus masters, largely because of Shaw's eagerness to share his methods and expertise.
"He didn't really have students," said Mr. Keene, who is not particularly known for a Shaw connection. "But I did the Shaw bit. I tagged along, and I sat in on his rehearsals."
Yet that richness has limits. A distinction must be made, several directors pointed out, between choral trainers and actual conductors. Conducting, especially when a full orchestra comes into play, is a whole other discipline, one that Shaw took pains to master as few others have.
"At a certain point, he decided to concentrate on orchestral conducting as well," Mr. Flummerfelt said. "There isn't anyone who can move back and forth as well as he did."
The term "choral conductor," in fact, always seemed too limiting, almost pejorative, in Shaw's case, even when, as usual, it was couched in superlatives. Although he may not have been the most consistently inspired orchestral leader, he was the music director of the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra for 21 fruitful years until 1988, no mean feat, although it is all but obliterated by the shadow of his towering choral achievement.
"Earlier on, you wouldn't even have called choral directors conductors," Mr. Keene said. "They were chorus masters. Shaw changed all that, along with Hillis and Wagner."
The situation the finest choral conductors typically face, with a large amateur chorus in combination with a professional orchestra, is highly complex. Yet partly because of that very involvement with amateur musicians, choral conductors tend to get little respect, even -- or especially -- from the orchestral colleagues with whom they often collaborate.
 
Wondering What Will Happen Next
True, certain symphonic and operatic maestros take a lively interest in choral music. Mr. Conlon has directed the renowned Cincinnati May Festival for two decades, and Mr. Masur retains ties to a rich German choral tradition. But there are few others.
And although many skilled chorus masters have followed in Mr. Shaw's wake, relatively few genuine conductors of great promise, demonstrated versatility or proven distinction have done so. The entire field has to some extent been raised, this side of the Continental Divide, but at the same time it may have leveled out.
It has also grown more fragmented and diverse. "World music is coming into choral music rapidly," said Mr. Maclary of Bowling Green University. Similarly, Mr. Keene cites the influence of the early-music movement, and the proliferation of finely honed professional choirs of small, almost chamber, scale. "A whole other level of nuance and color has come into choral music that has nothing to do with training a big group of amateurs," he said.
Such novel niches, with their varying goals and expectations, are judged by different yardsticks, making it increasingly unlikely that a single Shaw-like figure could come to tower over the field again.
Then, too, the times have changed in other ways, with similar fragmentations affecting other areas of the musical culture. "Recordings are what pushed Robert into prominence, just as they did Roger Wagner," Mr. Flummerfelt said of Mr. Shaw, who won the last of his many Grammy Awards posthumously, in February. "The present economic situation wouldn't allow something like that to happen again."
So leaving aside the question of whether any Shaw-like figure looms, larger than life, in the wings, would there even be a place in this altered landscape for such a figure?
At least one choral professional with a long view suggests that there still is such a place, and that worthy candidates to occupy it are indeed at hand, if not widely active on the American scene. Weston Noble, a friend of Shaw's who, at 76, teaches at Luther College in Decorah, Iowa, proposes three such figures: David Willcocks, an English conductor who made his fame with the King's College Choir, Cambridge; Helmuth Rilling, the German conductor of the Gachinger Kantorei and artistic director of the Oregon Bach Festival, and John Nelson, an American who was the music director of the Indianapolis Symphony from 1976 to 1987 and is now active chiefly in Europe.
Certainly these are all bona fide conductors as well as gifted chorus masters with excellent credentials. Yet it remains to be seen whether any of them is eager to carve out a bigger presence in the United States. What's more, much of Shaw's charm in this country was his down-home American-ness, his ability to connect with the populist strain that runs deep in the nation's psyche and, for that matter, deep in the roots of choral singing as he perceived it. He was not, like so much of the musical culture, transplanted from Europe, but sprang, a rugged individualist, from American soil. It is tempting to think that if anything like another Shaw is to arise, it will do the same.
In the final variation, Mr. Bruffy may have it right: "We all kind of went along on his coattails. Now his absence places a new perspective and responsibility on us all."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: CONDUCTING BUSINESS -- Robert Shaw, above, conducting the Orchestra of St. Luke's in the Carnegie Hall choral rehearsal in 1996. From far left, Charles Bruffy, discussing music with Kansas City Chorale's sopranos; Dennis Keene, conductor, and Robert Porco rehearsing the Cleveland Orchestra Chorus. (Steve J. Sherman); (Barney Taxel for The New York Times); (Christopher Steiner); (Tammy Ljungblad/The Star)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (50%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (53%); CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (59%); CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (59%); BOWLING GREEN UNIVERSITY (56%); BOWLING GREEN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (59%); CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (59%); BOWLING GREEN UNIVERSITY (56%); BOWLING GREEN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (50%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC MUSIC (92%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); 

PERSON: OESTREICH, JAMES R; SHAW, ROBERT; BRUFFY, CHARLES; KEENE, DENNIS; PORCO, ROBERT; MASUR, KURT MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



257 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
3 Newspaper Concerns Post Profits Above Expectations

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Gannett Company and two other newspaper publishers, Dow Jones & Company and E. W. Scripps& Company, reaped better-than-expected first-quarter profits as advertising revenue grew robustly and newsprint prices fell, the companies said yesterday.
Scripps, the nation's oldest newspaper chain, led the group with a 28 percent gain on higher ad sales and growth at its cable television channels, Home and Garden TV and the Food Network. Gannett's earnings rose 12 percent, and Dow Jones's advanced 4 percent. 
 Newspaper publishers are benefiting as the economy shows no signs of slowing, keeping ad sales strong. A drop in newsprint prices, typically their biggest expense other than labor, also helped. Newsprint prices are expected to drop even more this year, analysts said.
As recently as the end of last year, publishing companies and analysts expected newsprint prices to remain steady in 1999. Instead, prices fell because of settled labor strikes and excess supply. Prices are down almost 20 percent, to less than $500 a ton, from about $590 in March 1998.
Still, newspaper publishers' shares have lagged over the last six months on concern about competition from the Internet and that the economy was headed into a slowdown.
Scripps, based in Cincinnati, said its net income rose to $32 million, or 40 cents a diluted share, compared with $25.1 million, or 31 cents a share, in the comparable quarter a year earlier. Per-share earnings would have been 36 cents with a change in accounting method, the company said. It had been expected to earn 33 cents a share on that basis, according to a poll of seven analysts.
Scripps, which owns 19 daily newspapers, 9 TV stations and the 2 cable TV networks, said growth was fueled by improved advertising at its newspapers and strength in its cable operations.
Revenue rose 7.7 percent, to $373.4 million from $346.8 million.
Shares of Scripps were unchanged at $43.50.
Gannett, based in Arlington, Va., said net income rose to $178.9 million, or 64 cents a diluted share, compared with profit from operations of $159.2 million, or 56 cents a share, in the comparable quarter a year earlier. Gannett beat the 62-cent average forecast of analysts surveyed by First Call.
Gannett, which publishes 74 daily newspapers, including USA Today, and operates 21 television stations, saw strong advertising growth at its newspapers, where profit grew on rising demand for national and classified ads. Ad sales rose 16 percent at USA Today.
Revenue rose 4 percent, to $1.25 billion from $1.2 billion.
In the period a year earlier, a gain of $183.6 million, or about 64 cents a share, from the sale of radio stations and its former Multimedia Security Services Inc. unit resulted in net income of $342.8 million, or $1.20 a share.
Shares of Gannett rose $1.5625, to $64.75.
Dow Jones said first-quarter profit from operations rose to $40.9 million, or 44 cents a diluted share, compared with a pro-forma $39.5 million, or 40 cents, in the comparable quarter a year earlier. It had been expected to earn 38 cents.
Dow Jones, which publishes The Wall Street Journal and Barron's, said advertising revenue exceeded expectations last month at The Journal.
Revenue rose 2.7 percent, to $462 million from a pro-forma $449.9 million.
A gain of $10.6 million, or 12 cents a share, on the sale of part of its minority stake in Optimark Technologies resulted in net income of $51.5 million, or 56 cents a share.
In the quarter a year earlier, special items resulted in net income of $34.7 million, or 35 cents a share.
Shares of Dow Jones rose $2.75, to $50.875. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (98%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (93%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (55%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: GANNETT CO; DOW JONES & CO; SCRIPPS, E W, CO GANNETT CO INC (98%); DOW JONES & CO INC (93%); MULTIMEDIA SECURITY SERVICE INC (60%); HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GANNETT CO; DOW JONES & CO; SCRIPPS, E W, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (55%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; COMPANY REPORTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (94%); NEWSPRINT (91%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (76%); STRIKES (74%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (72%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



258 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE EURO GAINS. The dollar slipped on speculation that the European Central Bank's interest rate cut last week would support growth on the Continent. In New York, the euro settled at $1.082, up from $1.079 on Friday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since January. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EUROCURRENCY EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); INTEREST RATES (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



259 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Adelphia in $1.17 Billion Deal To Buy Harron's Cable Systems

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: COUDERSPORT, Pa., April 12

 BODY:
The Adelphia Communications Corporation, moving to become the fourth-largest cable-television company, agreed today to buy the cable systems of the closely held Harron Communications Corporation for $1.17 billion in cash to expand in New England and Philadelphia.
The deal would give Adelphia, which operates mostly in the mid-Atlantic region and Florida, about 300,000 additional customers. Its reach would expand to almost 800,000 customers in New England and about 250,0000 customers in Philadelphia. 
 It is Adelphia's third planned acquisition of more than $1 billion in less than two months and its fifth planned purchase since November. Adelphia and other large cable companies are buying smaller rivals to gain customers and spread the cost of programming.
"We like it," said Charles Simonds, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney. "It brings them closer to the five million mark" for subscribers, he said, "which historically has been where significant economies of scale kick in."
Adelphia is based in Coudersport, about midway along Pennsylvania's northern border with New York. It expects to complete its purchase of Harron, which is based in the Philadelphia suburb of Frazer, by April 2000. No debt will be assumed.
Shares of Adelphia jumped $3.9375, to $64.9375.
The cable industry is rapidly consolidating because larger companies can buy programming for less on a per-subscriber basis and can spread the cost of new technology over a bigger customer base. Companies are also swapping systems to create more efficient customer clusters rather than operating a patchwork of systems in many areas.
At about $3,900 for each subscriber, Adelphia is paying more than in some recent purchases, analysts said.
"It's at the high end of recent acquisitions, but it's below the premium Comcast paid for Mediaone," Mr. Simonds said, referring to the Comcast Corporation's $55.5 billion offer for Mediaone Group Inc. last month. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (96%); CMCSA (NASDAQ) (85%); CCV (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ADELPHIA COMMUNICATIONS CORP; HARRON COMMUNICATIONS CORP TIME WARNER INC (96%); HARRON COMMUNICATIONS CORP (91%); COMCAST CORP (85%); MEDIAONE GROUP INC (64%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ADELPHIA COMMUNICATIONS CORP; HARRON COMMUNICATIONS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); PHILADELPHIA (PA); UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES CABLE INDUSTRY (91%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); 

PERSON: CHARLES SIMONDS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



260 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Yale to Erase Alumni Debts In 2 Loan Plans

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, April 12

 BODY:
Yale University officials said today that they would erase the remaining debts of alumni who borrowed money in the 1970's under two programs that were meant to further altruistic careers like missionary work but instead saddled some students with years of payments.
About 3,900 alumni from the classes of 1971 to 1978 received loans under the Tuition Postponement Option or the Contingent Repayment Option. For each $1,000 borrowed from the university, the students pledged 0.04 percent of their future earnings for 35 years, or until the whole class paid off its aggregate debt, whichever came first. 
 "It had some of those bents of the 1970's: 'Hey, let's all take on the loan and those among us who become the wealthy industrialists will carry the burden for the rest,' " said Juan Leon of Norcross, Ga., a 1974 graduate.
Mr. Leon, who today sells airplanes, borrowed $1,700. He has repaid roughly $7,000, yet he still owed the university money because some classmates failed to make payments.
His experience was not unusual. The programs doled out $8 million in loans, but despite paying about $25 million in principal and interest, no class has paid off its debt because about 20 percent of the students fell into default.
A Yale spokesman, Lawrence J. Haas, said the university, presuming its graduates would prosper, had never anticipated that alumni would actually be writing checks 35 years later.
"We received, over the course of the last year or so, complaints from borrowers who were paying for a longer period of time," he said. "We took these complaints seriously."
After a six-month review, the university began sending out letters last week forgiving the loans. About 3,300 alumni will be relieved of further payments after Dec. 31, 2001. The university will give 450 refunds to those who bought out their loans. The 750 who defaulted must still make up the missed payments.
The programs were designed by the Nobel Prize-winning economists James Tobin and Milton Friedman. Mr. Haas said they were created for anyone who wanted to borrow, with the understanding that those who went into lower-paying professions, like the Peace Corps, would end up paying less. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (59%); GEORGIA, USA (55%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (59%); CONNECTICUT, USA (59%); GEORGIA, USA (55%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (66%); 

PERSON: JUAN LEON (68%); LAWRENCE J HAAS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



261 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Raises Price Range for Its Stock Offering

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
Goldman, Sachs & Company, taking advantage of financial markets that have rebounded from last fall's doldrums, said yesterday that it would raise the price range of its highly anticipated initial public offering by as much as 10 percent.
And that promises to create some very fat wallets on Wall Street. 
 Documents filed yesterday with the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of the revised offering provide a glimpse of the riches that would be harvested by Goldman's partners if the shares sold at the high end of the expected range.
The firm's co-chairman and chief executive, Henry M. Paulson Jr., who owns the largest individual stake in Goldman, would see his 4.132 million shares valued at about $227 million. Two men considered to be vying to succeed Mr. Paulson one day, the co-chief operating officers John A. Thain and John L. Thornton, would hold stakes valued at $171 million and $166 million, respectively.
Goldman's directors and executive officers as a group, 13 people in all, would hold a stake in the firm valued as high as $1.43 billion. Goldman's two largest outside shareholders, Sumitomo Bank and an educational concern controlled by Hawaii's Bishop Estate trust, would have stakes worth as much as $1.15 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively.
The holdings of Jon Corzine, Goldman's former co-chief executive who was ousted in a January coup led by Mr. Paulson, were not disclosed, though some analysts said his stake would be roughly equivalent to that of Mr. Paulson. Mr. Corzine has said he plans to leave Goldman after the offering, which is scheduled for May 3.
Other Goldman executives with big holdings include the vice chairman, Robert J. Hurst, with a $211 million stake, and the chief financial officer, David A. Viniar, with a $94 million stake. John L. Weinberg, the former co-chief executive and a current director, owns shares that would be worth about $24 million.
The stakes have been built up over the years, and the partners who hold them must hold onto their shares for five years before selling.
Goldman canceled an initial public offering last September because of financial volatility at home and abroad that left the firm with tens of millions of dollars in trading losses.
The offering of a 14.8 percent stake in Wall Street's last large, privately held investment bank will be priced at between $45 and $55 a share, up from a range of $40 to $50 expected last month. As detailed in the revised filing, the offering, which would raise $3.1 billion to $3.8 billion, values all of Goldman at as much as $25.7 billion.
Valued at the high end of that trading range, Goldman would rank as the third-largest investment bank in the country behind Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, which has a market value of about $63.4 billion, and Merrill Lynch, which is valued at about $36 billion.
"It seems to me that the revised offering price is entirely reasonable and even expected," said John Keefe, president of Keefe Worldwide, a financial-services consulting firm in New York. "Market conditions make that almost mechanical."
The revised offering price was first disclosed in The Wall Street Journal yesterday and coincides with an international sales push this week by Goldman aimed at wooing investors worldwide.
In a nod to the rich valuations investors are placing on any stock even remotely connected to the Internet, Goldman -- although still a neophyte when it comes to cyberspace -- emphasized a nascent Internet strategy in the offering document. Goldman noted its investments in electronic commerce concerns and the development of its on-line capabilities.
The offering also disclosed more about Goldman's finances and reveals just how dependent the firm is on highly unpredictable -- and often risky -- trading revenue.
For its first quarter, which ended in February, Goldman earned $1 billion on revenue of $3 billion, compared with $884 million on revenue of $2.5 billion in the quarter a year earlier.
Trading remains Goldman's dominant line of business, making up $1.36 billion of the revenue in the quarter, while investment banking contributed $902 million. Revenue from asset management was $736 million in the quarter.
Within the trading operation, bond trading brought in $876 million in revenue and equity trading brought about $455 million. Within the investment banking unit, Goldman's vaunted mergers-and-acquisitions business had revenue of $522 million, while underwriting had revenue of $380 million.
Goldman earned $1.3 billion on revenue of $8.5 billion for the fiscal year that ended Nov. 30. Trading losses caused Goldman's fourth-quarter pretax profit to fall 81 percent, to $107 million, its worst quarter in four years, down from $567 million in the quarter a year earlier. Those losses helped undermine Mr. Corzine's standing at the firm.
Goldman also named two new directors to its board, increasing its size to 13. The new members are Sir John Browne, chief executive of BP Amoco P.L.C., and James A. Johnson, chairman of Fannie Mae, the mortgage-financing giant.
Signaling that the firm has faith that South Korea's economy will strengthen, Goldman also confirmed yesterday that it had agreed to buy a 17 percent stake in Kookmin Bank, a South Korean consumer bank once owned by the Government, for about $500 million. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); HAWAII, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: STOCK OFFERINGS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (70%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L; PAULSON, HENRY M JR; THAIN, JOHN A; THORNTON, JOHN L JOHN THAIN (90%); HENRY PAULSON (89%); JON CORZINE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



262 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Big Name For Senate In Virginia

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12

 BODY:
George F. Allen, a Republican known for his congeniality and conservatism when he was Governor of Virginia, is expected to announce on Tuesday that he will run for the Senate next year, challenging the two-term incumbent Democrat, Charles S. Robb.
Highly popular in the state from his years in the Virginia Legislature, Mr. Allen became Governor in 1993, winning 58 percent of the vote. After his single four-year term, which is all Virginia law allows for governors, he returned to private practice as a lawyer and began planning for a Senate campaign by raising money and speaking across the state. 
 Terri Hauser, a campaign spokeswoman, said she did not want to pre-empt Mr. Allen's announcement plans but added, "He's been testing the waters, and they're feeling mighty fine."
Even before Mr. Allen indicated that he would run for the Senate, forming an exploratory committee in December, Mr. Robb was viewed by many political analysts as one of the most vulnerable of the 14 Democratic senators seeking re-election next year.
While Republicans were winning control of Congress in 1994, Virginia voters found Mr. Robb's admitted marital infidelities only slightly less objectionable than the role his opponent, Oliver L. North, the former Marine lieutenant colonel, played in the Iran-contra affair.
But Mr. Allen, 47, has no such baggage, and already, statewide polls have shown that he would defeat Mr. Robb, 59, by a comfortable margin. Neither candidate is expected to face a major challenge before the general election.
"He enters this race as an incumbent underdog," Robert Holsworth, a professor of political science at Virginia Commonwealth University, in Richmond, said of Mr. Robb. "I think the race is likely to be close, but the early polls show Allen beating him in a head-to-head race."
As Governor, Mr. Allen left a firm legacy, reflecting Republican ideals that are popular among many Republican governors. He pushed through one of the country's toughest welfare-to-work programs, and he led an effort to eliminate parole for violent offenders.
He also worked to establish standards of learning in Virginia's public schools, setting them so high that only 2 percent of the state schools passed them last year when they were measured for the first time.
Mr. Allen would also seem to benefit from a state Republican Party that is more unified now than it was six years ago.
Mr. North won the party nomination after a bruising fight with James C. Miller 3d, a former budget director in the Reagan Administration. Then he failed to win the endorsement of the state's most popular Republican, Senator John W. Warner, or his Commander in Chief, President Ronald Reagan, a setback that effectively split the party through the fall campaign season.
With Mr. Warner backing J. Marshall Coleman, a Republican-turned-independent, Mr. Robb won in the general election with 46 percent of the vote to 43 percent for Mr. North and 11 percent for Mr. Coleman.
State Democratic officials say they expect Mr. Robb to attack Mr. Allen as a conservative who is out of step with most Virginia voters.
Craig Bieber, chairman of the state Democratic Party, says that though Mr. Allen "cultivates a moderate facade, he is really as right-wing as North was."
Mr. Bieber also said Mr. Allen could prove vulnerable for taking credit for state economic expansion that would have occurred anyway and for policies that have made Virginia a leading importer of prisoners and garbage from other states.
"Senator Robb will run on the fact he is a moderate voice of reason in the United States Senate," Mr. Bieber said. "It will be up to us to point out that Allen is as extreme as Ollie North was."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: George F. Allen, former Governor of Virginia, plans a Senate run. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA; UNITED STATES (99%); VIRGINIA, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (83%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); BUDGETS (75%); FUNDRAISING (75%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (71%); LAWYERS (69%); PAROLE (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; ALLEN, GEORGE F; ROBB, CHARLES S (SEN) RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN WARNER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



263 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
Behind a Badge, Confronting Issues of Race

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS 

 BODY:
LIEUT. ERIC ADAMS'S police career began with a beating. His own.
He was 15 and had a nose for trouble, which was easy enough to find in South Jamaica, Queens, where his mother met the mortgage payments and raised six children cleaning houses by day and office buildings by night. 
 Lieutenant Adams was the kind of child who "wore my mother's knees down praying for me." This long-ago night was typical. With his 16-year-old brother, he was arrested for criminal trespass, entering the home of a prostitute to take money the boys said she owed them.
His mother waved the police away when they came to the door, true to her rule that any child of hers who was arrested could go straight to jail. Next stop was the 103d Precinct House for booking. There, Lieutenant Adams said, he and his brother Conrad were pummeled by two white officers. By the time a black officer intervened, the 15-year-old had passed out. For a week afterward, he said, he urinated blood.
"They asked, 'Do you feel like a beating?' like you might ask, 'Do you feel like a hamburger?' " said Lieutenant Adams, a platoon commander in Brooklyn and president of 100 Blacks in Law Enforcement. "When the ordeal was over, my brother," who has become a building contractor, "hated the thought of the police and I wanted to be part of it."
As he explained the revelation that bad cops have the power to inflict pain and good cops the power to stop it, Lieutenant Adams polished off a platter of waffles, fried chicken and grits at Sugar Hill, a Bedford-Stuyvesant restaurant. He had just come off the midnight-to-8 shift at the 94th Precinct in Greenpoint and spent the day studying for his captain's exam and planning the next move in an effort to get Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Police Commissioner Howard Safir and the City Council to confront issues of race in policing in the wake of the Diallo killing.
Lieutenant Adams, 38 and single, has been a gadfly since leaving the Police Academy in 1984 with the highest grades in his class. He held top positions in the Guardians, the fraternal organization for African-American police officers. In 1995, he formed 100 Blacks in Law Enforcement in response to the election of Mayor Giuliani, whose reputation for awkward race relations preceded him.
The organization began with 10 black officers, each of whom enlisted 10 more. The officers donated $120 apiece for a fund to aid residents in their precincts, such as a girl who needed books for medical school and a child whose bike had been stolen.
These modest good works continue, but lately the group has been speaking out about the Diallo shooting, as the Guardians have not. They have held seminars for young black men on how to behave during a stop-and-frisk so as not to inflame the officers from the Street Crime Unit, to keep them from mistaking a man fumbling for a wallet or a child with a candy bar for an armed criminal.
"Reaching while black shouldn't be punishable by death," Lieutenant Adams said. "But I can't teach kids on the way it ought to be. I have to teach them on the way it is."
PAINFUL truths about race, Lieutenant Adams said, are avoided by the department. "Lying is at the root of our training," he said. "At the academy, recruits are told that they should not see black or brown people as different, but we all do. We all know that the majority of people arrested for predatory crimes are African-American. We didn't create that scenario, but we have to police in that scenario. So we need to be honest and talk about it."
There is similar disingenuousness in precinct assignments, Lieutenant Adams said, as one of the few blacks in the 94th Precinct, a largely white area with many Polish immigrants. Postings are not affected by race or ethnicity, but Lieutenant Adams says they ought to be.
Jewish officers assigned to Williamsburg, Brooklyn, he said, would try to avoid putting Orthodox suspects into police cars on the Sabbath. Italian officers might not misunderstand the body language of compatriots in Bensonhurst. And if a lieutenant like him was platoon commander in Brownsville, young men would say: " 'Wow, there's one of us inside.' I'd be a welcome mat."
Lieutenant Adams said Commissioner William J. Bratton welcomed his views. But Commissioner Safir avoided a meeting for the first two years of his tenure, and only sat down with representatives of 100 Blacks after the Diallo shooting. Marilyn Mode, a deputy police commissioner, described that meeting as "frank" and "candid," words usually associated with failed diplomacy.
Without the influence of Mr. Bratton, Lieutenant Adams sees a hardening of policy, such as what he described as overly aggressive crowd control at the Million Youth March in Harlem. He scorned Mayor Giuliani's initiatives since the Diallo shooting, like palm cards telling the police to say Ma'am and Sir.
Lieutenant Adams, who calls himself a conservative Republican, says he was as pleased as any New Yorker who owns a co-op (his is in Prospect Heights) and a stock portfolio when a reduction in crime produced economic windfalls.
"The good people of this city were willing to give up civil rights for safety and prosperity," he said. "But we took a short cut. We were so fed up, we told the police agencies to do what you want. We are all to blame for Diallo."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lieut. Eric Adams said realities of race and human behavior are avoided. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PRECINCT HOUSE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRECINCT HOUSE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BLACKS CONSTRUCTION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (85%); ARRESTS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); RACE & RACISM (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (70%); CITIES (66%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (66%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: GROSS, JANE; ADAMS, ERIC (LT) RUDY GIULIANI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



264 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasuries' Prices Rise, Aided By Purchases Made by Fed

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices rose on optimism that Government reports expected today will show subdued inflation, and after the Federal Reserve bought Treasuries.
"Bonds are attractive" given the outlook for tame inflation, said Alan Day, who helps oversee $4 billion at Stratevest Group in Burlington, Vt. 
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 7/32, to 97 4/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.45 percent, from 5.46 percent Friday.
Bonds got an extra lift from the Fed, which bought $587 million of Treasuries maturing between 2007 and 2019. The Fed makes purchases periodically to add money to the banking system. The Fed needs to add money now to counteract drains caused as people pay their taxes, economists said.
The reports are expected to show a gain of three-tenths of 1 percent in consumer prices and a half-percent rise in retail sales in March from February. Such figures would signal that inflation, already near its lowest rate in more than a decade, is not about to accelerate, investors said.
"Inflation is benign," said Gary Zeltzer, who oversees $1.8 billion at J & W Seligman & Company in New York.
Many investors are fretting that the strong pace of economic growth will increase inflation, though that has not happened yet. Inflation erodes the value of a bond's fixed payments.
Bond gains were limited as companies prepared to sell up to $13 billion of debt, which may draw demand away from Treasuries, traders said.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of a new three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.941	97.816	High Rate	4.19%	4.32%	Coupon Yield	4.30%	4.49%	Low Rate	4.10%	4.22%	Median Rate	4.18%	4.30%	Total applied for	$30,843,163	$31,021,899	Accepted	$10,268,178	$11,824,899	Noncompetitive	$1,370,636	$1,077,105	

Both issues are dated April 15, 1999. The three-month bills mature on July 15, 1999, and the six-month bills mature on Oct. 14, 1999. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); RETAIL SALES (67%); INTEREST RATES (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



265 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Caucasus and Central Asia Look to Pipeline Opening Saturday to Cut Reliance on Russia

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: BAKU, Azerbaijan, April 11

 BODY:
The new nations of the Caucasus and Central Asia will take a giant step away from their former masters in Moscow this weekend.
Several Presidents and a host of other political and business leaders are expected to gather on Saturday at the Georgian port of Supsa for a ceremony opening a 515-mile pipeline that will carry oil from the Caspian Sea. By opening the pipeline, they will symbolically cut an old umbilical cord that has bound this region to Russia. 
 Many people in the region believe that oil is the key to their prosperity, but until now, all pipeline routes have led through Russia. That has given Russia the power to control and even choke the region's economic growth.
The new pipeline breaks this monopoly. It gives an important option to countries that are beginning to exploit the vast oil reserves under and around the Caspian.
"It means the world to us," said Vafa Guluzade, chief foreign policy adviser to President Heydar Aliyev of Azerbaijan. "This pipeline gives Caspian countries a reliable way to export our oil without going through Russia. It is hugely important in an economic sense, but it is even more important politically. Now, for the first time, we have direct access to the West. We are freeing ourselves from Russia after 200 years."
The new pipeline begins at Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan, and will carry 115,000 barrels of crude oil daily. After the oil reaches Supsa, tankers will carry it across the Black Sea to the Mediterranean and to Western markets.
Oil for the pipeline is being produced by a consortium of 11 companies from eight nations, including the United States. With new pumping stations, and lubricants to make it flow faster, the capacity of the line can be more than doubled.
Until now, oil from the consortium's undersea field has been shipped by rail and through an unreliable pipeline from Baku through the turbulent Russian republics of Chechnya and Dagestan to Russia's Black Sea port of Novorossisk.
The pipeline is intermittently closed by the separatist rulers in Chechnya, and shivering Russians who live along the way often drill holes in it to divert oil for their needs.
The new line has taken the consortium more than two years to build and cost about $1.5 billion. At the peak of activity, more than 3,000 people worked on it.
Besides the oil companies, the most immediate beneficiaries of the project will be Azerbaijan and Georgia, the two countries through which it runs. Leaders of both countries complain that Russia is trying to destabilize their fragile Governments, and they are eager to find new friends in the West.
The Baku-Supsa pipeline cannot carry the large amounts of oil that are expected to be produced by Caspian nations in the coming years, though. Production is expected to exceed one million barrels a day by the end of the next decade. The United States wants that oil to be exported through a pipeline that would run from Azerbaijan across Georgia and Turkey to the Mediterranean, but no contract has been signed.
Although most of the Baku-Supsa pipeline runs underground, there are security concerns. It runs near areas of Georgia where separatists could pose a threat. But Georgian leaders are as enthusiastic about it as their Azerbaijani counterparts.
"It is a vitally important project for the entire region, defining the region in the broadest sense as stretching from Ukraine all the way to Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan," said Zurab Zhvania, Speaker of the Georgian Parliament. "It gives us a chance to connect ourselves to each other and to the world in a way that keeps us free from political pressure or influence or manipulation."
"It means a great deal to us," he continued, "which is why not everyone around us likes the idea. I'm talking about Russia, but also about Iran. They are not happy, and I can understand why. Actually, I think our enemies understand the importance of this project better than our friends." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); AZERBAIJAN (94%); CAUCASIAN STATES (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); 

STATE: CASPIAN SEA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; AZERBAIJAN; BAKU (AZERBAIJAN); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); AZERBAIJAN (94%); CAUCASIAN STATES (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); CASPIAN SEA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PIPELINES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MARINE TANKERS (76%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (76%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); HARBORS & PORTS (72%); REFINED PETROLEUM PIPELINES (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (53%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



266 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: SLAVIC ALLIANCE;
Yugoslavs Seek Support Of Russia And Belarus

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, April 12

 BODY:
The Yugoslav federal Parliament voted today to join an alliance with Russia and Belarus, apparently with an eye toward getting Russia's military involved in stopping NATO air raids.
Serbia's Premier, Mirko Marajnovic, said after the vote that the proposal is "another way to resist NATO aggression," adding that it was normal for Yugoslavia to join a union with its historic Slavic Orthodox allies. 
 Russia's Foreign Minister, Igor S. Ivanov, said that Moscow regards the idea of Yugoslav membership in the union positively and that his ministry would study it. But he cautioned Yugoslavia that membership could not be granted quickly.
The NATO air strikes, which began on March 24 to force Yugoslavia's President, Slobodan Milosevic, to accept a peace agreement in Kosovo, have severely crippled the nation's industrial infrastructure and destroyed numerous military targets.
Mr. Milosevic called the Parliament vote a "historic step on the road of integration, security, stability and peace at the turn of the century."
The vote was based on an initiative by the Serbian nationalist Radical Party following a visit last week by Gennadi Seleznyov, the Communist who is the Speaker of the Russian Parliament's lower house.
Meanwhile, officials in Montenegro, the smaller republic of the Serbian-dominated Yugoslav federation, rejected the plan and said they would rather see their future in the European Union and NATO's Partnership for Peace program for non-member countries.
"Whatever they decide at today's federal Parliament session will not oblige Montenegro to follow suit, just like none of their other decisions bind us," the deputy speaker of the Montenegrin Parliament, Predrag Popovic, told reporters before the vote.
The idea of a union between Russia, Belarus and Yugoslavia is particularly popular among Russian and Yugoslav Communists and hard-line nationalists who regret the breakup of the Soviet Union.
The idea is also popular among many politicians in Russia, although some, including President Boris N. Yeltsin, have said that now is not the best time for it.
However, liberals have warned that Russia should be wary of aligning itself with the authoritarian President of Belarus, Aleksandr Lukashenko, and of burdening the already limping Russian economy with another economic drain.
It was unclear what formal steps need to be taken for Yugoslavia to become a member of the alliance.
Russia and Belarus had haggled for months before the union deal was completed in 1997 -- and it remains largely an agreement on paper.
Even if Yugoslavia were admitted, it would not automatically mean military aid. The union calls for military cooperation, but also envisions extensive political and economic relations, including the possibility of a single currency.
This is the first time since its founding in 1918 that Yugoslavia has tried to join an alliance with other nations. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); BELARUS (94%); MONTENEGRO (93%); KOSOVO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NATO'S PARTNERSHIP (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; RUSSIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); BELARUS; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); BELARUS (94%); MONTENEGRO (93%); KOSOVO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); POLITICS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); LIBERALISM (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (58%); CURRENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: IVANOV, IGOR S (MIN); MARAJNOVIC, MIRKO (PRIME MIN) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



267 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
At G.M., Speculation on Chairman's Successor

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 12

 BODY:
Harry J. Pearce, the vice chairman of the General Motors Corporation, has largely recovered from leukemia and is again a leading candidate to succeed John F. Smith Jr., G.M.'s chairman and chief executive, who turned 61 last Tuesday, auto industry executives said.
Mr. Smith had been delegating considerable responsibility this year to Mr. Pearce, 56, and to G. Richard Wagoner Jr., 46, who became G.M.'s president and chief operating officer last October. Mr. Wagoner is likely to play a prominent but slightly more junior role in combination with Mr. Pearce after Mr. Smith retires, said industry officials, all of whom insisted on anonymity. 
 Mr. Smith's increasing delegation of responsibility and often visible weariness has prompted considerable speculation here that he might retire, possibly within the next year. He has avoided giving any clear, public indication of whether he would like to stay until he turns 65. Steven J. Harris, G.M.'s vice president for worldwide communications, said today that Mr. Smith had "no plans at this point" to retire.
Continuing discussions of Mr. Smith's eventual successor come as G.M. is profiting handsomely from a vigorous economy. But the world's largest auto maker is also losing market share at home, partly because it failed to foresee the strength of demand for full-sized pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles. The company's stock has risen sharply since the end of a crippling, two-month strike last summer but has generally trailed shares of G.M.'s archrival, the Ford Motor Company.
G.M.'s shares rose $2.50, to $88.125 yesterday, as the company announced that next month it would spin off its 82.3 percent stake in its auto parts division, the Delphi Automotive Systems Corporation. The United Automobile Workers union has opposed the spinoff but declined to comment this afternoon on G.M.'s action.
J. T. Battenberg 3d, Delphi's chairman and chief executive, said that Mr. Pearce "has been an active participant" in the spinoff.
Mr. Pearce, a lawyer who rose through the general counsel's office at G.M., is again playing a central role in setting G.M.'s strategy, officials said. He is guiding policy on a wide range of issues, including the spinoff of Delphi, while overseeing subsidiaries like Hughes Electronics and tackling strategic problems that are not part of the daily management of the auto business, which Mr. Wagoner handles.
Mr. Pearce was diagnosed early last summer with leukemia, but continued doing considerable work from home so as to remain involved with the company. He said in a brief telephone conversation last week that he was feeling fine and on the path to recovery; he has begun giving interviews again this month as the company presents him as once more a physically fit executive able to carry broad responsibilities.
Mr. Harris, G.M.'s vice president for worldwide communications, said today that that no decision had been made on who would become G.M.'s next chairman. He said that Mr. Pearce was working at least four days a week now, characterizing that schedule as "full time."
"He is back full time and fully engaged -- as far as what he'll be doing longer term, that is for the board," he said. "The board routinely and regularly discusses succession issues but there's nothing new to report."
Mr. Pearce was treated at the Mayo Clinic. Dr. Esperanza Papadopoulos, a bone marrow specialist at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, said that many leukemia patients fully recover from their illnesses these days, particularly those who receive early treatment. Dr. Papadopoulos said that while she had not treated Mr. Pearce, it was "certainly possible" that he was well on the way to a full recovery, although it might take one to five years to be completely certain, with the period depending on the type of leukemia and the treatments used.
After Mr. Pearce began bone-marrow treatments for his illness, Mr. Smith's successor had appeared to be Mr. Wagoner, who had been G.M.'s executive vice president for North American automotive operations before becoming president and chief operating officer last October. But Mr. Pearce is much better known among board members than Mr. Wagoner and a decade older; Mr. Wagoner is the youngest member of G.M.'s board by three years.
Mr. Wagoner is also relatively little known to the board. He became a member last autumn and attended meetings infrequently in previous years. By contrast, Mr. Pearce has been a favorite with many board members since becoming general counsel in 1987, frequently attending board meetings thereafter because of the numerous legal issues the auto maker faced, a former G.M. board member said.
"Harry did an outstanding job and he came to the attention of the board," the former board member said. Mr. Pearce joined the board in January 1996, when he became vice chairman.
The most likely scenario is that Mr. Pearce will play the senior role in some sort of partnership with Mr. Wagoner, with Mr. Pearce serving as chairman and possibly as chief executive for a while, too, several auto industry officials said. The result would be the latest in a series of two-member leadership teams at big auto makers, an approach that Ford and DaimlerChrysler A.G. are using now and that G.M. itself tried from 1992 through 1995, when Mr. Smith was G.M.'s chief executive but John G. Smale, a powerful outside director, was G.M.'s nonexecutive chairman.
Warren Bennis, a business professor at the University of Southern California and the author of a recent book on dual leaders at large corporations, said that auto makers were particularly suited to such leadership because of their sheer size. G.M. is the world's largest company in terms of sales and Ford is the second largest.
Always reluctant to be in the spotlight, Mr. Smith has cut back his public appearances even more than usual this year. Mr. Wagoner gave most of the company's semiannual presentation to Wall Street analysts in January, with Mr. Smith making only a few, brief remarks. Mr. Wagoner also gave the keynote speech at the New York International Auto Show earlier this month.
Conspicuously absent from auto industry officials' discussions of who might succeed Mr. Smith is Louis R. Hughes, G.M.'s executive vice president for new business strategies. The new title, which does not include operational responsibilities, was created for Mr. Hughes last October when his previous job, overseeing G.M.'s international automotive operations, was added to Mr. Wagoner's responsibilities. Mr. Hughes was a finalist for the post of chairman of United Airlines earlier this spring.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Harry Pearce, G.M. vice chairman, is a leading candidate to head the company. (pg. C1); G. Richard Wagoner, G.M.'s president, has been receiving more responsibilities from the chairman. (Reuters)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (65%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP FORD MOTOR CO (91%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); DELPHI AUTOMOTIVE LLP (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES EXECUTIVES (90%); LEUKEMIA (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (86%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRONICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (70%); STRIKES (70%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); MARKET SHARE (65%); PICKUP TRUCKS (65%); LAWYERS (60%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (60%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; SMITH, JOHN F JR; WAGONER, G RICHARD JR; PEARCE, HARRY J RICK WAGONER (90%); KEITH E SMITH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



268 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

On-Line Auctions Turning Millions Into Bidders
Millions of people have begun embracing the on-line auction, an Internet phenomenon that in a matter of months has captivated the nation's bargain hunters and spawned a market for nostalgia.
While retailers spend furiously to draw more customers on line, the Internet is suddenly teeming with buyers and sellers making their own markets. Testimonials about bargains abound in the chat rooms where the auction aficionados gather, and some will admit that the thrill of the game is worth it even when they lose or overpay. Page A1. 

Goldman Raises Price of Offering
Goldman, Sachs, Wall Street's last large, privately held investment bank, said that it would raise the price range of its highly anticipated initial public offering to $45 to $55 a share, up from a range of $40 to $50. And that promises to create some fat wallets on Wall Street. For example, the firm's co-chairman and chief executive, Henry M. Paulson Jr., who owns the largest individual stake in Goldman, could see his shares valued at as much as $227 million. C2.
 
Tyco to Eliminate 4,000 AMP Jobs
Tyco International, the top maker of electrical connectors since its purchase a week ago of AMP, said that it would cut 4,000 AMP jobs and that it expected profit to rise by 25 percent in five to six years. The reductions are on top of 4,200 already planned by AMP. C6.
 
Savings Associations' Shares Fall
Golden State Bancorp shares fell, as did other securities tied to lawsuits by savings and loan associations against the Government. On Friday a judge awarded Golden State less than investors had expected, although he agreed the Government had broken a promise of special regulatory treatment. C6.
 
Ford to Buy Car-Repair Chain
Ford Motor agreed to buy the European car-repair chain Kwik-Fit Holdings for $1.63 billion in cash. Analysts said the move would allow Ford to compete with independent repair shops and to sell more Ford parts. C11.
 
I.B.M. and Real Networks in Deal
I.B.M. said that it had enlisted Real Networks, the on-line multimedia company, to help its effort to create a standard for sending music over the Internet. The cooperation between the computer industry giant and the Internet start-up is the latest development in the race to market a consumer-friendly way of distributing music on line while guarding against piracy. Shares of Real Networks rose $39.50, to $247. C6.
 
Chinese Exports Fall in Quarter
China's exports fell 7.9 percent in the first quarter, as sharp declines in shipments to Europe more than offset increased exports to the United States. The report was worrisome because economists fear that China's economy, the largest in Asia after Japan's, may stumble, as did those of other Asian nations. C8.
 
Adelphia Expanding in Cable
Adelphia Communications, moving to become the fourth-largest cable-television company, agreed to buy Harron Communications' cable systems for $1.17 billion in cash to expand in New England and Philadelphia. C4.
 
Profits Up at Newspaper Companies
Gannett and two other newspaper publishers, Dow Jones and E. W. Scripps, reaped better-than-expected quarterly profits as advertising revenue grew and newsprint prices fell. C4.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,339.51, up 165.67
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.45%, down 0.01
The Dollar -- 120.19 yen, down 0.79
 
Graphs: "TODAY"
 
Consumer Price Index
 March figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern
 Expected: +0.3%
 
Retail Sales
 March figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern
 Expected: +0.5%
 
Another graph tracks the share price of Real Networks, since last Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); TYC (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (66%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (55%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (55%); SIC7534 TIRE RETREADING & REPAIR SHOPS (53%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (93%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GOLDEN STATE BANCORP INC (66%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (55%); KWIK-FIT HOLDINGS LTD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNET AUCTIONS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); INTERNET AUDIO (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXHAUST REPAIR SHOPS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); CHAT ROOMS (74%); STARTUPS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (74%); STOCK OFFERINGS (74%); SAVINGS & LOANS (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); WIRING DEVICE MFG (71%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); LITIGATION (64%); EXECUTIVES (53%); 

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



269 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
China's Exports Fall 7.9%, Though Those to U.S. Grow

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, April 12

 BODY:
China's exports fell 7.9 percent in the first quarter, the Government said today in a report that illustrated a weakness in one of the most important growth engines in the Chinese economy. Sharp declines in exports to Europe more than offset increased exports to the United States.
Economists are anxiously watching for signs that China's economy, the largest in Asia behind Japan's, may stumble into the same downward spiral that has hurt several Asian nations. A fall in exports, in particular, could increase the pressure on China to devalue its currency, the yuan, to help make those exports cheaper and more competitive. 
 But economists said that even with falling exports, it was unlikely that China would devalue any time this year. A devaluation could also force other developing countries to devalue their currencies.
Economists also point to other signs of economic strength in China, notably an 11.6 percent increase in first-quarter imports and an 8.3 percent overall economic growth rate in the January-March period.
The trade figures were released as business executives in China expressed disappointment at China's failure to win entry into the World Trade Organization, the group that makes the rules for global commerce, during a trip to the United States by Prime Minister Zhu Rongji. That setback was apparently caused more by politics in Washington than by serious differences among trade negotiators.
Mr. Zhu, Beijing's strongest advocate of dismantling China's trade barriers, may now be vulnerable to critics in Beijing who oppose making significant concessions that open China's markets to greater international competition.
But China's politics are so secretive that any diminishing of Mr. Zhu's standing would only become evident slowly. Today, China's media reported positively on the W.T.O. negotiations, stressing secondary agreements that were made and the commitment by Washington and Beijing to reach agreement on China's membership in the trade organization by the end of the year.
China's fall in exports came principally from weaker demand from Europe, Chinese officials said, citing a 9.1 percent drop in exports to Europe in the first two months of the year. In contrast, China's exports to the United States grew by 8.4 percent in the first quarter.
"China's exports to the European Union do not look promising in the first half of this year," Sun Zhenyu, deputy foreign trade minister, said at a weekend seminar on the euro, Europe's single currency. "The launch of the euro has created more competition to Chinese exports."
Mr. Sun said that the euro's decline against the dollar of roughly 9 percent this year depressed demand for Chinese goods in the European Union. Southern members of the European Union that produce goods at relatively low costs gained some price advantages over Chinese goods.
China's exports to neighboring countries in Asia have fallen sharply over the last year as the Asian economic crisis has diminished demand in countries like South Korea, Indonesia and Thailand.
The New China News Agency reported that exports to those countries rose in the first quarter, though the agency gave no figures.
For all of 1998, exports grew by just one-half of 1 percent, compared with 20.9 percent in 1997.
Positive signs also lurked in the mixed economic data coming out of China today. The most notable was a 21 percent rise in March imports, which suggested an increase in domestic demand -- evidence of economic strength.
Rising imports are also seen as another reason why a devaluation of the yuan is unlikely for the time being. Those imports include many materials for assembly into products that are exported, so a devaluation would make those materials more expensive for Chinese exporters to buy. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (89%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; EUROPE; CHINA (99%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (89%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET EXPORT TRADE (93%); DEVALUATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EURO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH; ZHU RONGJI (PRIME MIN) ZHU RONGJI (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



270 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1986 words

HEADLINE: On-Line Auctions: Let's Make a Deal Without the Haggle

BYLINE: By By AMY HARMON and LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
There was no question that Bill Rue wanted the toy car, a childhood object that set off memories of 1969, when the Mets won the World Series and his parents bought their first color TV. But it wasn't until he found himself bidding against an anonymous foe in an Internet auction one evening that he knew he must have it.
Mr. Rue, a Brooklyn realtor who has no regrets about paying $101 for a used toy that opened at $9, is hardly alone in his embrace of the on-line auction. It is an Internet phenomenon that in a matter of months has captivated the nation's bargain hunters and spawned a market for nostalgia. Day and night, millions of Americans are sweating silently at their computers, bidding electronically on things they have never seen, tendered by people they have never met. 
 While retailers continue to spend furiously to draw more customers on line, the Internet is suddenly teeming with buyers and sellers making their own markets. Items range from a 50-gallon fish tank (four goldfish included) to painted plaster hula girls to the 1987 Mercedes 300 turbo diesel that Bill Steinhour of Herndon, Va., landed with a $5,800 bid.
Whether buyers make out better on the on-line auction block than in a more familiar fixed-price world is unclear. Logic is often lost in the heat of a bidding war. And plenty of people are buying things they never knew they needed. But testimonials about bargains abound in the chat rooms where the new auction aficionados gather, and some will admit that the thrill of the game is worth it even when they lose, or overpay.
Economists say the blossoming of on-line bidding is no surprise. Auctions are theoretically a very efficient form of commerce, the perfect nexus of the supply-and-demand curves. But they have traditionally been expensive to hold and limited in reach. The Internet solves both of those problems: on line, bidders in Florida and California can view the same Civil War-era glass perfume bottle. They are also relieved of the social awkwardness and time-consuming nature of haggling face to face. Many simply automate their bidding, letting the computer take care of negotiation.
It is not all about market efficiency, however. Buyers and sellers might find themselves exchanging E-mail about the former teen-age idol Bobby Sherman, long after the transaction was over. On Ebay, the most popular site, etiquette dictates that buyers and sellers post feedback about each other as a guide to others.
And then there is the adrenaline rush of winning.
"You get the fun of outbidding someone; you get something glorious in the mail, and on top of that someone publicly praises you for doing it," said Robrt Pela, 37, a writer in Phoenix, who has acquired several Partridge Family albums via on-line auction in recent weeks. "It's become my favorite form of procrastination."
If Americans become hooked on cyberspace bargaining, the implications for the retail economy could be as wide reaching as the introduction of fixed pricing enabled by standardized production a century ago. While 1998 on-line auction sales were a relatively small $1.4 billion, some analysts see a future where everything is a negotiation, from heating oil to the chopped meat at the Internet grocery store. "There is a building mind-set of, 'Hey, I can bid for things,' " said Kate Delhagen, a senior analyst at Forrester Research. "All this has the net effect that people start thinking that they can name their price. This is going to cause a real change in how we do business."
In a report released last week, Forrester predicted that business-to-consumer interactions would account for 66 percent of a $19 billion on-line auction market by 2003. Already, several sites like Onsale and First Auction have created a hybrid format of auction retailer. They buy excess merchandise cheaply, particularly computer equipment, and resell it to the highest bidder.
Other unconventional on-line models for bringing buyers and sellers together are also flourishing on the Web. At Priceline.com, travelers name their price, and airlines and hotel chains meet it when they have spaces to spare. (The formula made an impression on Wall Street, where Priceline achieved the highest first-day value for any Internet company, $9.8 billion, when it went public two weeks ago.)
But for now, most Web transactions are person-to-person through third-party auction houses that connect interested parties. And the Web's central bazaar is Ebay, a San Jose, Calif., venture started in 1995, whose audience has recently surged to 6.5 million visitors a month and has a market capitalization of $23 billion (roughly three times that of Kmart). Ebay keeps no inventory and takes no responsibility for authenticity of the wares being showcased on its screens. It does take a variable percentage of each final bid, making it one of the few Internet ventures to be profitable.
Ebay's hands-off formula has raised concerns about fraud. There have been numerous instances where genuinely naive sellers have misrepresented their wares -- advertising an 18th-century British sea chest, for example, when they have a 19th-century traveling trunk. Instances of outright theft, where buyers send off their checks and never receive their booty, although far rarer, have also occurred. While the company insists that 99.9 percent of the transactions on its site go off without a complaint, the Federal Government is investigating individual allegations of fraud. And Ebay reached a settlement last month with the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs in which it agreed to take steps to weed out fraudulent sellers. The company also recently signed a deal with Collector's Universe, an authentification service to which sellers can pay a fee if they want their items evaluated and vouched for.
Still, consumers are voting with their modems, and as they continue to click on Ebay, competitors are trying to cut in. Last month, the on-line bookseller Amazon.com opened its own auction house. Sotheby's and Christie's, the gold standard of traditional practitioners, have said they will soon deign to peddle by modem. And a plethora of niche sites like gunbroker.com, planet bike and mobilia.com, for car buffs, are proliferating.
 
Seventh Heaven For Collectors
If Ebay's diverse population is any indication, the new sites may well find customers. A considerable part of the on-line auction crowd is made up of longtime collectors who buy and sell off line as well. But the Web seems to be igniting the collecting impulse among those who might otherwise have been content to buy retail or not at all.
Stephanie Cannode, 23, a nurse in Kenton, Ohio, for instance, recently began collecting My Little Ponies, which she remembers fondly from her not-so-distant youth. After showing off her on-line finds, Ms. Cannode must now contend for computer time with her father, who scours the auction boards for Zippo lighters; her mother, whose passion is Beanie Babies, and her brother, who recently went to a Nascar race with tickets he bought on Ebay.
Perhaps the most seductive aspect of the auction is the scent of a good bargain. Frequent bidders tend to develop elaborate strategies to outwit the competition, from listing a top bid at the outset and letting the computer take care of the rest, to swooping in during the final minutes after competing bidders have shown their hands.
Some, like Darren Jer of Manhattan, who bought a digital camera at a Cyberian Outpost auction last week for $620 plus $6 shipping, come away crowing. "When it comes to buying consumer electronics equipment on the Web, I'm pretty assiduous about finding the best price," said Mr. Jer, 25, who said he had never tried an auction before. "And I got this for $100 below market value. I'm a happy customer."
 
Logic and Reason Out the Window
Others are more familiar with the notorious "winner's curse."
"If you've got to have something, that will definitely push you over the edge," said Tony Porzio, 38, of Albuquerque, N.M., who concedes he may have overpaid just a tad for a 1964 World's Fair subway map. "But if you've got to have something, you'll pay what you have to pay. That's really the beauty of it."
The other half of the equation is a country full of entrepreneurs tickled to make a buck as they clean out their basements. Mark Siegel, a computer programmer in Miami, has taken to ransacking his closets for items to offer on Ebay. No wonder. So far he has sold a Tori Amos CD, the import version of "Upside Down," for $142, and a copy of the first American issue of Maxim, a men's magazine, that he describes as "basically worthless" for $71. "I personally get a thrill out of selling junk that I would have probably thrown out," he said.
Robert Lavallie, 28, of the Bronx started out as a buyer but quickly became a seller after hearing a friend's sheepish account of having paid $325 for some "Planet of the Apes" action figures that he could have bought at a toy store for $75.
"As a seller I just saw that people were insane enough to pay ridiculous prices for some items," Mr. Lavallie said. "It's not like you actually have your cash in your hand, so you don't realize what you're doing. You lose track of logic and reason."
In fact the barriers to selling on the Web through auction are so minimal that a small but significant group of people have quit their jobs to become full-time merchants. A much larger number sell as a hobby or to make petty cash.
Take Danny Friedman, a 12-year-old Manhattanite, who has discovered that he can make up to $125 a month buying Beanie Babies cheaply in New York City and reselling them to collectors in rural areas. Just recently, he bought Spooky the ghost for $5 and auctioned it off for $38.
While hobbyists rushed in, more established retailers (even pure Internet merchants) resisted the auction format, worried that a bad customer experience could damage name brand credibility. But that's changing. Deva Hazarika, founder of MOAI, a firm that designs auction software, has seen a surge of interest from professionals looking for tools to differentiate their sites from the crowd. "Companies selling directly to consumer see it as a way to create excitement," he said. It will not be long, he predicts, before retailers routinely offer on-line auctions as an alternative format for holding sales.
 
A Way to Dump Excess Inventory
Bruce Van Kleeck, spokesman for the National Retail Federation, also sees a future where traditional retailers use net auctions as a way to dump excess inventory. "Why not have a factory outlet on line where people bid for goods?" he asks. "Ultimately, it makes logical sense."
Of course, sellers of fixed-price goods face pitfalls in entering the auction venue. They must avoid, for example, the potentially ire-inspiring situation where consumers end up bidding more for merchandise than they would have paid in the store. The Web site for Lands' End has been experimenting with reverse auctions for almost two years. On Saturday it puts a limited quantity of some clothing item, like a denim dress, on sale for 25 percent off, but alerts customers that as the week progresses it will continue to mark down the goods. Customers then have to weigh the extent of the discount against the likelihood of the item selling out when deciding whether to bid, but they never risk being burned by paying more than an item's original listed worth.
But the spread of such clever efficiency could defeat the whole purpose. "It's spread the knowledge of what the market price is to every tiny little town in the world," said William Gibson, the science fiction author who coined the term "cyberspace," and who wrote about his Ebay addiction in a recent issue of Wired magazine. "Sometimes I worry there will be such a severe rationalization of the market that the fun will go out of the hunt."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stephanie Cannode, left, a nurse in Kenton, Ohio, and her mother, Theresa, showing off some their Internet auction purchases. Other family members have also caught the on-line buying bug. (Mike Elicson for The New York Times)(pg. C10); Bill Steinhour of Herndon, Va., paid $5,800 for this 1987 Mercedes 300 turbo diesel on the Internet. (Ann Grillo for The New York Times)(pg. C10)
 
Chart: "Sold! To No. 6,547,000"
Auction sites on line, like the four below, are attracting millions of Americans bidding from the comfort of home.
 
AUCTIONEER -- EBAY
www.ebay.com
Largest person-to-person market on the Internet
UNIQUE VISITORS IN FEBRUARY -- 6,547,000
 
AUCTIONEER -- ONSALE
www.onsale.com
Pioneered business-to-person auction format
UNIQUE VISITORS IN FEBRUARY -- 1,692,000
 
AUCTIONEER -- UBID
www.ubid.com
Competitor to Onsale, specializing in computers
UNIQUE VISITORS IN FEBRUARY -- 1,474,000
 
AUCTIONEER -- YAHOO AUCTIONS
auctions.yahoo.com
Recent challenge to Ebay from a powerful portal
UNIQUE VISITORS IN FEBRUARY -- 826,000
 
(Source: MediaMetrix Inc.)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (59%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: EBAY FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); NEW YORK METS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EBAY NEW YORK METS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (59%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING INTERNET AUCTIONS (93%); AUCTIONS (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); CHAT ROOMS (77%); RETAILERS (73%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (68%); 

PERSON: HARMON, AMY; KAUFMAN, LESLIE BILL RUE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



271 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Saving New York's Shipping

 BODY:
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey and Gov. George Pataki of New York have long had profound differences over how to run the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. At the moment, they have an obligation to put those differences aside and conduct themselves like allies for the sake of the regional economy.
At issue is the need to hang onto the lucrative business generated by two major ocean cargo carriers, Sea-Land Service and Maersk, which Maryland and Baltimore are wooing.The two companies have set today as the deadline for receiving the authority's new lease arrangements. The carriers have asked for a refurbished terminal in New Jersey offering better berths, cranes to service huge cargo carriers, and deeper channels. While the Governors have been bickering, Maryland sweetened its offer. 
 Unless New York and New Jersey devise a creative counterproposal, the region could lose two anchors of its maritime economy that provide more than 80,000 jobs in cargo, freight handling, rail and other businesses in New Jersey and about the same number of east-of-Hudson jobs in freight forwarding, warehousing, trucking, banking and insurance.
Mr. Pataki has some legitimate gripes. The authority spends at least $200 million from profitable operations like Newark, Kennedy and La Guardia airports on subsidizing deficit operations like the PATH trains and the Port Authority bus terminal, which mainly serves New Jersey. Cross-subsidies are crucial to financing transit in both states. But those for PATH and the terminal are too high.
Mr. Pataki wants a pool of investment dollars for New York comparable to the value of the Sea-Land and Maersk improvements in New Jersey. He would also restructure the authority itself so that revenue and income from facilities in each state would be invested in that state. But talks on such issues should not disrupt the urgent business -- the possible loss of major shipping contracts. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: MAERSK.B (CPH) (92%); MAERSK.A (CPH) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (87%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SEA-LAND SERVICE INC; MAERSK LINE; PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%); SEA-LAND SERVICE INC (57%); PORT AUTHORITY (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEA-LAND SERVICE INC; MAERSK LINE; PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ PORT AUTHORITY (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND; BALTIMORE (MD); NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (87%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; EDITORIALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PORT AUTHORITIES (91%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIR FREIGHT (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (86%); GOVERNORS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FREIGHT BROKERS & FORWARDERS (71%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (70%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (69%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (65%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



272 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Showdown Ahead Over Political Agenda in Congress

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12

 BODY:
As Congress returned today, House Democrats prepared an offensive against the House Republican leadership intended to force a vote to overhaul campaign finance laws. At the same time, House Republicans contemplated embracing an issue traditionally championed by Democrats: an increase in the minimum wage.
The jostling for position indicated that after the impeachment trial of President Clinton, followed by weeks of relative silence in Congress, the battle over which party controls the political agenda is about to intensify, particularly in the narrowly divided House. And as they struggle over a wide range of domestic concerns, including health-care policy, tax cuts, spending and the shape of the Social Security system, both parties face calculations about which issues they want to promote, which they want to neutralize and on which they want to campaign in 2000. 
 The Republicans are trying to keep attention on four main themes this spring: Social Security, tax cuts, education and national defense. Today they reconciled minor differences in House and Senate budget blueprints, and they planned to push through both houses this week a budget that they said would wall off Social Security payroll tax receipts so that they could not be diverted to other uses. The budget plan for the 2000 fiscal year would also make room for at least $15 billion in tax cuts next year, growing to as much as $800 billion in tax cuts over the next decade.
The budget is a policy blueprint that sets the guidelines for an array of spending bills and tax-cutting legislation and a monthslong struggle is expected with Mr. Clinton over the size of tax cuts and the shape of domestic spending programs.
Anticipating that battle, Congressional Republican leaders today sought to rally the public behind tax cuts at a town hall meeting in Fredericksburg, Va., alongside Gov. James S. Gilmore 3d, a Republican who won election in 1997 by pledging to eliminate the state's unpopular personal property tax on cars.
"Often in government there's competing philosophies," said Representative Thomas M. Davis 3d, the Virginia Republican who heads the House Republicans' re-election effort.
In a swipe at the Democrats, Mr. Davis said, "There's one group in government that seems to believe that if it moves, tax it; if it keeps moving, regulate it; and if it stops moving, subsidize it."
But the Republican plan to cut taxes, though walling off Social Security money, would require stiff spending cuts that even many of the Republicans charged with writing the spending bills have complained would prove too difficult.
Democrats are pushing their own agenda including an increase in the minimum wage, an array of education programs and an overhaul of the campaign finance system. They also want stricter controls on health maintenance organizations, and they are hoping to draw moderate Republicans to their side on some of these issues. Republicans are writing their own health care measures, but unlike the Democrats they do not want to give patients the right to sue H.M.O.'s.
"Obviously we're going to spend a lot of time getting a budget done," said Representative Martin T. Meehan, Democrat of Massachusetts. "But we've had nothing on health care, nothing on H.M.O. reform. Really, if the Speaker wanted to send a message that he was going to work in a bipartisan way, the first bill we would have considered would have been campaign finance reform."
Last year, a coalition of House Republicans and Democrats managed to overcome an array of obstacles put before them by the Republican leadership and pass by a vote of 252 to 179 a bipartisan campaign finance bill sponsored by Representative Christoper Shays, Republican of Connecticut, and Mr. Meehan. The measure, which died in the Senate, would ban the unregulated and unlimited donations to political parties that were at the heart of the campaign finance abuses in the 1996 Presidential campaign.
The new Speaker, J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, has indicated that although he will allow a campaign finance debate, he does not plan to take up the measure until all the spending bills are passed. But proponents of the Shays-Meehan bill want it passed quickly so there will be pressure on the Senate to act.
Seeking to force the issue to the House floor, Representative Jim Turner, Democrat of Texas, said a group of Democrats on Wednesday would begin to collect signatures on a petition demanding a vote on the measure. The signatures of 218 House members are required for such a petition effort to succeed. A crucial question will be how many Republicans join the Democrats.
"I don't know that I anticipate Republican members joining us immediately," Mr. Turner said. "But I think the pressure will increase as the days pass."
The House Republican leadership is showing more flexibility on another measure usually associated with Democrats, an increase in the minimum wage. The Republicans' traditional allies in business oppose the bill, but it is popular with the public and a number of Republican moderates like Representative Jack Quinn of New York favor the measure, which means it is likely to have the votes to pass.
Senior Republican strategists say they are considering moving to the floor this summer a bill to increase the minimum wage, depriving Democrats of the potent issue.
"You get it on the floor and get it off the floor as quickly possible," said a Republican House strategist. "Why drag it out and let them make a huge issue out of it given the vote margin we have?"
The Democrats want to raise the minimum wage to $6.15 from $5.15 an hour over two years. Mr. Quinn would raise it to $6.15 over three years and index it for inflation in future years. It was not clear what kind of increase the Republican leadership would allow to the floor. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE REPUBLICANS (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE REPUBLICANS (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LABOR; MINIMUM WAGE; ETHICS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAX LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CORPORATE TAX (66%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON BILL CLINTON (91%); JIM GILMORE (58%); TOM DAVIS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



273 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2424 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Hard Put to Find Proof Bin Laden Directed Attacks

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

 BODY:
American commandos are poised near the Afghan border, hoping to capture Osama bin Laden, the man charged with blowing up two American embassies in Africa eight months ago, senior American officials say.
But they still do not know how to find him. They are depending on his protectors in Afghanistan to betray him -- a slim reed of hope for one of the biggest and most complicated international criminal investigations in American history. 
 Capturing Mr. bin Laden alive could deepen the complications. American officials say that so far, firsthand evidence that could be used in court to prove that he commanded the bombings has proven difficult to obtain. According to the public record, none of the informants involved in the case have direct knowledge of Mr. bin Laden's involvement.
For now, officials say, Federal prosecutors appear to be building a case that his violent words and ideas, broadcast from an Afghan cave, incited terrorist acts thousands of miles away.
In their war against Mr. bin Laden, American officials portray him as the world's most dangerous terrorist. But reporters for The New York Times and the PBS program "Frontline," working in cooperation, have found him to be less a commander of terrorists than an inspiration for them.
Enemies and supporters, from members of the Saudi opposition to present and former American intelligence officials, say he may not be as globally powerful as some American officials have asserted. But his message and aims have more resonance among Muslims around the world than has been understood here.
"You can kill Osama bin Laden today or tomorrow; you can arrest him and put him on trial in New York or in Washington," said Ahmed Sattar, an aide to Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the blind Egyptian cleric convicted of inspiring the bombing of the World Trade Center in 1993. "If this will end the problem -- no. Tomorrow you will get somebody else."
Interviews with senior American officials and knowledgeable observers of Mr. bin Laden in Pakistan, Sudan and elsewhere suggest that there is widespread support among ordinary people in the Muslim world for his central political argument: that American troops should get out of Saudi Arabia. The embassy bombings, they note, took place eight years to the day after the G.I.'s were ordered onto Saudi soil.
The interviews also raise questions about key assertions that have been made by the Government about Mr. bin Laden. Senior intelligence officials concede that their knowledge of him is sketchy.
"We can't say for sure what was going on" with him from 1991 to 1996 -- most of the years covered in the indictment -- one senior official said.
 
His Affluence Seems Overstated
Present and former American officials and former business associates of Mr. bin Laden say he appears to control only a fraction of the $250 million fortune that the American Government says he possesses.
"Clearly, his money's running out," said Frank Anderson, a former senior Central Intelligence Agency official who maintains close Middle Eastern contacts.
Larry Johnson, the State Department deputy counterterrorism director from 1988 to 1993, said Administration officials had "tended to make Osama bin Laden sort of a Superman in Muslim garb -- he's 10 feet tall, he's everywhere, he knows everything, he's got lots of money and he can't be challenged."
Milton Bearden, a retired senior C.I.A. official who ran the agency's war in Afghanistan and retired in 1995, said the Government had "created a North Star" in Mr. bin Laden.
"He is public enemy No. 1," Mr. Bearden said. "We've got a $5 million reward out for his head. And now we have, with I'm not sure what evidence, linked him to all of the terrorist acts of this year -- of this decade, perhaps."
Political leaders in Sudan and Pakistan who have met Mr. bin Laden describe him as intelligent, soft-spoken, polite. They also say he is deadly serious about his violent brand of radical politics and capable of killing in God's name.
Mr. bin Laden was born into the ruling class of Saudi Arabia. His father was the favorite construction magnate of the Saudi royal family, who gave Mr. bin Laden's family huge contracts to renovate the holy cities of Mecca and Medina and build palaces for Saudi princes.
American officials calculated Mr. bin Laden's fortune by estimating the family fortune at $5 billion and dividing by 20, the number of male heirs. But business associates of Mr. bin Laden said his family cut him off years ago and are managing his share of his inheritance for him as long as he is disowned. Business associates say that Mr. bin Laden has been living on a generous allowance from his eldest brother and that his assets in Saudi Arabia are now frozen.
In 1980, at 22, Mr. bin Laden left Saudi Arabia and moved to the Afghan frontier. In Peshawar, Pakistan -- working alongside, but never directly allied with, the C.I.A. -- he used his money and his machines to help the Afghan rebels fight the Soviet Army invaders.
The Afghan war shaped Mr. bin Laden, those who know him say. "He is an ordinary person who is very religious," said President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan, who met Mr. bin Laden often from 1992 to 1996. "He believes in the rule of Islam and where possible the establishment of an Islamic state. The time that he spent in Afghanistan led him to believe that this might be achieved through military means."
Legend has it that Mr. bin Laden fought bravely against Soviet troops. But former C.I.A. officers say he was a financier, not a warrior -- "a philanthropist supporting a number of health care, widows-and-orphans charity operations in Peshawar for Afghan refugees," as Mr. Anderson put it.
He also helped create a headquarters called Al Qaeda, the Base. It was a way station in Peshawar where Egyptian and Saudi volunteers rested before setting off for battle in Afghanistan. Its name became a kind of flag uniting Mr. bin Laden's followers. American officials call it a global terrorist network.
When the Soviet forces left Afghanistan in 1989, Mr. bin Laden went home to Saudi Arabia. He soon set his sights on the last remaining superpower.
"He himself was very much wary about America," said Saad al-Faqih, a Saudi exile living in London, who worked as a surgeon for wounded Afghan fighters, "very skeptical about America and the Saudi regime."
He found a new enemy on Aug. 7, 1990, when the United States began sending half a million soldiers to Saudi Arabia, preparing for war against Iraq.
"One of the stories put out by bin Laden is that he went to King Fahd and promised that he would raise holy warriors who would protect Saudi Arabia," said Mr. Anderson, who was the chief of the C.I.A.'s Near East operations in the mid-1990's. "His violent opposition to the Saudi royal family began when King Fahd denied or rejected that offer."
 
Americans Painted As New Crusaders
To Mr. bin Laden the deployment of Americans in the land of Mecca and Medina smacked of the Crusades, the Christian religious wars against Islam that began nine centuries ago. His rage transformed him into a stateless outlaw.
In November 1991, Saudi intelligence officers caught Mr. bin Laden smuggling weapons from Yemen, his father's homeland. They withdrew his passport. Soon afterward he made his way to Sudan, which had decreed its borders open to all Muslims, with or without passports or visas.
Veterans of the Afghan jihad, or holy war, against Moscow followed Mr. bin Laden, under Al Qaeda's banner. But "when Al Qaeda was moved to Sudan, it lost around 70 percent of its members," Mamdouh Mahmud Salim, accused of being an associate of Mr. bin Laden, said during an interrogation by the German police after his arrest in September.
"This group didn't have a purpose except to carry out the jihad," Mr. Salim said, "and since nobody carried out the jihad, it lost a lot of its members."
 
He Lived As an Investor
There were three kinds of men in Al Qaeda, he said. First, "people who had no success in life, had nothing in their heads and wanted to join just to keep from falling on their noses." Second, "people who loved their religion but had no idea what their religion really meant." And third, "people who have nothing in their heads but to fight and solve all the problems in the world with battles."
Mr. bin Laden lived in Khartoum, the Sudanese capital, "as an investor," said President Bashir. "With his money, he was adventurous, and probably he gained this mentality by his experiences as a fighter."
The indictment against Mr. bin Laden says he provided training camps in Sudan where Afghan war veterans prepared for terrorist missions. But a senior American intelligence official contradicted that, saying, "There was never a bin Laden-financed training camp in Sudan."
The official added: "In 1993, '94, '95, he's managing and building up his legitimate business presence there in Sudan. I won't pretend we've got a good intelligence base on this period, but we think he was laying the groundwork for Al Qaeda."
In 1995 two C.I.A. officers were stalked by teen-age followers of Mr. bin Laden in the streets of Khartoum. "Bin Laden was approached by us and was told that this would not be tolerated," said Ghazi Salaheldin, the Sudanese Information Minister. Sudan expelled the teen-agers.
In the face of such perceived threats -- though some were mirages, based on a slew of false C.I.A. reports -- the United States withdrew from Sudan in late 1995. The absence of American diplomats and spies in the country diminished Washington's ability to know what Mr. bin Laden was doing at the very moment he stepped up his political war.
In 1995, after the Saudi Government rescinded his citizenship, he began sending scathing attacks on the royal family from Khartoum.
"Bin Laden took a chance and started doing some political activities," President Bashir said, "not terrorist activities, but he started issuing political bulletins and communiques and faxes" denouncing the Saudi Government as corrupt and repressive.
The United States took notice. "There had been confusion" after the World Trade Center bombing about the nature of radical Islamic threats to the United States, said Mr. Johnson, the former senior counterterrorism official.
 
No Evidence To Implicate Him
"There were lots of theories, not very good intelligence, and so the intelligence community actually started generating a picture that Osama bin Laden was, if you will, the new face of terrorism," he said.
On May 31, 1996, four Saudis were beheaded after confessing to bombing a Saudi National Guard post in Riyadh and killing five Americans. All told their interrogators that they had received Mr. bin Laden's communiques. Only 25 days later, a truck bomb tore through a military post in Dhahran, killing 19 American soldiers.
Mr. bin Laden was blamed by American officials for instigating the attacks. But no known evidence implicates him, and the Saudi Interior Minister, Prince Nayef ibn Abdel Aziz, has absolved him. "Maybe there are people who adopt his ideas," Prince Nayef said. "He does not constitute any security problem to us."
Shortly before the Dhahran attack, Mr. bin Laden and members of his entourage left Sudan in a C-130 military transport plane. The Sudanese had asked him to leave -- at the request of the United States. Mr. bin Laden landed at an American-built airport in Kandahar, Afghanistan. Three months later, on Aug. 23, 1996, he declared war on the United States.
"The situation in Saudi Arabia is like a great volcano about to erupt," his declaration stated. "Everyone talks openly about economic recession, high prices, debt" and "the filling up of the prisons."
 
How Did He Control the Bombers?
Mr. bin Laden's criticisms of Saudi repression and corruption closely corresponded with State Department reports and C.I.A. analyses. But Mr. bin Laden blamed the United States. "The root of the problem is the occupying American enemy," he proclaimed, "and all efforts should focus on killing, fighting and destroying it."
A second, more ominous warning from him came on Feb. 23, 1998: "To kill Americans and their allies, both civil and military, is an individual duty of every Muslim who is able, in any country where this is possible," until American armies, "shattered and broken-winged, depart from all the lands of Islam."
Then came the embassy bombings last August. American authorities say the men who attacked the embassies in Kenya and Tanzania were controlled by Mr. bin Laden. But they still have no clear idea how.
Despite efforts at the highest levels of the United States Government, Mr. bin Laden and his closest associates remain isolated in Afghanistan.
It is difficult to say precisely where the criminal case against Mr. bin Laden stands. Prosecutors have obtained unusually restrictive court orders that bar the defendants and their lawyers from communicating with virtually anyone.
 
The Case Runs Out of Steam
Publicly, at least, the case has lost momentum. While two men suspected of being bombers were quickly apprehended, many other suspects are still at large. The last arrest was more than six months ago. A spokesman for the United States Attorney in Manhattan declined comment.
Now the hunt for Mr. bin Laden depends on whether the Taliban, his radical hosts in Afghanistan, will betray him. The United States has little leverage with the Taliban, and little fresh intelligence on how to capture Mr. bin Laden. It has no spies in Afghanistan and little new information on precisely how he might have instigated the deadly bombings.
"I do not have a clear picture yet of what happened when," said Prudence Bushnell, the United States Ambassador to Kenya, who was wounded in the bomb blast, which killed 12 of her colleagues. "I may not ever have a clear picture of what happened when. None of us may."
 
A COLLABORATION
This article resulted from a collaboration between The New York Times and the PBS program "Frontline," which will broadcast a documentary tonight about Osama bin Laden that will run on most PBS stations at 9 o'clock. The "Frontline" program was based on the work of Lowell Bergman, correspondent, Martin Smith, producer, and Orianna Zill and Ivana Damjanov, associate producers.
 
ON THE WEB
Past coverage of Mr. bin Laden, the 1998 bombings of the American embassies in East Africa and the American response to terrorism is available from The New York Times on the Web:
www.nytimes.com/ international
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: After an American cruise missile attack in Afghanistan last September, Taliban men inspected what Washington said had been a terrorist camp run by Osama bin Laden, shown above in the mountains in December. (Photographs by Associated Press)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); KENYA (93%); AFRICA (92%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (92%); EGYPT (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SUDAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DAR ES SALAAM, TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (73%); NAIROBI, KENYA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA; AFGHANISTAN; KENYA; TANZANIA; AFGHANISTAN; DAR ES SALAAM (TANZANIA); NAIROBI (KENYA); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); KENYA (93%); AFRICA (92%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (92%); EGYPT (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SUDAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DAR ES SALAAM, TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (73%); NAIROBI, KENYA (58%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; ISLAM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SAUDI ARABIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION TERRORISM (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); RELIGION (86%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ARRESTS (73%); HISTORY (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (69%); ARMED FORCES (66%); 

PERSON: BIN LADEN, OSAMA; WEINER, TIM OSAMA BIN LADEN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



274 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 3243 words

HEADLINE: Teacher Turned Playwright Is Among the Winners of 22 Pulitzer Prizes

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
An Atlanta kindergarten teacher, a biographer of Charles A. Lindbergh and a writer who spent 20 years researching the geologic history of North America were awarded Pulitzer Prizes yesterday.
The teacher, Margaret Edson, was awarded the prize for drama, for her intricately layered play, "Wit," which chronicles a college professor's death from cancer. 
 The Pulitzer Board gave the award for biography to A. Scott Berg's "Lindbergh," a book that examined the aviator's complex life, from his 1927 one-man flight from New York to Paris to his Nazi sympathies, a transformation one onlooker at the time described with the phrase "from Jesus to Judas."
John McPhee, a staff writer at The New Yorker for 34 years and a professor at Princeton University, won the general nonfiction award for "Annals of the Former World," a 696-page examination of the geologic life of North America. It was the 28th book by Mr. McPhee.
Two prizes were awarded to The New York Times. Maureen Dowd, an Op-Ed page columnist, won the award for commentary for a series of columns on the national impact of President Clinton's affair with Monica S. Lewinsky and his pursuit by Kenneth W. Starr, the independent counsel. The award for national reporting was given to the staff, with a special mention for Jeff Gerth, for a series of articles that reported that despite national security risks, two aerospace companies had improperly shared expertise with China with the approval of the United States Government.
The prize for editorial writing was awarded to the editorial board of The Daily News, for its campaign to rescue the Apollo Theater in Harlem from financial mismanagement. It was the newspaper's third Pulitzer in the last four years.
The Associated Press won the prize in feature photography for its collection of photographs of the major figures and events stemming from President Clinton's affair with Ms. Lewinsky.
The A.P. was also awarded the prize for spot news photography for its portfolio of images following the embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania.
The prize for investigative reporting went to the staff of The Miami Herald for revealing pervasive voter fraud in a city mayoral election. The results of the election were later overturned.
The award for beat reporting was given to Chuck Philips and Michael A. Hiltzik of The Los Angeles Times for their stories on corruption in the entertainment industry, including articles about a sham charity sponsored by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences and the resurgence of payola in the radio industry.
The award for international reporting was given to the staff of The Wall Street Journal for the newspaper's coverage of the Russian financial crisis.
The Hartford Courant staff was given the award for breaking news reporting, for its coverage of a shooting rampage in which a state lottery worker killed four supervisors and then committed suicide.
The staff of The Washington Post won the award for public service, for a series that identified and analyzed patterns of reckless gunplay by city police officers who were inadequately trained or supervised. The articles combined data with what Leonard Downie Jr., The Post's executive editor, called "old-fashioned shoe-leather reporting."
It was the first public service Pulitzer for The Post since 1973, when it won for its Watergate coverage.
The prizes are administered by the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism.
The Pulitzer administrator, Seymour Topping, said the singling out of Mr. Gerth from among six reporters was rare for a staff award, which is given to work produced by more than three reporters.
"When we see an instance where a reporter has done very outstanding work and carried a great deal of the burden of the story, we adjust the citation to take note of that," he said.
For more than two decades, Mr. Gerth has been at the forefront of the nation's investigative reporting. In 1992, he wrote the original story on the financial dealings of the President and Mrs. Clinton in the failed Arkansas real estate venture known as Whitewater.
The award for feature writing was given to Angelo B. Henderson of The Wall Street Journal. Richard Read of The Oregonian was awarded the prize for explanatory reporting.
In a year that was notable for long novels introduced with great public-relations fanfare -- like Tom Wolfe's "Man in Full" -- Michael Cunningham's book "The Hours," a slim novel that arrived quietly, won the fiction award for its retelling of Virginia Woolf's "Mrs. Dalloway" from three perspectives.
The prize for history went to "Gotham: A History of New York City to 1898" by Edwin G. Burrows and Mike Wallace.
Mark Strand won the award for poetry, for his volume of poems titled "Blizzard of One."
And a special posthumous citation was bestowed on Edward Kennedy Ellington, the jazz legend better known as Duke.
Ms. Edson, speaking from the office of the assistant principal at Centennial Place Elementary School in Atlanta, said she was told of the award as she was cleaning up after a class project about insects. She said that she would tell her kindergarten class about the prize today.
"I think, as much as they get the idea of the Pulitzers, they will be very pleased," she said, adding that she had no plans to quit her job as a kindergarten teacher.
 
DRAMA
MARGARET EDSON
"Wit"
It seemed somewhat unlikely dramatic fodder, but by weaving together the sonnets of John Donne with a literature professor's battle with ovarian cancer, Ms. Edson wrought a play which, Peter Marks's wrote in his New York Times review, "finds poetry in the reading of a sonogram and science in the deconstruction of a sonnet."
Ms. Edson, 37, is a first-time playwright and full-time kindergarten teacher in Atlanta. (She was called out of her classroom to the principal's office when the award was announced.) She said that the play, which played Off Off Broadway before moving to an Off Broadway theater, was inspired by her experiences working in a cancer and AIDS ward in a hospital in Washington.
"It's really about the relationship between love and knowledge," she said yesterday. "And in the end, about grace."
 
GENERAL NONFICTION
JOHN McPHEE
"Annals of the Former World"
Starting in 1978, Mr. McPhee crisscrossed the United States to gather information about the country's formation over billions of years. The book combines his four previously published volumes on American geology, including "Assembling California," and adds a fifth section on the American Midwest. It tells not only geological history but the history of geology and the stories of the scientists who have worked out the histories of rock and mountain from the plains of Brooklyn to the San Andreas fault.
 
POETRY
MARK STRAND
"Blizzard of One"
Mark Strand, who was born in Canada, is the author of nine books of poetry. He teaches in the Committee on Social Thought at the University of Chicago. Mr. Strand, 65, has been called a "Platonic" poet. His verse is spare, magisterial, his themes universal rather than particular. Thus, in the poem that provides the title for his prize-winning collection, a snowflake is not simply itself, but rather a focal point for Mr. Strand's meditation on absence and death.
From the shadow of domes in the city of domes,
A snowflake, a blizzard of one, weightless, entered your room
And made its way to the arm of the chair where you, looking up
From your book, saw it the moment it landed. That's all
There was to it. No more than a solemn waking
To brevity, to the lifting and falling away of attention, swiftly,
A time between times, a flowerless funeral. No more than that
Except for the feeling that this piece of the storm,
Which turned into nothing before your eyes, would come back,
That someone years hence, sitting as you are now, might say:
"It's time. The air is ready. The sky has an opening.
 
BIOGRAPHY
A. SCOTT BERG
"Lindbergh"
Mr. Berg has written three exhaustive biographies. The first two were of the editor Maxwell Perkins and the film producer Samuel Goldwyn. For "Lindbergh" (G. P. Putnam's Sons), Mr. Berg spent nine years researching the life of the pioneer aviator whose flight across the Atlantic in 1927 made him what Mr. Berg calls "the first modern media superstar." Mr. Berg, 49, who lives in Los Angeles, found Lindbergh an immensely complicated figure, cold and distant to his family and tainted by words of support for Adolf Hitler, but nonetheless a "solid-gold hero."
 
HISTORY
MIKE WALLACE and EDWIN G. BURROWS
"Gotham: A History of New York to 1898"
For two decades, Professors Wallace and Burrows labored in the shadows with "Gotham: A History of New York to 1898" (Oxford University Press). Their 1,383-page populist tale brings humor and narrative drive to the story of New York City. Mr. Wallace is a history professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice; Mr. Burrows is a history professor at Brooklyn College.
 
FICTION
MICHAEL CUNNINGHAM
"The Hours"
In "The Hours" (Farrar, Straus & Giroux), Mr. Cunningham conjures a parallel between Virginia Woolf's "Mrs. Dalloway" and his own novel, moving from a fictionalized portrait of Woolf herself in London in the 1920's to Los Angeles in 1949 and New York in the 1990's. The theme of "The Hours," a reviewer wrote in The New York Times Book Review, is "the haunting of present lives by memories and books, by distant pasts and missed futures, by novels and poems to be read and written."
Mr. Cunningham, who was born in Cincinnati in 1952, graduated from Stanford University and the University of Iowa. He teaches writing at Columbia University.
"It had seemed like the beginning of happiness, and Clarissa is still sometimes shocked, more than 30 years later, to realize that it was happiness. . . . There is still that singular perfection, and it's perfect in part because it seemed, at the time, so clearly to promise more. Now she knows: That was the moment, right then. There has been no other."
 
MUSIC
MELINDA WAGNER
Concerto for Flute, Strings and Percussion
Ms. Wagner, a 42-year-old composer who was born in Philadelphia and lives in Ridgewood, N.J., is an imaginative musical fantasist who once described her accessible, inviting music as "not really about anything that could happen in the world, but about the exploration and potential of ideas concerning sound." In her three-movement concerto, considerable expressive variety is demanded of the solo flute line, which is set against a sparkling, tactile orchestral texture. The work was given its premiere by Paul Dunkel, the flutist, with the Westchester Philharmonic on May 31, 1998.
 
SPECIAL CITATION
DUKE ELLINGTON
On the centennial of his birth, the Pulitzer Prize Board cited Edward Kennedy (Duke) Ellington for his indelible contribution to art and culture through the medium of jazz.
Duke Ellington's protean career, lasting over 50 years, connected jazz's beginnings before the 1920's with its most modern aspects in the 1970's. From his earliest recordings until his death in 1974, he strengthened his command of jazz composition and arrangement. By the 1940's, at the helm of an 18-piece band, he was one of the most innovative and popular composers in America, bridging the realms of dance music and sophisticated art song.
Starting in 1943, Ellington composed a string of tone poems, suites and sacred music, including "Black, Brown and Beige" and "Such Sweet Thunder." His final extended pieces were the liturgical "Sacred Concerts."
 
PUBLIC SERVICE
THE WASHINGTON POST
In its series "Deadly Force," The Post concluded that District of Columbia officers shot and killed more people per resident than any other large city police force.
A Post reporter suspected that the Federal Bureau of Investigation collected but did not disclose police-shooting data. Through repeated requests under the Freedom of Information Act, The Post's computer-assisted reporting team got the data and then analyzed it. Then reporters reviewed previous homicides, talked to the police and prosecutors and at one point test-fired police handguns.
The Post concluded that shootings were so numerous because of poor police training, hair-trigger handguns and questionable tactics, like shooting at moving cars.
 
NATIONAL REPORTING
STAFF OF THE NEW YORK TIMES
The New York Times staff, notably Jeff Gerth, was honored for a series of articles disclosing the corporate sale of American technology to China, with the approval of the United States Government despite national security risks.
The Times reporters documented how the Democratic Party's newest financial backers, high-tech entrepreneurs, had lobbied the Clinton Administration to change the rules. The series prompted official investigations and major changes in policy.
 
BREAKING NEWS REPORTING
STAFF OF THE HARTFORD COURANT
The Courant was awarded the prize for its "clear and detailed coverage" of a shooting rampage in which a state lottery worker shot four supervisors before turning the gun on himself.
The day after the shooting, The Courant published some 13 stories accompanied by a map that traced the gunman's violent trek through the building and a detailed timeline of events.
Coverage also included a profile of the gunman, who had called a Courant reporter the day before the killings.
 
EDITORIAL WRITING
THE DAILY NEWS EDITORIAL BOARD
The Apollo Theater on 125th Street in Harlem may once have been "where stars are born and legends are made," as its motto avers. But more recently, the historic theater has been in decay, as editorial writers from The Daily News discovered during a visit in March 1998, said Michael Goodwin, editor of the editorial page.
The News's editorial board began a campaign to rescue the theater, which is now owned by the State of New York and is run by a foundation. A series of editorials exposing financial mismanagement at the foundation prompted the Attorney General to file a civil suit to try to remove the board of directors, and led state officials to take a more active role in revitalizing the landmark theater.
 
FEATURE WRITING
ANGELO B. HENDERSON
The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Henderson, The Journal's deputy bureau chief in Detroit, read an account of a pharmacist who shot and killed a would-be robber. He guessed it was a man he had interviewed years earlier.
Mr. Henderson contacted him, as well as the family of the victim. "Two lives came to a crossroads that day," he said. His story was honored for illustrating the lasting effects of crime.
Now a senior special writer, Mr. Henderson, 36, a native of Louisville, lives in Detroit, where is also a deacon of his Baptist Church.
 
BEAT REPORTING
CHUCK PHILIPS and MICHAEL A. HILTZIK
The Los Angeles Times
As business writers for The Los Angeles Times, Mr. Philips and Mr. Hiltzik examined corruption in the entertainment industry in three separate projects. They examined the music industry's richest awards program, the Grammys, and showed that its charities spend pennies on the dollar toward its stated goals of assisting unemployed and disabled musicians. Next, they looked into the epidemic of drug use among prominent entertainers and the detoxification programs illicitly run for them. Finally, the reporters explored a resurgence of radio payola -- illicit payments for radio airplay of new recordings.
 
INTERNATIONAL REPORTING
STAFF OF THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
The Journal staff won for its in-depth, analytical coverage of the Russian financial crisis.
Andrew T. Higgins, 41, the Moscow bureau chief, and a team of five reporters explained what propelled Russia's crisis in a series of front-page articles last year. Mr. Higgins has been assigned to the Moscow bureau since July 1998.
The stories were also written and researched by Bob Davis, 48, who covers the White House; Steve Liesman, 35, who covers international oil and gas industries in New York; Elizabeth W. McKay, 37, a reporter in Moscow; Carla Anne Robbins, 45, who covers national security issues and diplomacy, and Mark Philip Whitehouse, 32, a reporter in Moscow.
 
EXPLANATORY REPORTING
RICHARD READ
The Oregonian (Portland, Ore.)
Mr. Read, 41, who covers international business for The Oregonian, won for "The French Fry Connection," a series last fall that, by chronicling the journey of 20 tons of potatoes from Oregon to Southeast Asia, documented how the Asian financial crisis threatened the economy of the Pacific Northwest. "The fate of of one particular load of french fries," Mr. Read wrote, "and the lives and cultures of those who handled it, illuminates the causes and effects of Asia's anguish the way no economic treatise ever could."
 
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING
STAFF OF THE MIAMI HERALD
A team of reporters on the staff of The Herald won for a series of six articles leading to a reversal of the 1997 election of Xavier Suarez as Mayor, a post he had held from 1985 to 1993. The reporters uncovered hundreds of fraudulent ballots including ones from voters outside the city, voters who claimed their signatures were forged on absentee ballots and voters who were paid $10 each. As a result, the election was nullified by a judge, and Joe Carolla, Mr. Suarez's opponent, was appointed Mayor.
 
COMMENTARY
MAUREEN DOWD
The New York Times
Maureen Dowd, a columnist for the New York Times Op-Ed page, was honored for the moral insight and wit she brought to bear on the combat between President Clinton and Kenneth W. Starr. When Mr. Starr's report came out in September, Ms. Dowd concluded: "These are not grounds for impeachment. These are grounds for divorce."
Ms. Dowd joined The Times as a metropolitan reporter in October 1983. She was appointed a columnist of The Times in January 1995 after serving as correspondent in its Washington bureau from August 1986.
 
CRITICISM
BLAIR KAMIN
The Chicago Tribune
Mr. Kamin said memories of body surfing as a boy in New Jersey inspired his six-part series on developing Chicago's lakefront. That series helped shape the city's thinking on the future of its lakefront parks.
"The edge where the land meets the water is a sacred place that everyone in a democracy deserves access to," Mr. Kamin said. Calling himself a practitioner of "activist criticism," Mr. Kamin, a graduate of Amherst College and the Yale Graduate School of Architecture, has also crusaded to improve public housing. In 1993, he spearheaded The Tribune's national design contest for public housing, and in 1995, he wrote a six-part series on how to create public housing that works.
 
FEATURE PHOTOGRAPHY
SUSAN WALSH
The Associated Press
 President Clinton, with the First Lady next to him, addresses House Democrats outside the White House after his impeachment. The picture, part of The Associated Press's coverage of the impeachment, was published on Dec. 19, 1998.
 
SPOT NEWS PHOTOGRAPHY
JOHN McCONNICO
The Associated Press
 Prudence Bushnell, the United States Ambassador to Kenya, after laying a wreath at the site of the embassy bombing in Nairobi.
 
EDITORIAL CARTOONING
DAVID HORSEY
The Seattle Post-Intelligencer
 The Post-Intelligencer won its first Pulitzer Prize for the cartoons of David Horsey, 47, whose submissions focused on a tangled sexual abuse case in Wenatchee, Wash., and the turmoil in Washington.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WIT (PLAY); ANNALS OF THE FORMER WORLD (BOOK); BLIZZARD OF ONE: POEMS (BOOK); LINDBERGH (BOOK); HOURS, THE (BOOK); GOTHAM: A HISTORY OF NEW YORK CITY TO 1898 (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); KENYA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES; WASHINGTON POST; HARTFORD COURANT; NEW YORK DAILY NEWS; WALL STREET JOURNAL; LOS ANGELES TIMES; OREGONIAN (NEWSPAPER); MIAMI HERALD; CHICAGO TRIBUNE; ASSOCIATED PRESS (AP) LOS ANGELES TIMES (62%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES; WASHINGTON POST; HARTFORD COURANT; NEW YORK DAILY NEWS; WALL STREET JOURNAL; LOS ANGELES TIMES; OREGONIAN (NEWSPAPER); MIAMI HERALD; CHICAGO TRIBUNE; ASSOCIATED PRESS (AP) PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); KENYA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (72%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; PULITZER PRIZES; THEATER; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; POETRY AND POETS; MUSIC; NEWS PHOTOGRAPHY ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (94%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (85%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (71%); BOMBINGS (71%); SHOOTINGS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); ELECTION FRAUD (69%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); MAYORS (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (61%); CORRUPTION (60%); LOTTERIES (60%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: KUCZYNSKI, ALEX; EDSON, MARGARET; MCPHEE, JOHN; STRAND, MARK; BERG, A SCOTT; WALLACE, MIKE (AUTHOR); BURROWS, EDWIN G; CUNNINGHAM, MICHAEL; WAGNER, MELINDA; ELLINGTON, DUKE; HENDERSON, ANGELO P; PHILIPS, CHUCK; HILTZAK, MICHAEL A; READ, RICHARD; DOWD, MAUREEN; KAMIN, BLAIR; WALSH, SUSAN; MCCONNICO, JOHN BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



275 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1828 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: Diamonds in theCold;
New Canadian Mine Seeks Its Place in a DeBeers World

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: EKATI MINE, Northwest Territories

 BODY:
To dig rough diamonds out of the Canadian tundra, operators of the first major diamond mine in North America face some of the most hostile conditions on earth -- blinding snow, bitter temperatures and a desolation so complete that for all but two months of the year, when roads cross frozen lakes, no truck can get within 150 miles of the mine.
Formidable, but all that may be the easier part of working the Ekati mine. To sell the more than four million carats of diamonds they expect to painstakingly pick out of the ground each year, the Canadian miners have to deal with one of the most potent market forces in the world: the legendary De Beers diamond cartel. 
 Simply put, the Canadians need De Beers, a subsidiary of the Anglo American Corporation of South Africa. Without it, they risk disrupting the cartel's tight grip on the market -- a grip that keeps gem prices high for all. And last month, in fact, the mine's owners agreed to sell part of its production to De Beers. But that deal carries its own risks, for antitrust regulators in Washington take a dim view of De Beers, and if the owners get too cozy with the cartel, their American businesses could suffer.
For more than 65 years, De Beers has had a near monopoly on the world's supply of rough diamonds, in some years handling upward of 80 percent of the uncut stones sold to dealers and polishers around the world. Formed during the Depression, the cartel -- sometimes called the world's most successful monopoly -- controls or influences nearly every step of diamond production, from the pace of extraction in its own mines and those run by companies with which it contracts, to the distribution of rough diamonds. It routinely stockpiles supplies when prices drop, then restricts their release to help prices recover.
De Beers argues that this is a benign monopoly benefiting almost everyone, an argument similar to the one made now by Microsoft. But the United States sees it differently. More than five decades ago, in 1945, the Justice Department initiated antitrust proceedings in New York against diamond cartel members. De Beers pulled up stakes, never to return.
The closest it came to an actual run-in with the Justice Department was in 1994, when General Electric, one of the largest producers of industrial diamonds, was charged with colluding with De Beers to raise prices. G.E. was acquitted. But to this day, De Beers has no business interests in the United States.
Yet the Broken Hill Proprietary Company, the huge Australian mining company that owns 51 percent of the Ekati mine, does have businesses in the United States -- lots of them, in copper, coal and other minerals. And B.H.P., as it is known, does not want to jeopardize those operations.
B.H.P., with annual revenues of $22 billion, is new to the diamond industry, and is not used to dealing with anything like the De Beers marketing system. After spending years getting approvals from the government and local Indian communities, and 18 months of hectic construction, B.H.P. finally began production in October and is eager to earn back its $700 million investment.
But even B.H.P. acknowledged that the cartel system had kept diamond demand growing and prices continually rising even as most other commodities, like gold and silver, have been plagued by fluctuating conditions that undercut prices and forced mines to close.
"The important thing is that they want to market the stones in an orderly fashion," said John Lydall, a mining analyst at First Marathon Securities Ltd. in Toronto. "In the diamond industry, everybody benefits from prices being high."
De Beers says that includes the 70 percent of American women who own at least one piece of diamond jewelry and want to be assured of its value. The De Beers control of the market, and its relentless advertising -- through its 52-year-old "A Diamond Is Forever" campaign -- enhance the desirability of diamonds.
De Beers does not like to lose control over any source, especially not one with the potential of the Canadian find. In 1997, Tim Capon, a De Beers director and head of the Central Selling Organization, which since 1930 has been the De Beers diamond buying and selling arm, told miners in Toronto that too many independent producers would ruin the system that has helped the global diamond market grow from $20 billion in 1985 to $50 billion last year.
It all reached a crucial point early last month. B.H.P. and its Canadian partner, Dia Met Minerals Inc., based in Kelowna, British Columbia, agreed to sell 35 percent of Ekati production for the next three years to De Beers, while marketing the rest itself, but De Beers will have no control over Ekati's production.
The compromise seems to have satisfied almost everyone. The Ekati miners hope that if they sell less than 50 percent of production to De Beers, the Justice Department will ignore the joint venture. So far, Washington has been silent.
De Beers now has a foot in the door of what could in a few years be one of the world's top five diamond-producing regions.
And, finally, the global diamond industry seems pleased. Pleased to see mighty De Beers taken down a peg or two by B.H.P.'s independent stance. Yet pleased also to see the system that has protected prices for so long remain strong.
"To the extent that the Canadians were able to rattle De Beers's cage a bit, that's a healthy thing," said Martin Rapaport, publisher of the Rapaport Diamond Report, a New York industry newsletter and price service. "But De Beers is still pretty much the only game in town."
De Beers executives appear unconcerned.
"Of course, we're keen to encourage producers to use the centralized system we have," said George Burne, managing director of the De Beers Canada Corporation, which has opened an office in Vancouver. But he said that even though Ekati could produce up to four million carats a year, that would be just a small portion of the 120-million-carat global production.
"With that volume," he said of Ekati, "it's not going to bring the house down."
The existence of diamonds in Canada's rugged north had long been suspected but was hard to pin down. De Beers first prospected in Alberta 25 years ago, but did not find deposits rich enough to make mining feasible. Finally, a dogged Canadian geologist, Charles Fipke, in 1985 came upon telltale signs of diamonds in the Lac de Gras region of the Northwest Territories, 125 miles below the Arctic Circle.
Mr. Fipke's discoveries set off a diamond rush. What he found was that many small, shallow lakes in the area were actually the worn-down remnants of ancient volcanoes from more than 35 million years ago, when the area was a steamy tropic.
Deposits -- called pipes -- were widespread in Canada's north, but the secret was finding those likely to contain enough diamonds to make mining worthwhile. Over the 25-year life of the Ekati project, annual revenues are expected to average $400 million to $500 million, but that is just a small part of B.H.P.'s business.
The area may also soon get a second mine. Diavik, 60 percent owned by the mining giant Rio Tinto P.L.C. of Britain, could receive final government approval by the end of the year. And De Beers itself, through its wholly owned subsidiary Monopros, is in a joint venture with Mountain Province Mining Inc. that is doing bulk sampling on what could be Canada's third diamond mine at Kennady Lake, not far from the other two operations.
Limited diamond mining and prospecting are done in the United States, primarily in Colorado, Wyoming and Arkansas. Little of the output is gem quality, so nearly all the production is used in industry.
Ekati is now basically an open-pit operation, but first the lake above the pipe had to be fished out and drained. What used to be Panda Lake is now Panda Pit, said Brad Skeeles, mining manager at Ekati.
For 24 hours a day, seven days a week, through everything except blinding whiteout conditions, the surrounding granite rock is removed in layers to get at the diamond-bearing material called kimberlite. Once the kimberlite is out of the ground, the process is comparatively simple, said Michael G. Rylatt, manager of the processing plant, though made more complicated by the Arctic conditions.
Because of the relentless cold, processing takes place inside one huge building, three football fields long and more than six stories high. Outside temperatures can drop to 50 degrees below. Inside, Mr. Rylatt often works in short sleeves.
Essentially, Mr. Rylatt said, Ekati uses a process developed by De Beers. The ore rock is crushed into smaller and smaller pieces, then -- using natural properties of diamonds that make them heavier than other elements -- the ore is mixed into a slurry and the diamonds and other heavy minerals are separated from the rock by centrifugal force.
The remaining material is exposed to X-rays, which makes the diamonds luminescent. A light-detecting mechanism touches off powerful jets that eject the suspected diamonds.
Only then does a small group of sorters actually pick out the diamonds. For security reasons, this is the only part of the process when human hands touch the diamonds. The plant processes 9,000 tons of ore a day. The yield: roughly one coffee can full of rough diamonds.
The environmental review of the project was controversial and extensive, with the final agreement alone filling eight four-inch binders. The local government required that a high percentage of B.H.P.'s 500 employees come from northern Canada, including Indians and Eskimos. These jobs pay $40,000 to $50,000, on average.
And Ekati agreed to cover the costs of flying the 160 natives who work at the mine to and from their home communities at the beginning and end of every two-week shift.
The first Ekati diamonds offered for sale in Antwerp, Belgium, early this year brought about $125 to $130 a carat, excluding the largest stones, which will be sold later. The total came to $8.5 million, which Mr. Lydall, the First Marathon analyst, considered encouraging. But the world diamond industry is still recovering from the economic turmoil in Japan and the Far East; De Beers's earnings dropped 40 percent last year.
To avoid the enormous expense of building three processing plants so close to each other, Ekati and the other two prospective mines are expected to consolidate some work, said Vahid Fathi, a mining analyst with ABN Amro Inc., in Chicago. "There are a lot of economic and synergistic forces that are going to force a major consolidation sooner rather than later," Mr. Fathi said.
Mr. Burne of De Beers said the company had had no discussions with the other Canadian players. Even so, De Beers will not be content with its small percentage of the Canadian mines for long.
"Who knows what sort of relationship we can have with them in the future?" Mr. Burne said. "I can tell you, we're not going to go to sleep on it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The main pit of the Ekati diamond mine in the Northwest Territories was a lake before it was drained for exploration. (Jiri Hermann for the New York Times)
 
Map: "New Player"
Canada is about to enter the world market for gem and industrial diamonds, with a major new mine. Map of the world shows sites of diamond production and exploration areas.
 
1997 country total diamond mine production in carats
 
VENEZUELA -- 150,000
 
BRAZIL -- 900,000
 
GUINEA -- 200,000
 
SIERRA LEONE -- 200,000
 
LIBERIA -- 150,000
 
GHANA -- 700,000
 
CONGO -- 15,000,000
 
ANGOLA -- 1,234,000
 
NAMIBIA -- 1,500,000
 
BOTSWANA -- 16,000,000
 
SOUTH AFRICA -- 10,170,000
 
ZIMBABWE -- 450,000
 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC -- 500,000
 
RUSSIA -- 19,100,000
 
CHINA -- 1,130,000
 
AUSTRALIA -- 40,200,000
 
REST OF WORLD -- 386,000
 
(Sources: "Diamonds, Reality and Passion," Eddy Vleeschdrager; United States
Geological Survey via David H. Bellman)
 
Graph: "House Deal"
The diamond industry is dominated by South Africa's De Beers, which seeks to keep prices rising through its influence over global output and sales. Graph tracks world diamond mine production, from 1990 through 1997. It also tracks average wholesale price of a one-carat diamond (top 25 polished jewelry grades), over the same period. (Sources: United States Geological Survey; The Rapaport Diamond Report) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ANAAL (JSE) (83%); AAM (SWX) (83%); AAL (LSE) (83%); BHP (NYSE) (81%); BHP (ASX) (81%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423940 JEWELRY, WATCH, PRECIOUS STONE & PRECIOUS METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (95%); NAICS212399 ALL OTHER NONMETALLIC MINERAL MINING (95%); SIC5094 JEWELRY, WATCHES, PRECIOUS STONES, & PRECIOUS METALS (95%); NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (83%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (81%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); LIBERIA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); NAMIBIA (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); ZIMBABWE (71%); GHANA (56%); 

STATE: NORTHWEST TERRITORIES, CANADA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DE BEERS CONSOLIDATED MINES LTD; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO DE BEERS SA (95%); ANGLO AMERICAN PLC (83%); BHP BILLITON LTD (81%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (84%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: DE BEERS CONSOLIDATED MINES LTD; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (84%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EKATI (NORTHWEST TERRITORIES); CANADA; UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); LIBERIA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); NAMIBIA (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); ZIMBABWE (71%); GHANA (56%); NORTHWEST TERRITORIES, CANADA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DIAMONDS; MINES AND MINING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; CARTELS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); CARTELS (91%); DIAMOND MINING (91%); DIAMOND MARKETS (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (84%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (84%); MINE WORKERS (78%); MINES & MINING (78%); PRECIOUS STONES & GEMS (78%); COAL MINING (78%); MINING OUTPUT (75%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); MONOPOLIZATION (71%); LAKES (57%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY JOHN MAJOR (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



276 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: From Steinbrenner, a Triple Play for Government Investment in New Stadium

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
After 13 years of agitating about a move to Manhattan or New Jersey, George M. Steinbrenner 3d, the principal owner of the New York Yankees, has now publicly expressed interest in keeping the team in the Bronx but has also extended his requests for government investment in a new stadium to include not only the state and the city but the Federal Government as well.
In a brief comment in this week's issue of Crain's New York Business that was expanded upon yesterday by his spokesman, Mr. Steinbrenner suggested that city, state and Federal officials develop a comprehensive plan for revitalizing the area surrounding Yankee Stadium in the South Bronx, including improvements to schools and transportation. 
 Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who had strongly advocated building a stadium for the Yankees on the West Side of Manhattan, hailed Mr. Steinbrenner's interest in remaining in the Bronx. "If the end result is that the Yankees want to stay in the Bronx, that is the best possible result for me and for the city and for everyone else," Mr. Giuliani said yesterday.
The Mayor, who was at Shea Stadium for the Mets home opener against the Florida Marlins, portrayed Mr. Steinbrenner's new stance as a renewed interest in a plan by the administration to build a new stadium and baseball "village" in the South Bronx.
"The model that we are talking about is a model that we presented to him," said Mr. Giuliani, explaining that the city, the state and the Yankees had contributed equally to the model's costs.
The Mayor did not mention the political opposition that had grown around a West Side stadium from Republicans like Gov. George E. Pataki and Democrats like the City Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone.
Elaborating on Mr. Steinbrenner's comments, his spokesman, Howard J. Rubenstein, said: "George Steinbrenner most recently said if the Federal, state and city governments will come to him and the Yankees with a plan to revitalize that area in the Bronx and not just a new Yankee Stadium, he would seriously consider it. And when he talks about revitalization, he is talking about possible retail outlets, entertainment center, transportation, highway access, a vast variety of things that will impact favorably on that borough."
Such developments would most closely resemble a plan proposed by the Bronx Borough President, Fernando Ferrer, who has long maintained that the Yankees should remain in their historic home. But meeting Mr. Steinbrenner's current requests would require substantially more planning, including the involvement of Federal agencies.
Some of that planning has already begun. Since the fall, Mr. Steinbrenner has been involved in discussions with Representative Charles B. Rangel, a Harlem Democrat, about the possibility of using Federal empowerment zone statutes to transform the area around 161st Street, where the stadium is situated.
Mr. Rubenstein said Mr. Steinbrenner was seeking not just government money but assurances that the project could be completed. "It has to be a plan that demonstrates where the financing would come from and who would be in charge of doing it," Mr. Rubenstein said. "He wants the government to be very specific on a wide-ranging basis about the Bronx. He wants to see not only what a plan would be but how it could and would be executed. He is concerned that if an election comes and goes, suddenly the plan doesn't materialize."
In an interview yesterday, Mr. Ferrer praised Mr. Steinbrenner's remarks. "I think it's a very positive first step," he said. "We are getting there. It is an acknowledgment, I think, that there isn't an economic rationale for being in New Jersey and there isn't any political support for a West Side stadium. The Mayor found that out very dramatically last year."
The team's lease at Yankee Stadium, which is owned by the city, expires in 2002. While Mr. Steinbrenner had long kept city and state officials guessing by threatening to move the team to New Jersey, that possibility was essentially squelched by a recent business agreement linking the Yankees to the New Jersey Nets basketball franchise, which is seeking money from New Jersey to build a new arena in Newark and would not want the Yankees lobbying for state money for a new stadium at the same time.
Mr. Giuliani said yesterday that a stadium project in the Bronx could end up costing more than a stadium on the West Side. "It makes the most sense for the Yankees to stay in the Bronx from an emotional standpoint, and because that's the house that Ruth built and it has tremendous history and that alone has tremendous value," he said. "It may end up costing more but it will end up having lots of benefits." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES HOWARD J RUBENSTEIN ASSOCIATES INC (53%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); FLORIDA MARLINS (55%); NEW YORK METS (55%); FLORIDA MARLINS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); FLORIDA MARLINS (55%); NEW YORK METS (55%); FLORIDA MARLINS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; STADIUMS; YANKEE STADIUM (NYC) STADIUMS & ARENAS (94%); BASEBALL (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (75%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M; STEINBRENNER, GEORGE M 3D RUDY GIULIANI (78%); CHARLES B RANGEL (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



277 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: Why the Chinese Are Fretting: Is Clinton Fickle?

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, April 12

 BODY:
When President Clinton visited China last summer, he and China's top leader, Jiang Zemin, held a news conference broadcast live around China in which they discussed every sensitive issue in their countries' relations, from Tibet to allegations of illegal Chinese donations to American political campaigns.
At the time, some other senior Chinese officials considered it possibly the biggest risk Mr. Jiang had taken in the decade since he had assumed China's top political titles -- an unprecedented concession to demands for more political openness. The Chinese public had never before seen live broadcasts of an American President, much less one debating head to head with his media-shy Chinese counterpart. The risk-taking paid off when Mr. Clinton's visit was judged a success by both sides. 
 Just 10 months later, Prime Minister Zhu Rongji has complained at every stop on his six-city tour of the United States that Mr. Clinton "does not dare" to take what he considers to be a much smaller political risk: allowing China to join the World Trade Organization under terms that even Mr. Clinton's own trade negotiators considered a slam dunk.
"We know our American counterparts very well," said a senior Chinese official traveling with Mr. Zhu. "We have been negotiating this agreement for 13 years. When you are doing these things for so long, you know when you have a deal. We had a deal."
Chinese officials accompanying Mr. Zhu pointed to this asymmetry -- Mr. Jiang taking the gamble of his political life, Mr. Clinton overruling some members of his own staff -- as an illustration of what they see as endless frustration in their dealings with the United States. Yes, they say, democracies work differently from dictatorships, but that does not justify what they perceive as Mr. Clinton's fickleness.
The frustration has built even as Chinese officials gush about Mr. Zhu's visit to the United States. The Prime Minister has shown, they say, that he can stand with the most skilled American politicians and argue persuasively for his views. He might even succeed in rallying public support for China's entry into the trade organization, they say, though some Chinese officials have been known to overestimate the political influence that American business leaders have.
That confidence was in evidence today when 1,500 business executives, including chief executives of Motorola, United Airlines, Bank One and a dozen other companies based in the Midwest, gathered at a Chicago banquet for Mr. Zhu. With the Prime Minister seated at the podium, several chief executives vowed their support for China's entry as Mr. Zhu nodded in appreciation. Commerce Secretary William Daley, in town for the occasion, also assured Mr. Zhu that China's admission "is not a question of if, but when."
Chinese officials also reacted favorably to word that some 100 business executives showed up today for a White House briefing on trade talks with China. Several executives who attended reportedly complained that the Clinton Administration misread both public and Congressional sentiment when it scuttled the deal with China.
Christopher Galvin, Motorola's chief executive, said that support for China's entry has gelled enough during Mr. Zhu's visit that he wishes the Prime Minister had visited Washington at the end of his nine-day stay instead of the beginning. "Then we might have a deal," Mr. Galvin said.
Despite such optimism, the damage from Mr. Clinton's wavering may run deep. One of Mr. Zhu's top aides, probably reflecting the views of other Chinese officials, said Mr. Clinton's role in the trade talks was not unlike his decision in 1995 to bow to Congressional pressure and allow President Lee Teng-hui of Taiwan to visit the United States. Although Mr. Lee's visit to Cornell University, his alma mater, was billed as private, Beijing, which views Taiwan as a renegade province, saw it as an attempt to bolster the island's official status.
Then, as now, Congress appeared to make China policy instead of the White House, said this aide, who declined to be identified further. Then, as now, Mr. Clinton intervened at the last moment and overturned an approach that had the firm backing of his China experts. "Clinton's memory is short," this Chinese official said. "Our memory is longer."
Part of the problem is that while China's foreign policy puts relations with the United States at the top of its agenda, the United States juggles many international priorities. It is no coincidence, one Chinese official said, that Mr. Clinton rejected a trade deal while the United States was leading the NATO assault on Yugoslavia.
The Clinton Administration insists that China is a high priority. But Chinese officials doubt that. The Administration, for example, has so far failed to find a suitable successor for its current Ambassador to China, James Sasser, who has made his intention of leaving that post known for months.
The conflict in Yugoslavia is also a direct affront to the two stated pillars of China's foreign policy: peace and noninterference in the internal affairs of sovereign countries. Where the United States sees the persecution of an ethnic minority, China sees the threat of foreign intervention in Taiwan and Tibet, its own restive regions.
But perhaps the biggest worry is that the Clinton Administration did not appreciate the delicate nature of the process that produced China's revised bid to join the World Trade Organization.
China has sought entry to the trade body for 13 years, but it has really made only two strong pushes for membership. The first came in 1994, when the trade organization was born of its predecessor, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The application then came amid a rush of economic reforms. Chinese officials made GATT the symbol of its modernization drive, only to have the United States block entry.
China's interest in joining the trade body, which requires demolition of tariffs and trade barriers, faded in the intervening years. It was fully revived only late last year. Then, Mr. Zhu, newly appointed Prime Minister, made entry his personal mission.
Chinese trade officials said that never before had a senior Chinese leader taken an interest in the details of negotiations the way Mr. Zhu did.
"Without Zhu, it would never have been smooth," said a trade official.
Crucially, the push to join the trade body became the symbol of a new stage in China's reform program. Previously, economic reform focused on agriculture and manufacturing industries. But the new drive aimed at opening the country's undeveloped service sector -- telecommunications, banking, consulting, accounting, entertainment and many other areas -- to both domestic and foreign competition.
With the Asian financial crisis dragging down growth in China and the country flooded with over-investment in unproductive industries, the opening of services was seen as one of the few ways to promote quality economic growth. The trade organization offered a framework to change myriad internal Chinese rules and regulations that keep services off limits.
"Service sector reform and the W.T.O. are the same thing for China," said this trade official. "We won't get one without the other."
China could still get both if negotiations pick up where they left off last week. But the Chinese side, while publicly indicating continued support for a deal, privately frets that restoring momentum will be tricky.
There are no more scheduled visits of Chinese or American leaders. The Clinton Administration may see its remaining clout to push a trade deal through Congress only diminish as Mr. Clinton approaches the end of his term. And, perhaps most worrying for the Chinese, trade was supposed to be the unbreakable bond between the two countries that keeps them talking even when military, diplomatic, and human rights concerns strain ties.
"Trade is the one area where our two interests are really in line," the Chinese trade negotiator said. "So if we don't even agree on trade, the outlook is not so good."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Zhu Ronghi exchanging signals with traders after a ceremonial bell-ringing in the Eurodollar futures pit at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange yesterday. Mr. Zhu is in the middle of a nine-day visit. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (51%); JPM (NYSE) (51%); JPM (LSE) (51%); 8634 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); TIBET (92%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (85%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (51%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (51%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); TIBET (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (85%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (72%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



278 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: The Pulitzer Prizes

 BODY:

ARTS
 
FICTION -- "The Hours," by Michael Cunningham.
DRAMA -- "Wit," by Margaret Edson.
HISTORY -- "Gotham: A History of New York City to 1898," by Edwin G. Burrows and Mike Wallace.
BIOGRAPHY -- "Lindbergh," by A. Scott Berg.
GENERAL NONFICTION -- "Annals of the Former World," by John McPhee.
POETRY -- "Blizzard of One," by Mark Strand.
MUSIC -- Concerto for Flute, Strings and Percussion, by Melinda Wagner.
SPECIAL CITATION -- Duke Ellington. 

JOURNALISM
 The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal and The Associated Press each won two Pulitzer Prizes yesterday.
 The Times staff received the prize in national reporting for a series of articles disclosing the corporate sale of American technology to China with Government approval, despite national security risks. Maureen Dowd of The Times won for commentary, for her columns on the ambitions and values reflected in President Clinton's relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky.
 The Wall Street Journal won in international reporting for its coverage of the Russian financial crisis, and Angelo B. Henderson was awarded the prize in feature writing for his portrait of a druggist driven to violence by his encounters with armed robbery.
 The Associated Press was honored for both spot news photography and feature photography, for pictures of the United States Embassy bombings in Africa and for its images surrounding the Clinton impeachment scandal.
 The Public Service prize went to The Washington Post for articles identifying patterns of reckless gunplay by city police officers. The award for beat reporting went to Chuck Philips and Michael A. Hiltzik of The Los Angeles Times for articles on corruption in the entertainment industry. The Miami Herald won in investigative reporting for exposing voter fraud in a mayoral election that was later overturned.
 In the breaking-news category, The Hartford Courant won for reporting about a state lottery worker who killed four supervisors and then himself. Richard Read of The Oregonian, in Portland, won in explanatory reporting by featuring a local industry to illustrate the impact of Asia's economic crisis.
 Blair Kamin of The Chicago Tribune won for architecture criticism, and The Daily News of New York was honored for its editorial campaign to rescue the fiscally troubled Apollo Theater in Harlem.
 The complete list, page B9.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary; List

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); AFRICA (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES; ASSOCIATED PRESS (AP); WALL STREET JOURNAL LOS ANGELES TIMES (81%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); WASHINGTON POST CO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES; ASSOCIATED PRESS (AP); WALL STREET JOURNAL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); AFRICA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; PULITZER PRIZES; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (79%); ELECTIONS (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); POETRY (71%); CORRUPTION (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); MAYORS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); ROBBERY (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); BOMBINGS (65%); LOTTERIES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



279 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Union Ranks Rise 6% in Connecticut

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
Union membership in Connecticut rose 6 percent in 1998, far outstripping the national average, a result of aggressive organizing campaigns, dissatisfaction among some workers and a hiring spurt sparked by a booming economy, labor leaders say.
The number of Connecticut residents in unions jumped to 263,000 in 1998 from 248,000 in 1997, according to data from the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. Nationally, union membership increased less than 1 percent, to 16.2 million in 1998 from 16.1 million in 1997. 
 The Federal data do not specify which unions had the largest increases in membership. It was collected through household surveys in which people were asked only whether they were a member of a union.
But John Olsen, president of the Connecticut A.F.L.-C.I.O., said last week that the health care, hotel, retail and public employee unions, among others, saw growth in 1998.
Mr. Olsen attributed much of the growth to intense organizing campaigns and a belief among some workers that they were being left out.
The New England Health Care Employees Union, District 1199, which represents public and private agency health workers, added more than 1,100 members in 1998. Its membership grew to 20,000.
A union spokeswoman, Deborah Chernoff, said most of the growth had been in nursing homes, where workers had complained about low wages and demanding jobs.
In February, a threatened strike by nearly 6,000 workers at 49 Connecticut nursing homes was averted when Gov. John G. Rowland offered to increase state payments by $200 million.
Larry Dorman, a spokesman for the Connecticut A.F.L.-C.I.O., said the robust economy meant that employers were hiring more workers and that some of those new employees were joining unions.
Membership in teachers' unions also swelled. The Connecticut Education Association, which represents 33,000 teachers, added about 1,000 members from September 1997 to September 1998.
The Connecticut Federation of Educational and Professional Employees, which represents about 22,000 teachers, state employees and health care professionals, added about 700 members in 1998.
About 500 municipal workers in Stamford joined the United Automobile Workers last year. David Exline, president of U.A.W. Local 2377, said the workers looked to the U.A.W. because they wanted a strong union. Previously, they were represented by the Municipal Employees Association.
Membership in the state's largest public employees union -- the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Connecticut Council 4 -- held steady at 34,000. But the union has added 300 members since January, when it began an organizing campaign.
 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); AFL-CIO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); AFL-CIO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LABOR UNIONS; UNIONIZATION LABOR UNIONS (93%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); STRIKES (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); NURSING HOMES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); COUNTIES (72%); 

PERSON: JOHN OLSEN (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999



280 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY
 
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
SQN#Paid Notice: Deaths
BABSON, ARTHUR CLIFFORD

 BODY:
BABSON-Arthur Clifford. Of Westwood, MA. Formerly of Sherborn, MA. On April 14. Husband of the late Margery (Grey) Babson. Born in Portland, OR, and raised in Parkdale, OR. Graduated from the University of Oregon in 1932 with a B.S. in Economics. Joined Babson's Reports, Wellesley, MA, in 1936 and retired as Vice President in 1978. Mr. Babson is survived by his two sons and daughters-in-law, Reverend John P. and Nancy (Dunkerton) of Halifax, Nova Scotia, and Robert G. and Christine (White) of Medfield, MA. Grandfather of Torrey, Eric, and Heidi of Halifax, NS; and Esther and Margaret of Medfield. Brother of Dr. S. Gorham and his wife Ruth (Lambert) of Portland, OR, and the late Mary Polson Dittenhofer. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, May 8, at 2 PM, in Saint Paul's Episcopal Church, 59 Court St., Dedham, MA. Relatives and friends are invited. Memorial contributions can be made in Arthur's name to the Trustees of Reservations, c/o Ann Powell in the Development Office, 572 Essex St., Beverly, MA 01915. For information, the Holden, Dunnirvine & Lawler Funeral Home, Westwood, MA. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (70%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (70%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (84%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (84%); THE TRUSTEES OF RESERVATIONS (55%); THE TRUSTEES OF RESERVATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (84%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (84%); THE TRUSTEES OF RESERVATIONS (55%); THE TRUSTEES OF RESERVATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (70%); OREGON, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (70%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (52%); 

PERSON: BABSON, ARTHUR CLIFFORD BABSON-ARTHUR CLIFFORD (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1999



281 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 5; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1707 words

HEADLINE: Can This Be Paris?;
The French Learn to Speak Fusion

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES 

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
THERE is a dessert in Paris called the wonton kumquat Nutella. It cannot be found in Escoffier, or anywhere else, for that matter.
Served at a new Right Bank restaurant called Cafe Mosaic, the kumquat surprise comes in a bamboo steamer that holds a very undessert-like display of three soft wonton envelopes, each containing a whole kumquat and a small puddle of molten Nutella, the commercial chocolate and hazelnut spread. The thing is awful. But in Paris, it may be the wave of the future. 
 In this city of bistros, brasseries and three-star shrines, a new type of restaurant seems to be taking hold: ultradesigned, up to the minute and emphatically un-French in style and culinary point of view. The spaces tend to be large and, by French standards, quite noisy. The waiters and waitresses, who are very young, ply their trade with an almost American casualness. The food is strange.
Fusion has come to France, and it feels funny. Influences from Asia, America and -- heaven help us -- even England have been creeping into one of the world's most rigidly codified cuisines. Like steam opening a mussel, the cultural pressures of the new global economy, and the internationalizing of taste, have forced the inward-looking French to look outward on a peculiar new world. Classically minded chefs are trying to assimilate concepts like Afro-Thai cuisine and to accept the idea that patrons care as much about the setting as they do about the food on the plate. The result is a new culinary moment in France, one that Gault-Millau magazine is calling "the new disorder."
All this and the euro, too -- it's a lot to swallow. But Paris seems titillated by the strange new dances that its chefs are trying out, and the theatrical spaces in which they perform them. They have mobbed the new Lo Sushi, designed by Andree Putman, where patrons pick up their sushi plates from a conveyer belt, and Man Ray, a hip-to-the-hilt Pacific Rim restaurant whose owners include Johnny Depp and Sean Penn. The new restaurant wave has attracted a group that Patrick Derderian, the owner of Zebra Square and Bermuda Onion, recently called "the happy few" -- about 5,000 young and restless diners who move from address to address, their ranks swelled by well-to-do young professionals who, like the scene makers, want more than food from a restaurant.
"It appears that the era of the brasserie is over," said Miguel Cancio, a restaurateur and the consultant behind Man Ray, Barfly and Buddha Bar. "People want more -- they want to be transported somewhere else, and to be entertained."
Asian, barely three weeks old, could stand as an archetype for the new fussy French fusion restaurant. It is enormous, a 400-seat, two-level affair that occupies about 16,000 square feet of prime real estate on the swank Avenue George V. The decor is high-tech teahouse, with an emphasis on dark, exotic woods that contrast sharply with the polished concrete floor and a Zen garden of dazzling white sand and bleached rocks that sends out vibrations conducive to spiritual peace. The sound system broadcasts a third-world mix of weird animal noises, rain-forest drips and tribal grunts and chants.
The menu makes more stops than a German tour bus. The dim-sum cart rolls by, followed by mixed plates of Japanese sushi, Vietnamese spring rolls and a green salad with sesame dressing. Dishes bear names like Ming beef, chicken Chitchat, Paradise Lost salad, and the intriguingly named "Delta Brochette Pff, Pff," which turns out to be chunks of chicken thigh on a stick.
It's a menu to read as much as to eat. Each dish is a statement, a little like the macaroni and cheese at Spoon, Alain Ducasse's new restaurant with the cheeky American accent. The dish itself is not as important as the fact that it's on the menu, like the fish and chips at Alcazar, Terence Conran's shiny new Left Bank brasserie on the Rue Mazarine.
Alcazar is nothing if not shrewd. Under the direction of Guillaume Lutard, formerly the senior sous-chef at Taillevent, the kitchen turns out a carefully calibrated mix of brasserie standards, seafood platters, pan-Mediterranean fare and the occasional English dish, like bread and butter pudding, or fish and chips. It's world food for young diners who move easily from Los Angeles to New York to Paris to London and who feel most comfortable in casual, sleekly designed restaurants that buzz and hum.
Alcazar's design is crisp and clean to the point of being antiseptic. The large open kitchen, with its gleaming white tiles and shiny stainless steel fixtures, is so pristine it could serve as a hospital operating theater, which is, in fact, what it looks like. On the blond-wood tables, the salt and the pepper, arranged in neat piles, come in a precision-tooled rectangular steel ashtray (available for about $15 on the way out), and the American-style selection of four rolls (plain sourdough, rye sourdough, black-olive and walnut) is served in what seems to be an oval Shaker box but on closer inspection turns out to be the lid to a container of cheese.
Alcazar is cute that way. Every touch has been thought through with one aim in mind: to make diners feel that they are the actors in a first-class production, with all the right props in place.
It's a set-design approach to dining that was perfected at Buddha Bar. Some of the heat has cooled at this first of the mega-restaurants, but when it opened in late 1996, it created a sensation. It was the Parisian equivalent of Balthazar or Asia de Cuba in Manhattan, a highly wrought stage set that allowed chic young Parisians to put on a show for themselves.
The scene has since shifted, but the decor remains. Buddha Bar is a fever dream of tropical elegance, its dense, opium-inspired interior rich with exotic woods, betasseled chandeliers and lush fabrics. Upstairs is a mile-long bar in the form of a dragon ship. Downstairs, there's the unignorable Buddha, a serene mass of beatitude seated on a square pedestal large enough to support a Cadillac. Rising nearly 60 feet to the ceiling, he has the air of a customer waiting patiently for a very big meal.
When it comes, he will want more spice. The lurid sensibility that went into the decor evaporated mysteriously at the kitchen door. The menu, a pan-Asian and French smorgasbord, skips blithely from Vietnamese spring rolls to Korean-style grilled steak to miso-glazed turbot, an Asian package tour for the timid. When it comes to the desserts, the exotic mask drops entirely. Except for a blancmange with coconut milk, the line-up is as French as a cancan. There's nothing wrong with any of the food, exactly, and the restaurant's excellent hot sauce, served on the side, works wonders on just about everything except the blancmange, but on the plate, Asia seems as remote as Buddha's smile.
In the United States, chefs have embraced the new ingredients and spices of Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean with a sometimes unseemly passion. They may not always love wisely, but shyness has not been a problem. In Paris, however, fusion resolutely refuses to fuse. When it comes to visual style, and atmosphere, the French cannot be beat. They seem to have no trouble with the theatrical elements of dining, or the international design idiom that goes with flashy fusion cuisine from Sydney to Miami. There are not many New York restaurants, for example, to equal the drop-dead elegant Telegraphe, recently redone in a blend of Viennese Secession and Art Nouveau by the design team behind the three-star Ambroisie.
But the intercultural mingling that energizes American chefs tends to stump the French, for reasons that are not that hard to figure out. A cooking tradition as ancient and deeply ingrained as France's presents every chef with a hundred reasons not to try anything funny. America, by contrast, has always been a "why not?" culture, and the national tendency toward experimentation has been powerfully reinforced by an unending influx of new immigrant groups and new cuisines.
The example of Jean-Georges Vongerichten shows that a French sensibility and Asian ingredients can produce spectacular results, but his brethren here in the old country appear to be struggling a bit with their spring rolls and their sesame vinaigrettes. They either pussyfoot or, like a teetotaler who falls off the wagon, go wild and shoot up the town.
Cafe Mosaic, the Mad Max of Paris restaurants, falls into the second category. Deceptively, the interior is cool and understated, with dark wood blinds covering the windows facing the busy Avenue George V, and a suave semicircular bar, decorated with a vase of white orchids, off to one side of the room. All the more shocking, then, to witness the parade of oddities streaming out of the kitchen. Anise-steamed crayfish whiz by in a mason jar. The "salade verte" turns out to be a half-head of iceberg lettuce, sitting on the plate like a stooge. Then come the kumquat wontons a la Nutella, or even better, the "orange a l'orange," a glistening orb of citrus fruit, preciously situated in a large gray bowl, that oozes an orange cream when pierced with a fork.
Some of this is thrilling, like the smoky roast pepper, with a sauce of anchovies, chickpeas and soy, or the ruby-colored pigeon breast mired in a gooey plum-peanut sauce and surrounded by kumquats. All of it is cartoonish. At table after table, French diners, after a scandalized intake of breath, were laughing as the plates arrived, and who could blame them? In retrospect, the two mini-baguettes placed on the table at the beginning of the meal seem like the last word in irony.
It's the kind of small gesture that conceals a big fact: French cuisine has entered the postmodern era.
 
Taste of the Future
 
LE TELEGRAPHE 41 rue de Lille, 75007 Paris; telephone (011) 33-1-42-92-03-04.
BUDDHA BAR 8 rue Boissy-d'Anglas, 75008 Paris; (011) 33-1-53-05-90-00.
ALCAZAR 62 rue Mazarine, 75006 Paris; (011) 33-1-53-10-19-99.
CAFE MOSAIC 46 avenue George V, 75008 Paris; (011) 33-1-47-20-18-09.
ASIAN 30 avenue George V, 75008 Paris; (011) 33-1-56-89-11-00.
LO SUSHI 13 rue de Montalivet, 75008 Paris; (011) 33-1-42-65-18-18.
MAN RAY 34 rue Marbeuf, 75008 Paris; (011) 33-1-56-88-36-36.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: FROM A TEAHOUSE -- Banana leaves envelop a water chestnut, coconut and pistachio dessert, above, at Asian, a new restaurant in Paris. NEW ELEGANCE -- Telegraphe restaurant, left, has an Art Nouveau decor. A BIT OF BRITAIN -- Alcazar restaurant, far left, has fish and chips on the menu. (Photographs by Gary Gunderson for The New York Times)(pg. F6); JUST DON'T ASK FOR FRITES -- New restauraunts in Paris are decidely un-french in their design and menus, whch feature fusion dishes. The Buddha Bar, top left, is a tropical stage set with pan-Asian food. Anise-steamed shrimp is served in a mason jar, top right, at Cafe Mosaic, which also presents escargots in a bone, bottom left. At Alcazar, above right, a seafood stand is part of the spare decor. (Photographs by Gary Gunderson for The New York Times)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (55%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC RIM FOODSINC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS (FRANCE); FRANCE; FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (55%); PARIS, FRANCE (94%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (92%); 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM JOHNNY DEPP (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



282 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Retail Sales Continued to Rise in March

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
Retailers rang up stronger sales for an eighth consecutive month during March as tame inflation helped foster a shoppers' paradise of high spending power in a robust economy.
The Commerce Department said today that total sales by retail businesses rose two-tenths of 1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted $239.6 billion last month, maintaining momentum after upwardly revised jumps of 1.7 percent in February and 1.3 percent in January. 
 Previously, the Commerce Department said that February sales had risen by nine-tenths of 1 percent and January sales by 1 percent. The revised February sales increase was the strongest since a similar 1.7 percent rise in February 1994.
Separately, the Labor Department confirmed muted price rises as its Consumer Price Index edged up by a seasonally adjusted two-tenths of 1 percent after a rise in February of one-tenth of 1 percent.
The slim rise over all occurred despite spiraling energy prices stemming from an agreement among the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to raise oil prices. Gasoline costs alone surged 3.7 percent in March.
The core Consumer Price Index, which removes the costs of the volatile food and energy sectors, advanced only one-tenth of 1 percent, the same as in February.
"We have the best of both worlds, low inflation and sustained growth," said Gordon Richards, an economist with the National Association of Manufacturers.
Strong consumer demand and strong spending on everything from refrigerators to clothing have shielded the nation's economy from the recessions abroad, Mr. Richards said, while lower import prices have benefited shoppers.
The reports added to the impression that confident consumers, buoyed by a booming stock market and ample job opportunities, were the key force pushing the economy into its ninth year of unbroken expansion since the 1990-91 recession.
Ken Mayland, an economist with Keycorp in Cleveland, emphasized that even though there were pockets of softness in March consumer spending, "in no way, shape or form can the March advance be considered a soft number." He added, "Consumers extended a spending binge of mammoth proportions."
Sales by automobile dealers, which account for a quarter of monthly retail business, dropped a half-percent last month, to $60 billion, a reversal from February, when they had soared 3.1 percent. Excluding autos, overall retail sales in March were up a half-percent after a 1.3 percent rise in February. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KEY (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) KEYCORP (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) RETAIL SALES (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); RETAILERS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); RECESSION (89%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); GASOLINE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); IMPORT PRICES (69%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); NEW CAR DEALERS (60%); 

PERSON: GORDON RICHARDS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



283 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Dow Continues to Reach Highs, With Increase of 55.50

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average closed at a record high yesterday for the second consecutive day, but the rest of the stock market lagged as investors took profits, especially in technology shares.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 55.50 points, to 10,395.01, after having moved in and out of positive territory throughout the day. 
 The blue-chip index rose as high as 10,418.87, a gain of nearly 80 points, in early trading yesterday.
Investors bought the shares of economically sensitive companies such as basic materials processors and manufacturers, which sent the Dow higher. But they also shed technology shares, aside from Internet-related stocks, for a second day.
The drop in technology shares took both the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite index lower on heavy volume. The S.& P.-500 index fell 8.82 points, to 1,349.82, while the Nasdaq declined 15.31 points, to 2,583.50.
"This is a continuation of the last week or so's trend of market rotation out of tech stocks and into other sectors of the market," said Charles Crane, chief market strategist at Key Asset Management in New York. Investors bought "more cyclically sensitive stocks, which explains why the Dow is doing better than the other two indexes."
Investors sold technology stocks following Compaq Computer's announcement on Friday that its first-quarter profits would be lower than expected because of softer personal computer prices. Compaq shares, which fell nearly 7 points on Monday, were down another 1/4 at 23 13/16.
Larry Rice, chief investment officer at Josephthal & Company, said the market was in an expected pullback after Monday's strong performance.
"I think it's normal after a 165-point" gain in the Dow Monday, Mr. Rice said. "I don't think it's out of the ordinary here; in fact, it's doing as I expected."
Stocks were also hampered by lower bond prices. The 30-year Treasury bond was down 20/32, to 96 16/32. Its yield rose to 5.49 percent, from 5.45 percent Monday. Bond traders were bidding prices lower in anticipation of $10 billion in new corporate and government-agency debt to be issued soon. There was also concern that Japanese insurance companies, big buyers of United States bonds, might cut back their purchases.
Bond prices fell despite a Labor Department report that consumer prices edged up a manageable two-tenths of a percent in March, a sign that inflation is under control. The department also reported that retail sales rose a smaller-than-expected two-tenths of a percent in March.
The market was anxiously awaiting the release of Intel's results after the close of trading today. The microchip maker is seen as a bellwether for other high-tech companies. Intel shares were down 75 cents, to 60 1/2, and fell another 1 1/2 in after-hours trading. Intel reported first-quarter earnings slightly above Wall Street's expectations, but also said it expected second-quarter revenues to be flat to slightly lower than in the previous quarter.
Positive earnings reports lifted some stocks, particularly the financial services sector. Merrill Lynch retreated after an early gain tied a strong earnings report.
The brokerage firm Paine Webber also surged after releasing a strong earnings report.
Not only did the shares of large cyclical companies climb, but smaller-company stocks put in a good day as well, said Barry Hyman, senior equity analyst at Ehrenkrantz King Nussbaum.
"The secondary market is starting to show some life," Mr. Hyman said, and it has to participate in the rally in order for the market to go higher. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 4.92 points to close at 417.24.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since April 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (84%); JOSEPHTHAL & CO INC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (75%); TRENDS (75%); INSURANCE (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (61%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: DAVID W CRANE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



284 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: A Land Of Reluctant Warriors

BYLINE: By Geoffrey Wheatcroft; Geoffrey Wheatcroft is the author of "The Controversy of Zion: Jewish Nationalism, the Jewish State and the Unresolved Jewish Dilemma."

DATELINE: BATH, England

 BODY:
The debate, in the White House and Congress, about the use of ground troops in Kosovo is becoming more serious. This is happening despite the belief, strongly held in Washington, that recent experience from Lebanon to Somalia has made Americans unwilling to risk the lives of soldiers.
But there is another truth, longer standing though little recognized. Americans have never liked fighting wars, and have comparatively little experience of warfare -- compared with Europe, that is, and in the matter of sustaining casualties. 
 Since 1900, more than 1 million British servicemen have been killed in war, 2 million Frenchmen, more than 5 million Germans, more than 10 million Russians. In that same period, in every war put together, two world wars, Korea, Vietnam and all others, fewer than half a million Americans died.
On the poignant Vietnam memorial in Washington, the names of almost 60,000 Americans are carved. But compare that number killed over more than a decade with the 20,000 British soldiers who died on July 1, 1916, the disastrous opening day of the Battle of the Somme in World War I. And how many battles have been fought on American soil this century? How many bombs have fallen on American cities?
This isn't a cause for resentment, disparagement or foolish European boastfulness. One can only envy the Americans their good fortune of geography and history. But that good fortune has had a greater effect on the American character than is commonly believed.
American forces in World War II did not lack fighting spirit or military effectiveness. The well-equipped, well-paid and well-trained United States Army fought admirably, and on at least two occasions, in Sicily in 1943 and Normandy in 1944, Gen. George Patton's Yanks outstripped Field Marshal Sir Bernard Montgomery's plodding British forces on their flank.
But American commanders recognized that their first priority was to minimize their own casualties. "Old Blood and Guts" Patton had his own brand of often-quoted gung-ho oratory: "Americans love to fight," he said. "All real Americans love the sting and clash of battle. . . . Americans love a winner and will not tolerate a loser. Americans despise cowards. Americans play to win -- all the time. . . . That's why Americans have never lost, not ever will lose a war."
Those words were all the same misleading. In that same speech, which was delivered to the Third Army based in Britain in 1944, Patton also went out his way to reassure them. "You are not all going to die," he said. "Only 2 percent of you here today would die in a major battle."
With all his bellicose language, Patton had grasped a crucial truth. The men he commanded would not fight -- or "be fought" -- like the armies on the Western Front 30 years before, on the Somme or at Verdun. The American Army wasn't only fighting for democracy. It was itself democratic in the sense that it had to be commanded by consent, and there were clear limits to what it could be expected to endure.
By contrast, the armies of the totalitarian powers were expected to endure anything, driven by a mixture of raw nationalism and sheer terror, as Saddam Hussein's and Slobodan Milosevic's armies still are.
When it's said that the Red Army fought heroically at Stalingrad, bear in mind that during that one battle alone more than 13,500 Russians were shot by their own side as a reminder that every soldier's life was cheap.
The American people did in fact fight one terrible war, the Civil War, with appalling casualties. The American Somme was Antietam, where more than 20,000 men died in little more than one day's fighting in September 1862. It was an experience Americans have seemed determined never to repeat.
Even now, and despite the latest opinion polls, many Americans wonder whether their Government should "make its citizens fight and kill and die in a war they may oppose, a war which even possibly may be wrong, a war which, in any case, does not involve immediately the peace and freedom of the nation," as the 23-year-old Bill Clinton wrote in 1969 in a letter explaining his own reluctance to serve in Vietnam.
In the American experience there are strong echoes of Britain in the 18th and 19th centuries. Then, we were the lone global superpower, combining hegemonic might with a sense of national destiny and righteous moralism in a way that other countries found hard to take.
More than that, as the historian Linda Colley has written, "Unlike most of their European neighbors, Britons at this time -- like Americans in the 20th century -- were able to savor military glory without ever having to pay the price in terms of civilian casualties and large-scale domestic destruction." She could have added "or military casualties," too.
Americans have always evinced a deeply rooted and understandable disinclination to fight other people's wars, particularly the wars so many immigrants had fled Europe to avoid. Today Americans wonder why they should pay for, let alone fight, those wars today.
 Even without ground troops in Kosovo, Americans are entitled to observe that their share of NATO's financial burden is ludicrously disproportionate. After all, the European Union is larger than the United States in terms of population and of economic product, and it's hard to see why the Americans should pay more than the rest of the member states put together.
In the "American century," the United States has played a role that the Founding Fathers did not intend and that went against the American grain. Is it really surprising that, as the century closes, Americans no longer feel like playing this role?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Paul Davis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); KOSOVO (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (92%); SOMALIA (92%); LEBANON (92%); ENGLAND (72%); GERMANY (57%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); KOSOVO (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (92%); SOMALIA (92%); LEBANON (92%); ENGLAND (72%); GERMANY (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WORLD WAR I (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); VIETNAM WAR (77%); 

PERSON: WHEATCROFT, GEOFFREY GEORGE PATTON (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



285 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate;
Pearson Obtains Right To Rename a Building

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
The illuminated signs atop the 40-story office building on the east side of the Avenue of the Americas between 53d and 54th Streets shine the letters ITT across the New York skyline in four directions. But the signs are out of date.
They are to be succeeded by new letters in coming months, possibly FT, for The Financial Times. A deal has been completed that gives Pearson P.L.C., the British media conglomerate that owns the international financial daily, naming rights and the use of the signs at the ITT building, at 1330 Avenue of the Americas, across the street from the New York Hilton. 
 Whatever letters Pearson chooses, the change-over will also symbolize a broader transition under way in the building itself, the outgrowth of a long-term phase-out in the Manhattan operations of the ITT Corporation. The Pearson deal has completed the process of releasing the ITT space.
The corporation itself bowed out as an independent company only last year, when its primary assets -- the Sheraton hotel chain and Caesar's Palace in Las Vegas -- were acquired by Starwood Hotels and Resorts, based in White Plains.
Remaining ITT staff members then moved out of the Manhattan building. Three years earlier, the company's manufacturing arm split off, becoming the independent ITT Industries, based in White Plains.
Starwood has continued the subleasing campaign that ITT began in 1995, when it occupied 175,000 square feet in the building, about 40 percent of the total space. Cushman & Wakefield has been in charge of leasing the space.
Pearson, the London-based international media company, has signed on for 75,000 square feet on a sublease that runs to 2006. The sublease then transforms into a primary lease for seven more years from the building's owner, the Shuwa Corporation, based in Tokyo.
What its sign will read is not entirely settled, said Philip J. Hoffman, president of Pearson's North American arm, in an interview last week. But the North American office of The Financial Times, now at 14 East 60th Street, will be one of the Pearson businesses going there, making "FT" a strong possibility.
Pearson has hired Chermayeff & Geismar Inc. of Manhattan to design the sign. The company also designed the Met Life logo that replaced Pan Am atop 200 Park Avenue, which was born as the Pan Am building in 1963.
"You would really like one big letter," said Jonathan Alger, a designer at Chermayeff & Geismar. For Pearson, "FT is probably best, technically speaking."
Brokers estimated that the leasing deal was worth about $60 million over 15 years, but they did not disclose a figure that would represent the value of the right to name or sign the building.
"Usually you have to lease at least 25 percent of a building to get the naming rights," said George H. Keller 4th, the Cushman & Wakefield broker who represents Starwood in the disposition of the ITT space, working with Albert Cleary and Robert F. Sheehy. "But they really wanted their own name on a building and they are getting it here though they're taking only about 17 percent."
Richard Berzine & Company represented Pearson.
Pearson has a substantial and far-flung presence in the city: Penguin Putnam is at 375 Hudson Street; Macmillan Publishing is at 1633 Broadway; Pearson Education is at 1185 Avenue of the Americas; the Economist magazine is at 111 West 57th Street; Pearson Television is at 1325 Avenue of the Americas, and the Interactive Data Corporation is at 100 William Street.
But only the television operation, The Financial Times and the New York headquarters and a small Penguin Putnam office are moving to 1330 Avenue of the Americas. "We wanted a single location for Pearson businesses in Manhattan that don't have their own mass," Mr. Hoffman said.
The original holder of the signage right was ABC. Capital Cities/ABC moved its headquarters to the Upper West Side in the 1980's, and sold its building to Shuwa.
ITT's ability to inherit the signing right played no small part in its decision to move to 1330 Avenue of the Americas when it was shrinking its Manhattan operations, said Mr. Sheehy of Cushman & Wakefield, who was then the company's real estate director.
Under a 1965 zoning amendment, new illuminated signs are not permitted at heights above 40 feet in most high-density office districts, with the exception of the Times Square district. (The bright-red umbrella emblem of Citigroup on the north facade of 388 Greenwich Street does not count; it snuck in on a Buildings Department interpretation concerning building logos that has since been rescinded. Citigroup adopted the Travelers emblem when it was formed through the merger of Citicorp and Travelers Group last year.)
Among the other tenants who have leased parts of the former ITT space in 1330 Avenue of the Americas are First Dominion Capital, a financial subsidiary of Dominion Resources and Paxson Communications, a television company based in Boca Raton, Fla.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The ITT building will have a new name as well as new signs. (Ed Lederman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ITT (NYSE) (85%); PSON (LSE) (85%); PSO (NYSE) (85%); HOT (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (87%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (87%); NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (85%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (85%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (55%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (72%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: ITT CORP; PEARSON PLC; STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (87%); ITT CORP (85%); PEARSON PLC (85%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ITT CORP; PEARSON PLC; STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (72%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; NAMES, GEOGRAPHICAL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); RESORTS (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (67%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



286 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
Best Western is expanding its share of corporate travelers by aiming at those on a tight budget.

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell 

 BODY:
PROBABLY few people think of Pokhara, Nepal, and business travel in the same breath. But Best Western recently opened its newest hotel there, the New Hotel Crystal, about 90 miles west of Katmandu. Along with 40 air-conditioned rooms, satellite television and currency exchange facilities, it has a business center with fax, E-mail and copy services.
That brings to 185 the number of international hotels that Best Western has added during the last year, along with 171 domestic properties. Altogether, there are about 3,800 Best Westerns in 76 countries and territories, and next Jan. 1 it will top the 4,200 mark when almost 400 Consort Hotels in Britain will also carry the Best Western logo. 
 Best Western is not only the world's biggest lodging brand; all of its properties are independently owned and operated. They are gathered under the Best Western banner not as franchises but in an association whose members pay for marketing, national advertising, the toll-free reservations number and similar expenses.
While still heavily patronized by leisure travelers, Best Western's share of business travelers has been inching up. Three months ago it started Business Plus, a program designed to appeal to those who are self-employed or on a tight corporate budget. Some 350 hotels participate in the program, which requires that at least 10 rooms or 10 percent of the property's total rooms meet standards that include king-size or queen-size beds, desks, phone lines for computers, lounge armchairs, clock radios, coffee makers and free access to toll-free numbers.
 
Heading Off Scandal
Hoping to be host to the Summer Olympic Games in 2012, and determined to avoid a replay of the tawdry details surrounding Salt Lake City's winning bid for next year, Cincinnati has established an ethics panel. In addition to developing a code of conduct, the committee will also consider opening the Games' financial arrangements to public scrutiny. But the competition to land the Games is likely to be as fierce as the competition in the athletic events, because a dozen other cities have also expressed interest in winning the 2012 Games.
 
Discounts in the Wings
When normal air service resumes to such cities as Sofia, Bulgaria; Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina; Skopje, Macedonia, and Tirana, Albania, passengers wanting to fly there from Kennedy International Airport in New York will be able to do so for about $550, round trip, on Austrian Airlines. In addition to what amounts to a 40 percent discount, they will also be allowed three pieces of baggage, instead of two, up to a total of 200 pounds.

Data on Hotels
Health and fitness centers are in 48 percent of hotels in the United States, compared with 43.7 percent in 1996 and 36.4 percent in 1994. Voice mail was in 52 percent of hotel rooms in 1998, compared with 22 percent two years earlier. And the percentage of hotels offering rentals of videocassette recorders has remained at about 25 percent since 1996.
Those percentages do not include all hotels, but were compiled from replies from more than 9,400 of the nearly 40,000 hotels surveyed for the American Hotel and Motel Association. It is, the association said, the most comprehensive such study ever conducted under its auspices.
Business travelers are not likely to be surprised that more than 35 percent of the luxury hotels provide rooms with safes. Or that one-third of the luxury properties sampled offer cell phone rental. It is also no big surprise that a smaller percentage of such hotels now offer free local calls than in the recent past. What is surprising is that the percentage plummeted to 34 last year from 48 just two years earlier, while 60 percent of economy hotels and 46 percent of budget hotels still throw in free local calls.
 
One-Upmanship
You know those apples many hotels keep at the check-in desk, presumably for ravenous guests? Not to be outdone, the Premier Hotel in Times Square in New York gives away popsicles. But, as befits a hotel whose posted room rates start at $395 a night, these are champagne popsicles. Enclosed in wrappers and presented on ice in a champagne bucket, they are served in the lounge during cocktail hour. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); ALBANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEPAL (90%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (85%); BULGARIA (85%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (77%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (75%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: BEST WESTERN HOTELS; AUSTRIAN AIRLINES HARRY E FERRYMAN ENTERPRISES (92%); AUSTRIAN AIRLINES GROUP AG (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: BEST WESTERN HOTELS; AUSTRIAN AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: POKHARA (NEPAL); CINCINNATI (OHIO); SALT LAKE CITY (UTAH); BULGARIA; SOFIA (BULGARIA); SARAJEVO; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; MACEDONIA (FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC); SKOPJE (MACEDONIA); ALBANIA; TIRANA (ALBANIA); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); ALBANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEPAL (90%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (85%); BULGARIA (85%); UTAH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (77%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (75%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; OLYMPIC GAMES (2012); SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS); ETHICS; OLYMPIC GAMES (2000); WINTER GAMES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NYC); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); AIRPORTS; EXERCISE; HEALTH CLUBS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEPHONE ANSWERING SERVICES AND DEVICES; RECORDINGS (VIDEO); RECORDING EQUIPMENT; RENTING AND LEASING HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); AIRLINES (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); ETHICS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (87%); AIRPORTS (87%); BUDGETS (87%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (73%); FITNESS CENTERS (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); SCANDALS (69%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (68%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (68%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (57%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



287 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasuries' Prices Fall, With Big Debt Sales Planned

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices sagged yesterday under the weight of the large calendar of corporate and agency borrowers planning to sell their debt over the next few days.
Corporate bonds give investors an attractive alternative to Treasuries because the yields are higher, so the rates on Government paper have to rise to stay competitive. Securities firms arranging the corporate sales often sell Treasuries ahead of the offering, and that also tends to raise yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price. They do that as a precaution against rates rising before the corporate deals are done, replacing the Government securities when the sales are complete. 
 Among the corporate borrowers expected to sell about $9 billion soon, are the Inter-American Development Bank, Freddie Mac , and the Associates Corp of North America. Inter-American priced a $1 billion global bond issue yesterday through Lehman Brothers and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. The 10-year bond was priced to yield 5.755 percent. That is about 65 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, above a Treasury security with a comparable yield.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond dropped 20/32, to 96 16/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.49 percent, from 5.45 percent on Monday,
Reports on consumer prices and retail sales left market expectations of continued economic growth with little inflation unchanged and raised the likelihood that the Fed will not push up interest rates soon.
"This is the world we said we always wanted," said Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, "strong economic growth with low inflation. The stock market continues to rise, and people are having trouble finding things to get upset about. The bond market, in turn, is expected to stay within its current range as a by product of an unchanged F.O.M.C. stance, with the long bond centered at 5.50 percent."
The Consumer Price Index rose only two-tenths of 1 percent in March, a smaller-than-expected increase. Mr. Fine said that along with a minimal one-tenth of 1 percent rise in the core rate, the inflation statistics continued to impress market participants. But he said the relatively benign lift in gasoline prices may be masking a much larger jump in the April data to be released next month, as pump prices around the country have surged since the March data were compiled. The key issue, he added, is whether fuel price increases will continue, because if they do, the indirect effects on transportation and other components of inflation could be considerable.
"At first glance," Mr. Fine said, "the 0.2 percent increase in retail sales seemed to suggest a noticeable slowing in the growth of consumer spending, but in light of past data revisions and giddiness in the stock market, this conclusion would undoubtedly be premature."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (70%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (70%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (70%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (70%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (70%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (70%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (70%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); ASSOCIATES CORP OF NORTH AMERICA (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (56%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (56%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (96%); TREASURY SECURITIES (94%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); BOND ISSUES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (54%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DONALD FINE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



288 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Kvaerner to Sell Its Shipyards and Cut About 25,000 Jobs

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, April 13

 BODY:
The reorganization of European industry reached into the heartland of Norway today, when the Continent's biggest shipbuilder announced plans to sell all its shipyards and other money-losing businesses.
The announcement by Kvaerner S.A., an engineering conglomerate troubled by poor management and bad acquisitions, is the latest example of a revolution in European corporate culture. 
 After snubbing shareholders for years by pursuing murky strategies and producing mediocre profits, many of Europe's biggest industrial companies are now slashing costs and getting rid of businesses that do not measure up.
Last November, Siemens A.G. of Germany disclosed plans to jumpstart profits by selling off businesses with sales of $10 billion. Alcatel S.A., the huge French manufacturer of telecommunications equipment, announced plans last month to eliminate 12,000 jobs by the end of the year 2000. ABB Asea Brown Boveri A.G., the Swiss-Swedish engineering concern, eliminated more than 12,000 jobs last year.
But the shake-up at Kvaerner is one of the most drastic. If carried out in full, the company would abandon a business that had also been a bedrock of Norwegian industry. It would shrink itself to about one-third of its current size, shedding 25,000 of its 80,000 workers. The moves are likely to lead to job cuts at shipyards around Europe and possibly in the United States as well. Kvaerner, which builds everything from offshore oil rigs to cruise ships, had been planning to build ships at the old Philadelphia Naval Shipyard and employ about 1,000 people there.
Those plans could change abruptly, depending on what the shipbuilder's new owners decide to do. Kvaerner executives said they had not decided whether to simply sell the shipyards, spin the business off as a separate entity to shareholders or retreat more gradually by putting them into a joint venture with some other shipbuilder.
Whichever course prevails, the changes will be drastic. Kjell E. Almskog, who took over as chief executive last December, said the company had set aside 4 billion kroner, or about $500 million, to cover reorganization costs.
In addition to unloading the shipyards, which employ about 10,000 workers, the company plans to sell businesses with another 11,500 workers in areas like metal equipment, mechanical engineering, pulp and paper products and a real estate development. Several thousand other jobs would be eliminated in the companies that remain.
"Keep in mind that this is an old, traditional Norwegian company," said Ottar Haugerud, an analyst at Orkla Securities in Oslo. "They have turned the company upside down. It is a completely different company today than it was yesterday."
Almost any change would be an improvement. Under Kvaerner's previous chief executive, Erik Tonseth, the company's 1998 losses totaled 1.4 billion kroner, or $290 million. The company's stock plunged nearly 80 percent last year, though it had partly recovered since Mr. Almskog took over and made it clear he would shift course.
Many of the problems can be traced to Mr. Tonseth's disastrous purchase of Trafalgar House, a sprawling British engineering company that also owned the Cunard Line of cruise ships, for $1.38 billion in 1996. Trafalgar was loaded with debt and problems, which drained capital at a time when the shipbuilding industry was in a recession.
Though Kvaerner sold off numerous chunks of Trafalgar, including Cunard Line and the Queen Elizabeth 2 cruise ship, it still ran up big losses last year and was plagued by high costs and its disjointed mish-mash of companies.
Mr. Almskog, a former top executive at ABB Asea Brown Boveri, is now trying to refocus the company and return it to profitability.
"If we want to be a world champion, or in the world class anyway, we need to scale back," he told a news conference in London today. "The plan for this 'new Kvaerner' is to create a group that is significantly smaller and much leaner, but infinitely stronger."
Though investors had been expecting a fairly broad reorganization plan, most were surprised by the decision to abandon shipbuilding. In Oslo, Kvaerner stock dropped 3 kroner, or 2.2 percent, to 136 kroner today.
Analysts said it might be difficult to find buyers for Kvaerner's 12 European shipyards. Beyond that, Mr. Almskog's description of the problems at other businesses was bleaker than some analysts had expected.
"My gut feeling is positive, but the state of the company was worse than expected," said Mr. Haugerud of Orkla Securities.
Nonetheless, most said the plan was a step in the right direction.
"It is hard to get rid of shipbuilding yards in Europe these days, but in the long run this is the right decision," said Olof Jonasson, an industry analyst at Handelsbanken Markets in Oslo.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A shipbuilder leaves work at Kvaerner Govan in Glasgow. The Oslo-based company announced yesterday that it would sell all its shipyards and other money-losing businesses. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (84%); SIE (LSE) (84%); SIE (FRA) (84%); SIE (BIT) (84%); SI (NYSE) (84%); ABJA (FRA) (83%); ABJ (FRA) (83%); ABBN (SWX) (83%); ABB (STO) (83%); ABB (NYSE) (83%); ABB (NSE) (83%); ALU (PAR) (70%); ALU (NYSE) (70%); ALU (BIT) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (83%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (83%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (83%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (70%); 

COUNTRY: NORWAY (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: OSLO, NORWAY (90%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (59%); 

COMPANY: KVAERNER SA SIEMENS AG (84%); ABB LTD (83%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: KVAERNER SA

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; NORWAY; NORWAY (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); OSLO, NORWAY (90%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (59%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPBUILDING, CONVERSION AND REPAIR; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES SHIPBUILDING (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); NAVIES (73%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); PAPER & PACKAGING (69%); PAPER MFG (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); CRUISES (64%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (64%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); JOINT VENTURES (50%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L KJELL E ALMSKOG (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



289 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Transit Officials Respond to Complaints of Metrocard Flaws

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
As if to prove that nothing is perfect, New York City Transit's hugely popular Metrocard came under fire yesterday, with members of the City Council and transit advocates pointing to flaws that cause some customers to pay twice for the same ride or to be denied entry to subways and buses.
The technical glitches, which have provoked sporadic complaints from riders since the Metrocards went on sale in 1993, have done little to dampen the enthusiasm of most riders. New York City Transit data show that bus and subway ridership rose by 9 percent, or by more than 10 million people, in 1998, an increase attributed to the city's strong economy and to the convenience of the electronic cards. 
 But while no one suggested yesterday that the Metrocard system be abandoned, executives of New York City Transit found themselves called to account in a series of angry complaints at a City Council hearing and a news conference.
Foremost among the problems cited was a tendency of the subway system's electronic turnstiles to misread the cards, forcing people to swipe them repeatedly. In some cases, the machines reject the cards but still deduct the fee as if the passenger had been admitted through the turnstile.
And for those holding cards good for an unlimited number of rides, the glitch can create aggravating delays, since those cards, once registered electronically, cannot be used again anywhere in the system for 18 minutes. A transit executive said later that the agency was preparing a partial solution to that problem.
The most spirited criticism came from members of the public and the City Council at a hearing of the City Council's Transportation Committee. The council released the results of its own survey of 1,002 riders in February and March, which found that 92 percent had been forced on some occasions to swipe the Metrocard more than once before it was accepted, and more than 50 percent had had the card "double deducted" or rejected entirely.
One rider, Mira Mignon, an executive assistant from Brooklyn, provided vivid testimony of how a Metrocard glitch can snowball, in her case resulting in a $60 fine.
Ms. Mignon said that she had tried to use a valid Metrocard in a station in SoHo after midnight one night, but that the card was rejected by the turnstile. She said she had no money to pay an additional fare, and was afraid to leave the station at that hour to find an automated teller machine. After a tollbooth attendant refused to help, she said, she jumped the turnstile, and was arrested.
"I am a captive rider and I am being punished unfairly for the failures of the transit system," Ms. Mignon said.
Noach Dear, the chairman of the transportation committee and a persistent critic of the transit agency, said, "New York City Transit is treating people like cattle."
Transit agency executives, called before Mr. Dear's committee to defend their system, said the glitches in the system were far outweighed by the convenience and savings it had provided. The problems "are minuscule" said Gary G. Caplan, the budget director for New York City Transit's parent agency, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
He said the agency's own data show that 95 percent of Metrocard users are passing through turnstiles on the first or second swipe of their cards, and that most of those who do not are rejected because their cards are not valid or are inserted into the turnstiles incorrectly.
Mr. Caplan said that New York City Transit would alter its system of rejecting unlimited-ride Metrocards for 18 minutes after they are used. The time lapse was intended to discourage scam artists who might sell rides repeatedly off the Metrocards.
To ward off fraud -- and to deny people the ability to offer free rides to their companions -- he said, the 18-minute lapse will still be imposed for those using the same card in the same station. But there will be no time constraints on using a card in different stations.
Mr. Caplan and other New York City Transit officials declined, however, to say when the change would take place, again citing worries over security. "We are not going to announce it in advance," said Al O'Leary, the agency's spokesman. "People will just realize at some point that a problem has gone away, and they will be happy." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT (93%); CITY COUNCIL (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY CITY COUNCIL (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (72%); ARRESTS (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J MIRA MIGNON (63%); GARY G CAPLAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



290 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Whitman Signs Bills Cutting Property Taxes

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY 

DATELINE: BELLEVILLE, N.J., April 13

 BODY:
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman signed a bipartisan package of bills today giving New Jersey residents the first installment of promised property tax relief and giving herself a powerful new talking point in her race for the Senate.
"Today is about helping local officials across the state find efficiencies; it's also about honoring a promise I made to the taxpayers of the state of New Jersey to relieve them from higher property taxes," Mrs. Whitman said at a bill-signing ceremony at a public library here. 
 The four bills she signed into law today amount to a modest $35 million in spending and are intended to encourage the 1,600 local governments in the state to consolidate services like schools and fire protection in order to save money and hold down property tax increases. That legislation is likely to help her senatorial prospects, as is a bill giving residents $1 billion in direct property tax relief, the installments timed to arrive within weeks before Election Day for the next five years. The Governor intends to sign that bill on Thursday, the deadline to file tax returns.
But Mrs. Whitman tried to play down, at least for the day, any political advantage she might gain from the property tax cuts, which took seven months from the time they were proposed to reach her desk.
"For government work, it's not bad to take ideas from a commission and get them into legislation that is actually signed within seven months," she told reporters.
Stephanie Bell, a spokeswoman for the Governor, said that Belleville -- a small blue-collar community just north of Newark and about 60 miles from Trenton -- had been chosen for the bill signing because the Governor had canceled a previous appearance here. But it also put Mrs. Whitman away from the State House on the day when the Legislature's Black and Latino Caucus was holding a hearing in Trenton about allegations of racial profiling by the state police. The administration, especially Attorney General Peter G. Verniero, has come under increased criticism over the issue.
In her first term as Governor, Mrs. Whitman delivered on a campaign pledge to cut the state income tax by 30 percent for most middle- and low-income taxpayers. But in November 1997 the notoriously restive New Jersey electorate came close to turning her out of office in favor of a long-shot Democratic candidate, Mayor James E. McGreevey of Woodbridge, and much of that voter anger was over paying some of the highest property taxes and automobile insurance rates in the nation.
But in the first three months of this year, with the help of a Legislature controlled by her fellow Republicans, Mrs. Whitman has moved swiftly to shield her political weak spot on property taxes as she turns her attention toward a race for the Senate seat being vacated next year by Frank R. Lautenberg, a Democrat who is retiring after three terms.
Late last year, Mrs. Whitman established a property tax commission to provide her with ideas for controlling property taxes.
"The debate shouldn't be about relief versus reform," Mrs. Whitman said today. "I believe anything that we can do to help ease the property burden is worth doing, and we can do all these things."
Democrats in Trenton, who have received their own share of electoral grief over taxes, have not made the property tax cuts a partisan issue, and some of them were co-sponsors of the legislation that the Governor signed today.
One bill will create a $10 million pool for grants and loans to finance studies or start-up costs for new shared service agreements among communities. The other part of the legislation allocates $25 million for tax credits for taxpayers in communities that now have combined services.
The bill that Mrs. Whitman intends to sign on Thursday -- a week after she announced that she was forming a fund-raising committee for a Senate race -- is clearly the highest-profile piece of legislation. It will provide $1 billion over five years for property tax relief, eventually giving homeowners, regardless of income, an average annual rebate check of $600.
"The tax reduction to individuals is simultaneously a tax bill and a statement of political philosophy," said Joseph J. Seneca, the chairman of the New Jersey Council of Economic Advisers, a five-member panel that analyzes economic conditions and forecasts trends. "It's a response to the perceived request of homeowners for direct property tax relief. That concern has been expressed for many years, especially at the ballot box on many Novembers." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) STATE HOUSE PRESS (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PROPERTY TAXES; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES PROPERTY TAX (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); TAX INCREASES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (70%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); RACIAL PROFILING (67%); MAYORS (67%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%); RACE & RACISM (62%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



291 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Push to Turn Diallo Rally Into a Broader Movement

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN 

 BODY:
Terence Tolbert answered one of the room's eight phones with a one-word salutation: "Coalition."
Mr. Tolbert normally works as chief of staff for State Assemblyman Keith L. Wright, a Democrat from Harlem. But yesterday he shared office space with aides to the Manhattan Borough President, C. Virginia Fields, City Councilwoman Christine Quinn of Manhattan's West Side and Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone, along with a former Black Panther and an organizer from 1199, the 150,000-member National Health and Human Service Employees Union. 
 They were seated in 1199's midtown headquarters around a conference table in what they call the "Peace Room," the planning center for tomorrow's rally in memory of Amadou Diallo. On one wall was a gallery of news clippings about the fatal police shooting of Mr. Diallo on Feb. 4; on the other were lists of who was responsible for handing out leaflets in 49 subway stations around the city.
After two months of protests inspired by the Diallo shooting, tomorrow's is expected to be the largest, with demonstrators gathering at Cadman Plaza in downtown Brooklyn, then marching over the Brooklyn Bridge to a rally outside 26 Federal Plaza in lower Manhattan. It is intended, the organizers said, as a showcase for a new civil rights movement, a multiracial coalition organized mainly around police brutality, but it is expected to attract all manner of citizens who have complaints about Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
"This is not like a structured, well-oiled machine that every detail is being carefully thought out and established," said Ken Sunshine, a political consultant who is chief spokesman for the rally organizers. "It's a broad range of people who are volunteering and building something."
Organizers do not yet have permits for the sites, but they have had several meetings with the Police Department and said there is an oral agreement allowing the rally. Inspector Michael Collins, a department spokesman, said, "We don't expect any problems."
From the Peace Room on the seventh floor of 1199's headquarters, where "two days and counting" was scrawled on a wipe-off board, to the paid television and radio advertisements that have been broadcast in recent days, the preparations for the rally have had the feel of the final days of a political campaign. The operation also has the hallmarks of grass-roots union organizing, with a sophisticated phone bank that started April 8 and "literature drops" planned for today in housing projects throughout the city.
For the organizers, led by 1199's president, Dennis Rivera, the rally will test whether they can turn the outrage over Mr. Diallo's death into a broad-based movement whose first goals are in a 10-point plan on police reform. For Mr. Giuliani, it is likely to be another dose of negative publicity.
"What we may be seeing is the minority groups coming of age as a coalition force, being the dog rather than the tail," said Norman Adler, a political consultant who has worked for both Democrats and Republicans. "The question is whether you can turn a rally into a movement."
With a $300,000 budget from union political action funds, minority business leaders and elected officials, and with a cadre of professional organizers on loan from their jobs, the rally's organizers are under pressure to draw crowds significantly larger than those at the daily demonstrations last month in front of Police Headquarters that often attracted more than 1,000 people. There has been talk that as many as 25,000 might attend, but rally organizers have been loath to predict a turnout. They have also refused to say who will speak.
The Rev. Jesse L. Jackson cannot make the rally but is to speak at a luncheon for 100 organizers today as a kind of pep rally. There is also a candlelight vigil scheduled for tonight at the Brooklyn Bridge.
Beyond numbers, which experts say Mr. Rivera is a genius at attracting, there is also the perennial political problem of staying on message. The 10-point police reform plan includes complicated legislative proposals for the city, state and Federal level, on corruption, police brutality, affirmative action, residency requirements and firearms training. But the Diallo rallies increasingly attract Giuliani opponents of all stripes, including veterans of battles over issues like street vending and community gardens.
"The arrests and the rallies have mobilized public attention; the purpose of mobilizing public attention is to then move an agenda," said Mitchell Moss, director of the Taub Urban Research Center at New York University. "The agenda is still ethereal. No one knows what the agenda is. The question is, can the agenda move to the front page instead of the rally?"
At City Hall, aides to the Mayor have been murmuring about the motivations behind the rally, suggesting that ambitious politicians with their eye on the mayoralty, or on the United States Senate seat Mr. Giuliani may seek in 2000, are exploiting a tragic death for personal gain. Polls have shown that the Mayor's popularity is slipping, and every day he is forced to respond to a rally is a day he cannot tout the city's booming economy and dwindling crime rate.
While upstate voters seem unmoved by the Diallo case, analysts believe Mr. Giuliani would need strong support in the city to win the Senate seat. "He's had a run of bad publicity," Mr. Adler said, "and this doesn't help."
In the Peace Room yesterday, the official line was that tomorrow's rally is not about the Mayor. There were no anti-Giuliani signs on the walls. The red T-shirts for the rally's marshals bear the slogan, "Justice for Amadou Diallo."
So how is this rally different from all other rallies? "In some ways it is a culmination, in other ways it is the beginning of the next chapter," said the Rev. Al Sharpton, who led the Diallo rallies of the last two months. "It's like farming. You go out every day planting the seeds and everybody says, there's that crazy farmer. The farmer says, one day these seeds are going to grow."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Saul Nieves juggled two phones in the Manhattan headquarters for organizers planning tomorrow's Diallo march and rally. Next to him, Deyman Byam, Bill Batson and Bill Johnson discussed final preparations. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICE EMPLOYEES UNION

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICE EMPLOYEES UNION

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; BLACKS POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MISCONDUCT (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); SHOOTINGS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); RIOTS (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (53%); RADIO ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: WILGOREN, JODI; DIALLO, AMADOU; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); RIVERA, DENNIS RUDY GIULIANI (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



292 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Economists Starting to See A Payoff From Technology
For more than a decade, most of the nation's leading economists have questioned the economic payoff from information technology -- the billions upon billions spent each year by companies and households on everything from computers to software to cellular phones.
But now economists are wondering whether higher productivity growth -- averaging about 2 percent in the last three years, roughly double the pace from 1973 to 1995 -- is the long-awaited confirmation that the nation's steadily rising investment in computers and communications is finally paying off. Page A1. 

Several Companies in Phone Deals
Cisco Systems, the maker of data-networking equipment, announced a $2 billion acquisition of Geotel Communications, expanding into telephone software, while two of the biggest makers of traditional phone systems, Ericsson and Northern Telecom, said they would acquire private data-networking companies. Shares of Geotel Communications rose $11.6875, to $55.9375. C2.
 
Motorola's Profit Increases 20%
Motorola said that its first-quarter profit rose 20 percent, helped by cost cuts and improved sales of mobile phones and chips. C2.
 
Bell Atlantic Says Market Is Open
Bell Atlantic, in a meticulous march toward the $80 billion long-distance market, told New York State regulators that it had fully opened its network to competition, as required. C11.
 
Dow Gains, but Other Averages Fall
The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 55.5 points, to 10,395.01, another record, but other gauges slipped as investors took profits, especially in technology issues. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 8.82 points, to 1,349.82, while the Nasdaq composite index declined 15.31 points, to 2,583.50. C15.
 
A Proposal to Cut Auto Pollution
The Clinton Administration is preparing to announce as early as next week that it will require cleaner gasoline and tougher pollution standards for autos, including forcing large sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks to meet the same emission standards as cars. A22.
 
Inquiry of America Online Sought
At least seven former volunteers who helped maintain America Online's virtual community have asked the Labor Department to look into whether the on-line service's use of unpaid labor violates Federal law. A18.
 
Barclays Chief Quits, Citing Health
Barclays, Britain's second-largest bank, is looking for its fourth chief executive in six months after Michael O'Neill resigned because of ill health, touching off speculation that the bank may be vulnerable to a takeover. Mr. O'Neill, 53, fainted twice last week and was found to have an irregular heartbeat that could be aggravated by stress, a bank spokesman said. C10.
 
Korean Bank Sale Is in Trouble
An agreement by the South Korean Government to sell Korea First Bank to a consortium led by Newbridge Capital has foundered over a disagreement about how to value the bank's assets and establish a sale price. C4.
 
Study on Fast Data Connections
The battle over access to high-speed Internet connections moved to the Senate Commerce Committee, whose chairman, John McCain, said he would seek a study on how to make the technology more widely available. C26.
 
In another move aimed at providing music over the Internet, Real Networks agreed to buy a software company, Xing Technology, for up to $75 million in stock. C8.
 
Milberg Weiss to Pay $50 Million
Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach, a New York law firm that has grown rich by suing corporations, agreed to pay $50 million to Lexecon, a consulting firm that often testifies for corporations. Lexecon had accused the law firm of trying to destroy its reputation. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,395.01, up 55.50
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.49%, up 0.04
The Dollar -- 119.83 yen, down 0.36
 
Graph tracks share price of Geotel Communications, since last Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (84%); BARC (LSE) (84%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (55%); AOL (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (84%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); AOL INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (85%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (71%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (70%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (69%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (69%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (67%); EMISSIONS (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); PICKUP TRUCKS (66%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (65%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (62%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (51%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



293 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles's Chance to Recover Its Fumbles

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 13

 BODY:
This metropolis unblushingly bills itself as the entertainment capital of the world, and from Hollywood studios to thrill-ride theme parks, oxygen bars and big Pacific rollers, it can back up the boast. But when it comes to professional football, the most popular sport in the country, Los Angeles has been stuck in its own end zone.
Now that is about to change. Maybe. 
 Last month, the National Football League announced that Los Angeles was its first choice to receive the league's as yet unnamed 32d franchise, bypassing a firm bid of $200 million in public financing from Houston in favor of Los Angeles's lucrative television market, which is bigger than that of many states and could help the league's slipping television ratings.
But there's a catch: Los Angeles, the town that couldn't keep a team, now has not one but two competing proposed stadiums and owner groups, each of them featuring "guys with egos the size of Montana," in the words of one City Hall aide. The league gave Los Angeles until September to meet a variety of demands, including a strong show of support from the local business community, or lose the franchise to Houston.
Los Angeles's quest says much about the difficulty of uniting this disparate region of semi-connected suburbs around any idea and about its boosters' determination not to accept any status that could be seen as second-class. It also bespeaks the tremendous economic power of professional sports teams and their attraction for wealthy owners, if not for municipalities.
"Football is the No. 1 sport in America," said Michael Ovitz, the onetime Hollywood super-agent and current entertainment manager who is leading a bid to build a new Spanish-style stadium and shopping complex called the Hacienda on a vacant site in the suburb of Carson, just north of Long Beach, with towering mission bells that would ring on a home-team touchdown. "No. 1. There's not even anything else close, and how do you not have football in this city? It doesn't make any sense."
The other proposal is led by the billionaire insurance and construction executive Eli Broad and Edward P. Roski Jr., a real estate developer who co-owns the Kings hockey team and the Lakers basketball team and helped develop the new Staples Arena where those teams will play downtown. Their plan would dramatically revamp the Coliseum into a state-of-the-art stadium, topping its famed peristyle facade with bat-wing canopies and luxury suites.
So far, neither side has moved to compromise, though the city establishment has shown a clear preference for reviving the Coliseum as part of its efforts to revitalize the greater downtown area.
And the N.F.L., in a move to make the Coliseum more attractive to any of its wavering owners -- who have the final vote -- has tentatively approached the Fox Group about moving the Los Angeles Dodgers from their longtime home in Chavez Ravine to a new baseball stadium that could be built next to the Coliseum, creating a kind of multiplex, officials said today, confirming a report in The Los Angeles Times.
But unlike Houston, or Hartford, which recently lured the New England Patriots with a pledge to build a $375 million stadium, Los Angeles has shown no willingness to spend direct public money on a new stadium, except for tax breaks on the revenue a team might generate and freeway improvements already completed near the Coliseum. Carson has offered a $150 million bond issue, plus $30 million in cash to build the stadium and adjoining mall, but that site is a former dump that would have to be cleaned up.
League officials make it quietly clear that their preference would be for a unified proposal from the two groups. But both sides here, while pledging cooperation, are waiting for the next move by the league.
"I think there's still a bit of confusion owing to the lack of specifics from the league, in terms of a concrete choice," said City Councilman Mark Ridley-Thomas, whose district surrounds the Coliseum site and who has spent three years promoting it. "The league will have to make the next step."
Los Angeles's relationship with football has not been easy. First the Rams, which arrived from Cleveland in 1946, decamped to Anaheim in nearby Orange County after the 1979 season, and then, in 1995, to St. Louis. That same year, the Raiders abandoned a star-crossed 12-year sojourn at the Coliseum and returned to Oakland, leaving the nation's second-largest city outclassed by the likes of Charlotte, N.C., Green Bay, Wis., and Jacksonville, Fla.
Angelenos did not care about football, the argument went. The Coliseum, on the edge of the South-Central neighborhood torn by the 1992 riots, was not safe, the skeptics said. Too much traffic, too little parking, too little vacant land and lack of public investment seemed to doom the city's hopes of attracting another team.
As the would-be owners jockey for advantage, plenty of skeptics remain unconvinced of the need for a team. A Los Angeles Times poll last year found that only 38 percent of respondents considered it at least "somewhat important" to have a team in Los Angeles.
"I don't think they're economic boons for the region," Joel Kotkin, a senior fellow at the Pepperdine Institute of Public Policy in Malibu said of sports franchises. "They may be economic boons for people who have downtown real estate. Something like a Staples Arena, which will be full a great deal of the time, and bring in groups, yes. But football teams? They play seven times a year and basically a bunch of rich white guys go to the games. I can't figure out how that makes much of a difference."
John Macks, a former political consultant who now writes for "The Tonight Show," said: "I grew up in Philadelphia and worked in Washington. There it was the Eagles and the Redskins and it defined your existence. Here nobody cares. First of all, it's not raining and snowing on a Sunday in November. There are other things to do.
"And to us, driving is a contact sport. If we want to get out our aggression, we can go for a Sunday drive. As everyone in Hollywood knows, the sequel is never as good. Why have another bad one?"
Mr. Roski acknowledged that rampant rowdyism at Raiders' games at the Coliseum had left him unable to persuade his wife to go to games there, adding: "I could get my son-in-law; he had no choice." But Mr. Roski said that since the Raiders left, the University of Southern California has continued to play at the Coliseum without incident.
The N.F.L. has made it clear that it does not want the choice of a site to dictate a choice of owners. Because Mr. Roski holds the exclusive rights for the state-owned Coliseum site, that could be a stumbling block, and he has offered to give up those rights if necessary. Similarly, Mr. Ovitz said that if his rival bid at Carson, which is backed by the billionaire grocery magnate Ron Burkle and a bevy of movie stars like Tom Cruise and Kevin Costner, is seen as an impediment to returning a franchise to Los Angeles, he would step aside.
When the league made its announcement last month, civic leaders were quick to float a scenario in which Mr. Ovitz would give up his bid, and join Mr. Roski's group as a minority owner. But so far, neither side is giving up, and league officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, suggest the league may simply select a site, then auction ownership rights to the highest bidder.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Edward P. Roski Jr., left, president of New Coliseum partners, and Eli Broad, chairman and chief executive of Sun America, in January with a model of the New Coliseum, proposed for the current Coliseum site. (Associated Press); A model of the Hacienda, a stadium and shopping complex proposed for a Los Angeles suburb. (Joe White/Rockwell Architecture)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FRANCHISES ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (75%); SUBURBS (70%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (62%); 

PERSON: OVITZ, MICHAEL; BROAD, ELI; ROSKI, EDWARD P JR; PURDUM, TODD S ELI BROAD (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



294 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: The Twisting Hunt for an Officer's Killer

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD 

 BODY:
The pursuit of the killer of an Orange, N.J., police officer, a case that at first seemed so linear and logical, has evolved into a perplexing tangle of events that are billowing to transform the matter into something well beyond the death of an officer in a city where police officers do not get killed.
Rather than resolution, three arrests have produced riddles and unanswered questions, charges and countercharges. Even some of the police officers immersed in the case are wondering: Do they have the right man? How many men are they really after? 
 So many questions lingered yesterday because officials involved in the investigation were not willing to provide even some of the most rudimentary answers about what happened when and why.
What is clear is that three men were brought into custody over the weekend, either directly or indirectly because of the quest for the killer. One of the men died an hour after being arrested. Law enforcement officials, who said the man was not a suspect in the killing, suggested yesterday that he suffered an asthma attack. His father contended that he was beaten to death by the police, even though an initial examination by the Medical Examiner's office found no evidence of a beating.
Another man, the only one of the three who has been charged with the crime, showed up in court with a bruised eye. No officials would comment on how it happened. The third man was charged with drug possession, but some police officers said he may have been involved in the shooting.
The series of events unfolded quickly. Officer Joyce Anne Carnegie, 38, of the 113-member Orange police force, was shot to death last Thursday evening when she got out of her squad car to question a man who fit the description of someone who committed armed robbery nearby. One Orange police officer said that Officer Carnegie was first shot in the stomach and, while on the ground clutching the gunman's foot, was shot a second time point-blank in the head.
She was the first officer killed in the line of duty in 33 years in Orange, a pinpoint of a town of 29,000 people just northwest of Newark.
Officer Carnegie's death prompted a manhunt by dozens of investigators from the Orange police, the Essex County Prosecutor's office and the Newark police, and it produced quick results.
On Saturday night, the police found Terrance Everett, 24, at a well-kept white stucco house he shares with his mother in East Orange. There was a late-model pearl-colored Cadillac El Dorado parked in front of an old sedan in the driveway. Two girls who lived nearby said that Mr. Everett drove a red two-door car of a make they could not identify. Authorities said that Officer Carnegie's killer fled in a 1986 blue Honda Accord.
The authorities have not said why they homed in on Mr. Everett. He was charged with robbery and weapons possession in addition to the murder charge.
Raids as part of the hunt for Officer Carnegie's killer continued on Sunday, though it was unclear why, if investigators believed that they had found the killer.
Two more men were arrested Sunday night. James (Malik) Coker, 29, of Newark, was taken into custody at the Douglass-Harrison Homes, where he was visiting his aunt. The police charged him with possession of crack and with trying to swallow the drugs when officers came to the apartment. It is not known what led investigators to Mr. Coker, and he has not been formally linked to the shooting.
But one Orange police officer said that he and some colleagues were unconvinced that Mr. Everett was the killer and were looking hard at Mr. Coker. Patricia Hurt, the Essex County Prosecutor, refused to answer questions about the case yesterday.
The most bizarre twist in the case involved Earl Faison. According to investigators, the 27-year-old Mr. Faison inadvertently came to their attention Sunday night when he was hailing a cab at South Day Street and Freeway Drive West, a block from where Officer Carnegie was shot. Feeling he bore a resemblance to a composite police sketch of the killer, authorities said, officers working the area approached him. A police officer said Mr. Faison ran and was chased for three blocks before he was caught. When he was frisked, officials said, they found a semiautomatic gun, and they arrested him on gun possession charges.
According to the Essex County Prosecutor's office, Mr. Faison collapsed and died an hour later as he walked into the warrant room at Orange Police Headquarters. The Prosecutor's office said yesterday that the Medical Examiner's office had been unable to determine the cause of death and was doing further testing. But officials said the medical examiner ruled out blunt force trauma as a possible cause and found no evidence of kicking, beating or strangulation.
A law enforcement official said that Mr. Faison had an asthma attack at the police station, which can be fatal if not treated quickly. Earl Williams, Mr. Faison's father, confirmed his son had asthma but said he had never suffered a seizure and the condition was under control. Mr. Faison's girlfriend, who did not want to give her name, said he did not have a regular doctor but took medication and occasionally went to the emergency room.
Mr. Williams said that he went to the morgue Monday but was not allowed to see his son's body. Instead, he was shown a picture of him. "From the moment I saw the picture, I knew he was beaten to death," he said. "He was beaten very badly. It looked like he was dragged by a truck." Mr. Williams said there were multiple cuts and bruises on his face, and his face was swollen.
Ray Weiss, a spokesman for Ms. Hurt, would not comment on the case beyond saying that the investigation is continuing. Patrick Toscano, the first assistant Essex County prosecutor, said, "It is my understanding that the Orange police officers did nothing wrong in this situation."
According to his girlfriend, Mr. Faison was on probation and had served 10 months in jail before being released in June. She said she did not know why he had gone to jail or whether he owned a gun. She said he was with her on the night the officer was killed.
Mr. Faison was an aspiring rap singer, according to his sister, Kytria Faison. And over the weekend, relatives said, he took a bus to Virginia with another rap group, Naughty By Nature. He returned Sunday afternoon, they said, and spent the rest of the day moving his studio equipment from his aunt's house in Newark to his girlfriend's house in Orange. He was leaving his girlfriend's house, getting into a cab, she said, when the police approached him.
Little was immediately known about Mr. Coker. Ursula Scott, 37, the aunt he was visiting when he was arrested, said he was unemployed, but she did not know where he was living or much else about him. She said he did look like the sketch of the killer. "He did say, because he had a bald head and some weight, he was afraid to go out on the street," Ms. Scott said.
When Mr. Everett, the man charged in the killing, appeared in court on Monday and pleaded not guilty, he had a blackened left eye. Raymond Hamlin, his lawyer, told the judge that his client had incurred facial bruises since he was arrested, though he did not accuse the police of inflicting them. Later, he told reporters that he could establish that Mr. Everett was elsewhere at the time Officer Carnegie was killed.
Ms. Hurt has indicated that she had four people who have identified Mr. Everett. Like so many other things in this twisting case, it is not known who they are and what they identified him for -- robbing someone or killing a police officer.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Terrance Everett, below, who has pleaded not guilty to murdering Officer Joyce Anne Carnegie, above, last Thursday, appeared in court with a bruised eye. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (54%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORANGE (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; ATTACKS ON POLICE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC EVIDENCE (90%); ARRESTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (77%); MISCONDUCT (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); SEDANS (69%); CONTUSIONS (67%); ROBBERY (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (64%); ASTHMA (52%); 

PERSON: KLEINFIELD, N R; CARNEGIE, JOYCE (POLICE OFFICER); EVERETT, TERRANCE; COKER, JAMES; FAISON, EARL JOYCE ANNE CARNEGIE (83%); EARL FAISON (74%); TERRANCE EVERETT (66%); JAMES (MALIK) COKER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



295 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2005 words

HEADLINE: Computer Age Gains Respect of Economists

BYLINE: By By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
In a nation of technophiles, where Internet millionaires are minted daily, it seems heresy to question the economic payoff from information technology -- the billions upon billions spent each year by companies and households on everything from computers to software to cell phones.
But for more than a decade, most of the nation's leading economists have been heretics. 
 "You can see the computer age everywhere but in the productivity statistics," Robert M. Solow, a Nobel Prize winner from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, once said.
For years, even as the computer revolutionized the workplace, "measured productivity" -- the output of goods and services per worker -- stagnated, barely advancing 1 percent a year. So it is easy to see how Mr. Solow's pithy comment became the favorite punch line of the economic naysayers.
Yet today, even renowned skeptics on the subject of technology's contribution to the economy, like Mr. Solow, are having second thoughts. Productivity growth has picked up, starting in 1996, capped by a surge in the second half of last year, after eight years of economic expansion. That has drawn attention because past upward swings in productivity typically occurred early in a recovery as economic activity rebounded. Once companies increased hiring, it slowed again.
But something seems fundamentally different this time. It apparently relates to the increased speed and efficiency that information technology advances -- including the Internet -- is finally bringing to the mundane day-to-day tasks of millions of businesses.
The question, posed by economists, is whether the higher productivity growth averaging about 2 percent in the last three years, roughly double the pace from 1973 to 1995, is the long-awaited confirmation that the nation's steadily rising investment in computers and communications is finally paying off. The evidence is starting to point in that direction.
"My beliefs are shifting on this subject," Mr. Solow said. "I am still far from certain. But the story always was that it took a long time for people to use information technology and truly become more efficient. That story sounds a lot more convincing today than it did a year or two ago."
Another pillar in the pessimist camp was Daniel E. Sichel, an economist at the Federal Reserve. His work, along with another Fed economist, Stephen D. Oliner, in 1994, and on his own in 1997, found that computers contributed little to economic growth. But recently, Mr. Sichel ran similar calculations for the last few years and came to a different conclusion.
In a paper that has just been published in the quarterly Business Economics, he wrote that his new work points to "a striking step up in the contribution of computers to output growth." And the nation's improved productivity performance, he noted, is "raising the possibility that businesses are finally reaping the benefits of information technology."
 
Wanted: New Way To Measure Economy
The impact of information technology on the economy is more than an academic debate. If, as some experts assert, the technology dividend is a key reason for the nation's extraordinary run of high growth, rising wages and low inflation, there are significant policy implications. If the recent gains are not just a temporary blip, it suggests that the Federal Reserve can be less fearful of inflation and keep interest rates stable rather than be forced to raise them to cool off what would otherwise be considered an overheated economy. The Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, and the other Fed governors are scheduled to hear presentations on information technology's effect on the economy from several academics during a private meeting in Washington tomorrow.
Mr. Greenspan, for one, seems to believe a fundamental change is under way in the economy. He told Congress in January that the economy is enjoying "higher, technology-driven productivity growth."
The Fed governors will hear a forceful case for technological optimism from Erik Brynjolfsson, an associate professor at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management.
Mr. Brynjolfsson asserts that the economic value of speed, quality improvements, customer service and new products are often not captured by Government statistics. "These are the competitive advantages of information technology," he said. "We need a broader definition of output in this new economy, which goes beyond the industrial-era concept of widgets coming off the assembly line."
The Government, after years of defending its figures, conceded two weeks ago that productivity growth may be understated. The core of the problem, Government economists say, is the increasingly complex challenge of defining and measuring output in much of the economy's fast-growing service sector, which includes the vast reaches of banking, finance, health care and education.
According to the official statistics, for instance, a bank today is no more productive than a bank was two decades ago. Yet that seems to take scant account of, say, 24-hour automated teller machines, which clearly benefit customers who no longer have to wait in lines to be served by human tellers during regular "bankers' hours."
Edwin R. Dean, chief of the productivity division of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, wrote in a recent research paper that the agency is increasingly concerned that its measurements do not "fully reflect changes in the quality of goods and services" or "capture the full impact of new technology on economic performance."
Still, the Government's methods of measurement will not be overhauled anytime soon. "These are tough, tough questions and we are not going to get instant solutions," Mr. Dean said in an interview.
 
Revolution Unfolds In the Back Offices
American corporations long ago made up their minds, voting for technology with their dollars. Investment in information technology -- computing and telecommunications gear -- has quadrupled over the last decade, rising as a share of all business spending on equipment to 53 percent from 29 percent, according to the Commerce Department. And that is only the hardware. There have been surges in corporate spending on software, consulting, technical support and training related to the field.
"The payoff from information technology is unquestionably there with individual companies and we're seeing it over and over again," said Chuck Rieger, a senior consultant at I.B.M.'s services division.
Of course, anecdotal evidence from individual companies is no proof of broad-based benefits in an $8.5 trillion economy. But what many experts find encouraging is that the rapid introduction of low-cost Internet technology means most companies can now afford to set up electronic links with customers and suppliers. For example, a recent survey of 2,500 manufacturing companies, conducted by PricewaterhouseCoopers, found that the number of factories with Internet links to customers and suppliers doubled last year.
At more and more companies, these Internet-based networks are already streamlining the mundane chores of business life like invoicing, purchasing and inventory control. This is not the glamorous side of Internet commerce, occupied by Amazon.com and others selling consumer products. Yet if a technology dividend in productivity is at hand, the place to look is in the back offices of business. "That is where it will be," Mr. Solow, the M.I.T economist, said, "in the wholesale automation of corporate transactions."
This business-to-business commerce over the Internet is projected to jump from $48 billion in 1998 to $1.5 trillion by 2003, according to Forrester Research Inc. During the same period, the research firm estimates that consumer sales over the Internet will rise from $3.9 billion to $108 billion.
 
Looking for Clues In the Service Sector
The service sector of the economy is where productivity gains appear to have been especially sluggish and where experts are looking most closely for evidence of an efficiency payoff from technology.
In Chicago, Michael Rushmore, a banker, said Internet computing has "fundamentally changed the way we do business" over the last three or four years. An example of this is the way corporate loans are syndicated among many banks, said Mr. Rushmore, who is a managing director of Nationsbanc Montgomery Securities, the securities arm of the BankAmerica Corporation.
Until about two years ago, syndicating a large corporate bank loan meant distributing a lengthy offering document, often running more than 200 pages, to 50 to 100 banks. It was, Mr. Rushmore recalled, a nightmarish, inefficient process that involved waves of overnight mail, constant faxing and armies of messengers.
Today, much of that process is handled over the Internet on bank Web sites that other banks tap into to read and download the offering document, ask questions and exchange views. Mr. Rushmore estimates that the Internet-based system trims 25 percent from the time it takes to close a deal, not just improving the ease of the transaction but also saving an immense amount of work.
The rapid spread of Internet-based computing, experts say, promises to compress the time it takes for any new technology to enhance economic welfare in general. The classic study of the phenomenon, "The Dynamo and the Computer: An Historical Perspective on the Modern Productivity Paradox," by Paul David, an economic historian at Stanford University, was published in 1990.
The electric motor, Mr. David noted, was introduced in the early 1880's but did not generate discernible productivity gains until the 1920's. It took that long, he wrote, not only for the technology to be widely diffused but also for businesses to reorganize work around the industrial production line, the efficiency breakthrough of its day.
"The process takes longer than people think, but I still believe that we will get a revival of productivity growth led by the spread of computing," Mr. David said.
 
Techno-Pessimists See an 'Arms Race'
His is a misplaced faith, according to the dwindling band of techno-pessimists whose own beliefs remain unshaken. Sure, they concede, there has been surprisingly strong productivity growth for the last three years. Could this represent a break in the trend? Possibly, they grudgingly admit, but only a tiny shift at best.
The real problem, they say, lies in the composition of the nation's vast service economy. More than half of all white-collar workers are what they term "knowledge workers" -- managers, executives and professionals like doctors, lawyers, teachers, even economists.
"The work they do does not lend itself to technology-driven improvements in productivity, and any gains are really difficult to eke out and are glacial," said Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "Paul David's electrical motor has nothing to do with the knowledge-intensive process of work in a service economy."
A leading technology cynic at the Fed meeting tomorrow will be Paul Strassmann, a former chief information officer of Xerox and the Pentagon. Mr. Strassmann, author of "The Squandered Computer," published in 1997, believes that much of corporate America's spending spree on information technology amounts to an "economic arms race," fueled by misguided management theories.
The recent improvement in productivity, according to Mr. Strassmann, is mainly attributable to the lower cost of capital because of low interest rates. His summary view, though at odds with those of technology optimists like Mr. Brynjolfsson of M.I.T., may also be received warmly by the Fed.
"The explanation for the productivity improvement is interest rates, not information technology," Mr. Strassmann said. "The hero here is not Bill Gates. It's Alan Greenspan."
Yet even Mr. Strassmann finds the technology undeniably useful, if not a productivity elixir. When asked a detailed question, he replied: "Just look it up on my Web site. It's a lot more efficient that way."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Return on Capital"
Corporate investment in technology seems to be paying off with solid gains in productivity since 1996. Graph tracks spending on information technology as a share of all spending on business equipment, since 1985. It also tracks percentage change in nonfarm productivity, over the same period. (Source: Haver Analytics)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (71%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRODUCTIVITY PRODUCTIVITY (91%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE ROBERT M SOLOW (71%); ERIK BRYNJOLFSSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



296 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1610 words

HEADLINE: Aiming for Greener Pastures;
Farm-Equipment Makers Step Up Efforts to Diversify

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, April 8

 BODY:
The name John Deere conjures up tractors, farm equipment, big green machines lingering in the distance, on a huge corn field somewhere in the Midwest.
While it receives most of its revenues from the farm, Deere & Company, the world's largest maker of agricultural machinery, also peddles lawn and turf products. The Case Corporation, a rival in farm machinery, has broadened its reach as well, financing dump trucks and marine equipment. And Caterpillar Inc., the world's largest maker of earthmoving equipment and a major agricultural supplier, is selling truck engines while leveraging its vast distribution network to move Chrysler auto parts and Puma sneakers. 
 All three heavy-equipment makers -- the biggest names in farm and construction equipment -- are moving into new fields in an effort to buffer themselves from the wrenching up-and-down cycle of their core businesses. At the moment, they are trying to break out of a nasty slowdown that in the last few quarters has sapped the profits of virtually every maker of farm equipment. When the farm economy here in the Midwest sagged with the Asian economic crisis and the construction business showed signs of slowing late last year, the big-equipment makers stepped up their efforts to diversify in hopes of maintaining profitability, even in a down cycle.
The sector has been upgraded recently by some Wall Street analysts who believe that the heavy-machinery cycle is likely to start moving upward, but most analysts are unimpressed by the steps toward diversification. Fundamentally, the companies are defined by their core businesses -- and so are still captives of the business cycle.
"I know what they're trying to do, but it's just not showing up in the numbers," Tobias M. Levkovich, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, said about Case. "They've gotten reamed by the cycle, and that's with the U.S. construction business doing very well."
Still, the most recent downturn has been a big impetus in a trend that has been in place for some time.
Case, for instance, now receives about a third of its revenue from sales of construction equipment. Deere receives nearly one-fifth of its revenues from lawn and consumer products. Caterpillar, which originated in 1925 with the merger of two farm tractor companies, is dominant in excavating and earthmoving machines, but now receives a third of its revenues from engine sales and about 5 percent from financial services.
The three companies say they are also outsourcing more operations to cut fixed costs and venturing further afield into unrelated businesses, such as health care, distribution management, toys and clothing. Caterpillar has a new line of "Cat" boots, caps and jeans. Deere likewise has a major licensing deal involving toys and clothing.
Caterpillar executives are hammering away at a consistent message. "If the U.S. construction market slows down we've been telling people, 'Look, we are not a U.S. construction industry business,' " said F. Lynn McPheeters, chief financial officer at Caterpillar. "This is a global, multifaceted company that has taken a lot of the cyclicality out of the company."
Wall Street remains skeptical, however. Despite diversification, when the farm and construction economies weakened last year, particularly in Asia, so did the profits of these companies.
At Case, earnings dropped 80 percent in 1998. Deere, which has laid off at least 300 workers in the last six months, saw profits decline 75 percent last quarter.
Caterpillar, by contrast, had a year of record revenues, $21 billion. But profits are expected to slip 50 percent when it reports quarterly results this week compared with the similar quarter a year earlier because of weaker sales of agriculture and mining products and a slump in Latin America.
Investors had been dumping the Big Three stocks until recently, when the shares began to recover somewhat on hopes that the cycle might be on the verge of an upturn. But it was a long plunge downward: Case stock, for example, fell below the price of its 1994 initial public offering.
Case says it has drastically changed its operations since it was spun off from Tenneco that year. Now, the company says, it is quicker to react to downturns. Executives also say the company has cut fixed costs in recent years and moved rapidly to idle plants. And it has counted on geographical diversification and benefited from stronger sales of construction equipment and growth in its financing of marine and commercial vehicles, such as municipal garbage trucks.
"I'm absolutely convinced we're a dramatically different company than we were in the last down cycle," said Steven G. Lamb, president and chief operating officer. "In the last downturn we weren't profitable. But since then we've grown our construction, credit and international businesses."
Many Wall Street analysts, however, are far from convinced that Case or its competitors have fundamentally changed their reliance on cyclical businesses. When Lisa Shalett, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, raised doubts about the new efforts, executives at Case summoned her to their offices in Racine, Wis., for a review of the numbers.
"At the end of the day, it's great these companies have attempted to diversify," Ms. Shalett said. "But the key struggle for investors is that they don't make tons of money outside of the core business."
When the farm equipment market turned down in the early 1990's, Case lost more than $2 billion, including restructuring charges; Deere lost $920 million in 1993 alone. Caterpillar was also hemorrhaging. Though the farm slump could deepen in 1999, Mr. Lamb says Case executives are comfortable with Wall Street projections that Case will be "solidly profitable" in 1999, despite a slowdown in earnings growth over the last two years.
Jean-Pierre Rosso, the chief executive at Case, says his company's stock has fallen far too sharply. "At $25 it's still undervalued," Mr. Rosso said a few weeks ago, just days after shares of Case bounced back from their low of $18. "At $20 it was so grossly undervalued for a company with $6 billion in sales and excellent assets." On Tuesday the shares closed at $28.75.
Deere is more diversified. Its commercial-equipment division, which includes lawn and turf products, saw an 88 percent jump in operating profits in 1998. Its diesel engine business is also strong, and its managed health care operation improved greatly in 1998, after a large loss in 1997.
Caterpillar is the most diverse of the three, but falling demand in Asia has hurt crucial sales of earthmoving equipment, used for construction projects like the Hong Kong airport. The company is expanding its agriculture business, making a run at Deere in the sale of giant combines, but the biggest growth area for Caterpillar may be engines.
With its acquisition last year of Perkins Engines, the former subsidiary of Lucas Varity P.L.C., Caterpillar is now one of the world's largest makers of diesels for construction. Caterpillar engines are under the hood of about one-third of all big trucks in the United States.
Caterpillar is also promoting mobile electric generators, which are in high demand in the developing world. And it has leveraged its distribution network, called the Caterpillar Logistics Services, founded in 1986. The division now has 2,600 employees and handles, warehouses and distributes more than $4 billion worth of products each year, including parts for Sun Microsystems and Land Rovers.
Profit margins are much richer in farm vehicles than in the affiliated businesses, analysts say, and that means profit downturns in that business can be disproportionately sharp.
"The highest margins business at cyclical peaks is farm equipment," said Mr. Levkovich of Salomon Smith Barney. "They're trying to grow all those other things, but the buck still stops in farm."
The last big pure farm-equipment maker in the United States is the Agco Corporation of Duluth, Ga., which had $2.9 billion in sales in 1998. The company says that because it outsources most of its business and focuses primarily on assembly, it is less susceptible sharp downturns. Nonetheless, for the fiscal year ended Dec. 31, Agco's revenues fell 9 percent, to $2.94 billion, and the company announced that it was cutting 1,400 jobs. Its shares are now trading at $6.9375, down from $27 a year ago.
"Agriculture is cyclical, and since that is our primary industry, so are we," said Robert J. Ratliff, the company's chief executive. But Agco, which has grown in recent years by acquiring companies like Massey-Ferguson, said it would continue to seek acquisitions and would diversify to mitigate downturns.
In diversifying, however, Case, Deere and Caterpillar are poaching in one another's backyard. Construction companies and farm companies are now construction-farm companies with a growing interest in peripherals, like forestry equipment. Caterpillar and Deere are both selling diesel engines, in the hope that they will be a cyclical antidote.
Analysts who follow the industry talk about Caterpillar taking on Deere with big combines; Deere and Caterpillar taking on Ingersoll-Rand in a mechanism called the skid-steer loader, a small and easily adaptable multipurpose construction vehicle.
These searches for a cure, some analysts say, involve considerable risk.
"Everyone wants to diversify their exposure so they're not dependent on the farmer," said David Bluestein, an analyst at Paine Webber. "But these guys are all diversifying into other companies' core markets and that's going to lead to overcapacity, which causes pricing pressure."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Earthmoving equipment, a Caterpillar staple, at the company's booth during a recent convention in Las Vegas, Nev. (John Gurzinski for The New York Times)(pg. C1); The Case Corporation's display at a show in Las Vegas, Nev., last month. The company says it has benefited from growth in it's construction equipment sales and it's marine and commercialo vehicle financing. (John Gurzinski for The New York Times)(pg. C10)
 
Graph: "Taming the Cycles?"
The three big heavy-equipment makers -- trying to buffer the sharp ups and downs of their core farm and construction equipment businesses -- are increasingly trying to diversify. But Wall Street still sees them as cyclical stocks.
 
CATERPILLAR
Best known for its huge yellow bulldozers, Caterpillar is tapping its expertise to sell truck engines and expand lending. Graph tracks the company's stock price, since the beginning of 1997.
 
Yesterday -- $54.75
Up -- $3.375
 
1998 REVENUE
TOTAL -- $21 BILLION
CHANGES FROM 1997
 
Machinery
$13 billion -- +1%
 
Financial products
$1 billion -- +23%
 
Engines
$7 billion -- +37%
 
DEERE
Stung by the slump in agriculture, Deere is playing off its popular brand name to sell more consumer-oriented products. Graph tracks the company's stock price, since the beginning of 1997.
 
Yesterday -- $40.875
Down -- $1.0625
 
1998 REVENUE
TOTAL -- $12 BILLION
 
Agricultural equipment
$7 billion -- +3%
 
Construction equipment
$3 billion -- +14%
 
Consumer equipment
$2 billion -- +21%
 
CASE
The weakest of the heavy-equipment makers, Case recently has been particularly aggressive in finance, even developing its own credit card. Graph tracks the company's stock price, since the beginning of 1997.
 
Yesterday -- $28.75
Down 12.5 cents
 
1998 REVENUE
TOTAL -- $6.4 BILLION
 
Agricultural equipment
$4 billion -- -4%
 
Construction equipment
$2 billion -- +8%
 
Financial services
$0.4 billion -- +39%
 
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; the companies)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (94%); CATR (PAR) (94%); CAT (SWX) (94%); CAT (NYSE) (94%); DE (NYSE) (94%); CNH (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (94%); NAICS333112 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTOR & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3524 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTORS & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT (94%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (91%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DEERE & CO; CASE CORP; CATERPILLAR INC CATERPILLAR INC (94%); DEERE & CO (94%); CNH GLOBAL NV (91%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEERE & CO; CASE CORP; CATERPILLAR INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (91%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; INDUSTRY PROFILES; MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT; FARMERS; COMPANY REPORTS; FINANCES AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (93%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TRENDS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); OUTSOURCING (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); MERGERS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); HEALTH CARE (67%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



297 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: After Criticisms, Clinton Moves To Restart Talks With Chinese

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
Facing sharp criticism over his failure last week to reach a trade deal with China, President Clinton telephoned China's Prime Minister this afternoon to restart the negotiations in Beijing this month.
The White House announced the effort as Prime Minister Zhu Rongji, who has complained repeatedly about the failure to reach a deal during his tour of the United States, was visiting New York before heading to Canada. Mr. Zhu had spent much of his day lobbying business executives about the benefits of an accord on trade. Page A12. 
 At a dinner in New York tonight sponsored by the Economic Club, Mr. Zhu said he had told Mr. Clinton during their phone conversation that he felt "very confident that in the near future we will see the successful conclusion of negotiations that are favorable to both sides -- but especially to the U.S."
Mr. Clinton's phone call to the Chinese leader followed a gathering on Monday in which nearly two dozen business executives met at the White House and sharply criticized the Administration for failing to seal the deal, which would give American companies access to the world's largest market.
"They were happy with the progress we made but were worried that the deal would not come to fruition," an Administration official said. The official said Mr. Clinton's phone call, which lasted about 20 minutes, was intended to send a signal to business leaders that the White House was doing all it could to seal the deal and that it intended to lock China into concessions it had made on numerous trade issues.
In a joint statement, the two countries said they would "move intensively" to resolve the remaining issues that blocked them from reaching a deal last week while Mr. Zhu met with President Clinton in Washington.
After he left Washington last week, Mr. Zhu began a surprisingly political campaign across the United States to pressure the Administration to work harder to complete the negotiations. Officials said Mr. Zhu was worried that he had not received enough of a commitment from the United States. The Administration, perceiving Mr. Zhu as a leading force for reform in China, wanted to allow him to return home and claim that he had made substantial progress.
Time may have been running out for Mr. Clinton too; if he did not catch Mr. Zhu before he left the country, some officials feared, the momentum for an agreement might have been lost for the rest of Mr. Clinton's second term as the Presidential elections heat up and Mr. Clinton's China policy comes under increasing fire.
China's entry into the World Trade Organization, the group that determines the rules for global commerce, was the prize that Mr. Zhu came seeking but was denied as talks collapsed at the last minute. Some Administration officials said that anti-China sentiment on Capitol Hill was so intense that they thought they could not get any deal through. At the same time, officials said, President Clinton was distracted by the Kosovo conflict and had not fully conveyed to his negotiators how much he wanted to complete the deal himself.
President Clinton still faces a tough sell on any agreement in Congress. Some Democrats in Congress were leery of an accord with China, predicting it would set off a divisive battle in their party, particularly with labor unions, which are concerned about protecting American jobs.
Mr. Zhu said during his visit here that he believed the deal fell through because of domestic American politics and that Washington had politicized what was essentially an economic issue. Republicans on Capitol Hill have been furious over Mr. Clinton's policy of engagement with China at a time when China is accused of stealing military secrets from the United States, cracking down on political dissidents and making illegal financial contributions to Mr. Clinton's 1996 re-election campaign.
Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican leader, said last week during Mr. Zhu's visit that he strongly opposed a deal and was suspicious of whether China would commit to fair trade practices. The United States has a $57 billion trade imbalance with China.
China made several broad concessions last week in order to gain entry to the trade organization, a step it has been working toward for 13 years. Entry would require China to demolish its tariffs and trade barriers but would give it broad access to the markets of many other nations.
The Chinese concessions included allowing foreign companies to sell their products directly to consumers, an enormous opportunity in a land of 1.2 billion people. China also agreed to allow foreign companies to invest as much as 49 percent in telecommunications industries and to give greater access to foreign-owned insurance companies. In a separate civil aviation deal, it agreed to allow more flights from the United States. And it signed an accord to lift restrictions on the import of American wheat, citrus fruits and meat.
But still outstanding were areas like trade in financial services and assurances that the United States could enforce agreements with China.
After Mr. Zhu left Washington on Saturday, he criticized Mr. Clinton, saying in cities across the country that the President "does not dare" take a political risk in allowing China to join the trade organization. A senior official traveling with the Prime Minister said, "We had a deal."
Before Mr. Clinton called Mr. Zhu, Charlene Barshefsky, the United States trade representative, said on Capitol Hill today that the President was committed to seeing that negotiations would be finished in time for China to join the World Trade Organization this year.
"We will re-engage with the Chinese shortly," she said in testimony before the Senate Finance Committee, promising to "work on each of the issues that are open to bring this full agreement to closure."
While some Senators were hostile, others said they were worried that the deal would unravel and that China would withdraw the concessions it made last week. Mr. Zhu himself complained that the Administration had "made public many documents and said we had agreed to them, but in fact we have not agreed."
Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, accused the Administration of "raw, rotten protectionism" at the behest of American textile and steel companies, worried about the low price of Chinese imports.
He said the Administration was trying to force China to keep limits on textile exports for five years longer than currently allowed under the trade organization's rules. And he said that America's high barriers in this area had already cost the average family of four $700 more in clothing bills each year.
Administration officials said the talks in Beijing would be at the "expert" level between an assistant trade representative, Robert Cassidy, and China's vice minister for trade and economy, Long Yongtu. "Any higher-level talks will depend on progress that the experts make," one American official said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ZHU RONGJI (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



298 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
State Jobless Rate Rises For First Time in 2 Years

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
The state's unemployment rate went up last month for the first time in nearly two years.
The rate was 4.5 percent in March, up from 4.1 percent in February. In March, the rate was again higher than the national rate, which fell to a 29-year low of 4.2 percent. 
 The numbers show about 20,000 fewer New Jerseyans held jobs during the month, but many economists consider a 4.5 percent unemployment rate to be close to full employment. New Jersey companies increased their payrolls by 6,400 during the month. The added jobs were held by state residents as well as out-of-state commuters.
The last time the unemployment rate went up was in June 1997, when the 5.2 percent rate was slightly higher than the preceding month's 5.1 percent rate. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY COS (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JOB CREATION (88%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



299 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: 'Saving' Social Security as a Guise to Raise Taxes

 BODY:

To the Editor:
According to Robert D. Reischauer (Op-Ed, April 9), fixing Social Security requires nothing more than higher payroll taxes and lower benefits. But in focusing on how to keep the trust fund solvent for longer, he ignores that the program is a bad deal for the average worker. 
 A 30-year-old married couple, who each earn an average wage of about $26,000, can expect to earn a paltry 1.2 percent return on their Social Security taxes. The most conservative private investment averages more than five times that. If this couple were allowed to invest the money themselves, they would have about $525,000 more for retirement than Social Security will provide.
Congress should allow workers to invest a portion of their Social Security taxes in personal retirement accounts.
 
WILLIAM BEACH
Washington, April 9, 1999
 
The writer is a senior fellow in economics at the Heritage Foundation.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (56%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (56%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US) SOCIAL SECURITY (93%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (88%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (88%); CORPORATE TAX (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MARRIAGE (70%); 

PERSON: BEACH, WILLIAM; REISCHAUER, ROBERT D OP-ED APRIL (60%); ACCORDING TO ROBERT D REISCHAUER (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



300 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: In School;
Bucking imposing odds, P.S. 115 turns around from failing statewide tests to winning honors

BYLINE: By Randal C. Archibold 

 BODY:
Carmen Serrano, to put it modestly, loves cats.
This is obvious from the cat posters, done by her pupils and their parents, dangling from the ceiling and clinging to the walls outside her classroom, and from the little cat dance she does as she sings a tune from "The Aristocats," shaking an imaginary tale for emphasis. 
 Behind the fun, however, lie serious lessons. The cat motif hooks students into subjects from reading (children write their own "cat tales") to science (stuffed-animal cats are used as props in lessons on weights and measures).
"We're not restricted here," said Ms. Serrano, who teaches first grade. "If you want to be innovative, then fine, if it works."
"Works" is understood to mean students doing well in mathematics and, especially, reading. And Public School 115 has improved enough on both in the last decade to rebound from officially failing to the Schools Chancellor's honor roll.
This accomplishment came about despite what might seem to be challenging odds: The school sits in a rough neighborhood near the corner of West 177th Street and St. Nicholas Avenue in Washington Heights. Nearly all the school's 1,300 children are poor enough to qualify for free lunch. Most come from immigrant families, mainly from the Dominican Republic. About half do not speak English fluently, and many of their parents, like Luisa Cabrera, the P.T.A. president, are taking classes at the school to learn it.
But on New York State's new school report cards, P.S. 115 is rated "far above average" in comparison to others with similar demographics. On citywide examinations last spring, 50.6 percent of third graders were reading at or above grade level, an improvement from 37.3 percent three years before and a hair below the city average of 51.3 percent.
On last year's statewide test, 60.9 percent of its third graders could understand typical reading matter for that grade, well above 23.5 percent for demographically similar schools and 33.2 percent city average.
That was a sharp contrast to 10 years ago, when the school made the state's first roster of academically troubled schools, known as Schools Under Registration Review, primarily because of chronically subpar reading scores.
The school took a multipronged approach toward reform, lifting itself off the list after three years.
A leadership committee was formed to involve parents and teachers in the direction of the school, advising the principal on everything from curriculum and staff training to whether pupils should be dismissed from one exit or two.
Parents were taught to use the public library so they could encourage their children to read, and the school enacted a 90-minute "Golden Hour" every morning during which the entire school reads intensively. Some students get another hour in the afternoon, and in advance of standardized tests, they pore over preparation materials.
Teachers have also raised their expectations, said Mayra Cruz, a fifth-grade special education teacher and the teachers' union representative for the school. (Some teachers were encouraged to take early retirement after the school landed on the failing schools list.) "They used to say, 'Oh, Johnny so-and-so can't learn,' " Ms. Cruz said. "No more. Now it's, 'Every child can learn.' "
Help also came from outside, with state, Federal and community financial assistance that has allowed for such occasional extras as class trips to Philadelphia and even Phoenix as part of an exchange program with an elementary school there. A local bank set up a "branch" in the school that every other week collects deposits from fifth graders, who in turn learn firsthand about economics.
The British Government donated $2,500 for library books a few years ago after an official from the British Embassy visited as part of a "principal for the day" program. "It's a true story, and funny in a way, but it is the sad reality," said George Tomka, the school's principal for 14 years. "The British Government had to give us library books."
New schools built in the area have eased the overcrowding cited by Mr. Tomka as a significant detriment to learning, and a few years ago, workers patched over long-neglected holes in ceilings and crumbling walls that had cast a pall over the five-story Gothic marvel, built in 1913.
The school is far from perfect. Steven Rothschild, a former teacher who now coordinates an absentee prevention program and arranges links to local businesses, said he lamented the fiscal shortfalls that wiped out most after-school sports over the years -- a basketball team remains -- and the craze over standardized tests that he believes can stifle teachers' creativity.
"I would go crazy if I were in the classroom now," he said.
Mr. Tomka, who once was the school's gym teacher, also wishes for more extracurricular activities, but he is convinced that the school is on the right track, waving off suggestions that test preparation is overemphasized.
"When I went to elementary school, we had the same thing," said Mr. Tomka, who attended public schools in the Bronx. "We had structured time for reading. I don't think it hurt anybody. And everybody could read and write."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 16, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about students' gains at Public School 115 in Washington Heights misstated the source of its "far above average" ranking for academic performance. Such rankings are issued by the New York City Board of Education on the basis of scores on citywide reading tests; they do not appear on New York State school report cards.

GRAPHIC: Photo: George Tomka, the principal of Public School 115 in Washington Heights, Manhattan, working with a second grader, Kiosumy Tokayosi, 8. Once a failing school in state tests, P.S. 115 has shown sharp improvement. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "And Still Gaining"
Chart shows percentage of students above federal income guidelines for free school lunch. Also shows percentage of third graders who read at grade level. Statistics in New York State.
 
(Source: N.Y. State Department of Education)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 115 WOMEN'S HEALTH AND CANCER RIGHTS ACT OF 1999 (86%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ; UNITED STATES (93%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MATHEMATICS; READING AND WRITING SKILLS; TESTS AND TESTING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENGLISH LANGUAGE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); CATS (91%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); FAMILY (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); LIBRARIES (71%); MATHEMATICS (70%); IMMIGRATION (70%); CITY LIFE (68%); REFUGEES (66%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (64%); TRENDS (64%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999



301 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 1; Circuits 

LENGTH: 1922 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Warm To 'Free' PC's

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL 

 BODY:
FOR Barbara D. Fontenot, last Friday was the big day. She practically hugged the United Parcel Service man who lugged the big box up the stairs to her sparsely appointed second-floor apartment.
Ms. Fontenot, a 58-year-old sixth-grade teacher in Alexandria, La., plopped down on her hardwood living room floor and carefully unpacked her first computer. It was something she could not have afforded until a man named Joseph Calimari came along: rather than paying for her computer outright, she pays $29.99 a month in a rent-to-own plan offered by Mr. Calimari's startup company, Intersquid.com. 
 "I was one happy child when the U.P.S. man showed up," Ms. Fontenot said. She is participating in a new way of buying and selling computers that has computer industry analysts intrigued and wary. They say the new means of distributing PC's is poised to gain wide appeal, but its eventual success is less certain.
The computers are being offered to consumers much the way cellular phones are provided by the companies that provide phone service. Computer companies offer to give a "free PC" to consumers, then charge them for monthly Internet access fees. The fees start at $20 a month, depending on how powerful the computer is, a price that is not much higher than you might expect to pay for Internet access alone.
There's a catch, of course. In some cases, users must sign up for a two- to three-year contract, locking them into a long-term deal in a world full of unknowns and committing them to companies that may be as new to the computer business as many of their customers are to computers.
"This is a pretty good deal for consumers and pretty compelling for first-time buyers," said David J. Stremba, principal analyst for Dataquest, a San Jose, Calif., market research company. "But they just need to be aware of what they are making a commitment to."
Among the questions Mr. Stremba recommends that consumers ask: Who is operating the company? Will it survive to live up to its commitments, like long-term technical support and Internet access? Are the computers reliable? What, if any, upgrades can a buyer expect?
Mr. Stremba said that some consumers might sign up for three years of Internet access, for example, provided over phone lines -- so-called dial-up access. But, he said, cable access, which is must faster than dial-up access, may be widely available, before long. "Three years is a long time to get locked into something," he said. "In three years, standard dial-up access is going to look as appealing as a moldy sandwich."
Mr. Stremba also said these companies simply could not afford to sell computers and Internet access for $20 a month. He recently completed a study of the industry and concluded that 95 percent to 99 percent of the businesses offering that kind of deal "won't survive past six months to a year."
Mr. Calimari, 30, who founded his company four months ago and started shipping computers two weeks ago, disagreed. "We don't lose money now," he said. "We're offering this at a point where we're just making a profit." But he conceded that the profit margins were slim and that he was not sure how his competitors could make money if they offered better deals. "I don't know how they're doing it," he said.
What is certain is that the driving force behind the business model -- and the reason the companies are getting involved -- is the precipitously falling price of computers. It is now possible to buy name-brand computers for less than $700, including a monitor.
Putting a fine point on the story of falling prices, a San Francisco company called Emachines suddenly propelled itself to become the fourth-largest PC maker in the United States in the month of February, according to PC Data, a market research company in Reston, Va. The key to the company's success: it sells computers for less than $600.
As the trend toward cheaper computers became clear last year, a light bulb went on in Mr. Calimari's head. "I was at American Express doing accounting," said Mr. Calimari, 30. "I suddenly realized this industry was going the way of the cellular phone."
Initially, he wanted to name his company PC-for-Free but decided it was similar to too many other companies' names. So he chose something a little more offbeat: Intersquid.com, based on his last name, which means squid in Italian.
For a $30 registration fee and $29.99 a month for 30 months, plus shipping and handling, subscribers to Intersquid .com get Internet access and a new computer. The computer includes a 333-megahertz Intel Celeron I processor -- a stripped down Pentium -- 32 megabytes of memory, a 40x CD-ROM drive, a 56-kilobits-per-second modem and a 15-inch monitor. It also comes with 24-hour technical support and a limited warranty, which Mr. Calimari said would cover problems with the computer not caused by the user. After 30 months, users own the computer.
Fledgling competitors are offering similar deals. In New York, 26-year-old Ganesh Ramakrishnan, a former anthropology and economics student turned investment banker turned computer entrepreneur, recently started Gobi Inc. For $25.99 a month for 36 months, plus a one-time fee of $29.99 and shipping and handling, Gobi sells a machine with a 300-megahertz Celeron processor, monitor and modem.
Mr. Ramakrishnan said that the company planned to upgrade the computers as technology changed but that he was still ironing out the details of how the upgrades would take place and what technological advances would qualify for upgrades. He said subscribers would be able to purchase their computers at the end of their three-year-contracts for about $50 each.
In Mount Laurel, N.J., Dennis M. Cline and his colleagues have begun Direct Web. The company plans to offer national service but for now is taking orders only for the Philadelphia area for a computer and Internet access ranging from $19.95 to $49.95, depending on the model of the computer.
In the case of Direct Web, the contract is month to month, not long term. But there is still a catch: when subscribers log onto a Direct Web computer, they will go immediately to a home portal page sponsored by Direct Web. The page will feature advertisers, who will be allowed to store information like audio and video commercial clips on the computer's hard drive.
Mr. Cline said he had become convinced after spending months conducting focus groups that consumers would buy into the rent-to-own concept. He said consumers were looking for simplified solutions when buying computers -- like bundling computers with Internet access and tech support -- and that they hated the fact that when they bought a computer, it would not be on the cutting edge.
In focus groups, he said, users said they felt stupid when trying to buy a computer. " 'Once I buy it and install it, I find out it's obsolete,' " Mr. Cline said, parroting a focus group member. " 'I went through all the gyrations to buy this, then my brother-in-law shows up and says, "Why'd you get the old one?" ' "
The early interest in his company and in his competitors seems to bear Mr. Cline out. Since his company opened the phone lines for orders two weeks ago, he said, it has received 1,000 orders or more each day. Similarly, the owners of Gobi and Intersquid said the phones had been ringing constantly at their companies.
The story of Ms. Fontenot illustrates some of the appeal and potential pitfalls of the experience. A public school teacher since 1962, Ms. Fontenot said her $30,000 salary did not permit luxuries like computers. So several months ago, she started surfing the Net in the school library, looking for "free PC's."
Initially, she found a company called Free PC, which attracted a lot of attention with its offer to give away 10,000 computers. In exchange for the computers, users agree to put up with a constant stream of advertising and provide personal information to be used by advertisers.
Ms. Fontenot said she had filled out "20 or 30" applications on the Web for a computer and had never received any responses.
Then she found Intersquid.com. She said she had been skeptical at first but had finally decided to call the company, where she had conversations on four days with a man named Joe, who she later found out happened to be the company president. He told her about the computer and the Internet access. She started to feel reassured.
She had to overcome her fear about giving her credit card number to someone she had never met. "Finally, I just jumped," she said.
Her concern resurfaced several days later when the computer failed to show up. She called Intersquid and found out that shipping had been delayed by the Easter holiday. Several days later, Mr. Calimari called again: he had sent the package but had forgotten to include the CD-ROM necessary to hook the computer to the Net.
At that moment, Ms. Fontenot realized that there was a question she had not yet asked. "I said, 'I've never asked you this, but how old is your company?' " she recalled. "He told me four months."
Intersquid is not alone in experiencing growing pains. Gobi Inc., for example, began getting national press coverage last week, causing dozens of prospective clients to try to get in contact with the company.
The trouble is, the company had not yet set up an ordering line and had even had an internal debate about whether it should set one up at all. Franklin Raff, a spokesman for Gobi, said the company was worried about whether it could afford an 800 number because "its margins are so tight."
For her part, Ms. Fontenot maintains her faith through it all. She said she had set up her new computer and was waiting for her CD-ROM. And she said she admired the Mr. Calimaris of the world, whose entrepreneurial spirit has enabled her to own a computer.
"This is an old schoolteacher taking a risk, a big one," Ms. Fontenot said. "I'm trusting a lot of people here. I don't know much about computers. You could sell me anything -- except the Brooklyn Bridge."
 
PC Economics
A Price List for Those 'Free' Computers
 Several companies are offering deals for so-called free computers, in which the user pays a fee for Internet service. The computers and the terms of payment vary. Here are three of the deals currently offered.
 
INTERSQUID.COM: www.intersquid.com -- For a payment of $29.99 a month for 30 months, Intersquid offers a computer with a 333-megahertz Intel Celeron chip, 32 megabytes of RAM, 4.3-gigabyte hard drive, floppy disk drive, 40X CD-ROM drive, 56K modem and 15-inch monitor. The machine has a three-year limited warranty with 7-day, 24-hour technical support. Phone: (877) 724-3733.
 
GOBI: www.gobi.com -- For $25.99 a month for 36 months, and a one-time fee of $29.99 and shipping and handling, Gobi offers a 300-MHz Celeron chip, 32 MB RAM, a 3.2-GB hard drive, a floppy drive, a 56 K modem, a 40x CD-ROM drive and a 15-inch monitor. (800) 937-4624.
 
DIRECT WEB: www.directweb.com -- The company offers three programs, all on a month-to-month basis.
Basic, at $19.95 a month, provides a 333-MHz Celeron chip, 64 MB of RAM, a 6.4-GB hard drive, 32x CD-ROM drive, a 56 K modem and a 15-inch monitor.
The Select plan, at $29.95 a month, gives you a 366-MHz Celeron chip, 128 MB of RAM, an 8.6-GB hard drive, 32x CD-ROM drive, 17-inch monitor and 56 K modem.
Premium, at $49.95 a month, includes a 450-MHz Pentium III chip, 128 MB of RAM, a 10.2-GB hard drive, 6x DVD-ROM drive, 17-inch monitor and 56 K modem. (888) 468-2746.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barbara D. Fontenot, a teacher in Alexandria, La., with her new computer. (Leandro Huebner for The New York Times)(pg. G8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (58%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

CITY: ALEXANDRIA, LA, USA (88%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); LOUISIANA, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); ALEXANDRIA, LA, USA (88%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) INTERNET & WWW (89%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (70%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); 

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT; STREMBA, DAVID J JOSEPH CALIMARI (91%); DAVID J STREMBA (69%); BARBARA D FONTENOT (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



302 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 3; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1518 words

HEADLINE: DESIGN NOTEBOOK;
Shelter Made of the Earth's Own Dust

BYLINE: By FRANCES ANDERTON 

DATELINE: HESPERIA, Calif.

 BODY:
ON a windy March day in a park here, Australian Aborigines, American survivalists and members of a rain forest action group teamed up to mix a slurry of earth, water, sand and cement to help build a museum. They pumped the mixture into plastic sandbags hundreds of feet long, laying the sandbags in a large coil. Later they sat inside an intricate brick dome as the four Aborigines sang ancient songs. It was, said Samuel Parish, one of the group, "incredible to hear their voices echoing in the dome."
A New Age moment, you think. But what brought four men from Australia; two avid readers of American Survival Guide/The Magazine of Self Reliance; Gabriel Reyes, a builder sent by the rain forest group Oasis Preserve International in Costa Rica, and their co-believers to this spot was the chance to learn how to build cheap, easy, earthquake-resistant and quirkily beautiful buildings. They were learning by participating in the construction of earthen structures, including a 9,000-square-foot museum made of sandbags filled with earth and cement. The occasion was a $2,000-a-week workshop put on by the California Institute of Earth Architecture and taught by Nader Khalili, an Iranian-born architect turned sustainable-architecture guru. 
 For eight years, Mr. Khalili's Cal-Earth Institute has taught people the art of building from raw elements. In 1974, Mr. Khalili quit designing high-rises to spend five years traversing Iran and studying indigenous structures. He subsequently wrote "Racing Alone: Fire and Earth, a Visionary Architect's Passionate Quest" (Cal-Earth Press, 1983), a treatise on the spiritual power of baked-clay, or ceramic, architecture and of Rumi, the 13th-century Persian poet who he said taught "the unity of the elements and the soul."
Mr. Khalili became convinced that any effort to change global attitudes about building had to start in the United States, the place that third-world builders currently emulate. He decided to start in California, whose earthquakes would present his buildings with their severest test.
He acquired some cheap land in this dreary high-desert city northeast of Los Angeles. With its extreme climate and sandy earth, Hesperia would be, he felt, a good laboratory. Cal-Earth's center here consists of a simple cottage with a 7.5-acre yard out back and a garage. Assisted by students, Mr. Khalili and his partner and administrator, a British-born architect named Iliona Outram, used the yard to erect arches, domes and vaults of handmade adobe bricks, factory-produced bricks and earth-filled sandbags. Their experiments with a building system that they named Superadobe eventually produced a spacious, three-vaulted, three-room house on the lot -- an Earth One house, they call it.
Superadobe buildings are made of self-supporting sandbags wound in a coil or laid like very big bricks. The sandbags are mildly reinforced with barbed wire and finished in stucco. Some incorporate chimneylike "wind catchers" for cooling and solar panels for heating.
Superadobe construction is strong, cheap, even fast. (With a pump, sandbags can be filled at a rate of 10 to 15 feet a minute.) And because it requires relatively little skill, Mr. Khalili maintains that it can be used in the third world and as emergency housing, as well as by Americans trying to avoid a high-consumption life style.
The city of Hesperia might be the embodiment of consumption, filled as it is with sport-utility vehicles and tract homes, each with a well-watered lawn and year-round air-conditioning and heating to fend off 100-plus highs in summer and winter chills. Hesperia is the seeming antithesis of Mr. Khalili's aspirations.
Yet this latter-day frontier town has commissioned a public building of Superadobe: the Hesperia Museum and Nature Center, now being erected in a park beside the town lake at a projected cost of $1.2 million. The Hesperia Recreation and Park District is putting up $250,000 of the total; Cal Camara, the general manager of the district, said he hopes that the rest will come from grants and corporate sponsors.
The brick Rumi Dome where the Aborigines sang is the museum entryway; the sandbag coils the team laid down are the bases of 11 20-foot-wide domes that will encircle a 50-foot main exhibit dome and courtyard. In addition, the city has said it will allow Earth One houses with three or four bedrooms to be built here. (Plans for the four-bedroom model, at 2,000 square feet, are $550. Mr. Khalili estimated that the house would cost $75,000 to build, including labor, materials and utilities; plans are available from (760) 244-0614.)
To make all this possible, Mr. Khalili had to demonstrate that Super adobe could pass stringent seismic tests and other rigorous building code standards, a process that lasted years. As Tom Harp, Hesperia's planning director, noted in an article he wrote for Building Standards, the organ of the International Conference of Building Officials, "If we hadn't been trained to be courteous, we would have laughed out loud" when Mr. Khalili first proposed making buildings out of sandbags.
But the city enlisted outside experts, and finally approved the building of Superadobe structures -- "a very significant step in legitimizing earth architecture," Mr. Khalili said. Now he and Ms. Outram are trying to get the Superadobe technique included in the International Building Code.
With the museum (which was started in 1996 and will be completed in 2000, if the rest of the money can be raised), Mr. Khalili is hoping to show that brick domes and Super adobe not only are cheap and practical but also can be poetic and beautiful. Already local residents are entranced by the delightful, if alien, Rumi Dome. A group of American Indians plan a powwow there in May. (The Rumi Dome and the rest of the museum construction site are open to the public free on the first Saturday of each month. Information is available at Cal-Earth's Web site, www.calearth.org.)
But Cal-Earth has its critics, particularly among architects who object to what they see as regressive building techniques. Peter Berman, an architect working in Montana, said that earth architecture cannot possibly attain the economies of scale of conventional buildings.
"These homeopathic construction systems send technology backward," he said, adding that technology lets designers make buildings lighter, stronger and more transparent. "People do not want to live in thick, echoing domes." Moreover, homeowners might run into trouble when they try to install standard doors and windows in their idiosyncratic Superadobe homes. Home-building, he said, is "best left to the professionals."
So far no one actually lives in any of the school's domes; in fact, none are equipped with the utilities that even a self-respecting environmentalist would require, though visitors regularly stay overnight in them. It has taken several years to build just a few structures, and the Superadobe system is still, Ms. Outram said, "more piecemeal and low-tech than one would like."
But enough people are convinced by the concept and the philosophy to take a leap of faith. The Aborigines flew thousands of miles to learn a technique they hope to apply on a piece of land inherited by one of their number, Michael Woodley.
The team from Oasis Preserve International -- Mr. Reyes and three Americans -- were introduced to Cal-Earth by their founder, Woody Harrelson. "We were interested in the technology because it's tree-free," said Brian Machovina, assistant director of Oasis, the rain forest preservation group.
Mr. Parish, a Florida high school teacher, was attracted to Super adobe as a low-cost way to build his own home. He said that he and his wife wanted to be "completely self-sufficient, to grow our own food and have a strong family based on the home." He plans to start building his home in Florida if local building officials give their approval.
Over the years, Mr. Khalili has acted as a consultant to NASA, which considered his ceramic architecture as a possible habitat on the moon. And at the Cal-Earth center, Mr. Khalili has welcomed a party of Iranian scholars of Rumi, who saw the poet's essence in the Rumi Dome.
But of all the Cal-Earth enthusiasts, the survivalists -- known for their apocalyptic view of world events -- are perhaps the most unexpected. After an article on Cal-Earth appeared in March in the American Survival Guide, promoting Cal-Earth's architecture as not only low-cost but resistant to gunfire and explosives, Cal-Earth received more than 300 inquiries, including one from Mr. Parish. Mr. Khalili and Ms. Outram said one woman drove from Arizona and bought $850 worth of sandbags and a set of plans. Then she drove back, determined to build a house for herself in four months, before her baby was born.
Mr. Khalili said that this mode of building touches a chord in many types of people because "the timeless forms and timeless principles satisfy a vast horizon of human needs." Earth architecture exists at the point, he said, "where poetry has crystallized into structures."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: ADD WATER AND MIX -- A brick dome in Hesperia, Calif., above, sits near a museum being built with sandbags. Survivalists are among the sandbag technique's admirers, since the buildings resist bullets. (Dennis Keeley for The New York Times)(pg. F1); POETRY IN SAND -- Mars I, above left, in "Rep-Tile" adobe, is a prototype for the museum. Right, entrance to Earth One house. INTERIOR MOTIVES -- The Rumi Dome, above, is now a gathering spot; it will be the entrance to a museum built by coiling sandbags filled with sand and cement, a technique tried at far right by Aborigine students. Near right, the architect Nader Khalili. (Photographs by Dennis Keeley for The New York Times)(pg. F8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%); COSTA RICA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); EARTH (94%); MARS (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EARTH INSTITUTE (78%); HESPERIA MUSEUM (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: EARTH INSTITUTE (78%); HESPERIA MUSEUM (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%); COSTA RICA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); EARTH (94%); MARS (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); DESERTS (69%); WRITERS (69%); 

PERSON: ANDERTON, FRANCES NADER KHALILI (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



303 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: Cold-War Soldiers

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Misleading dates are being used for Congress's certificate of recognition for military service in the cold war (Week in Review, April 11). 
It is questionable that the cold war ended on Dec. 26, 1991, with Mikhail S. Gorbachev's resignation as President of the Soviet Union. Mr. Gorbachev contributed to ending the cold war. He made great changes in Soviet military and foreign policy, as well as in domestic affairs. The fall of the Berlin Wall in November 1989 is a better date for the cold war's end.
Further, the Soviet transformation owes much to private American citizens who conducted economic, educational and cultural relations with Soviet citizens. Such relations undermined their faith in the Communist system and fostered appreciation of democracy.
 
LOUIS KRIESBERG
Syracuse, April 12, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ARMED FORCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); 

PERSON: KRIESBERG, LOUIS MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



304 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 5; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 2543 words

HEADLINE: ON MAIN STREET WITH: TRACY KIDDER;
A Dot on a Map Connected By People

BYLINE: By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON 

DATELINE: NORTHAMPTON, Mass.

 BODY:
NORTHAMPTON, a city of 30,000 in western Massachusetts, has been raising issues of community for more than 300 years -- charity, self-interest, tolerance and division. They are issues as fresh today as they were in the 19th century, when Northampton was painted as a heavenly view by Thomas Cole and described with affection by Henry James in his first novel, "Roderick Hudson." They were raised when it hanged two innocent immigrant Irishmen in 1806 for suspected murder and when it tried a police officer, a native son, for the rape of his own child, during the four years that Tracy Kidder spent reporting his new book, "Home Town" (Random House), to be published in May.
Mr. Kidder, 53, lives in nearby Williamsburg with his wife, Frances, a painter, but considers Northampton his home, too. As he proudly showed it to a visitor recently, the city gave him a parking ticket. No place is perfect. 
 Like "The Soul of a New Machine," his Pulitzer Prize-winning account of the development of a new computer and the advent of the computer age, "Home Town" is the portrait of a cultural phenomenon, seen through the lives of the people creating it. It is also the story of a particular town, and how it has made itself a home. The citizens whose experiences are observed in literary detail, from a local judge to a cocaine addict, could be members of a family, sheltered by a civic roof.
In this decade, in a successful reverse of the demographic direction of the century, more Americans are now moving from big cities to small towns than from small towns to big cities. A 30-year migration by young professionals, baby boomers and retirees from cities and suburbs to rural, exurban areas has produced a new generation of what are being called "boomtowns." Two hours by car from Boston and three hours from New York, Northampton, an ex-industrial mill town, pretty and preserved, is now the product of settlement like this.
Despite an annual decrease in the city's birth rate, the population has remained steady, which city planners attribute to "incoming migration," said Wayne Feiden, the director of planning and development. "Who's coming? A lot of well-educated professionals, attracted by a town that's amenity-rich and very comfortable to live in."
Mr. Kidder, who moved to the area in 1976, is part of the trend. Now, he has filed his report: a firsthand look at life in the type of peaceful place that many find themselves sorely tempted to try. Not everyone stays -- native or new arrival. In portraying Northampton, Mr. Kidder has attempted to assemble a set of natural laws, and sides of human nature, that explain what makes any town work, or how it can fail those who love it the most.
To those making the move, cities like Northampton are dots on a map chosen on a Sunday visit for their size, their safety, their qualities of life and their nostalgia. They are the garden cities of childhood -- the kind of hometown they don't build anymore, the kind they may never have.
"I was born in New York City and grew up on Long Island," Mr. Kidder said recently, "in a place, Oyster Bay, that kind of vanished as I was growing up. Whole towns disappeared, it would seem, under cloverleafs."
He was walking down the gentle slope of Northampton's Main Street, away from the tiny, turreted city hall, past the Academy of Music, a Moorish 106-year-old municipally operated theater, now showing "Shakespeare in Love." A woman in a floral skirt that brushed the tops of her cowboy boots was offering strollers copies of her book on tape. A squat signboard for the Fire and Water Vegetarian Cafe and Performance Space sat like a toad by the curb. There was a branch office of Dean Witter Reynolds across the street.
Northampton is blessed by confluence and circumstance. Bounded by the Mount Tom and Holyoke hills and threaded by the Connecticut and Mill rivers, it is also circled by institution: Amherst College, Hampshire College, Mount Holyoke College, the University of Massachusetts and, sitting at the head of Main Street, the Smith College campus, designed in 1875 by Frederick Law Olmsted. The 19th-century state mental hospital is now abandoned. The poet Sylvia Plath, an undergraduate at Smith in the 1950's, wrote to her mother of walking in the evening to a professor's house for a cocktail party, "listening to the people screaming."
Main Street bends slowly through the town, side streets flowing into it, like a third river. "There are some magical things about this that couldn't have been planned," Mr. Kidder said, speaking of the setting's majestic gait. "This broad sweep that Main Street makes, it makes simply because of the topography, before you had earth-moving equipment."
Northampton's recent history has a familiar plot -- a downtown rescued in the 1970's by creative real estate developers and resident pioneers who discovered and reinvented its historic infrastructure. It is an architectural routine: with restoration and new, entertainment-oriented businesses, the low brick buildings, Victorian clapboard houses, Art Deco theater and a Gothic chess set of city hall and courthouse become an animated Main Street. In Northampton, there are apartments above the shops, stimulating street life at night. The crosswalks at the intersection of Main and King streets, where the town converges, are wired with speakers that signal sonically for the blind and stop traffic in four directions, letting strollers spill momentarily into the square.
To the casual eye, it can look more like a marketing concept than a place to live -- a factory town re-tooled by the wish list of the latte generation. A bookshop's magazine display offers an informal census of Northampton's new citizens and visitors: Raygun, Natural History, Birdwatcher's Digest, American Craft, Bike, Fine Homebuilding, Interview, The Writer, Outside, Macworld and Out. The town has been the subject of a "20/20" segment because of a large gay and lesbian population.
"It's tempting to parody, but it's too easy," Mr. Kidder said, crossing the intersection of Main and King as the crosswalks beep-beeped like Saturday cartoon characters. To the citizenry, it appeared to produce genuine wonderment -- rainbow-haired teen-agers, mothers in Polartec, men in linen sweaters and loafers without socks crowded the open intersection, as cars on four sides sat muzzled like dogs, waiting for the lights. "What you see is pretty motley, but there is a solid mainstream, an almost invisible background to it," he said.
Like any town, Northampton is many towns, including a town with a native population. As Mr. Kidder writes, the "Gentrification Is War" graffito, written prominently on a building downtown, is now softly faded. But two particular towns live together like a couple in a brokered marriage that may or may never grow into love. "Hamp," or native Northampton, shops on the strip of King Street as it leaves town at Main Street, not in "NoHo," or the revitalized downtown, for which Main Street provides the artery.
"In all of downtown, I don't think you can buy a socket wrench," Mr. Kidder said. "When you look at old pictures, there were nothing but hardware stores."
Because of its newcomers, Northampton is a big, little place, pressured by the demands of the present on the past. "Without argument, a place begins to go dead," Mr. Kidder said, walking on Pleasant Street, where many single-room occupancy houses remain -- a short block from Main Street's consumer circus. Local government has kept them there to enforce the town's economic heterogeneity. "You've got to have this tension. You've got to find a way to let lots of different kinds of people in, and keep them there."
Mr. Kidder is not ambivalent about Northampton, but he is not foolish, either. "It's got problems, of course," he said, reciting the national roster of gang crime and homelessness and a drug problem in the local schools that is conspicuous for the state. He was at the bar of the Bay State Hotel, a favorite spot opposite the restored train station, now Spaghetti Freddy's, drinking a Diet Coke. Sitting in the dimly lighted, yellow-wood-paneled tavern, with its etched Budweiser mirror, painting of Emmett Kelly and silent blinking jukebox was like being inside a Christmas tree at night. "And what limits the size of the town is jobs," said Mr. Kidder, who is self-employed. "The largest employer, which was the state mental hospital, closed its doors years ago."
Wayne Feiden, the planning director, concurred. "Whenever you see polls in Money magazine and the rest, about the best towns, we never make it," he said. "The jobs aren't there." Mr. Feiden added that the danger of being a boomtown was that well-paid professionals like doctors and lawyers, of whom there are many in Northampton, who moved there for its charms, would move on, frustrated from feeling underpaid. "It's why they don't stay."
If Northampton does not, despite restored facades, present an unblemished picture, Mr. Kidder makes a strong case that the beauty of a place is not in its skin -- it is in its people. They are the simple and dramatic acts and the descriptive faces of his book. They are, he contends, the genius of a place.
Mr. Kidder's "Home Town" hero is a native, who, as the book concludes, leaves Northampton for the wider world, freed of his "nicknames," as Mr. Kidder characterized the linked chain of time spent growing up in the same small town.
"It seemed to make too much wholesome sense, from a distance," Mr. Kidder said, speaking of Northampton. "And then I ran into this cop," he said. "Tommy O'Connor, at the gym that I go to."
Mr. Kidder was back at his house, not the home built for a professional couple in Amherst and chronicled in his 1985 book, "House," but a converted creamery on a mill river that runs beneath the dining room windows. He greeted his daughter, Alice, 20, who walked into the kitchen with a bag of groceries from Bread and Circus, a natural-foods supermarket. She pulled mixing bowls from the cupboards to make dessert for dinner -- profiteroles, for guests.
"Tommy's a very gregarious guy," Mr. Kidder recalled. "He said, 'You don't remember me, do you?' I said no. He said, 'Well, I arrested you for speeding five years ago.' " An electric mixer began clattering in a bowl. "This guy with a shiny dome had been a curly-haired cop then," Mr. Kidder said. "I remember that after he gave me the ticket, he said, 'Have a nice day.' "
Mr. Kidder smiled at the recollection; Mr. O'Connor, who now lives in Washington and works for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, remains a friend.
"Anyway, he said, 'Why don't you come out and ride with me some night?' He said he'd show me a town I never imagined existed." It was, of course, Northampton.
Mr. Kidder said, "And he was right."
 
The Human Face of Northampton
THEY'RE natives and new arrivals, friends and foes, civic-minded or uncommitted, but they're not strangers. The subjects of Tracy Kidder's new book, "Home Town," whose stories are excerpted below, make Northampton, Mass., work by living together in it.
 
MICHAEL TROTMAN
 
Often when he passed other black people downtown, ones he didn't know, he smiled at them and they smiled back, little smiles that seemed to say, "Isn't this place weird?" and, "What are you doing here?"
 Every year for the past eight, Michael had decided to leave. He'd taken scouting trips to New York City, Phoenix, Los Angeles. Near the end of every one, he began missing Northampton. He couldn't fully account for the pull it had on him. He had a short answer for friends who asked: "No one's called me a nigger in eight years."
 
ALAN SCHEINMAN
 
The world outside Alan's apartment had turned into a giant obstacle course. His greatest freedom was a car. But to drive one, he had to have it registered. Inside the registry, on King Street, the lines were always long. He couldn't expect to stand in one without someone brushing up against him. The transaction with the documents would be impossible. The clerk wouldn't understand. In a panic, Alan called ahead. "Look, my name is Alan Scheinman. I'm a lawyer here in town." (Saying he was a lawyer sometimes helped.) "I suffer from an illness which makes my behavior seem bizarre. I have to register a car, but I can't stand in line, and I can't touch papers that anyone else has handled."
The clerk's voice said, "Just a minute, please."
 Then another voice came on the line. He explained again. He heard that second voice say, "Just a minute, please," He thought this wasn't going to work, but the third voice offered hope. "Come on down, and we'll see what we can do."
Alan stood a little distance from the crowd at the counter, in his usual defensive mode -- forearms pressed together, both hands in plastic bags, one hand cupping his chin. From the other, also near his chin, dangled a plastic bag full of documents. "I was a sight," he remembered. He waited there for a few minutes, feeling desperate and helpless, and then a clerk appeared from behind the counter. She looked at him and didn't even seem surprised. She led him to an empty office, took the bag of documents and returned 10 minutes later with all the paperwork completed. She even escorted him out to the parking lot, opening all the doors for him.
 
JUDGE MICHAEL RYAN
 
Judge Ryan was beloved by courthouse workers, and generally disliked by police. He'd made some intemperate remarks in the past. Speaking disapprovingly of the state police uniforms, he'd once told a reporter, "If you dress 'em like Nazis, they'll behave like Nazis." Mainly, though, the police objected to the judge's leniency and his out-of-court behavior. "The drinking judge," one waggish lawyer called him. Both slanders contained some truth. He stopped being a judge when he left court. If a stranger on a nearby bar stool asked him what he did for a living, Ryan would say: "Oh, I have a Government job, cleaning up small messes at the courthouse."
 As for his leniency, a friend once accused him of harboring great compassion for many defendants, and the judge replied, "I think it's something stronger. I think it's more like identification."
 
MAYOR MARY FORD
 
She likes to say she was elected mayor of every resident, including those who won't vote for her no matter what she does. As she also likes to say, she usually leaves the front door to her office open. A building contractor once complained that he knew he didn't get a good hearing from her because she didn't close that door while they talked. Her office has another door, a back door with a chair in front of it, usually closed, rarely used. But by late afternoon on a long day, she feels as though her face is about to slide off the weary muscles underneath. The mask of a face would lie at her feet, still smiling. Corrinne pokes her head in the doorway. The boy on the front steps outside, the one keeping a 48-hour vigil for worldwide liberation, waits in the outer office. He wants an audience.
 A moment later, Mayor Ford opens her back door, and a moment after that, clerks looking up from their desks see Northampton's chief executive hurrying down the hall, casting backward glances, heading for the stairs.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: OUR TOWN -- Tracy Kidder, above, has chronicled a late-20th-century version of hometown America, Northampton, Mass., in his book "Home Town." At the turn of the century, Main Street had trolleys, top right. Now, the crosswalks beep electronically for the blind, above right. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Forbes Library (inset)(pg. F1); 1933 -- An aerial view of Northampton. (Forbes Library); SWEET AND LOW -- A well-preserved 19th-century downtown, above, has attracted independent businesses and the city-weary. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); NATIVE SON -- In 1995, Tommy O'Connor was a police officer. (Gordon Daniels/The Daily Hampshire Gazette)(pg. F7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: HOME TOWN (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHAMPTON (MASS); UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BOOKS AND LITERATURE LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); TRENDS (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (69%); COCAINE (64%); SUBURBS (62%); 

PERSON: KIDDER, TRACY TOM COLE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



305 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Bush Speaks Out

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex.

 BODY:
"I believe we ought to be slow to engage our military, slow to commit our troops," says Gov. George W. Bush, "but when we do so we must do so to win."
Does he think it was a mistake for President Clinton to say specifically we would not send in ground troops? 
 "I do. I do. I think we ought to leave all options on the table, but I think those tactical decisions ought to be made by military planners and not by politicians."
Does that include the option of massing NATO troops on the borders of Kosovo?
"If that is what the military advisers recommend, the answer would be yes." Bush cautioned that he did not have the full intelligence at his fingertips.
What's our mission there?
"Our objective is to remove the Serbian troops from Kosovo and have the Kosovars returned to their homes." Remove Slobodan Milosevic from office? "I think he ought to be treated as a war criminal." Independence for Kosovo? "I do not believe that ought to be the immediate objective. It could be a long-term objective, but not the short-term."
Why are we involved in this, anyway?
"The actions of Milosevic are destabilizing, and a stable Europe is in America's best strategic interest."
Although his staff had failed to warn him that the stated purpose of my visit was to examine his foreign-policy views, Governor Bush could not very well throw me out of his office. So he gulped and took the plunge that he mistakenly thought would be premature.
Should we urge admission of China to the World Trade Organization?
"I believe that if we were to turn our backs on China, on an entrepreneurial class that is just beginning to grow there, it would be a mistake." The theft of nuclear secrets, the illegal Chinese campaign contributions -- that doesn't upset him? "Sure I am upset about that. . . . That does not necessarily say that we should stop trading if it is good for American producers and good for American interests."
No retaliation for that, or for the crackdown on human rights in China? "Do I think we ought to sanction trade as a result of that? No, I don't, is my answer to the question. . . . I think we ought to be very careful about the application of unilateral sanctions."
Should we tie admission of China to the W.T.O. to Taiwan's admission, on the same basis as Hong Kong? "No, I would not. I would hope, expect, Taiwan to come in at some point in time, but I would not have tied it in as a condition."
Noting my visible dismay, the Texas Governor added: "We need to make sure that China understands there are limits." He thinks Clinton sent a "mixed signal" in crossing the Pacific to visit only China last year.
"The President should visit our friends. China is not our friend in the Far East. Our friends are Japan, Taiwan and South Korea. He didn't visit our friends. I think it is important that we maintain our friendships and always remember who our friends are."
That brought us to Israel. I recalled how both his father, President Bush, and President Clinton made clear their preference for Labor over Likud in past Israeli elections. How about him?
"I don't think Americans ought to be picking sides when it comes to Israeli elections." Move the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem? "Peace has to be negotiated between the parties involved. And I am confident that they are going to be able to resolve Jerusalem in a way with which the Israelis are comfortable.
"I had a great trip to Israel," he went on, relaxing for the first time. "I had a very good visit with Benjamin Netanyahu and with Ariel Sharon. I met the opposition leader, Ehud Barak, who is now running for Prime Minister. It was a great experience. I saw the Arrow missile system in action, an intermediate-range anti-ballistic-missile system that works, much of it funded by us. It will help prevent our friend and us from being blackmailed."
I'm out of space. Next column: "George Dubyuh" on Russia and the I.M.F., the ABM treaty, Iraq, Iran, North Korea and the foreign-policy split in the G.O.P. As the candidate says, "I've been studying up." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); CHINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); TAIWAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); CHINA; SERBIA (97%); CHINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); TAIWAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); TEXAS, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); WAR CRIMES (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SAFIRE, WILLIAM BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



306 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Hospitals in Crisis

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
A deep financial crisis is spreading like a virus through the nation's teaching hospitals. It is undermining their honorable and historic mission, which has been to train new generations of physicians, to conduct critically important medical research and to provide treatment for, among others, the poor.
A devastating combination of financial pressures "has produced a situation in which our best hospitals are now essentially all losing money," said Dr. Joseph Martin, dean of the Harvard Medical School. He was referring to hospitals in the Boston area, but similar pressures are being felt at teaching hospitals across the country. 
 The teaching hospitals (or, more accurately, academic medical centers) have been hammered by the Medicare cuts that were part of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. As teaching hospitals are the key providers of the nation's charitable care, they are affected disproportionately by cuts in government funding. At the same time, they are being squeezed by the drastic reductions in payments that have resulted from the changeover to managed care in recent years.
Meanwhile, the cost of delivering care continues to rise. The bottom line has been an explosion of red ink that threatens not just the mission but the very existence of some of the finest teaching institutions.
"The only payers who help balance the books have been those who pay through private insurance, and the payments for that are declining as well," said Dr. Martin.
In California, the medical center known as UCSF Stanford Health Care expects operating losses of $50 million this year. Layoff notices have already been sent to 250 employees, and officials said 2,000 of the center's 12,000 staff members would probably be let go over the next year and a half.
Without the layoffs, UCSF Stanford would see an operating loss of $135 million next year, according to the center's chief executive, Peter Van Etten.
Inevitably the center's mission will be diminished. Said Mr. Van Etten: "I have to say the services we will provide can't be of the same quality that we would provide with 2,000 more people."
You cannot overstate the importance of teaching hospitals to the health care system in the U.S. They offer the most advanced and sophisticated treatment in the nation. They are essential to the health of the poor, providing nearly 40 percent of the nation's charitable care. They are also the places, as Neil Rudenstine, the president of Harvard, noted, "where physicians get educated," where they get their first, carefully guided exposure to the connection between scientific study and the real world of clinical treatment.
And they are medical research centers, the places where cures are found, treatments developed, miracles realized.
Toying with the future of such a system is as dangerous as Russian roulette.
When asked yesterday how much of a threat the financial problems pose to the mission of the teaching hospitals, Mr. Rudenstine replied: "It's a total crisis, a complete crisis. I think anybody who would call it less than that would really just not know what's going on. I'm not quite sure what the cumulative deficit of our four or five closely related hospitals is, but it's certainly well over $100 million so far, and we haven't even finished the year yet."
The outlook is not good. The cutbacks in Medicare funding, the single biggest source of revenues for teaching hospitals, will accelerate over the next few years. This is not a case of administrators crying wolf. The situation is dire. The University of Pennsylvania Health System lost $90 million last year and the Temple University system lost nearly $25 million.
When he mentioned the financial losses at Harvard's affiliated hospitals, Mr. Rudenstine said: "Two or three more years like that and you're going to see either some people go out of business or become for-profit institutions, which means they will drop the research and teaching components because those things don't make any money. They'll become perfectly good hospitals up to a certain level, but not up to the level at which we now treat disease, and not up to the level where you can actually train the best physicians." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING HOSPITALS (94%); MEDICARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); LAYOFFS (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB NEIL RUDENSTINE (72%); JOSEPH MARTIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



307 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Jack McDonald, 88, Ex-Chief Of Imperial, S.& L. Company

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
Jack H. McDonald, a former chairman and chief executive of the Imperial Corporation of America, a savings and loan company that long after his retirement fell victim to the nation's savings and loan crisis, died March 19 at Sharps Memorial Hospital in San Diego from complications of Parkinson's disease, leukemia and pneumonia, his wife, Loraine, said. He was 88.
During his tenure, Imperial became one of the largest savings and loan companies in the country, with about 125 offices stretching from California's border with Mexico into the Midwest. 
 However, about 15 years after Mr. McDonald retired as chairman of the company he had helped build, it was seized by Federal regulators, and its branches were sold.
James Schmidt, former president of the San Diego Savings and Loan Association and a longtime competitor of Mr. McDonald, said that under Mr. McDonald's reign, Imperial "was very successful." He added, "They didn't have any asset problems when he was in charge."
Nevertheless, Mr. McDonald clearly felt the sting. "A main part of your life work, and you have nothing to show for it," he was quoted as saying at the time. "It's all gone."
Before its demise, Imperial was known as an industry innovator. It went public in the 1960's, before many other savings and loan associations. It was also one of the first California savings and loan associations with a statewide branch network and helped establish San Diego as a banking center before it was overtaken by San Francisco and Los Angeles. But straying from the savings industry's staple of home morgtage loans, Imperial got into trouble in the 1980's after its investments in high-yield junk bonds collapsed, and its auto loans soured.
A native of Pratt, Kan., who grew up in Orange County, Calif., Mr. McDonald graduated from the University of Kansas in 1933 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics. He began working for Home Savings and Loan in Fredonia, Kan.
During World War II, he was in the Navy from 1942 to 1945, serving with amphibious forces in North Africa, Sicily, Italy and southern France. He received two battle stars. After his discharge with the rank of lieutenant commander, Mr. McDonald joined Investors Savings and Loan, in Pasadena, Calif. Later, as president of Investors, he converted the company from a mutual to a stock company and became its chairman. When Investors was aquired by Imperial Savings of San Diego in 1961, he became vice president of Imperial. He became president in 1964, chief executive in 1965 and chairman in 1972.
At his retirement in 1975, Imperial was one of the largest savings and loan corporations in the country and the first to trade on the New York Stock Exchange.
After his retirement, Mr. McDonald remained active in finance, as well as in civic organizations. In 1976, he was named director of the Central City Development Corporation, a new development agency for downtown San Diego, and served an eight-year term. He was also director of the Children's Hospital, and a member of the board of overseers of the University of California, San Diego.
Mr. McDonald is survived by his wife, the former Loraine Cameron; four daughters, Sandra Jahiel of Brazil; Sara Pagoulatos of Fresno, Calif.; Sally Bellerue of Westlake Village, Calif., and Lisa Loraine Chappel of Los Angeles; a son, William, of Westport, Conn.; 13 grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack H. McDonald. (Gittings) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: ICA (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (52%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (74%); ITALY (52%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (78%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: IMPERIAL CORP OF AMERICA (58%); HOME SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION OF OKLAHOMA CITY (52%); HOME SAVINGS & LOAN CO INC (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (74%); ITALY (52%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (78%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); SAVINGS & LOANS (93%); BANK FAILURES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); BANK BRANCHES (74%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (72%); LEUKEMIA (72%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); BONDS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); WORLD WAR II (66%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (63%); 

PERSON: MACDONALD, JACK H; KING, SHARON R JACK H KING (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



308 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: War and Peace in Kosovo

 BODY:
Wars are easier to start than to stop, and the diplomatic initiatives now in play on Kosovo are likely to mutate several times before a political settlement draws within sight. But yesterday, for the first time since the combat began, the diplomats were as active as the generals, with Germany leading the way. The most difficult challenge for the United States and NATO is to blend force and diplomacy to bring Slobodan Milosevic into negotiations without sacrificing the alliance's objectives.
Mr. Milosevic is maneuvering furiously to divide NATO and induce it to end the war on his terms. His offer yesterday to accept unarmed international monitors in Kosovo as part of a peace deal may sound reasonable, but it would leave ethnic Albanians vulnerable to Serbian repression. Nor should anyone be impressed by his talk of building an alliance of Slavic nations to oppose NATO. His meeting in Belgrade with the dictatorial President of impoverished Belarus, Aleksandr Lukashenko, looked like a parody of a Warsaw Pact summit. 
 For now, NATO must sustain and intensify the bombing. But damage to Serbian military and industrial installations is mounting, and at some point Mr. Milosevic may start to look more seriously at peace possibilities. Germany's proposal would move too quickly to a cease-fire. But it broadly reflects NATO's goals and can serve as a useful basis for diplomatic discussions. It calls for the withdrawal of Serbian forces from Kosovo, the safe return of refugees and the introduction of a robust international peacekeeping force to prevent further ethnic conflict. The scheme would also require ethnic Albanian guerrilla forces to cease hostilities and would place Kosovo under United Nations administration while its status is determined. The European Union offered a similar plan of its own that would put Kosovo under European supervision.
Cease-fire terms are critically important. The Germans suggest a 24-hour moratorium if Belgrade begins to pull out its troops, with the bombing halt extended as long as the withdrawals continue to meet a predetermined schedule. But more must be required of Mr. Milosevic before the bombing stops, including his agreement in principle to the core NATO conditions and an end to his assault on Kosovo. Otherwise he could start withdrawals while using the cease-fire to resupply his forces and continue the attacks against ethnic Albanians.
Russia, in its own fashion, seems ready to help mediate. Yesterday President Boris Yeltsin named his former Prime Minister, Viktor Chernomyrdin, as a special envoy for the Balkan crisis. Mr. Chernomyrdin is a pragmatic negotiator who appreciates the importance of maintaining Russia's economic and political ties with Europe and the United States. With Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations also prepared to serve as an intermediary, Mr. Milosevic cannot complain about a shortage of potential peacemakers. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); ALBANIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BELARUS (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); ALBANIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BELARUS (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (79%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); REFUGEES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



309 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
As Deadline Nears, No Trade Successor

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, April 14

 BODY:
With little more than two weeks before its current Director General departs, the World Trade Organization's 134 countries are still struggling to agree on who will replace him.
The contest for the global trade body's top post has pitted Suphachai Panichpakdi, a Thai Deputy Prime Minister, against Michael Moore, a former Prime Minister of New Zealand, neither of whom has achieved a commanding lead. 
 The prolonged nature of the search has exposed cracks in the organization's facade of consensus and stirred fear that it will be leaderless when the next round of global trade talks begins in November.
Those divisions were underlined today when the members failed to meet yet another deadline to choose between the two men. "Contrary to my earlier expectation, the difficulties that prevented consensus" are still unresolved, the search committee chairman, Ali Said Mchumo of Tanzania, said.
The choice of a director is supposed to be made by consensus in order to avoid votes that put countries on record against a particular candidate. But this approach has run into trouble from the start four years ago, when it took nine months to select the current Director General, Renato Ruggiero of Italy.
The same difficulties have cropped up in the 11 months since Mr. Ruggiero submitted a letter announcing his intention to leave office on April 30.
The field of four candidates has been winnowed to Mr. Suphachai and Mr. Moore, but some countries have expressed difficulties with each candidate, preventing either emerging as the clear winner.
Developing countries, which make up nearly three-fourths of the membership, have insisted that it is time for a candidate from a nonindustrial nation to lead the group that sets the global rules for commerce. Previously, Europeans have led the World Trade Organization and its predecessor, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. "Because a candidate is from a developing country should not be a negative," said India's envoy, Srinivasan Narayanan.
Representatives met privately today, and accounts of the exchanges were provided by participants and by the trade organization's information department.
Malaysia, which has declared itself a Suphachai supporter, criticized "anonymous objections" to candidates, and said it had taken an informal poll showing that "no less than 65 percent of countries" backed the Thai official.
This would amount to nearly 90 nations, according to his supporters, which include most Asian nations as well as many in Africa, the Mideast and the Caribbean. Europe has no unified stand on a candidate, although half the European Union is said to back Mr. Suphachai.
Mr. Moore is said to be slightly behind in the numerical count, but has the backing of the organization's most powerful member, the United States, as well as France, Italy and a number of Latin American countries.
Complaints of responsibility for delaying the selection have swirled around the process, with Mr. Suphachai's supporters accusing the United States of stalling to give Mr. Moore time to build support.
American officials deny that they intend to exercise a veto over the choice. "The W.T.O is a no-vote, no-veto organization, and the United States is working with all the members" to reach a consensus, said Rita Hayes, the American representative. "Our preference is Mike Moore. We believe he has the vision and the leadership to lead the W.T.O. into the 21st century."
But with the April 30 deadline approaching, frustrations were clear today. "Needless to say, only one individual can occupy the post," Mr. Mchumo was quoted as saying, "and I would thus like to appeal once again to both sides to exercise the necessary flexibility so that we can avert a leadership crisis in our organization." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); INDIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); INDIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: RUGGIERO, RENATO (DIR GEN); SUPHACHAI PANICHPAKDI (MIN); MOORE, MICHAEL; OLSON, ELIZABETH MICHAEL MOORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



310 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Senate Panel Applauds Changes at I.R.S.

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14

 BODY:
A year after sharply criticizing the Internal Revenue Service, saying it abused taxpayers, members of the Senate Finance Committee praised the new tax commissioner, Charles O. Rossotti, today for beginning fundamental reforms.
But they were far from sure that the problems had been entirely solved. Republicans expressed fear that abuses would continue, while Democrats warned that reform would fail without more financing. Senator William V. Roth Jr., the Delaware Republican who is chairman of the committee, in praising Mr. Rossotti for his initial reform steps, said he was carrying out the spirit as well as the letter of the I.R.S. restructuring law that Congress passed last year. 
 Then he began pressing Mr. Rossotti about who had been disciplined for past abuses and what was being done to create a culture "that is intolerant of abuses."
Mr. Rossotti replied that he disciplined 12 officials in September for using dollar quotas in collections. He said such quotas had not only been banned but also that he had made regulations that would result in new ways of measuring performance, such as how well officials serve customers, as the I.R.S. now calls taxpayers. And he detailed several changes he had made to encourage the flow of ideas within the agency and to protect whistle-blowers from even subtle forms of retaliation.
Senator Connie Mack, Republican of Florida, said he was concerned that despite the outrage flowing from last year's hearings "SWAT-team tactics" were increasing. He cited a report on Tuesday by William H. Webster, the former Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency, about abuse of taxpayers by I.R.S. criminal investigators.
But Mr. Webster, whose report cited isolated examples of misconduct but no systematic abuse, did not dispute the need for armed raids. He said only that agencies with more appropriate training should conduct them on behalf of the I.R.S.
Mr. Rossotti, who said that he expected his $8.2 billion budget to be the same next year, outlined plans to retrain all employees and replace an outmoded computer system.
Committee Democrats said that without extra money the costs for training and new computers would have to be financed by making deep cuts in audits and other enforcement actions.
"We need to collect what is owed," said Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and a former tax commissioner of that state. He said that I.R.S. audits of the highest income taxpayers had fallen to 1 in 60 last year from 1 in 9 a decade ago.
Senator Bob Kerrey, Democrat of Nebraska, who has played a crucial role in changing the I.R.S., repeatedly pressed for more financing, but none of the Republicans said a word about increasing the I.R.S. budget.
Since 1992, the I.R.S. budget, adjusted for inflation, has declined 5 percent, while the number of tax returns has grown nearly 12 percent and tax collections have grown 62 percent.
Senator Kerrey emphasized the need for the independent nine-member I.R.S. oversight board that was called for in the I.R.S. restructuring act, "so its chairman can come before this committee and say, 'Senator Roth you are making our job of reform hell because you are not getting us the money we need to do the job.' "
President Clinton missed a January deadline to appoint six citizens to the board, which will also include the tax commissioner, the Treasury Secretary and an officer of the Treasury workers' union. Senators in both parties were critical of the delay.
Barry Toiv, a White House spokesman, responded that the law set an unrealistic deadline for finding the six citizens and investigating their backgrounds. He said the appointments would soon be announced.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator William V. Roth Jr. asked whether the I.R.S. had become "intolerant of abuses."(Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE; SENATE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE; SENATE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INCOME TAX (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (78%); MISCONDUCT (75%); TAX REFORM (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION (65%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (64%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: ROSSOTTI, CHARLES O (COMR); ROTH, WILLIAM V JR (SEN); JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY CONNIE MACK (58%); KENT CONRAD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



311 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Argentine Official Coming to U.S. for More Help on Budget Deficit

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, April 14

 BODY:
Argentina will send a top finance official to the United States this week to discuss financing a budget deficit that is expected to widen by $2 billion because of a weakened economy and slowing tax revenue.
Finance Under Secretary Miguel Kiguel will travel to Washington and New York to meet with economists, credit rating agencies and World Bank officials, the ministry said. 
 The trip comes as Argentina expects its budget deficit for 1999 to be almost double its original forecast. Rising interest rates in the second half of last year and the January devaluation in neighboring Brazil have hurt the Argentine economy, forcing the Government to widen its deficit target to $4.95 billion.
Mr. Kiguel will discuss the new target with economists and World Bank officials in Washington and then meet with the rating agencies Standard & Poor's and Duff & Phelps in New York, the ministry said.
The $2 billion will come on top of the $14 billion Argentina needs in 1999. The country has pushed hard into international markets in recent weeks.
Today, Argentina sold $500 million of bonds due in 2009 yielding about 11.25 percent, bringing the country's debt sales for this year to close to $4.5 billion. It leaves about $3 billion to be sold on foreign markets this year, according to ING Barings estimates. The proceeds of the $2 billion sale of the Government's 15 percent stake in the oil company YPF S.A. in January, along with loans from the World Bank and other groups, will help meet the country's 1999 needs.
Argentina will also cut at least $1 billion in spending to help compensate for the slowing economy, which is now expected to contract 1.5 percent this year. The country agreed on the new budget and growth targets in its quarterly fiscal review with the International Monetary Fund.
Mr. Kiguel and Treasury Secretary Pablo Guidotti are scheduled to attend the International Monetary Fund meetings in Washington this month. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: YPF (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (66%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); SIC5541 GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS (66%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (66%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: YPF SA (66%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA; ARGENTINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FOREIGN AID; TAXATION; GOVERNMENT BONDS BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET DEFICITS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); DEVALUATION (70%); INTEREST RATES (56%); 

PERSON: KIGUEL, MIGUEL (UNDER SEC) MIGUEL KIGUEL (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



312 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
The Tax Bite Comes With Saw Teeth

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN 

 BODY:
It's April 15, time to complain about how taxes have become too high. And the House will vote once again today on a constitutional amendment that would require a two-thirds majority to pass future tax increases. But the real problem with the income tax system, many economists say, is not that the typical family pays too much tax but rather that Washington has made the tax code numbingly complex, wasteful and irrational.
There are plenty of ways to collect the same amount of money from the same groups of taxpayers but with a fraction as much damage to the economy. One alternative has been offered by Representative Richard E. Neal, Democrat of Massachusetts, who proposed an overhaul yesterday that would knock out needless complexity. 
 There are good arguments for a flat code that sets the same tax rate for nearly everyone. There are good arguments for a progressive code that raises tax rates as family incomes rise.
But there is hardly anyone who thinks the rate structure of the existing code makes good sense. By statute, there are five tax brackets, ranging from 15 percent to nearly 40 percent. The marginal rate -- the highest rate that families pay on the last dollars earned -- is supposed to rise with income. But the rates that families actually pay are anything but smooth and predictable. Marginal rates jump up and down in chaotic fashion, in a pattern that Kevin Hassett, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, calls a "skyline."
The saw-toothed tax rates are a product of credits and deductions added to the code primarily in the 1990's -- only a few years after Congress passed the Tax Reform Act of 1986 to simplify the code. These tax cuts impose high marginal rates, a bizarre fact that follows from Congressional attempts to limit the lost revenues from its tax cuts by phasing out credits and deductions as family income rises. Phasing out a tax cut raises the tax payments of a family as its income rises, in effect raising its marginal tax rate.
Marginal rates matter because it is the tax on additional earnings that affects decisions by workers, especially spouses, to find paying jobs, seek higher-paying jobs, work overtime and save. Studies show that women are especially sensitive to marginal rates when deciding how much they will work outside the home.
Multiple tax credits and deductions -- each with their own phase-out schedule -- produce Mr. Hassett's jagged skyline. The marginal rate starts out at 21 percent for some low-income families, drops to zero for certain kinds of families earning about $30,000, shoots back to over 40 percent for some families earning about $80,000, falls to 28 percent for families earning about $100,000 and continues in this seesaw pattern for wealthy families.
Start with the earned-income tax credit, the jewel of the country's antipoverty program, which adds up to about $3,800 to the paycheck of low-paid workers. It begins to phase out at a family income of about $12,000, reducing family income by 21 cents for every extra dollar it earns. The child tax credit, passed in 1997 and now set at $500 for each child, begins to phase out at a family income of about $110,000. The $1,500 credit for the first two years of college tuition and the $1,000 credit for job training and graduate study passed in 1997 begin to phase out at about $80,000. Deductions for interest on student loans start phasing out at about $60,000. Deductions for individual retirement accounts begin to phase out at about $50,000.
The phasing out of these credits and deductions adds enormous complexity to the code. With complexity comes, says Prof. Alan Auerbach of the University of California at Berkeley, "deception." He says that "few families know how much tax they will owe on the income of a second earner because few know how all these phase-outs combine."
Some of the marginal rates become quite high. A two-earner family with a income of around $100,000 pays about 40 cents of each extra dollar it earns in Federal income taxes. Add in Social Security, Medicare and state and local taxes and the rate can climb above 60 percent.
The fact that the code imposes high marginal rates does not mean that it imposes high tax payments. Recall, the saw-toothed pattern of marginal rates reflects tax cuts passed in 1997 and earlier. Republicans in Congress and on the campaign trail point to different statistics to buttress their accusation that tax payments have grown too heavy under President Clinton. Mr. Clinton's 1993 tax increase, passed over their opposition, has driven tax collections, as a share of the national economy, to their highest level in history except for a brief interval in World War II.
But the accusation, Mr. Auerbach says, is misleading. For starters, the share of Federal tax revenues in national income bounces around but almost always hovers close to 20 percent. At 20.5 percent today, it is only modestly above the historical record. The rise has been fueled by taxes on capital gains created by soaring values on Wall Street as well as a shift in the share of income accounted for by wealthy families in the highest tax brackets. Moreover, Congress raised taxes in 1990 and 1993 to balance the budget. Yet even after these tax increases, Americans pay less Federal tax than the citizens of nearly any other industrialized economy.
Moreover, the conventional wisdom about the tax burden is wrong, says Iris Lav of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. With the single exception of 1983, taxes on typical middle-income families have fallen to their lowest level in more than two decades. For many families, it would be necessary to go back even further. Mr. Auerbach and William Gale of the Brookings Institution estimate that a family of four in the middle of the income distribution ($55,000 in 1999) will pay about 7.5 percent of its income in Federal income taxes. That is the lowest tax rate since 1966. Families at half the median are paying the lowest taxes since 1955. Even families at twice the median are paying the lowest tax since 1972. Only the rich are paying more tax.
Mr. Auerbach echoes another criticism that economists of all political stripes level at the 1997 tax breaks. "They are gratuitous, serving no important economic function." Mr. Hassett points to studies that predict that the tuition and job training tax credits, for example, will go to families that would pay for higher education without the Government's help. The credits are likely to do little more than encourage colleges to raise tuition and cut financial aid because their applicants have more money courtesy of Congress.
Mr. Auerbach offers a sensible correction, reflected in part by Mr. Neal's bill. Even if Congress insists on preserving the package of 1997 tax credits and deductions, Mr. Auerbach says, it could apply them equally to everyone. Eliminating the phase-outs would eliminate the hills and valleys of Mr. Hassett's skyline. To pay for this reform and yet preserve a progressive tax code, Mr. Auerbach would raise the statutory rate on wealthier families.
Phase-outs will not disappear easily. Yesterday, President Clinton proposed tax-deductible retirement accounts for low- and middle-income families -- a new credit that, no surprise, he would phase out. Add another jag to Mr. Hassett's skyline.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Jagged Rates"
The marginal tax rate -- what people pay on the last dollars earned -- is supposed to rise in step with income. But many families actually face tax rates that are anything but smooth and predictable, shooting up and down and even falling to zero in certain situations. Graph shows effective marginal tax rate, after credits and deductions, according to gross annual income in thousands for a family with two children, one in college and spouse in job training
 
(Source: Diana Furchtgott-Roth and Kevin Hassett, American Enterprise Institutetions.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); FAMILY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); TAX REFORM (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); OVERTIME (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); 

PERSON: NEAL, RICHARD (REPR); WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M RICHARD E NEAL (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



313 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Who's lagging now? So far this year, some very big hedge funds.

BYLINE: By Richard A. Oppel Jr. 

 BODY:
INVESTORS kicking themselves as their portfolios fall further behind index funds and Internet stocks can take comfort in this: They've got prestigious company.
A number of celebrated hedge funds -- those freewheeling private partnerships that control more than $200 billion for pension funds, endowments and very wealthy individuals -- have gotten off to a poor start this year. 
 Hedge funds, unlike mutual funds, can borrow huge sums to invest, speculate in foreign currencies and make big bets that stocks will decline. While some have made wrong currency bets or have had other complicated strategies backfire this year, many others have simply found it difficult to pick stocks in a market propelled by a small group of big growth stocks.
Jeff Vinik, the former manager of Fidelity's Magellan fund who now oversees about $2.5 billion at Vinik Asset Management in Boston, gained just 1 percent in the first quarter, following stellar returns of 45 percent last year and 77 percent in 1997, according to a person knowledgeable about the fund.
Another top manager, S. Nicholas Roditi of the Quota Fund, lost 14.5 percent in the first quarter, a fund official said. His fund, which has $1.1 billion in assets, stumbled last year, too, but still ranked second of 120 hedge funds for the five years ended in December, according to the U.S. Offshore Funds Directory, which tracks hedge funds.
Mr. Roditi, an outside investment adviser who runs Quota for Soros Fund Management, still outpaced the largest of the funds established by George Soros, the financier, the $6.9 billion Quantum fund. Managed by Stanley Druckenmiller, Quantum fell 15.5 percent in the first quarter, in part because of bad bets that the Japanese yen would rise.
Another big hedge fund with a strong long-term record, the $14 billion Tiger Management, dropped 7.5 percent in the quarter, according to an investor. Tiger's boss, Julian H. Robertson, had many of his largest stock holdings in small to midsize companies, which have suffered.
Mr. Roditi and Mr. Druckenmiller declined comment through a Soros spokesman, who also declined to comment on the performance of Quota or Quantum. Officials at Vinik Asset Management and Tiger Management also declined to comment on the performance of their funds.
While the Standard & Poor's index of 500 large-capitalization companies rose 5 percent in the first quarter, an index of 18 leading hedge funds tracked by U.S. Offshore Funds Directory rose just 1.3 percent, the second-worst quarterly performance in almost four years. That's also the gain chalked up by the average diversified stock mutual fund in the first quarter, according to Morningstar Inc.
Among big hedge funds, first-quarter results ranged from losses of 15 percent to gains of about the same amount -- an unusually wide spread for three months, said Antoine Bernheim, publisher of the directory. "Between the narrowness of the market and the volatility, it's been a difficult period for managers," he said.
In the United States, a select batch of large-growth stocks are pushing major indexes to new highs, while most issues sputter or fall. "The general narrowness of the market is a problem for all managers," said Charles Gradante, chief investment strategist at the Hennessee Group, a New York hedge-fund advisory service.
By some measures, the stock market has not shown such lack of breadth in a generation. Four of five stocks have underperformed the S.& P. 500 by at least 15 percent in the last year, according to Salomon Smith Barney, by far the largest that group has been in the 28 years the firm has tracked it. And this year through April 9, the average stock on the New York Stock Exchange declined 5.2 percent, compared with a 10.1 percent gain in the S.& P. 500.
"Hedge funds tend to traffic in smaller-cap stocks, whose underperformance has been somewhat obscured by some of the large caps which have driven the large indices," George Van, chairman of Van Hedge Fund Advisors in Nashville, said. "When small caps come back, I think hedge funds will outperform."
Consider Tiger Management, which held about $7 billion in stocks at the end of last year, according to securities filings. Of Tiger's 25 largest stock holdings, 13 had market capitalizations of less than $5 billion. And of those, 9 have declined so far this year, in keeping with the decline in most mid-cap stocks. Some of Tiger's larger stocks did much better: Its seventh-largest holding at the end of the year, MCI Worldcom, has jumped 24.4 percent this year, while the fourth-largest, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, has risen 54.6 percent.
"What's happened in the last year or so is that the fundamentals have been thrown out the window, as companies that have no earnings and no prospective earnings are selling at infinite multiples," said one of Mr. Robertson's investors, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "It really has upset the apple cart," he added, noting that many Tiger bets on sliding stocks had also been losers.
The wide gap between large-cap growth stocks and the rest of the market has caused hedge-fund managers to change some habits. Some, for instance, have quit using S.& P. 500 index futures to bet on declining stock prices in favor of mid-cap futures. "They're matching capitalization much more closely than they've ever had to," said Carrie McCabe, president of Blackstone Alternative Asset Management in New York, which oversees $1.5 billion in hedge-fund money invested through 40 different managers.
Ms. McCabe says many managers Blackstone uses have been pouring money into Japan and Korea in recent weeks, in the belief those markets have finally bottomed. And some have become less bullish recently, though they still generally expect stocks to keep rising. Mr. Vinik, she said, "would probably be one of our least bullish managers at this point."
A few stock pickers have managed to thrive this year. Cumberland Associates, with $800 million managed by Oscar Schafer, rose about 14 percent in the first quarter and is up more than 20 percent through Monday, according to a person knowledgeable about the fund. Cumberland's winners, disclosed on its yearend filing, include the Finet Holdings Corporation, an Internet mortgage broker, up almost 930 percent year-to-date, and United International Holdings, one of the largest cable-television operators outside the United States, up 175 percent.
Some funds that suffered last fall with the Russian debt default and near-collapse of Long-Term Capital Management have stabilized and some are posting decent gains, though they have a long way to go to make up for 1998.
Long-Term Capital has reduced its balance sheet and posted gains since its bailout last fall. Convergence Asset Management, which, like Long-Term Capital is based in Greenwich, Conn., sought profits in ways similar to Long-Term Capital but was devastated during the market turmoil last fall. But in the first quarter, according to a person knowledgeable about the fund, it gained about 4 percent. Among mutual funds, the average taxable bond fund rose a fraction of 1 percent in the first quarter.
Over all, a group of fixed-income hedge funds tracked by Hennessee Group rose 7.2 percent in the quarter, as the spreads between riskier bonds and government issues narrowed. Funds "all over the place are getting a lot of mileage" from fixed-income strategies, Ms. McCabe of Blackstone said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "First Quarter's Winners and Losers"
The Hennessee Group tracks about 300 hedge funds in 21 sectors. Here are the best and worst fund types, measured by total return for the first quarter versus the Standard & Poor's 500 index.
 
RANK -- 1
FUND CATEGORY -- Technology
AVG. RETURN FOR 1ST qtr. -- +18.8%
PERCENTAGE OF FUNDS THAT BEAT THE S. & P. 500 -- 100%
 
RANK -- 2
FUND CATEGORY -- Latin America
AVG. RETURN FOR 1ST qtr. -- +12.0%
PERCENTAGE OF FUNDS THAT BEAT THE S. & P. 500 -- 57%
 
RANK -- 3
FUND CATEGORY -- Emerging markets
AVG. RETURN FOR 1ST qtr. -- +7.7%
PERCENTAGE OF FUNDS THAT BEAT THE S. & P. 500 -- 27%
 
RANK -- 4
FUND CATEGORY -- Fixed income
AVG. RETURN FOR 1ST qtr. -- +7.2%
PERCENTAGE OF FUNDS THAT BEAT THE S. & P. 500 -- 50%
 
RANK -- 5
FUND CATEGORY -- Growth
AVG. RETURN FOR 1ST qtr. -- +6.2%
PERCENTAGE OF FUNDS THAT BEAT THE S. & P. 500 -- 53%
 
RANK --
FUND CATEGORY -- Standard & Poor's 500 index
AVG. RETURN FOR 1ST qtr. -- +5.0%
PERCENTAGE OF FUNDS THAT BEAT THE S. & P. 500 --
 
RANK -- 17
FUND CATEGORY -- Health Care
AVG. RETURN FOR 1ST qtr. -- +1.0%
PERCENTAGE OF FUNDS THAT BEAT THE S. & P. 500 -- 44%
 
RANK -- 18
FUND CATEGORY -- Value
AVG. RETURN FOR 1ST qtr. -- +0.6%
PERCENTAGE OF FUNDS THAT BEAT THE S. & P. 500 -- 31%
 
RANK -- 19
FUND CATEGORY -- Macroeconomic
AVG. RETURN FOR 1ST qtr. -- -2.6%
PERCENTAGE OF FUNDS THAT BEAT THE S. & P. 500 -- 23%
 
RANK -- 20
FUND CATEGORY -- Market neutral
AVG. RETURN FOR 1ST qtr. -- -4.5%
PERCENTAGE OF FUNDS THAT BEAT THE S. & P. 500 -- 6%
 
RANK -- 21
FUND CATEGORY -- Short sales
AVG. RETURN FOR 1ST qtr. -- -7.9%
PERCENTAGE OF FUNDS THAT BEAT THE S. & P. 500 -- 17%
 
*Macroeconomic funds bet on changes in the global economy through stocks,
bonds, currencies and derivatives. Market neutral funds sell short as much
stock as they own to minimize the effect of market swings. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (60%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HENNESSEE GROUP MORNINGSTAR INC (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: HENNESSEE GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; HEDGE FUNDS; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX HEDGE FUNDS (97%); STOCK INDEXES (97%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); INDEX FUNDS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); PENSION FUNDS (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); BONDS (79%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); RANKINGS (65%); 

PERSON: OPPEL, RICHARD A JR STANLEY DRUCKENMILLER (57%); GEORGE SOROS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



314 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Alta Vista Invites Advertisers to Pay forTop Ranking

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
Alta Vista, one of the leading services that search for information on the World Wide Web, is inviting advertisers to pay for the right to be listed atop its search results.
Even though advertising, both explicit and hidden, permeates most Web sites, the major search services have until now insisted that the search rankings themselves are produced objectively according to computer formulas and are not for sale. 
 The move comes as more and more Internet services, struggling to increase revenue and justify their fantastic stock market valuations, are selling advertising in forms that could well be confused for objective information. For example, Amazon.com, the bookstore, has started selling publishers the right to prominent reviews by Amazon's editors.
Alta Vista is owned by the Compaq Computer Corporation, which wants to build up its revenue quickly in order to sell a portion of Alta Vista in an initial public stock offering later this year. In February, Alta Vista was the 13th most popular site on the Internet, according to Media Metrix, which measures Web traffic.
The Alta Vista search result program was reported Tuesday by Wired News, an on-line news service. Doubleclick, the company that sells advertising for Alta Vista, promoted the program in a recent E-mail message to potential customers.
"When users perform keyword searches on Alta Vista, what is the first listing they see?" the message said. "Now it can be your company's listing." The message said Alta Vista was auctioning off the right to be listed in the first two positions to the highest bidders.
Kurt Lozert, the general manager of Alta Vista's search service, argues that when the program is disclosed it will not be confusing.
"We want to make it clear that we haven't changed our core index, but we want to offer additional ways for users to find some results that are interesting," he said. "We've tested a number of concepts so it will be very clear to users this is not the index results. These will be boxed, say, or there will be a red thing that says this is an advertisement."
Experts on on-line publishing say that the details of these graphic devices will determine whether the program is in fact misleading.
"It's largely a design issue of how they present the paid for selections," said Larry Pryor, the director of the on-line journalism program at the University of Southern California. "If they try to be subtle about it and slide it by so people can't tell, it's a terrible problem."
After a flurry of E-mail from customers criticizing its paid placement of reviews, Amazon decided to identify which reviews are subsidized, although this disclosure is not adjacent to the actual reviews.
Alta Vista's plan has also raised worries among small businesses that have come to rely on free listing on search engines to bring business to their Web sites.
"Search engines are one of the great equalizers of the Web," said John Heard, the president of Beyond Engineering, a consulting concern in Laharpe, Kan. "It lets a mom-and-pop business selling flowers compete with 1-800-Flowers. If everything is converted to paid advertising, then all the business will go to those with the deepest pockets."
Alta Vista is partly copying the business model of Goto.com, an Internet search site that consists entirely of paid listings. But in Goto's search results, each listing is explicitly accompanied by the amount that the advertiser will pay the site if a user clicks on the link. "We have confidence that advertising adds value to results, just like the Yellow Pages," Jeffrey Brewer, the company's chief executive, said.
Search engines are especially potent advertising vehicles because so many people use them when they are researching products to buy. But other than Goto, none of the sites have sold positions in their search results.
"I have tried to get each of the search engines to alter their search results to put my clients on top," said Michael Golden, the head of the New York office of Organic Online, an agency that represents many on-line stores. "They won't do it, and frankly that's a good thing."
And most of them said they remained committed to that policy. "We don't sell our search results -- never have, never will," said Melissa Walia, public relations manager for Excite, another search engine.
What Excite and most of the other search services have done, however, is to sell advertisements of all shapes and sizes that are placed above and to the side of search results.
Type "Viagra" into Lycos, for example, and the screen shows a graphical advertisement for an on-line clinic that proscribes sells Viagra. Below that is a text link, with the ambiguous marking "Bullseye" that in fact is an ad for another clinic. And to the side is an ad for a book on Viagra from Barnes & Noble. A user would have to move to the second page of the results to find the actual list of Web pages about Viagra.
The search services argue that all this advertising actually benefits users, because it is often more likely to be relevant to users than their other search results.
"If you type in 'computer,' are you looking to buy a computer, fix a computer, or research the history of computers?" said Celia Francis, the director of search marketing for Alta Vista. The paid placements, she argued, are more likely to be useful to users than a list of pages on which the word "computer" appears.
But Evan Thornley, the chief executive of LookSmart, a small Internet search and directory service, contends that consumers are starting to rebel against many of these ads.
"The short-term economics are in favor of flogging every piece of real estate that you have," he said. "But the long-term economics say that you also want to have a business at the end of the day." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (70%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (51%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP; ALTA VISTA INTERNET SOFTWARE INC DOUBLECLICK INC (90%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (70%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP; ALTA VISTA INTERNET SOFTWARE INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (51%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (89%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); PUBLISHING (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); BOOKSTORES (70%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (70%); STOCK OFFERINGS (70%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



315 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: Showing Good Form at I.R.S.;
New Commissioner Has Agency Minding Its Manners

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14

 BODY:
He gets up before dawn every day and runs five miles, then heads for his Government job without eating breakfast. He does not need the work -- after all, he's sitting on a $40 million fortune he made running his own business -- but this may be his biggest challenge yet.
Charles O. Rossotti, the first Commissioner of Internal Revenue who is not a tax lawyer, is pursuing a technological and cultural revolution with the improbable goal of both making the Internal Revenue Service more efficient at collecting taxes and making Americans happier about paying them. 
 Since arriving 18 months ago, Mr. Rossotti has instituted a 24-hour hot line for taxpayers, with an emphasis on reliable, courteous service. Many of those now fielding calls are longtime auditors whose old jobs were hunting for errors and searching for cheating on tax returns filed years earlier. To improve the accuracy of their responses, the commissioner has undertaken a seemingly obvious step that somehow eluded his predecessors: giving I.R.S. employees ready access to the Internal Revenue Code.
He is also having those unfathomable audit notices rewritten in plain English, with help from focus groups of taxpayers.
The task before him is enormous. Not only must the I.R.S. collect $1.7 trillion this year, more than the gross domestic product of Britain, it must also transfer billions of taxpayer records from computer systems that date to the Eisenhower Administration to modern disk storage and data base systems that have not yet been designed.
Mr. Rossotti has little room to stumble. Before he arrived, the agency wasted $4 billion on computer systems that proved to be unworkable. And Congress, unlikely to tolerate a repeat of that fiasco, is keeping a closer eye on the I.R.S. than ever before.
Last year, after two years of inquiries that stirred widespread outrage over mismanagement and abuse of taxpayers, lawmakers approved a major overhaul of the agency. They created a board with authority to oversee I.R.S. management and policies, set a five-year term for the commissioner and expanded protections against abusive tax agents.
On top of everything else, Mr. Rossotti must win over many senior executives and middle managers -- or replace them -- if his plans are not to get lost in the bureaucracy.
His admirers describe Mr. Rossotti, 58, as an organizational wizard with the uncanny ability to see both the forest and the trees and then decide which leaves need trimming and which need more sunlight. Among his priorities is upgrading I.R.S. laptop computers so old that they still run on the outmoded MS-DOS operating system.
And he has recruited his own team of senior executives from business and state government, teaming them with career I.R.S. executives whom he chose for their track record in getting things done.
His biggest problem, Mr. Rossotti said in a recent interview, is putting his vision of a customer service agency into focus for 98,000 I.R.S. employees, many of whom have become jaded at the spectacle of commissioners' coming and going without leaving a noticeable mark.
"There is so much change going on that it appears bewildering to our people, and they don't understand why we are doing what we are doing," he said.
So Mr. Rossotti did something almost unheard of in the top ranks of Government. Instead of assigning subordinates and consultants to churn up a new organizational table and write a report, he did the job himself.
On vacation with his wife in Naples, Fla., over the Christmas holiday, Mr. Rossotti wrote down his vision for the I.R.S. on his laptop computer -- an exercise that led to a 68-page booklet, "Modernizing America's Tax Agency."
It begins with a new mission statement that takes a revolutionary attitude toward taxpayers. The statement makes no mention either of the I.R.S.'s enforcement powers that have been the terror of generations of Americans or of the pressing need to raise revenue for the Federal Government. Rather, it emphasizes the importance of putting on a friendly face for the agency's "customers."
The old mission statement -- "to collect the proper amount of tax" -- was replaced by this: to "provide America's taxpayers top-quality service by helping them understand and meet their tax responsibilities and by applying the tax law with integrity and fairness to all."
Mr. Rossotti also crammed the statement with practical details on running the I.R.S., such as the need to install ergonomic work stations for employees. "I wanted to explain how all the different parts fit together and not just move boxes around on the organization table," he said.
In contrast to former commissioners, who often wrung more money from Congress with promises that a dollar spent on enforcement would generate several dollars in extra taxes, Mr. Rossotti wrote that "enforcement revenue is not a good measure of success in achieving the strategic goal of service to all taxpayers."
Audits, collections and criminal investigations currently consume 40 percent of the I.R.S. budget. And while Mr. Rossotti acknowledged that such enforcement actions were needed, he suggested that the carrot would be more effective than the stick in persuading people to pay what they owed. (Even before he came aboard, the I.R.S. was shifting its emphasis to voluntary compliance, reducing the audits of high-income returns to 1 in 60 last year from 1 in 9 a decade earlier.)
"Since 98 percent of the revenue comes in without enforcement action," he wrote, "a 1 percent increase in voluntary compliance would be roughly equivalent to a 50 percent increase in enforcement revenue."
Fred Goldberg, the Bush Administration tax commissioner who was one of a handful of I.R.S. critics sent a copy of the booklet with a hand- signed note by Mr. Rossotti, said he was impressed by its content.
"All of this ultimately is in the execution, but the vision hangs together as a coherent theory of management," Mr. Goldberg said. He said Mr. Rossotti was attacking a culture in place since the enactment of Federal legislation in 1952 that replaced politically appointed -- and often corrupt -- tax collectors with civil servants.
While reform ended most abuses, it also fostered a climate of secrecy and suspicion that is at the root of much of the I.R.S.'s recent malaise. Now, Mr. Goldberg said, Mr. Rossotti has laid out "a system designed to respond to taxpayers' expectations with an explicit discussion that the notion is not to squeeze the last dollar from the stone, that service to taxpayers is important."
Even longtime critics of the agency are impressed. "At this point, Rossotti is right on the mark," said Jeff Trinca, former chief of staff of the National Commission on Restructuring the I.R.S., a Congressional commission. "He is doing all the right things; he understands the management, technology and training issues better than anyone who has sat in that seat."
Given Mr. Rossotti's background, that is perhaps not surprising. He earned a master's degree in business administration from the Harvard Business School in 1964 and went on to become one of the Pentagon whiz kids under former Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara, spending five years as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Systems Analysis. He left the Government in 1970 to co-found American Management Systems in Fairfax, Va., a computer consulting company that specializes in showing businesses how to integrate technology into their operations.
Mr. Rossotti has also banned dollar quotas as a measurement of tax collectors' performance. Many of his predecessors tried and failed to put that change into effect, but unlike them, he has created an alternative monitoring system that relies, in part, on taxpayers' assessments. Moreover, he plans to base senior I.R.S. executives' pay partly on such issues as their success in resolving taxpayer complaints.
Mr. Rossotti says his efforts to overhaul the I.R.S. could take up to nine years -- or could flop quickly. "I'm no fool," he said. "There's no guarantee that this will be successful. We could crash and burn in any number of ways, but I think it's worth it, and I think I can do it."
He took on the task almost by accident. Two years ago, he got an unsolicited call from an executive recruiter asking if he could recommend someone with strong organizational skills and an understanding of technology to head the agency.
At the time, Mr. Rossotti was chairman of American Management Systems. "I thought, now that would be an interesting job," Mr. Rossotti said, a smile lighting up his face. He said that his wife, Barbara Margulies Rossotti, a corporate lawyer, told him he was crazy.
Crazy or not, he sure is busy. He has become so absorbed in his new responsibilities, he says, that he rarely allows himself to indulge in two of his favorite pastimes, playing his baby grand piano or hitting the tennis courts. In his year and a half on the job, he says, he has found time to have lunch with his wife during the workweek exactly twice.
He has even become a little careless in his usually impeccable attire. The other day, he sported one of his custom-made British suits, which matched his gray hair perfectly, a rich yellow necktie and a natty pocket handkerchief. But his wing-tip shoes were dull and scratched.
"They're not polished?" Mr. Rossotti asked in surprise before gazing down at the offending footwear. Well, he added in his defense, "I just haven't had time."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The I.R.S. has become a more taxpayer-friendly agency under Charles O. Rossotti, who has been Commissioner of Internal Revenue for 18 months. (Shana Raab for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "A New Face for the Tax Collector"
The Internal Revenue Service, under the leadership of its new commissioner, Charles O. Rossotti, is trying to turn itself into a more efficient and customer-friendly operation.
 
Goals Achieved
Phones answered around the clock.
New top management team.
Aging computers passed most Year 2000 tests.
Arranged a contract with the Computer Sciences Corporation to develop a new, integrated computer system over 10 to 15 years expected to cost billions of dollars.
 
Goals not yet achieved
Fully replacing old system of employee quotas with new performance standards built around taxpayer and employee satisfaction and improved internal efficiency.
Reorganizing focused on categories of taxpayers rather than geographic boundaries.
Retraining all employees to emphasize service. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (86%); EXECUTIVES (85%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); TAX AUDITS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); TAX FRAUD (71%); FOCUS GROUPS (66%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (64%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (64%); LAWYERS (56%); 

PERSON: ROSSOTTI, CHARLES O (COMR); JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY CHARLES O ROSSOTTI (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



316 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Investors Take Profits, With the Dow Gaining by 16.65

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
In a session showing exceptional shifts in focus, investors cashed in profits in high-flying technology and consumer stocks and switched their money into neglected issues that would benefit from revived world economic growth.
When the churning ended, seven of the 30 components of the Dow Jones industrial average had surged more than 3 points, with Alcoa jumping 6 9/16, to 53 1/4, and six Dow stocks had fallen more than 3 points, with Wal-Mart down 5 15/16, to 98 5/8. 
 The blue-chip gauge eked out a 16.65-point advance, to 10,411.66, its third straight record but well off its day's high. It was ahead by 131 points at midday. The Nasdaq composite index, however, dropped 76.22 points, or 2.95 percent, to 2,507.28, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 21.38 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,328.44.
"There's definitely the beginning of a sector rotation going on that could become violent, given the relative valuations," said Rosanne M. Cahn, equity economist at Credit Suisse First Boston. "All the stuff that's cast a pall over the industrial cyclicals is starting to turn around."
Over the last few sessions investors have started to gravitate toward such economically sensitive industries as paper, chemicals, metals and machinery on the belief that foreign economic crises are abating and that world economic growth will pick up, aided by last week's European interest-rate cuts.
At the same time, a select handful of favorite big-name stocks have vaulted ever higher. "Investors are taking another look at price-to-book and price-to-earnings ratios," said Daniel B. Eagan, a portfolio manager at Black Rock in Philadelphia. "The high valuations are causing them to look for other opportunities."
Among the winners were Dow Chemical, up 8, to 109 1/2; Georgia Pacific 6 5/8, to 91 1/4; Caterpillar 5 15/16, to 60 11/16, and Nucor, a steel company, 3 1/2, to 55 13/16.
"We have a market that's moving away from the defensive names, with people attracted to cyclicals," said Gary Dickinson, portfolio manager at Columbia Partners in Washington, "Most of the problems of the global economy may be behind us."
Investors' interest in smaller stocks has also picked up in recent sessions. The Russell 2000 index pushed up yesterday morning, briefly moving into plus territory for the year before its substantial gain largely evaporated during the afternoon. The Standard & Poor's index of small-capitalization stocks posted a 1.15 percent gain yesterday, trimming its decline so far this year to 7.37 percent.
J. P. Morgan & Company, which reported a much bigger earnings increase than Wall Street expected, soared as high as 140 1/16 before succumbing to profit taking to close at 132 7/8, leaving it a gain of 3 9/16. Boeing rose 3 3/8, the biggest gain in five months, to 38, on optimism about its earnings report today. Time Warner beat earnings expectations but fell 3 1/2, to 73 1/2, although it traded after-hours as high as 78 5/8.
TRW, which warned of lower profits, fell 1 1/16, to 41 15/16, after hitting a 52-week low.
Brokerage houses joined technology and drugs among the weakest sectors. Charles Schwab tumbled 12 1/4, to 138 1/4; Merrill Lynch 5 5/16, to 92 1/16, and Knight/Trimark 17 7/16, to 100 1/16.
Intel slumped 3 1/2, to 57; America Online 8 7/16, to 150 7/8; Dell 2 5/16, to 38 1/8; Microsoft 4 1/4, to 85 7/8; Amazon.com 10 3/8, to 168, and Ebay 10, to 162 7/8.
Merck, Pfizer, Schering Plough and American Home Products each fell more than 4 points, while Eli Lilly and Warner-Lambert fell more than 3.
On the New York Stock Exchange, volume climbed to a hefty 952 million shares, with advancing issues outnumbering declining ones by 1,766 to 1,285. A total of 113 issues hit new 52-week highs while 63 made new lows.
The Wilshire 5000 index, which includes nearly all American stocks, fell 1.43 percent to pare its gain so far this year to 7.01 percent.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Issues Drop
By Dow Jones
Prices of Treasury securities drifted lower in thin trading yesterday as weakness in the dollar, stock gains and a big supply of higher-yielding corporate debt securities weighed on the market.
The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond was at 96 10/32, down 6/32 from Tuesday. That pushed the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, up to 5.50 percent, from 5.49 percent on Tuesday.
Treasury prices sank late in the session as the dollar dropped to its lowest level against the Japanese yen since April 1, ending at 118.68 yen in New York, down from 119.83 on Tuesday. A weak dollar makes American holdings less attractive to foreign investors. Also, the Dow Jones industrial average climbed more than 120 points in afternoon trading before erasing most of those gains heading into the close.
"It looks like the dollar is coming under some pressure and stocks continue to do well," said Scott Graham, co-head government trader at Prudential Securities in New York. Those factors, as well as the heavy corporate calendar and continuing signs of improvement in the global economy "just slowly weighed on the market through the course of the day," he said.
A large sale of 2,000 June bond futures contracts late in the day also helped send the market lower.
Among yesterday's corporate issues were Freddie Mac's $3 billion reopening of its five-year reference note and the Associates First Capital Corporation's $1.5 billion five-year note offering. Flows related to those deals were mixed as underwriters bought Treasuries to cover hedge sales while investors sold Treasuries to make room for the new supply.
The market is also awaiting several other large deals, including Conoco Inc.'s $3 billion, three-part offering of 5- , 10- and 30-year debt, which is expected to be priced today. Also, the Korea Development Bank is expected to price a $1 billion global bond offering in the coming days.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since December 1998. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.); Another gGraph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since April 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (60%); JPM (LSE) (60%); 8634 (TSE) (60%); AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); DOW (SWX) (54%); DOW (NYSE) (54%); DOW (LSE) (54%); 4850 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (60%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (54%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (54%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (54%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (60%); ALCOA INC (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (54%); GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BOND MARKETS (84%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CHEMICALS MFG (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



317 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: IN RUSSIA;
Yeltsin Chooses Former Premier As Envoy to Balkan War Talks

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 14

 BODY:
President Boris N. Yeltsin today chose his former Prime Minister, Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, as his personal envoy in talks to settle the Yugoslav conflict. More than a few outsiders said the appointment was driven as much by domestic as foreign necessity.
In particular, they see Mr. Chernomyrdin, a bland but respected middle-of-the-road politician, as Mr. Yeltsin's counterweight to Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov, who has until now led Russian efforts to find a solution to the Yugoslav crisis. 
 Mr. Chernomyrdin, 61, affable and politically astute, has the background to bargain with the West. A Communist Party member for 30 years, many of them as a senior policy maker, he seamlessly moved to capitalism in 1989 as chairman of the world's largest gas company, Gazprom, first under Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the last Soviet leader, and later Mr. Yeltsin.
Mr. Yeltsin made him Prime Minister in 1992 and he kept the job until 1998, when Russia's growing economic problems led to his dismissal.
Mr. Chernomyrdin was never known as an ardent capitalist or reformer. But he was a reliably pro-Western and pragmatic Prime Minister, and developed a close relationship with Vice President Al Gore, with whom he shared the leadership of a commission formed to address joint United States-Soviet economic and military issues.
Mr. Yeltsin asked Mr. Chernomyrdin to return to the Prime Minister's job last September, after the country's economic crash. But Communists and nationalists in Parliament blocked the move. And despite Mr. Chernomyrdin's open ambition to run for President in the 2000 elections, many Russian analysts have written him off as a political force.
A spokesman said Mr. Chernomyrdin would soon be meeting with parties to the conflict "at the highest levels," but offered no further hints as to what tacks he would take.
Today Mr. Chernomyrdin suggested that his ties to Mr. Gore could prove useful in finding a way out of the Yugoslav conflict. "We must persuade the Americans, including the Democratic Party which is preparing for a Presidential election in 2000, that it is in their interest to end the strikes," he was quoted as saying by the Russian news service Itar-Tass.
Mr. Chernomyrdin clearly would be a more acceptable representative to Western officials than would be Mr. Primakov, who spent most of his career needling the West in Soviet and Russian foreign-policy jobs and as Mr. Yeltsin's head of Russian intelligence.
Mr. Yeltsin also has an interest, some political analysts say, in reclaiming some of the policy turf that Mr. Primakov began to occupy during the extended period last fall and winter when Mr. Yeltsin was ill. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (69%); GAZP (RTS) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (69%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (69%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (69%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (69%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOSOVO (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION OAO GAZPROM (69%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; RUSSIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOSOVO (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SERBIA PRIME MINISTERS (93%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); DISMISSALS (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (53%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); CHERNOMYRDIN, VIKTOR S AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



318 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Proposes New Grants As Way to Encourage Savings

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14

 BODY:
President Clinton today proposed giving low- and middle-income taxpayers up to $300 a year as seed money for a new type of retirement account intended to create powerful incentives for increased savings.
Laying out the details of an idea he first raised in sketchy form in his State of the Union Message, Mr. Clinton said the plan would offer something to couples with incomes of up to $100,000 and individuals with incomes up to $50,000. The benefits would be greatest for couples with incomes up to $40,000 and individuals with incomes up to $20,000. 
 In addition to $300 in the form of a tax credit, the Government would match deposits made by participants, up to a certain level, much like 401(k) programs that are popular with employers and employees.
The complex plan is structured as a tax cut, and is the White House's main entry in the debate over what kind of tax relief Washington should provide the country now that the Government is moving into an era of potentially huge budget surpluses.
Because it would introduce a new, investment-oriented way of helping workers prepare for retirement, the proposal could play a critical role in the faltering effort to find some bipartisan compromise on how to shore up the Social Security system.
But it is also an attempt by the Administration to address one of the nation's most pressing long-term economic problems, the decline in the personal savings rate, which late last year dipped to zero.
"I believe Americans who work hard their entire lives and raise their children should not have to have their retirement poised precariously on the edge of poverty," Mr. Clinton said at a news conference in the White House Rose Garden. "I believe that Americans, however, have to do more to save for their own future, but that Americans deserve the chance to do that."
The proposal's political prospects are uncertain. While tax incentives for savings are generally popular in both parties, Republicans are pressing for a much broader package of tax cuts.
White House officials said the plan would cost about $38 billion a year at first, and perhaps $50 billion a year in a decade. They said that while the sums involved are large, they are less than a third of what Republicans in Congress have proposed in their tax-cutting plans, and are therefore more prudent given the other demands on future surpluses and the possibility that the surplus might not be as big as expected.
But if the two parties agree to a compromise on taxes, the budget and Social Security later in the year, some form of Mr. Clinton's idea could well be included. Although the accounts proposed by Mr. Clinton would be set up independent of Social Security, they are similar in concept to Republican proposals for creating private investment accounts within the Social Security system.
"The President's proposal is a good starting point for further discussions on personal retirement accounts, and I look forward to working with him," said Senator William V. Roth Jr., the Delaware Republican who heads the Senate Finance Committee.
The plan's benefits to individuals would vary widely based on their economic situation. The basic idea is to help low- and middle-income workers capitalize on the power of the stock market to create wealth and prepare themselves for retirement. The plan would offer them a choice of perhaps three investment options with varying levels of risk, including stocks and Government bonds.
A couple earning up to $40,000 a year would receive $600 in grants, $300 per taxpayer. The couple could then deposit up to $700 in their accounts -- $350 each -- with every dollar deposited matched by an additional dollar from the Government.
In that way, the couple would end the year with $2,000 in the account. Of that, $700 would be their own contribution, and $1,300 would be provided by the Government -- $600 would from the grant and $700 from the Government's matching funds.
A single taxpayer with up to $20,000 in income would receive the $300 grant, and could deposit $350 more into the account. The deposit would be matched dollar for dollar. In this way, the total deposit into the account each year could be as much as $1,000.
The Government benefits would be reduced for couples with incomes above $40,000 and for individuals with incomes above $20,000.
A couple with income of $60,000, for example, would be entitled to a grant of $300, $150 each, while couples earning $80,000 or more would not be entitled to any grant.
Similarly, the amount of the matching deposit would decline for higher income taxpayers. While couples with incomes of $40,000 or less would have their deposits matched on a dollar for dollar basis, couples earning $60,000 would receive 75 cents in matching funds for each dollar deposited. Couples with income of $80,000 to $100,000 would receive 50 cents in matching funds for each dollar deposited.
Most couples with incomes of $100,000 or more would be ineligible, except for those who do not have an employer-sponsored pension. They could receive matching funds of 50 cents on the dollar for all of their deposits up to the annual maximum of $1,000 per person, which for people at lower income levels includes the grant.
Investment gains in the account would accumulate tax free, and would only be taxed when withdrawn after retirement. Neither the grants nor any of the deposits or matching funds could be withdrawn for any purpose other than retirement.
In economic terms, the main question is whether the plan, which the White House named the Universal Savings Account, would lead people to save more, or whether it would simply reward people for doing what they already do.
On the one hand, the White House sought to provide as much financial incentive as possible to stimulate higher levels of individual savings. On the other hand, it could not make the incentives so appealing that the new accounts would lead people to divert savings from existing 401(k) accounts and other plans.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "FOR EXAMPLE: Helping Families Save"
President Clinton has proposed individual retirement savings accounts for workers and their spouses in low- or moderate-income households. The program would offer an automatic tax credit that would be phased out as income rises from $40,000 to $80,000. In these three examples, the household consists of a married couple with two children.
 

HOUSEHOLD	AUTOMATIC	OPTIONAL 	MATCHING 	TOTAL ANNUAL	INCOME 	TAX CREDIT	CONTRIBUTION	TAX CREDIT	SAVINGS	$40,000	$600	0	0	$600		600	700	700	2,000	$60,000	300	0	0	300		300	972	728	2,000	$80,000	0	0	0	0		0	1,333	667	2,000	
 
In each case, with the maximum contribution, savings could build to $253,680 after 40 years, assuming 5 percent real rate of return. (Source: The White House)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; TAXATION; SAVINGS ACCOUNTS; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



319 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1627 words

HEADLINE: Off Screen, a Union Divided;
It's Actor Against Actor as Guild Election Turns Bitter

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
Riding around Manhattan on her bright blue bicycle, Kelly Craig resembles a lot of other young actresses in New York, with her klieg-light smile, her willowy figure and her cheerful willingness to live on a shoestring while working to make it big.
But recently, Ms. Craig has discovered some qualities she did not know she had: leadership ability, organization skills and plain old grit. Plus, she now has a good lawyer. 
 That is because Ms. Craig is the challenger in a bitter runoff election for a seat on the New York board of the Screen Actors Guild, which represents her and every other actor in the city who appears on film (including a lot of television shows and commercials). Ballots are now arriving in the mailboxes of 24,000 New York guild members, who have until May 3 to vote.
Film work is flourishing in the city these days, as is obvious to every resident whose even semi-scenic neighborhood was infested with movie crews last summer. It is probably the fastest-growing industry in New York in terms of jobs, according to state figures, and spent more than $2.5 billion in the city last year.
Thus, it may seem odd that the actors union is now undergoing a sort of civil war over what are fundamentally economic issues. The guild's incumbent leaders say that concessions the union has made to producers in recent years have helped lure the film industry back to New York City, which was shunned by Hollywood in the early 90's.
"By giving a little, we have gained a lot," said Jordan Derwin, the longtime board member who is running against Ms. Craig.
But Ms. Craig and her supporters argue that those concessions came at the expense of the members who struggle the most, and that the union is not doing enough to help them. They complain that the union is still fighting the last battle, rather than working on new challenges like improving payments for actors' work that appears on cable television and the Internet.
"There's a stubbornness to change, perhaps," Ms. Craig said. "I believe I do have fresh ideas and a different perspective."
There are plenty of ways to describe this election, including as a contest between youth and energy on the one hand, and age and experience on the other. Ms. Craig is in her 20's (like many actors, she's coy about her age) and a neophyte in union politics; Mr. Derwin is a lawyer turned actor who has been serving on the union's board for more than 16 years (and who also declines to say how old he is).
Neither has ever had a major role in a blockbuster, but then, few people who serve on the board are household names. Probably the most famous is Sam Waterston, who stars on NBC's "Law and Order," which is shot in New York.
Despite the uptick in film production, there is not enough steady work here, Mr. Waterston said. But he stays because "the possibility of working regularly in film and television while at the same time continuing in the theater is the closest thing to heaven."
But well-to-do actors like Mr. Waterston are a rarity, and not just on the guild's board. "I'm Jason, and I'll be your waiter tonight" is only the tip of the struggling actor iceberg. On any given day, according to Jayne Wallace, a union spokeswoman, 85 percent of the membership is not working.
About 900 of the 25,300 New York members in 1997 made more than $100,000 from guild-covered work in 1997, according to the union's data. Meanwhile, more than 6,000 made less than $1,000, and about 8,300 made nothing (though they are probably working in a non-film job).
Even excluding those who made no money, about 67 percent of the 17,000 working members did not make the $7,500 they need to qualify for health insurance under the union plan. Trying to help these people is one of Ms. Craig's priorities, she said; she would like the union to explore creating a "Health Fund Bank" to which members could make voluntary contributions that could keep their insurance going if they do not earn the annual minimum.
Does she qualify for health insurance? "I think I'll make it this year," she said, "I think I will, I hope I will. I had a pretty okay year." She will not disclose how much money she makes from all of her jobs -- she says she has not yet done her taxes -- but it is enough so that she no longer has any roommate but her cat, Ketzel.
She takes every acting-related job she can get, including stunt work, dancing and serving as a stand-in. She models clothes and appears in filmed commercials (New York Lotto) and print advertisements (her work for a vitamin company brought not just cash, but a free supply of ginko). She acts in and produces plays in a small theater on the Lower East Side.
Both Ms. Craig and Mr. Derwin describe themselves as principal actors -- meaning those who speak lines -- who sometimes do background work to keep body and soul together. Such extras in and around New York get paid $102 a day.
The issue of extras is highly emotional among union members, as became clear during the original election last fall, when eight independents ran for board seats. The winners were mostly incumbents, but one challenger, Avis Boone, won; Ms. Craig and Mr. Derwin tied.
During that campaign, fliers for the union-backed group branded the independents as extras, who are the lowest in the acting caste system (or "walking lampposts," as one actor puts it). In New York, a lot of actors occasionally work as extras, but there is still something of a stigma attached. In California, extras are seldom professional actors, but might be teachers or firefighters or just full-time extras.
But it is not just snobbery that causes friction between the guild's haves and have-nots, or, more accurately, have-littles and have-lesses. Midrange performers have seen their pay squeezed in the last few years, as producers try to cut costs while paying stars millions of dollars. They are outnumbered by the extras, and they worry.
"Guys like me, most years I break $50,000, but I haven't yet gotten above $100,00," said Michael Arkin, who has played a doorman on "Law and Order" and was a state trooper in the recent movie "Rounders." "We're the bread and butter of the union. The demands that some people in the background community are making, they might be good, but they cost money."
Mr. Derwin is head of the committee that advises the guild on extra performers, and he concedes that he has irked some colleagues by, for example, working on a contract to equalize the pay that extras get across the country (New Yorkers still get more than Californians, but the rates will be the same in a couple of years). He said producers had been avoiding New York because the extras earned more here.
Ms. Craig is careful not to criticize Mr. Derwin personally -- and is anxious not to be seen as a troublemaker. But some dissidents complain about his travel expenses, which topped $26,000 over two years, according to documents the union files with the Federal Government.
On sets, some are quick to point out that while they share apartments with roommates in Queens or Jersey City, he lives in a building with a doorman on the Upper East Side (Mr. Derwin says his wife is a schoolteacher whose income helps support his acting career).
Lisa Scarola, a dissident board member, blames Mr. Derwin for the loss of thousands of jobs because, she says, he has approved contracts that let producers hire fewer guild members or at reduced wages, and approved contract waivers for producers who pleaded hardship.
And she does not buy the argument that concessions are necessary to lure productions to the city. "The Statue of Liberty is in the script, 42d Street is in the script, the star lives in New York and her kids go to school in New York -- they're going to shoot in New York," she said.
Such talk infuriates Mr. Derwin's supporters, like Leslie Shreve, a board member who specializes in one of the guild's more lucrative sectors, voice-overs for commercials. She credits Mr. Derwin with maintaining protection for New York background actors after a union for California extras was crushed by producers in the late 1980's.
"That he is now being vilified is very shortsighted, very mean-spirited, and, I think, gross," Ms. Shreve said.
Mr. Derwin clearly has the support of the union's staff; he conducted a telephone interview from the guild office in Times Square, as Ms. Wallace, the union's publicist, listened in.
And Ms. Craig had to take the union to court, after it refused for three months to set a date for the runoff election -- and continued to let Mr. Derwin serve on the board. The union said at first that it wanted to wait until after members had voted on a proposed merger with another union, and then said it wanted to wait until the Federal Labor Department ruled on challenges to the election.
But in a ruling last month, Lewis A. Kapan, a Federal District Court judge in Manhattan, wrote that it was "more than probable" that the union "has not acted in good faith." He ordered the election be held no later than Monday, which is when the ballots were mailed.
Arthur Z. Schwartz, a prominent labor lawyer who represented Ms. Craig -- and whom she says she may have to pay by doing his office filing -- said that while Ms. Craig is younger than most of his clients, in some ways her case is typical. "I work a lot with insurgent groups," he said, "and nobody achieves any level of success unless there is economic unhappiness among the members."
Both Ms. Craig and Mr. Derwin say they will continue to be active in the union, even if they lose the election. And Ms. Craig said she will continue to try for her dream role in a movie. "A lawyer or district attorney part would be right up my alley," she said. "Strong women roles, not victims."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Probably the most famous actor on the Screen Actors Guild board is Sam Waterston, above, at a table on a "Law and Order" set. But lately the union has been galvanized by two unknown actors, Jordan Derwin and Kelly Craig. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Graph: "Acting Out "
More than three quarters of the New York Screen Actors Guild's 25,339 members in 1997 made less than $7,500 a year as actors, disqualifying them from union health benefits.
 
NOTE: Members must pay an initiation fee of $1,194.50 plus a percentage of their earnings under the guild contract.
 
ELIGIBLE FOR BENEFITS
More than $100,000 -- 03%
$50,001 to $100,000 -- 03%
 
NOT ELIGIBLE FOR BENEFITS
$1 to $7,499 -- 45%
None -- 33%
 
(Source: Screen Actors Guild)(pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (94%); SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (94%); SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; LABOR ACTORS & ACTRESSES (97%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); LAWYERS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE; DERWIN, JORDAN; CRAIG, KELLY KELLY CRAIG (93%); JORDAN DERWIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



320 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1757 words

HEADLINE: As More Prisons Go Private, States Seek Tighter Controls

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK 

DATELINE: YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio

 BODY:
The trouble started soon after the prison opened two years ago.
First there was violence. In the first 10 months, 20 inmates at the prison, the Northeast Ohio Correctional Center, were stabbed, two of them fatally. The prison, it turned out, was taking in maximum-security inmates when it was supposed to be medium-security. 
 Then, after management said it was solving the problems, six inmates, four of them murderers, escaped by cutting through two razor-wire fences in the middle of the afternoon. The inmates were eventually recaptured.
It was an alarming record for any prison, but just as troubling to state and city officials here was that they had no way of monitoring or controlling what was happening there: Northeast Ohio was a private prison, the first in the state.
As the private prison industry booms across the country, growing to 163 institutions now from one or two in 1984, the lessons of Youngstown have hit hard. Ohio, Texas, Tennessee and several other states have enacted or are considering legislation to control private prisons, some responding to lapses in these prisons in their own states.
At the Federal level, a bipartisan group of members of Congress from Ohio and New York introduced a bill in March to prohibit Federal inmates from being housed in private prisons. And a number of cities and states are taking less formal approaches in an effort to build tighter controls into contracts with private prison companies.
It is not, they say, that private prisons have more problems than public ones. The difference is that the the private prisons may not be subject to the same regulations and oversight.
In one way or another, the private prison industry now touches almost every state in the country. As tough sentencing laws have swelled prison populations, some 26 states have private companies operating or building prisons, which can often be built faster than public prisons. And states that do not have private prisons often send their inmates to states that do.
Corrections experts and state legislators are most concerned about the relatively small but growing number of prisons like the one in Youngstown, in which a company arranges to build a prison and promises to fill it with inmates, instead of contracting in advance with the state for a prison that state officials have decided they want.
In Youngstown, the Corrections Corporation of America, the nation's largest operator of private prisons, made a deal with the economically depressed former steel town: Youngstown gave the prison the land for a dollar and the corporation promised to create 450 jobs and find the inmates. It found them in the troubled Lorton prison in the District of Columbia.
But while the company had a contract with Washington, there was no contract giving Ohio or Youngstown officials any oversight of the prison.
Some small towns and cities "have nothing and so they're lured by this idea of this prison coming in and bringing this employment," said Marlene Beckman, special counsel to the Assistant Attorney General in the Justice Department who organized a conference on these issues in March.
In cases like Youngstown, sometimes called speculative or negotiated prisons, the company usually negotiates directly with a town or city, often one desperate for jobs and corporate taxpayers because its factories or mines have dried up. (In one Minnesota town the mayor even took a job with the private prison.) There is often no contract outlining the prison's responsibilities to that city or its state; the prison's only contract is with the supplier of the inmates.
And if there are not enough inmates in the state to fill up the prison, the company may bring in out-of-state inmates, who might misbehave because they are unhappy about being away from home. Some states exporting inmates, including Idaho and Montana, have been so dissatisfied after violence and escapes that they canceled contracts with private prisons in Louisiana and Texas.
When a prison operates without state oversight or takes in out-of-state inmates, rules can get muddy. And even if such prisons are not the majority, regulation proponents say they starkly reveal the need for laws that regulate all private prisons and answer certain questions: What are the rights and responsibilities of local law enforcement? Which definition of maximum security applies? Who is responsible in an escape? How much training should prison staff have?
"It's sort of like hazardous waste," Ms. Beckman said. "When you bring in something that is potentially dangerous, which inmates are, what, if any, obligations do states have to regulate them?"
In Youngstown, investigations faulted the District of Columbia for sending violent inmates to Ohio when it was not supposed to. But they also found that the prison's operator, the Corrections Corporation, did not follow its obligation under its agreement with Washington to obtain and scrutinize the files of prospective inmates and reject unsuitable ones. Typically, medium-security inmates have sentences of 10 years or less.
The Corrections Corporation was also criticized for filling up the 1,700-bed prison too fast, and for not separating inmates known to have been violent or threatening to each other.
"When I first walked into the prison there were over 250 inmates who had separation orders who were in the same facility," said Jimmy L. Turner, the warden who was brought in last March, after the stabbings. "Most prisons don't operate with known enemies in the same facility."
The problems leading to the escape included failures to monitor the recreation yard, Mr. Turner said.
Susan Hart, a spokeswoman for the Corrections Corporation, which operates 74 institutions in this country, said problems were partly due to the prison's desire to be "user friendly" and to accept the Washington inmates. "If we had to do it all over again, we would certainly do some things differently," Ms. Hart said.
City and state officials were determined to insure that changes would be made.
"The Youngstown example, almost in any aspect, says, 'Here's how not to do it,' " said Peter Davis, director of the Ohio Correctional Institution Inspection Committee, a watchdog group. "It was the quantity and the breadth of violent things that were occurring in such a short time frame that made it the horror that it was."
Youngstown officials sued the Corrections Corporation of America, forming an unusual alliance with another set of plaintiffs, inmates complaining about safety and prison conditions.
Significant improvements were made, hundreds of potentially dangerous inmates were transferred, and in a settlement, the company agreed to pay inmates $1.7 million, meet rigorous standards and pay for a Youngstown employee to monitor the prison.
State legislators, who passed modest legislation last year after the stabbings, are now proposing tougher bills that would forbid private prisons to accept out-of-state prisoners above the level of medium security.
In Ohio and other states, private prison companies have lobbied against some proposed regulations, especially ones that restrict the types of inmates they can house.
On the other side, unions of public corrections officers have pushed for strong limits on private prisons, which tend to hire nonunionized workers. These unions are strong in states like New York and New Jersey, which have one privatized immigration detention center apiece.
Proponents of private prisons say they cut costs by ordering supplies efficiently and paying workers less. Studies about whether they save money have yielded mixed results. Historically, private prisons have not taken in the most serious offenders. But they are expanding to take more complicated inmates -- those classified as maximum security, mentally ill, juvenile offenders.
Wayne Calabrese, president of the second-largest private prison company, Wackenhut Corrections, says his company usually operates through state contracts that do not involve out-of-state prisoners.
As for other regulations, Mr. Calabrese said, he would find some acceptable, but objects to those that would bar private prisons from taking certain kinds of inmates or that would try to legislate staffing ratios.
Ms. Hart declined to specify which regulations her company would oppose. But some industry analysts said restrictions on out-of-state inmates or speculative prisons would hurt Corrections Corporation more than some other companies.
In Tennessee, proposed laws would levy hefty taxes on private prisons and would bar them from bringing in out-of-state inmates. A bill backed by the state's Governor, Don Sundquist, would ban only out-of-state inmates convicted of crimes like murder and rape.
Two incidents in Tennessee have troubled supporters of the bills, both in prisons run by the Corrections Corporation, which is based in Nashville. In one episode, two inmates were transferred out of Youngstown to a prison in Mason, Tenn., where, the authorities said, one stabbed and killed the other. The other incident involved accusations that members of the staff at a prison in Whiteville used excessive force in subduing an attack on a guard by inmates from Wisconsin.
Texas passed a law requiring private prisons to meet the requirements of public ones after an escape of two sex offenders from Oregon from a Corrections Corporation institution in 1996. The institution was intended to house illegal immigrants and the corporation never told Texas officials that more than 200 Oregon sex offenders were held there.
Similar concerns have arisen in New Mexico, where last year, at a Wackenhut prison, two inmates were fatally stabbed and guards beat one inmate and kicked another handcuffed inmate in the groin. The New Mexico Legislature passed a modest private prison regulatory bill, but after a riot at the Wackenhut prison in March, some lawmakers called for tougher measures.
Spokesmen for the prison companies said that their staff members had either acted appropriately or had been disciplined.
At Youngstown recently, Mr. Turner, the warden, was eager to show the improvements, including the addition of gun towers, extra fencing and razor wire, and drug-sniffing dogs. State and local officials give Mr. Turner high marks for addressing the problems.
But the whole experience has been sobering, said Mayor George McKelvey.
"They surely gave us good reason not to trust them," Mr. McKelvey said. "We know we have to monitor everything they do."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jimmy L. Turner, left, warden of the Northeast Ohio Correctional Center in Youngstown. At right, inmates at the prison at a meeting on drug and alcohol problems. The prison, run by a private company, came under scrutiny after the stabbing of 20 inmates and, later, the escape of six others. (Photographs by Phil Long for The New York Times)(pg. A24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CXW (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561210 FACILITIES SUPPORT SERVICES (84%); NAICS487110 SCENIC & SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION, LAND (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHEAST OHIO CORRECTIONAL CENTER; CORRECTIONS CORP OF AMERICA CORRECTIONS CORP OF AMERICA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEAST OHIO CORRECTIONAL CENTER; CORRECTIONS CORP OF AMERICA

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO; TEXAS; TENNESSEE; UNITED STATES (97%); OHIO, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; PRIVATIZATION; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; PRISON ESCAPES; LAW AND LEGISLATION PRISON PRIVATIZATION (92%); PRISONS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SENTENCING (78%); MURDER (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); CITY LIFE (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%); JOB CREATION (67%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (60%); 

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



321 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Elizabeth Dole Questions Clinton's Policies on Iraq and Serbia

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: ANNAPOLIS, Md., April 14

 BODY:
Elizabeth Dole accused the Clinton Administration tonight of conducting a Balkan policy that "encourages adversaries to shift strategies, wait it out, or attempt to break our alliances." She called on President Clinton to "build up and deploy the forces necessary to win the war" in Kosovo, including sending ground troops if necessary.
In a speech to midshipmen at the United States Naval Academy that her campaign billed as a major foreign policy address, Mrs. Dole, a Republican Presidential contender and the only woman in the race, also sharply criticized Mr. Clinton's credibility and steadfastness of purpose in his approach to both Iraq and Serbian aggression. 
 "Credibility counts," she said. "And if you have any questions about that, look at the U.N. weapons inspections mess in Iraq or today's tragedy in Kosovo. When tough deadlines are set and then repeatedly postponed, when the other side appears to break its agreements with impunity, when we accept half promises, we send the wrong signal about our values and our will."
Mrs. Dole's speech placed her firmly in the internationalist wing of her divided party and allowed her to show that a woman can talk tough on military matters. Unlike the growing number of Republicans in Congress who disdain international organizations, she emphasized the importance of NATO as well as world financial institutions.
"Our leadership in international trade and monetary organizations is essential for upholding our core economic interests and promoting worldwide economic growth," she said. For Mrs. Dole, the speech served several particular purposes. She has lagged toward the back of the Republican field in fund-raising and could benefit from respectful notices in the foreign policy arena.
"There is a circle in politics," acknowledged one of her advisers. "Good poll numbers raise money. Good press gets you good poll numbers. Good press gets you money."
Some political commentators, particularly at this moment of crisis overseas, have questioned whether Mrs. Dole had the experience to master military matters.
Time and again tonight she sought to show that she does have international experience. She spoke of visiting the borders of Rwanda and Bosnia as the president of the American Red Cross and of meeting with Solidarity leaders in Poland as Labor Secretary. And she mentioned her role as a negotiator with China as Transportation Secretary.
To bolster that experience, she announced tonight, she will leave on Thursday for Macedonia and Albania to visit camps of Albanian refugees from Kosovo and meet with local leaders. Her husband, former Senator Bob Dole, met with Albanian leaders in Kosovo last month as an envoy for the Administration.
Without mentioning President Clinton by name, Mrs. Dole deplored American commitments "caged in hesitation" and said, "Long experience teaches that when we've committed military forces to a rightful goal, we should use all the power necessary to achieve it." She said she would endorse the use of ground forces if NATO commanders and the Joint Chiefs of Staff said they were necessary. Mrs. Dole also embraced the kinds of refugee relief operations that NATO troops are carrying out near Kosovo.
She recalled flying to Zaire (now Congo) to see camps for the those fleeing massacres in Rwanda.
"From the plane's window I saw a huge mass of people in the choking dust and heat," she said. "I also saw jeeps and trucks with our beautiful red-on-white cross -- and an enormous C-141 military aircraft, unloading critical supplies. To those who criticize the military's role in such rescue efforts, I'll just say there are simply times when nobody else can do the job."
Mrs. Dole noted that some people ask why the United Nations and regional bodies cannot take care of regional problems. "The answer is simple," she said. "Wherever America's national interests and our national values intersect, this nation must lead. That includes using military force when necessary."
But sometimes she sidestepped hard questions. She failed to say whether she thought the United States forces should have intervened to stop the Rwanda conflict.
On China, she endorsed engagement, but called simultaneously for Beijing to be pressed harder on human rights and in trade negotiations.
At the same time she said the United States should "stand by our friends in Taiwan." But when someone from the audience questioned her on how far the United States would go to defend Taiwan against China, she replied: "I think there are some things that I want to look at very, very carefully before I can give you a definitive answer. I am not yet an announced candidate, much less an elected nominee of the party."
When a midshipman asked if she would be willing to send her own "sons and daughters to bleed in Kosovo" she replied, "Yes," and repeated her stand on intervening in Kosovo. She did not mention that she has no children.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); IRAQ (94%); ALBANIA (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); RWANDA (79%); POLAND (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (79%); 

CITY: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (57%); UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (57%); UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); IRAQ (94%); ALBANIA (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); RWANDA (79%); POLAND (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (79%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ELECTION ISSUES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); REFUGEES (72%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (72%); NAVIES (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); INSPECTIONS (69%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: DOLE, ELIZABETH H; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MITCHELL, ALISON BILL CLINTON (93%); ELIZABETH DOLE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



322 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Former Union Head Indicted In Scheme to Defraud Local

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
The former president of a union local that represents New York City municipal janitors was indicted yesterday on charges of stealing more than $110,000 through various schemes, including submitting fake bills for sandwiches for Labor Day picnics, prosecutors announced.
The Manhattan District Attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, said the official, Lola McBryde, used several schemes with other union leaders at District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, the giant municipal union, to embezzle money from her local's treasury. 
 The indictment charged Ms. McBryde with stealing more than $50,000 by having Local 1597 pay large sums for food for Labor Day parades and picnics, while only a small number of sandwiches were provided.
Prosecutors said that Ms. McBryde then got back some of the inflated payments in a kickback scheme and shared them with two leaders from District Council 37 who previously pleaded guilty: Mark Shaplo, formerly one of the council's top officials, and Joseph DeCanio, the former president of a local representing highway repair workers.
Ms. McBryde, who retired last month from the local's presidency, pleaded not guilty at an arraignment in State Supreme Court in Manhattan. She has until Monday to post $10,000 bond.
Ms. McBryde is charged with second-degree grand larceny, punishable by up to 15 years in prison, and falsifying business records, punishable by up to four years.
Her lawyer, Richard Harvey, declined to comment on the indictment.
Mr. Morgenthau said Ms. McBryde also stole $16,000 by intentionally overpaying a travel agency for conferences and conventions attended by her local's members. When the travel agency refunded the overpayments, she kept the extra money for herself, the indictment charges.
On one occasion, the indictment said, she used that money to travel to Greece with another person.
The indictment also accused Ms. McBryde of obtaining $33,000 when her local paid inflated prices for Thanksgiving turkeys and hams for her local's members.
Michael Bixon, an assistant district attorney, said that in an elaborate web of schemes, presidents of several locals in District Council 37 usually kept half of the embezzled money while Mr. Shaplo and Mr. DeCanio each received 25 percent. Lawyers knowledgeable about the investigation said Mr. Shaplo and Mr. DeCanio are cooperating with prosecutors after having pleaded guilty to embezzlement and to engaging in vote fraud. Mr. Morgenthau said there would soon be more indictments.
Yesterday's charges were the latest development in a corruption scandal at District Council 37, which represents 120,000 municipal workers.
Three officials have already pleaded guilty, two others have been indicted, and the parent union has forced out at least a dozen others after finding evidence of financial improprieties.
Mr. Morgenthau announced yesterday that on Monday a travel agency in Westbury, N.Y., Tina Vacations, and the agency's general manager, Peter Mantikas, pleaded guilty to inflating the cost of several conferences and trips taken by members of two union locals.
The agency and Mr. Mantikas admitted to receiving payments for the true cost of the trips and then kicking back the inflated amount to Mr. Shaplo, Mr. DeCanio, Bessie Jamison, former president of a local representing clerical workers at the Board of Education, and Gloria Whittle, a former president of a local representing Housing Authority clerical workers. Ms. Jamison pleaded guilty to embezzlement last month, and Ms. Whittle died in 1997.
Mr. Mantikas said he paid the kickbacks to secure the union's business in the future. He was charged with falsifying business records and faces probation. He and the travel agency agreed to repay the union locals $15,000.
Yesterday's indictment portrayed union officials as trying to exploit every angle to pocket extra money. Ms. McBryde is charged with stealing nearly $4,300 by making the local pay for a cruise that she and a companion took to Alaska.
Mr. Morgenthau said, "McBryde falsely represented that the expenses were related to food and beverages purchased for the local."
In the sandwich scheme, prosecutors said, Ms. McBryde pretended that her local was paying tens of thousands of dollars for sandwiches for Labor Day parades and picnics. She had a bakery run by a nephew of Mr. DeCanio provide her with inflated invoices, while Mr. DeCanio provided her with a handful of sandwiches, the prosecutors charged.
The indictment said Ms. McBryde approved the fake invoices and had the local make checks payable to Mr. DeCanio, who then shared the proceeds with her and Mr. Shaplo.
Mr. Morgenthau said the presidents of other locals participated in similar sandwich schemes.
The indictment said Ms. McBryde embezzled $33,000 by receiving fake invoices for holiday turkeys and hams. The indictment said John Economos, the owner of the Coffee Mug, a restaurant near City Hall , provided the fake invoices. She used some of her local's money to purchase the turkeys and hams at normal price, and she shared the inflated invoice amount with Mr. Economos, the indictment charged.
Mr. Morgenthau said Mr. Economos was charged with third degree grand larceny, punishable by up to seven years in prison, and falsifying business records. Mr. Economos pleaded not guilty. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES; DISTRICT COUNCIL 37 AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES; DISTRICT COUNCIL 37 AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; ETHICS; EMBEZZLEMENT INDICTMENTS (91%); US LABOR DAY (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); EMBEZZLEMENT (89%); CORRUPTION (78%); COUNTIES (78%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); BRIBERY (78%); LAWYERS (77%); COUNTERFEITING (77%); THANKSGIVING (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); TRAVEL AGENTS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); ELECTION FRAUD (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); ETHICS (62%); SCANDALS (60%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (52%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (52%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%); 

PERSON: MCBRYDE, LOLA; MORGENTHAU, ROBERT M (DIST ATTY); GREENHOUSE, STEVEN LOLA MCBRYDE (94%); JOSEPH DECANIO (90%); ROBERT M MORGENTHAU (90%); MARK SHAPLO (78%); PETER MANTIKAS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



323 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: NEWS ANALYSIS;
The Teetering Balkans

BYLINE: By BLAINE HARDEN 

DATELINE: SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina, April 14

 BODY:
NATO's bombing of Yugoslavia is destabilizing neighboring regions in which the United States and Europe have stationed tens of thousands of troops, spent billions of dollars and invested years of work in trying to secure peace, build democracy and improve moribund economies.
Since the bombing started on March 24, the 32,000 NATO-led troops who keep Bosnia's shaky peace have faced numerous attacks from Serbs and are on high alert in the worst tension since the end of war in 1995. The Government put in place by the West is frozen and inactive. In Montenegro, a President who has won backing from Washington and other foreign capitals is devoting all his energies to averting a coup backed by the army of Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic. 
 Macedonia, already coping with hundreds of thousands of Kosovo refugees, is worried about tens of thousands more arriving, and Croatia's tourist-dependent economy faces a bleak summer of empty hotels and beaches.
For involved foreigners and locals, the real fear is that prolonged NATO bombing of the Serbs will reopen all the wounds still festering from the Balkan wars of this past decade.
"The security situation is stable, but the longer the bombing goes on the more difficult it will be to control the situation," said Lieut. Gen. Mike Wilcocks, a British officer who is the deputy commander of the Stabilization Force in Bosnia, the NATO-led peacekeepers known here by the acronym SFOR. "We are watching the situation like a hawk."
In Bosnia and Montenegro, the best face that diplomats or military officials have put on the Serbian fury stoked by three weeks of bombing is that they should be able to contain it until Mr. Milosevic is defeated. At that point, they suggest, prospects for democratic development in the region will soar.
"If getting rid of Milosevic fails, then everything else fails," said Carlos Westendorp, the top international official charged with keeping peace in Bosnia. "That is the condition we need for full development of the region, respect of borders and democracy."
He and other Western officials concur, however, that the longer the bombing campaign continues, the more difficult it will be for peacekeeping forces in Bosnia to hold back Serbian radicals and for the elected government in Montenegro to escape a coup that could spark a civil war.
The bombing has halted efforts to rebuild infrastructure or return Bosnians who fled the war to their old homes. Hundreds of Westerners have evacuated what is called Republika Srpska, as the Bosnian Serbs' 49 percent of Bosnia is known. Mr. Westendorp has ordered the elected Serb assembly not to hold any sessions until the Kosovo war is over.
"What I am doing is freezing the situation," Mr. Westendorp, the high representative enforcing the 1995 Dayton peace accords, said here today. "The hard-liners are constantly harassing the moderates. It would do a lot of harm to have the assembly meet."
Next door, fears of a coup in Montenegro, a Yugoslav republic where the American Government is making significant diplomatic and financial investments, have paralyzed the economy while backing elected leaders into a corner. They are struggling to stop the Yugoslav Army from taking over the news media, conscripting senior officials in the republic and fomenting street violence.
The bombing also scuttled a bid to improve relations between Montenegro and its neighbor, Croatia.
According to a Western diplomat, Montenegro had been planning before the bombing to apologize to Croatia for Montenegrin forces that in 1991 and 1992 shelled the historic coastal city of Dubrovnik, the jewel of Croatia's Adriatic coastline and once a major tourist draw.
While Croatia has supported the bombing of its old foe Serbia, the assaults appear to have shattered prospects for the country's tourist industry this year. Most summer hotel bookings up and down the Adriatic coast have been canceled, hotel owners said.
In the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia, too, there is widespread concern that the flood of refugees from Kosovo could destabilize a government that has been receptive to Western influence.
The West has the most control where it has the most military muscle. That is in Bosnia, where peacekeepers from 37 countries, including 6,200 American troops, are heavily armed and have more than three years' experience dealing with the terrain and managing the anger of local Serbs.
After the bombing began on March 24, General Wilcocks said he ordered a ban on the training and movement of local armies across Bosnia. SFOR troops have been ordered to wear body armor in the field at all times and not to travel in groups of less than three.
In the week after the bombings began, there was a sharp increase in Serbian attacks on SFOR troops, including several incidents when hand grenades were thrown at soldiers from moving cars. General Wilcocks said no troops have been injured in the attacks.
The general said in an interview that forces in Bosnia "have nothing to do with NATO." But the credibility of that distinction, if it ever held much weight among Bosnian Serbs, took a severe blow on April 3, when SFOR troops, acting on orders from Washington, blew up a stretch of railroad that connects Belgrade with Montenegro.
The tracks were destroyed in a stretch of the railroad that cuts across a tip of Bosnia. Western diplomats here said SFOR troops were ordered to take immediate action because of information that a trainload of armed Serbian paramilitary forces was headed to Montenegro to make trouble for the pro-Western government there.
The destruction of the tracks, during which SFOR troops killed a local watchman who fired at them, gave Serbian nationalists in Bosnia a reason to argue that their country was being occupied by the same forces that are bombing Serbia.
The NATO bombing, moreover, exacerbated an already severe political crisis in Republika Srpska.
Earlier in March, Mr. Westendorp in effect fired the elected President of the Serbian republic, Nikola Poplasen, a radical Serbian nationalist who had refused for months to work with the government's moderate prime minister.
On that same day, an arbitrator in Vienna denied the Serbs exclusive control of a city, Brcko, that connects two parts of their territory. Many Serbs regard the city as an essential link for the survival of their government inside Bosnia, a loosely federated country they share with the Muslim-Croat Federation that covers 51 percent of Bosnian territory.
The bombing, then, was perceived as part of a triple whammy by the West against Serbs and has sharply raised the risks of violence, said Bryan Hopkinson, director of the Sarajevo-based Bosnia project of the International Crisis Group, a think tank financed by European governments and Western foundations.
"At worst, the capacity might soon exist to mount an armed secessionist movement, at least for that part of Republika Srpska east of Brcko, perhaps using paramilitaries so that the political instigators would not be directly implicated," Mr. Hopkinson, a former British Ambassador to Bosnia, wrote in a report last week. "The public, in its present baffled and enraged state, would probably not be hostile."
Mr. Hopkinson said in an interview that any move by the Bosnian Serbs to secede would be easily handled by peacekeepers.
"They might lose a few men, but if SFOR is determined to resist an insurrection, they could," Mr. Hopkinson said.
In neighboring Montenegro, however, Western diplomats are not at all certain that the elected government could resist an army coup. The army has tanks and artillery, while the republic's police, although well trained and believed to be highly motivated, do not.
The President of Montenegro, Milo Djukanovic, has told American diplomats that he was confident that he could avoid bloodshed in Montenegro while challenging Mr. Milosevic's authority, but only if the West refrained from bombing.
Since the bombs started to fall, Mr. Djukanovic has said in interviews that his police would prevail in a fight against the army, but he and other officials have conceded that such a fight could ignite a civil war among his heavily armed population.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Bosnia and Herzegovina showing location of Sarajevo: Violence against peacekeepers rises in Bosnia and Herzegovina. (pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); KOSOVO (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); CROATIA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; BOSNIA; MONTENEGRO; MACEDONIA (FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC); EUROPE; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); KOSOVO (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); CROATIA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); REFUGEES (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); POLITICS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: HARDEN, BLAINE SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



324 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: NATO Must Be Clear About Kosovo's Future

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re Caspar W. Weinberger's "Losing Track of the Main Objective of War" (Op-Ed, April 12): I find it fascinating that Republicans from the Reagan and Bush Administrations feel comfortable chastizing the Clinton Administration for its policy in the Balkans. They are the same people who declared victory in the Persian Gulf without ousting Saddam Hussein, a failed policy that has left us with nearly 10 years of continued headaches in Iraq. 
 Try substituting Iraq for Kosovo and then read Mr. Weinberger's statement that "victory in this war must mean . . . the elimination of Mr. Milosevic." Clearly, the United States must learn more effective ways to wage economic and military war against renegade countries.
More important, we and others need to understand what "winning" a war really means in the new world order.
 
NICHOLAS H. HEINTZ
Jericho, Vt., April 12, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (70%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (70%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (70%); INDIAN OCEAN (70%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: HEINTZ, NICHOLAS H; WEINBERGER, CASPAR W RONALD REAGAN (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



325 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: Political Briefing;
California's Governor Is Facing Quandary

BYLINE: By B. Drummond Ayres Jr. 

 BODY:
Gov. Gray Davis of California is in a political quandary.
A Democrat elected last fall with heavy Hispanic support, he must decide within the next few days whether to appeal a Federal court decision that declared Proposition 187 unconstitutional. That proposition, enacted in 1994 at the strong urging of Gov. Pete Wilson, Mr. Davis's Republican predecessor, shut off benefits to illegal immigrants. 
 In California, most illegal immigrants are Hispanic. They saw the measure as unusually harsh -- as did most other Hispanic residents in the state, not the least being those able to vote.
For years, many Hispanic-Americans voted Republican. But last fall, they voted heavily Democratic, contributing significantly to the defeat of Dan Lungren, Mr. Davis's Republican opponent. That vengeful switch has not been lost on Mr. Davis, who knows as well as anyone that Hispanic residents make up more than a third of California's population, with the percentage growing daily.
The other important figure that he must keep in mind is that Proposition 187 did not pass with just Republican backing. It also had heavy Democratic support.
Mr. Gray also must consider whether pressing an appeal might damage California's ties with Mexico. Trade with Mexico has become a major factor in the state's economic well being.
Finally, there is the question of whether Mr. Davis is duty-bound as Governor to appeal a Federal court ruling that struck down a state law. If legal experts conclude that he must, he just might find political refuge in that conclusion.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; REFERENDUMS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); REFERENDUMS (77%); VERDICTS (77%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); REFUGEES (71%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; DAVIS, GRAY (GOV); WILSON, PETE DANIEL E LUNGREN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



326 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE DIPLOMACY;
EUROPEAN UNION ASKS KOSOVO ROLE

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, April 14

 BODY:
Joining in the search for a diplomatic solution to the crisis in Kosovo, leaders of 15 European Union countries presented a plan today under which the province would be placed under temporary international European administration if President Slobodan Milosevic agreed to withdraw his forces and allowed hundreds of thousands of Albanian refugees to return.
American officials gave the European initiative, and a more detailed one made public separately by Germany today, little chance of being accepted by Belgrade. NATO reiterated that it would continue bombing in Yugoslavia until Mr. Milosevic withdrew all police and military units from Kosovo and let the ethnic Albanian population go back home. 
 But the European proposal could break new ground by signaling to Yugoslavia's leaders and to Russia that the United States and the North Atlantic military alliance it dominates do not have to be the only players if Mr. Milosevic is interested in any outcome in Kosovo other than his own fiery end.
The European leaders insisted that the United Nations, Russia and the European Union -- a primarily economic grouping of West European countries that is striving for a common foreign and defense policy -- should all play a role in diplomatic moves to resolve the crisis.
The United Nations Secretary General, Kofi Annan, who attended the European Union discussions today, welcomed support for his own efforts from the Europeans and said that other members of the United Nations Security Council would be consulted about their proposals. "I have no plans for a trip to Belgrade," he added.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright also discussed some of the ideas in the European plan in Oslo on Tuesday with the Russian Foreign Minister, Igor S. Ivanov, according to allied officials. There was no indication that a broad agreement emerged from the meeting.
NATO continued attacking Serbian military targets today, bombarding Belgrade with its heavy strikes, according to reports.
Summarizing the discussions of the European leaders, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany said tonight that the goal of both diplomacy and of NATO military action was to create a change in Yugoslavia that would stop Serbian attacks on Albanian population centers and insure safety for all two million people in Kosovo. About 90 percent of them are ethnic Albanians.
"The heads of state and government reiterate their determination not to tolerate the killings and deportations in Kosovo and believe that the use of the most severe measures, including military measures, was both necessary and justified," Mr. Schroder said, meaning NATO bombing to stop the Serbian attacks.
He said that the Europeans now considered that "establishment of an international interim administration which the European Union could take over" was an essential part of an eventual peace settlement in Kosovo. Other parts of a settlement package that the leaders had discussed, Mr. Schroder said, included a police force that would reflect the province's ethnic composition; elections, and "deployment of international military forces that will guarantee protection for the whole population of Kosovo."
The idea of making Kosovo a "protectorate" under international security guarantees has been previously mooted by NATO, but all discussions so far have supposed that Mr. Milosevic's forces would be either withdrawn or neutralized before any international force was introduced.
Germany also floated its own diplomatic proposal earlier today to take Kosovo away from Serbia as part of a peace settlement, but it suggested putting the province under United Nations administration.
French officials said the idea of taking Kosovo under the European Union's wing instead came from President Jacques Chirac. Mr. Schroder said the other leaders agreed to that proposal tonight.
But unless Mr. Milosevic suddenly gives up and accepts these ideas, the only way to impose them on him remains the bombing campaign, now being carried out by about 1,000 American, British, French, Dutch and German warplanes.
The original German proposal also suggested a 24-hour suspension of the bombing if Mr. Milosevic actually began pulling forces out of Kosovo by deadlines set by Security Council resolutions.
But Britain is staunchly opposed to any letup of the bombing until the Serbs end actions, their forces withdraw from Kosovo, an international military force can go in and the refugees are allowed to return to their homes in peace.
"There is not going to be a halt to the NATO action until the demands that we have set out, which are entirely reasonable, humane, civilized demands, are met in full," Prime Minister Tony Blair said tonight.
"We are not going to allow Milosevic to get away with the policy of ethnic cleansing," Mr. Blair said. "He will be defeated on that policy and the military objectives that we have set at the beginning of this campaign will be seen through in their entirety, in their entirety."
These objectives, the European leaders agreed tonight, included "deployment of international military forces that will guarantee protection for the whole population of Kosovo."
The NATO allies insist that any such force should be led and commanded by the alliance, possibly under a mandate from the United Nations, but Yugoslavia has so far refused to discuss any kind of force.
Russia, a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council with veto power over its decisions, has said it would approve such a force only if Mr. Milosevic was willing to accept it.
Under the original German plan, which Foreign Minister Joachim Fischer discussed with the United States, Britain, France, Canada and Italy at a NATO meeting here on Monday, the Security Council would set firm deadlines for Mr. Milosevic to start and finish a withdrawal of all Serbian and paramilitary forces from the province.
If he began withdrawing, according to the proposal, NATO forces would break off air strikes for 24 hours. If the Serbian police and army troops kept withdrawing, the 24-hour pause would be extended, with peacekeepers moving in as the Serbian forces left.
American and other allied officials reacted to the German plan skeptically, but apparently agreed to see if the Russians would try it out on Belgrade. "Nobody thinks it will work," an American official said. "First of all, Milosevic will never accept it. But at this point, everybody is willing to try everything."
The State Department spokesman, James P. Rubin, said in Washington, "The main point in the German plan that's relevant here is that this would be done ideally by resolution of the Security Council, which would be fine with us."
In Bonn, Mr. Fischer said Russia "almost fully agreed" to his plan. But he said Russia still had concerns about the peacekeeping force.
Acceptance of a plan to surrender Kosovo to international administration would mean, for the fiercely nationalist Mr. Milosevic, giving up sovereignty over territory that was historically Serbian, something not even the plan he refused in negotiations at Rambouillet Castle in France this winter would have asked him to do.
His refusal to accept that plan's proposals to leave the province under Serbian sovereignty but give its 1.8 million Albanians political and legal autonomy set off the NATO bombing that began on March 24.
The European Union also reaffirmed plans announced last week for it to provide $160 million for refugee relief and $107 million to Albania, Macedonia and Montenegro to help them provide for the hundreds of thousands of Kosovo Albanians who have fled to those countries.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 16, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the European Union's plan for settling the Kosovo crisis described the union incorrectly in some copies. It does in fact deal with defense issues and is striving for a common foreign and defense policy.
Because of another editing error, the article misstated the given name of Germany's Foreign Minister. He is Joschka Fischer, not Joachim Fischer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Brussels, from left, Chancellor Schroder of Germany; Romano Prodi, the incoming European Union Commission head; President Chirac and Prime Minister Jospin of France (Agence France-Presse), and Chancellor Klima of Austria. (Associated Press)(pg. A12)
 
Map of Yugoslavia showing locations of sites attacked yesterday by NATO: The European Union offered a Kosovo plan as NATO raids continued. (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); ALBANIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); BELGIUM (92%); FRANCE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); AUSTRIA (73%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); EUROPE; GERMANY; RUSSIA ; SERBIA (97%); EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); ALBANIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); BELGIUM (92%); FRANCE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); AUSTRIA (73%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE EUROPEAN UNION (93%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (73%); DEPORTATION (72%); POLICE FORCES (57%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) GERHARD SCHRODER (89%); ROMANO PRODI (57%); JACQUES CHIRAC (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999



327 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 24; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 2229 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:

Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy movies and film series playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film or series. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. An index of reviews of films opening today appears on page 9.
 
Now Playing
 
* "ANALYZE THIS," starring Robert De Niro, Billy Crystal, Lisa Kudrow and Chazz Palminteri. Directed by Harold Ramis (R, 110 minutes). The title, concept and teaming of these co-stars are all funny before the lights go down, so think of this comedy as an offer you can't refuse. Cast as a mobster whose confidence is shaken, Mr. De Niro is hilarious simply by playing his role halfway straight, in classic goodfella style. His mobster finds just the right comic foil in Billy Crystal, as the psychiatrist who utters the immortal: "When I got into family therapy, this wasn't the family I had in mind." There's a lot more where that came from in this breezy comic treat (Janet Maslin). 

* "CENTRAL STATION," starring Fernanda Montenegro, Vinicius de Oliveira and Marilia Pera. Directed by Walter Salles (R, 115 minutes). In this quiet, luminous Brazilian gem, a joyless older woman crosses paths with an orphaned boy. There's plenty of room for sentimentality here, but the wonder of Mr. Salles's film is all in the telling. As these characters develop a fractious bond, then embark on a road trip that takes them vividly to Brazil's hinterlands in search of the boy's father, Mr. Salles brings great tenderness and surprise to the events that punctuate their journey. Ms. Montenegro's tough bravura performance was one of last year's very best (Maslin).
 
* "COOKIE'S FORTUNE," starring Charles S. Dutton, Glenn Close, Patricia Neal, Julianne Moore and Liv Tyler. Directed by Robert Altman (PG-13, 118 minutes). What a treat. The sweet assurance and guerrilla wit of Mr. Altman's vintage ensemble films make a copacetic return with a Southern small-town black comedy. Seamlessly made and completely enveloping, it tells of the machinations set off when a wealthy old woman (Ms. Neal) outrages her diabolically genteel niece (Ms. Close) by committing suicide. As the old woman's dearest friend and the niece's unwitting nemesis, Mr. Dutton is rock solid and appealing. The entire cast works on a single wavelength as Mr. Altman makes the most of a well-woven screenplay by Anne Rapp (Maslin).
 
* "THE DREAMLIFE OF ANGELS," starring Elodie Bouchez and Natacha Regnier. Directed by Erick Zonca (R, 113 minutes; in French with English subtitles). In this very special French film about two freewheeling young women, their turbulent friendship is frayed by sexual passion and economic realities. The weaker and more head-turning of the women (Ms. Regnier) falls for the advances of a rich nightclub owner, while her fiery friend, played with unforgettable immediacy by Ms. Bouchez, rages against what she views as imminent disaster. In the process, Mr. Zonca shows astonishing acuity in observing how the women's diverging values affect every aspect of their lives. A rare and wrenching drama (Maslin).
 
* "EDTV," starring Matthew McConaughey, Ellen DeGeneres, Woody Harrelson, Martin Landau, Jenna Elfman and Rob Reiner. Directed by Ron Howard (PG-13, 120 minutes). In this good-humored, deceptively easygoing satire, Mr. Howard holds up a fun-house mirror to a world ruled by voyeurism and specious fame. The subject matter is familiar by now, but this film about a Trumanesque nobody as 24-hour-a-day television star has a shrewd way of drawing the audience into its web. Permeated by all the crassness and absurdity inherent in celebrity-mad culture, and by our collective obsession with snoopy trivia, it features a fine ensemble cast and a dependably jokey screenplay by Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel. It helps that most of the principals, in a cast that also includes Elizabeth Hurley, have played this game for real and act their roles with a comic vengeance (Maslin).
 
"FOLLOWING," starring Jeremy Theobald, Alex Haw and Lucy Russell. Directed by Christopher Nolan (not rated, 70 minutes). This artfully manipulative black-and-white film noir, recently shown as part of the New Directors/New Films series, doles out its plot details in cryptic fashion. "I decided to structure my story in such a way as to emphasize the audience's incomplete understanding of each new scene as it is first presented," the filmmaker has said. And he makes that technique work in shattering a tale of James M. Cain-style conniving into several time frames. A man named Bill likes to follow strangers until he finds one named Cobb, who is curiously helpful as a mentor in crime. No-budget enough to have been shot on a year's worth of Saturdays while the principals held weekday jobs, it ties together neatly in the end (Maslin).
 
"FORCES OF NATURE," starring Sandra Bullock and Ben Affleck. Directed by Bronwen Hughes (PG-13, 102 minutes). Does Ms. Bullock's loopy girl-next-door charm really make audiences want to follow her anywhere? If so, they'd better be prepared for an amusement park ride with old folks, a long romp through Kmart and the other equally desperate settings for a road movie that otherwise has nowhere to go. A would-be screwball romantic comedy about a man thrown together with a zany drifter en route to his own wedding, it shows off Ms. Bullock to amusing if overly frenetic advantage. Mr. Affleck fares less well with the film's wimpier role. Some of the material's many gaps are filled by special-effects hail and windstorms, which are as close as the title comes to making any sense (Maslin).
 
"GO," starring Sarah Polley, Katie Holmes, Timothy Olyphant, Taye Diggs, William Fichtner, Scott Wolf and Jay Mohr. Directed by Doug Liman (R, 100 minutes). This three-episode demimondaine comedy borrows truckloads of inspiration from "Pulp Fiction" but still has some flash and personality of its own. Mr. Liman, who shot the film as well as directed it, uses a supermarket as ground zero and sends a sullen cashier (Ms. Polley) out to make a drug deal. Then he embellishes this situation fully enough to send his film down the rabbit hole into neo-Tarantino adventures, some of which (guys go to Las Vegas, then get into trouble with strippers, gunplay, car theft and a brake-screeching chase) are a lot more tired than others. The ensemble cast shows cool comic flair (Maslin).
 
* "LOCK, STOCK AND TWO SMOKING BARRELS," starring Jason Flemyng, Dexter Fletcher, Vinnie Jones and Nick Moran. Directed by Guy Ritchie (R, 106 minutes). Not since "The Usual Suspects" has there been such an oversupply of cool macho schemers in a single film. And they're served up with a quick, tart economy that bespeaks the filmmaker's background making videos and commercials, actually an advantage for a change. There's not much beneath the surface here; what's most entertaining is Mr. Ritchie's droll, hard-boiled storytelling and the rogue's gallery of a cast that he has assembled. All the film need do is juggle assorted miscreants and four separate gangs who, figuratively speaking, can't shoot straight (Maslin).
 
"THE MATRIX," starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne and Carrie-Anne Moss. Directed by Andy and Larry Wachowski (R, 120 minutes). The time-traveling story steeped in virtual reality will be all but incomprehensible to non-technofreaks. And the film borrows unapologetically from other sci-fi extravaganzas, with a big debt to "The X-Files" in the paranoia department. But the storytelling is intricately bizarre and the special effects are indeed special, notably when it comes to midair martial arts with a gravity-defying gusto. And Mr. Reeves shows that you can look like a Prada model while behaving like an action hero. One of the main stars here is Bill Pope, an inventive cinematographer. He and the Wachowskis provide a couch-potato epiphany: while the characters seem to be performing marvelous feats, they're often lying stock-still in the grip of virtual reality (Maslin).
 
"METROLAND," starring Christian Bale and Emily Watson. Directed by Philip Saville (not rated, 99 minutes). Based on an obviously early novel by Julian Barnes, this drama assails the bourgeois life of a once-free spirit dragooned into being a commuter, husband and father. This story is set in the 1960's and 70's, which makes its social observations a lot more dated than, say, Edith Wharton's. But to its advantage, the film has a Mark Knopfler score, a crisply incisive performance by Ms. Watson and a highly photogenic one by Mr. Bale. But as the character who once yearned to "go to Paris and be an artist," he must handle the story's most sophomoric Gallic pretensions with a straight face (Maslin).
 
* "SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE" (the Oscar winner for best film, best original screenplay, best art direction, best costumes and best comedy score). Starring Joseph Fiennes, Gwyneth Paltrow (the best-actress winner), Geoffrey Rush, Ben Affleck and Judi Dench (best supporting actress). Directed by John Madden (R, 113 minutes). A witty, sexy and merrily literate delight, with an exhilaratingly clever premise that only gets better as the film unfolds. The screenplay, originating as Marc Norman's brainstorm and turned by Tom Stoppard into razor-sharp dialogue reminiscent of his "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead," dares to imagine whatever it likes about the link between Shakespeare's artistic passions and his mad yearning for a certain aristocratic beauty. Meanwhile this tirelessly inventive comedy envisions an Elizabethan theater fraught with the same backbiting and conniving we enjoy today and has great fun presenting the creation of "Romeo and Juliet," glitches and all. Mr. Fiennes and Ms. Paltrow make a fine, tempestuous duo, and she gives the first great, fully realized starring performance of her career (Maslin).
 
* "TANGO," starring Miguel Angel Sola. Written and directed by Carlos Saura. Cinematography by Vittorio Storaro (PG-13, 100 minutes). A thrilling display of tango heat and virtuosity. And it's no slight to the actors who play lovers to say that the dancing here is steamier than any kiss. In his most electrifying dance film, Mr. Saura offers transfixingly beautiful glimpses of the dance and the great range of emotions it can conjure. Mr. Storaro's dazzlingly fluid cinematography captures all the nuances this material demands. Everyone in the film is utterly consumed by tango fever; audiences will be, too (Maslin).
 
* "TRUE CRIME," starring Clint Eastwood, Isaiah Washington, James Woods and Lisa Gay Hamilton. Directed by Clint Eastwood (R, 127 minutes). In his most quietly poignant film since "A Perfect World," Mr. Eastwood directs a death row thriller with redemption on its mind. Beginning almost casually, and taking on growing urgency as it moves toward an imaginatively suspenseful ending, it tells of a jaded newspaper reporter who, to his own surprise as much as anyone else's, finds himself fighting at the 11th hour to save a possibly innocent man from execution. Mr. Eastwood is older than the man he plays, but not too old to be plausible as the father of an adorable little girl in the cast; she happens to be his real daughter (Maslin).
 
Film Series
 
ALFRED HITCHCOCK CELEBRATIONS. The anniversary of Alfred Hitchcock's birth doesn't arrive until Aug. 13, but that isn't stopping anyone from celebrating the centennial of the master of suspense (1899-1980). Two notable tributes begin today. At the Museum of Modern Art "Alfred Hitchcock," with more than 50 features, shorts and documentaries, as well as an exhibition of posters, photographs and papers, is trumpeted as the most comprehensive Hitchcock film retrospective ever mounted in the United States. And in conjunction with the film retrospective, the Museum of Television and Radio is presenting "Hitchcock by Hitchcock: A Centennial Salute," a complete retrospective of the 20 television films he directed between 1955 and 1962, along with some rarely seen interviews and a documentary on Hitchcock by Richard Schickel. At the Museum of Modern Art the opening day's attractions include three silent films: "The Blackguard" (1925), a melodrama directed by Graham Cutts from a Hitchcock screenplay; "The Pleasure Garden" (1926), another melodrama that was Hitchcock's debut as a director, and "The Lodger: A Story of the London Fog" (1926), a Jack the Ripper tale characterized by atmosphere and, what else, suspense. The Museum of Television and Radio series begins with a weekend program called "Unveiling Vera Miles," three programs starring the woman who was to replace Grace Kelly as Hitchcock's leading lady. Continuing through June 13 at the Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53d Street, Manhattan, the series, "Alfred Hitchcock," is free with museum admission: $9.50 for adults, $6.50 for students and people 65 or older; free for visitors under 16 accompanied by an adult. Pay what you wish on Fridays from 4:30 to 8:30 P.M. Screening information: (212) 708-9400. Continuing through June 6 at the Museum of Television and Radio, 25 West 52d Street, Manhattan, the series, "Hitchcock by Hitchcock," is free with museum admission: $6 for adults, $4 for students and people 65 or older and $3 for children under 13. Information: (212) 621-6800 (Lawrence Van Gelder).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sarah Polley as Ronna, a checkout clerk, looks for drugs and trouble in "Go," directed by Doug Liman. (Tracy Bennett/Columbia Pictures); Emily Watson and Christian Bale in "Metroland," a critical commentary on the bourgeois existence. (Peter Mountain/Lions Gate Films)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (50%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); BRAZIL (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); BRAZIL (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); FAMILY (73%); WOMEN (73%); ORPHANS (70%); ORGANIZED CRIME (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



328 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
NORTHERN IRELAND: PREMIERS CONCEDE FAILURE -- Prime Ministers Tony Blair of Britain and Bertie Ahern of Ireland, conceding the failure of their blueprint for putting the final steps in the Northern Ireland peace settlement into effect, said intensive talks would be held next week in London, Dublin and Belfast. The talks are aimed at resolving the guerrilla disarmament issue, which is blocking the formation of a new government in Northern Ireland. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
RUSSIA: I.M.F. LOAN LIKELY -- The World Bank said it had tentatively agreed to lend Russia another $2.3 billion in 1999 and 2000 to ease the country's transition toward a market economy, including shrinking the coal industry, building roads and overhauling the welfare system. The bank's president, James Wolfensohn, said the loans depended on Russia's reaching agreement with the International Monetary Fund on budget and tax policies. But that agreement is widely anticipated. Michael Wines (NYT) 

THE AMERICAS
 
ARGENTINA: IMPEACHMENT CALL -- A federal judge sent a report to Congress calling for the impeachment of Foreign Minister Guido Di Tella because of allegations that he falsified documents and concealed evidence that would have revealed illegal arms sales by Argentina to Ecuador during Ecuador's 1995 border war with Peru. Mr. Di Tella has denied any wrongdoing, while conceding that his ministry knew of the illegal transfers but passed the information on to the army for investigation. Clifford Krauss (NYT)
 
ARGENTINA: WEAPONS CRACKDOWN -- Responding to a rising crime wave, the Senate passed a bill setting a minimum 90-day prison sentence and fines of up to $10,000 for anyone carrying even the smallest-caliber pistol without a license. The new law, already passed by the lower house, also sets sentences of between four and eight years for people apprehended possessing a number of weapons. Clifford Krauss (NYT)
 
ASIA
 
INDIA: CONFIDENCE VOTE DEBATE -- After losing the support of a crucial ally, the Hindu nationalist-led coalition Government asked for a test of its majority in the lower house of Parliament. Members of Parliament heatedly debated the motion all day and will continue today. The vote on the confidence motion, which will determine whether the Government survives, is scheduled for Saturday. Hari Kumar (NYT)
 
JAPAN: AN INDISCRETION -- Just moments after Japan's No. 2 prosecutor resigned over a sex scandal, his potential successor said that extramarital activities are a source of "vitality." Katsumasa Horiguchi later retracted the remarks, which he made to reporters when Mamoru Norisada resigned after a magazine exposed his extramarital affair. Sheryl WuDunn (NYT)
 
PHILIPPINES: U.S. PACT BACKED -- The Makati Business Club, a politically influential association of corporate officials, endorsed a military pact that would allow American forces to return to the Philippines for the first time since the closing of two U.S. bases in 1992. The Senate is expected to vote next month on whether to ratify the pact, which would allow U.S. forces to train in the Philippines. Seth Mydans (NYT)
 
SINGAPORE: POLITICAL TRIP -- Two leading opposition figures who are under severe pressure from the ruling party will visit the U.S. to meet Government officials. They are Chee Soon Juan, recently jailed for making unauthorized political speeches, and Joshua B. Jeyaretnam, who faces possible bankruptcy from defamation suits brought against him by ruling party members. Seth Mydans (NYT)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
ISRAEL: LEBANON VILLAGE INVADED -- Israel seized the south Lebanon village of Arnoun, effectively incorporating it into its military occupation zone. Witnesses and security officials said an armored unit with about 20 soldiers descended on Arnoun from their position in the nearby crusader castle of Beaufort. Israel said the village had been used a guerrilla base. (AP)
 
IRAQ: NEW ALLIED ATTACKS -- Iraq said its antiaircraft defenses opened fire on U.S. and British warplanes patrolling a no-flight zone in southern Iraq. A spokesman said the planes fired 16 projectiles but he gave no report of casualties. U.S. Central Command in Washington confirmed that U.S. and British warplanes struck two targets in the southern zone. (Reuters)
 
IRAQ, IRAN: EXCHANGE OF BODIES -- The bodies of 387 soldiers, 221 Iraqi and 166 Iranian, killed in the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war will be exchanged tomorrow at a border point east of Baghdad, the Iraqi weekly al-Zawra said. The paper, owned by President Saddam Hussein's eldest son, quoted an Iraqi official as saying that talks were being held in Baghdad on a new exchange of prisoners from the conflict. (Reuters)
 
AFRICA
 
ZAMBIA: CONGO TALKS UNDER WAY -- Representatives of President Laurent Kabila of Congo and rebels fighting to oust him held their first direct talks in a meeting arranged by President Frederick Chiluba of Zambia, left. It was expected to be followed by talks this weekend involving African defense and foreign ministers. Soldiers from seven countries are fighting in Congo. The rebel coalition of ethnic Tutsi, disaffected Congolese soldiers and opposition politicians took up arms against Mr. Kabila in August. (AP)
 
RWANDA: VATICAN ON BISHOP -- The arrest of a Rwandan bishop accused of having a role in the mass killings of Tutsi in Rwanda in 1994 is "an act of extreme gravity," the Vatican said, adding that it hoped Bishop Augustin Misago's "innocence will be rapidly proved." President Pasteur Bizimungu and Tutsi survivors said Bishop Misago refused shelter to Tutsi trying to escape death from Hutu mobs. (AP)
 Compiled by Terence Neilan
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (74%); 

COUNTRY: NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRELAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); EUROPE (92%); ECUADOR (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%); PERU (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (91%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (73%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRELAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); EUROPE (92%); ECUADOR (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%); PERU (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (91%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ARMIES (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CRIMINAL FINES (72%); EVIDENCE (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); TAX LAW (68%); SENTENCING (67%); JUDGES (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); SCANDALS (66%); SEX SCANDALS (63%); RESIGNATIONS (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%); COAL INDUSTRY (54%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (54%); 

PERSON: BERTIE AHERN (73%); TONY BLAIR (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



329 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE EURO FALLS. The euro fell after a European Central Bank official warned the nations using the currency to handle more of the burden of reviving their economies. In New York, the euro settled at $1.0703, down from $1.0800.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since Jan. 4, 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EURO (92%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TRENDS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



330 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims At 3-Month High

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15

 BODY:
New claims for jobless benefits rose unexpectedly by 14,000 last week to the highest level in three months.
The Labor Department said today that first-time applications for state unemployment insurance benefits rose to 316,000 in the week ended last Saturday from a revised 302,000 the previous week and well above analysts' expectations of 292,000. 
 Claims were at their highest since Jan. 9, when they were 358,000. Last week's figure also marked the end of the longest run in more than 25 years of claims coming in below 300,000.
Claims had remained below that level, a sign of a thriving job market, from Jan. 30 to March 27, the longest stretch since July 22, 1972, through Dec. 15, 1973.
The four-week moving average of initial claims rose to 300,500 in the week ended last Saturday from 296,250 the previous week. Economists tend to favor the four-week average as an indicator of the health of the job market because it irons out weekly fluctuations caused by holidays and seasonal factors. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



331 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: China Says It's Official: Premier Zhu's U.S. Visit Was a Success

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 15

 BODY:
Officials and foreign policy experts here are calling Prime Minister Zhu Rongji's American visit a success.
China's leaders had seriously considered postponing the trip because of anger over the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia and expectations of a hostile political atmosphere in Washington. But they decided to proceed, and then saw Mr. Zhu charm his way across the United States, deflecting major debate on the most divisive issues like human rights and Tibet. They saw American business leaders flock to see Mr. Zhu and saw President Clinton, after wavering, promise to reach agreement soon on China's entry into the World Trade Organization. 
 Today, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, Sun Yuxi, called the visit "constructive and fruitful," a positive step toward deeper Chinese-American relations.
An academic expert on American politics, Jin Canrong, said, "Our expectations were low, but the general feeling is that the trip was successful." Mr. Jin is a researcher at the Government-sponsored Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
In part because of uncertainty over the outcome and in part because of domestic politics, the state-controlled news coverage of the trip was somewhat muted.
The dance over China's effort to join the World Trade Organization, including Mr. Zhu's concessions toward open markets and Mr. Clinton's shifting responses, was not reported in detail. Instead, even in the darkest early phase, the press here simply reported that major progress had been achieved.
People's Daily, the mouthpiece of the ruling Communist Party, carried a gushing commentary by a Chinese living in the United States, Ghao Haosheng, but has not yet issued its own editorial assessment of the visit.
Mr. Zhu, who is in charge of economic policy and the operations of the Government, is ranked No. 3 in the party, after President Jiang Zemin and Li Peng, the former Prime Minister and now head of the National People's Congress.
In a striking display of party control over the press, throughout the last week Mr. Zhu's trip received second or third billing behind activities of the other two top leaders, regardless of the seeming relative importance of the events.
Most notably, Mr. Li has simultaneously traveled through the Middle East and South Asia, and in major newspapers as well as on the television news, reports on his activities were invariably given more prominence than Mr. Zhu's trip.
Chinese analysts said this did not indicate any threat to Mr. Zhu's position but was a reminder that Mr. Zhu cannot upstage Mr. Jiang and that Mr. Li remains a strong force. But all the top leaders are said to agree on the desirability of good ties with the United States, seen as vital to China's development goals.
The praise for closer Chinese-American relations has coexisted in the press with harsh denunciations of American and NATO policy on Yugoslavia. In light of China's severe ethnic tensions in Tibet and elsewhere, the attacks are regarded by officials here as a terrible precedent for intervention in a sovereign country suffering ethnic conflict.
But when China's leaders decided that Mr. Zhu should proceed with his visit, they also decided that the Kosovo issue should in effect be kept in a separate compartment, said Mr. Jin, the America expert, as China continued to seek overall cooperation with the United States.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (95%); TIBET (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (76%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (57%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (57%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (95%); TIBET (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (76%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ASIAN AMERICANS (74%); RANKINGS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; ZHU RONGJI (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



332 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
Lessons of Kosovo

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
The way adults of any intelligence can find out how well they are dealing with a crisis, personal or national, is to ask themselves two questions. Would we do the same things again if we had the chance? If not, what do we now do to get out of this mess? So:
Would the U.S. again decide that to help Kosovo's Albanians we would give Slobodan Milosevic what he wanted most -- the cover to drive a million of them into foreign exile or become displaced persons at home, wandering their roads in terror? 
 Would we spray bombs at a dictator without it occurring to our leaders he would immediately drive out or slaughter the people we were supposed to save? (Were our leaders fools? Yes.) Would the U.S. President again decide that before going to war, he would guarantee not to send ground troops, so Mr. Milosevic need not get all worried?
Would we again bombbombbomb the capital of the Serbs, who thought of themselves as far more our friends than his? So far this has produced three major results: humiliating Serbs forever, turning friendship into enmity, and persuading many to rally around a man they detest and fear.
Would we be roaming around again with a diplomatic begging cup asking Russia, the same addled country that we pity, or any other country that will answer the phone, to find a way out for us?
Would we again allow Washington to weaken the world's human rights movements by arousing fears that they will one day mean more bombbomb assignments for America?
Would we allow ourselves to forget about those people we could indeed help, not with war, but with economic and political pressures against their tormentors? While we are stuck in the bloody mud of the Balkans, about 35 million other victims of despotism are in exile or tormented at home, victims of dictatorships we enrich.
While dictators persecute and kill Chinese and Sudanese Christians, Tibetan Buddhists and Muslim Kurds, it must be admitted that President Clinton and U.S. business executives are at worship. See them -- kneeling at China's feet as they pray to the gods of the Politburo for trade profits.
Because we cannot help every suffering group, would we again make a mockery of America's human rights promises by remembering them in Europe but not paying much attention to the persecuted of Africa and Asia? As former Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger said on ABC: "At the back of my head I have to ask whether some of this isn't racist. I really mean that."
So, we would not deal with Kosovo the same way again. But nobody will hand us a second chance free. The price is acknowledging that the war is a fiasco for America, for Kosovo's Albanians and for Serbs who risked their own lives for freedom.
Then we could choose. We could send in troops after all. We could begin a new Balkan war and watch with interest how far it spreads.
Or, I urge, we can call for a cease-fire. Say, two weeks to do something more useful than handing Mr. Milosevic another ultimatum to get up and get out or Secretary Albright will smack him good.
He will have to give up his dream of killing or expelling all Kosovars, just when we were helping him fulfill it. When the Kosovo war is over, we will see how briefly the Serbian freedom movement will remain extinguished.
During the cease-fire, an agreement might be worked out that all refugees return to a self-governing Kosovo that remains part of Serbia -- unless the current or future government of Yugoslavia is smart enough to accept a partition that would give it areas and sites holy to Serbs.
No, Mr. Milosevic will not accept a "NATO-led" protection force for Kosovo so dear to NATO bureaucrats. Remember? NATO has not won the war.
But countries inside and outside NATO could do the job -- including Russia -- perhaps patrolling with some small Serbian police units. Otherwise, the Kosovo Liberation Army would operate without hobble and might continue some of the expulsions Serbs have experienced -- like the 300,000 Serbs purged from Croatia by the dictator Franjo Tudjman.
Maybe the people of Serbia, Bosnia, Croatia, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro, Albania etc. will find better solutions some decade. Meantime, the U.S. should not keep hanging around the Balkans with an occupation force, on the ground or in the air. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (93%); TIBET (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); SUDAN (79%); CHINA (56%); 

STATE: XIZANG, CHINA (56%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (93%); TIBET (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); SUDAN (79%); CHINA (56%); XIZANG, CHINA (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); RELIGION (85%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); DISPLACED PERSONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (61%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



333 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Brazil Rebuts Currency Insider Charges

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, April 15

 BODY:
The president of Brazil's central bank sought today to defuse a potentially explosive congressional investigation into Government support of the banking system during the nation's currency crisis in January, rejecting assertions by lawmakers that his institution acted illegally.
After conducting a three-week-long investigation, the central bank's president, Arminio Fraga, and its supervision director, Luiz Carlos Alvarez, told members of a Senate panel that a bailout of two small investment banks in January prevented a collapse of other banks. The officials also said that suggestions of an insider-trading conspiracy at the central bank that may have provided some financial institutions with advance tips about exchange-rate policy changes were unfounded. 
 "This institution acted prudently," Mr. Fraga said during testimony in Brasilia, the capital. "One only has to study the American Depression of the 30's to see what happens when the central bank fails to prevent a banking crisis."
Mr. Fraga confirmed reports that the central bank had sold dollars at below-market levels to the two banks, Banco Marka and Banco Fonte Cindam, to help them cover losses in financial-derivatives markets. Although such help is allowed under Brazilian law, and Mr. Fraga said it was done to limit risk in the financial system, the operations have raised questions because some executives at the banks were reported to have protected their own investments while clients lost money.
Anger about the episode, which occurred over a frantic three-day period in mid-January when the currency was devalued, led to a broad inquiry into what critics are calling the Government's unacceptably lenient treatment of banks.
Several banks reported enormous profits after the devaluation, largely because they bought dollar-linked Government bonds before the shift in exchange-rate policy. In addition, the devaluation, while beneficial to some banks, has resulted in a widening of the budget deficit, to roughly 14 percent of the gross domestic product in January, compared with 8 percent at the end of 1998.
"If it results in greater transparency and greater public understanding of the central bank's actions, then this look into its actions are positive," said Marcio Pochmann, a University of Campinas economist.
But the inquiry comes at a delicate time, when the economy is beginning to stir after months of stagnation. Inflation has slowed in recent weeks as many retailers have absorbed suppliers' price increases and the Government has ruled out wage increases indexed to price rises.
With inflation fears subsiding, the central bank reduced its main interest rate on Wednesday to 34 percent from 39.5 percent, the third cut since Mr. Fraga was appointed bank president last month. And with investors' confidence growing, the Government filed this week for permission in the United States to sell up to $3.75 billion of dollar-denominated bonds. The bond issue, which is expected in coming days, would mark Brazil's return to global debt markets for the first time since the Russian default last summer closed the door to many developing-country borrowers.
The recovery in Brazil's prospects, swifter than similar recoveries after devaluations in South Korea and Mexico, is still far from complete, as officials of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso's Government concede. "The President knows that many of the key decisions of his second term will be taken over the next three or so months," Finance Minister Pedro Malan said in an interview. "The worst thing to happen now would be to declare that the worst is behind us."
Other analysts are concerned that the outcome of the congressional inquiry could threaten the optimism built up over the last several weeks. A former Finance Minister, Mailson da Nobrega, said, "The possibility this episode could evolve into a scandal could threaten the credibility of the economic team."
It appears likely, though, that Mr. Fraga's explanation of the central bank's actions will lessen that possibility. For one thing, it is unclear how executives of the failed banks might have benefited from the bailouts, which ultimately resulted in the closing of Banco Marka and the sale of Banco Fonte Cindam.
As for other financial institutions accused of using inside information to profit from the devaluation, Mr. Fraga said his own inquiry showed that information needed to make such decisions was widely available in the Brazilian and foreign press. Most of the institutions mentioned have either declined to comment or have rejected speculation that they used inside information.
As for Mr. Fraga himself, he is largely shielded from the fallout of the investigation, regardless of its results. He was made central bank president only in March, more than a month after his predecessor, Francisco Lopes, decided to aid Banco Marka and Banco Fonte Cindam. Mr. Lopes is expected to testify before the Senate panel next week.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Outrage in Brazil that some banks reaped rewards from devaluation has not punctured a new optimism in the markets about Brazilian debt. The central bank chief, Arminio Fraga, testified at a Senate inquiry yesterday. (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); 

COMPANY: BANCO MARKA (BRAZIL); BANCO FONTECINDAM

ORGANIZATION: BANCO MARKA (BRAZIL); BANCO FONTECINDAM

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; BANKS AND BANKING; INSIDER TRADING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); BONDS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUDGETS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); RETAILERS (67%); BOND ISSUES (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON; FRAGA, ARMINIO; ALVAREZ, LUIZ CARLOS

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



334 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Our Buddy Boris

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Last week the West got a lesson in why we can't live with Boris Yeltsin and why we dare not live without him.
Can't live without him, you ask? Why? Well, it is often remarked that the fate of Western world economies depends on the health of two men, Robert Rubin and Alan Greenspan. That is a wild overstatement. But as long as we're overstating, I would add another name: Boris Yeltsin. 
 Oh sure, the headlines last week were that Mr. Yeltsin was retargeting Russian missiles at the West, because of NATO's bombardment of Serbia; the Duma passed a resolution calling for arms to be shipped to Serbia; and there was even talk of World War III. But when you looked closer at what Mr. Yeltsin was actually doing, you could see that he was putting out all sorts of smoke -- to satisfy the anti-U.S. hotheads in the Russian Duma -- precisely so he wouldn't have to use any fire.
Whatever aid the Russians were sending to Kosovo seemed to be going via the Arctic Circle. Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov also used his Bolshevik credentials to keep Russia's nationalists and Communists in line, and prevent the relationship with Washington from spinning totally out of control. Trust me, the Dow would not be at 10,000 for long if the Russians were opposing NATO in Yugoslavia with more than just hot air. War in Kosovo is one thing, war in Europe is another.
This is why even a half-dead, stone-cold-drunk Boris Yeltsin is still an enormous asset for the U.S. No other Russian leader today is as big a bear and as clever a fox as old Boris. We are going to miss this guy. Indeed, we will one day look back and ask, how did the U.S. use the Yeltsin years? Not very wisely. The Clintonites used the Yeltsin years to cram NATO expansion down Russia's throat, rather than to really bring Russia into Europe. These will be remembered as the years the locusts ate.
Alas, though, Mr. Yeltsin will also have to shoulder blame. He has so mismanaged economic reform in Russia -- with plenty of help from the Duma -- that Russia is now busted, corrupted and utterly irrelevant to the world economy. All this talk that the Russians are supporting the Serbs against the U.S. out of pan-Slavic loyalty is nonsense. The Russians, particularly the elites, are supporting the Serbs out of frustration at how weak Russia is today, and out of frustration that NATO has decided that it will determine the future of Europe -- without Russia. (It is not surprising that the Russians chafe at the fact that Iceland, a NATO member, has a bigger say in Europe's future than they do.)
Because Mr. Yeltsin has not provided the leadership that Russia needs on the domestic side to rebuild the country's economic base and instill some self-confidence, Russians are now looking for dignity in all the wrong places. Russian elites are courageously maintaining a liberal democracy at home and running a Soviet-like foreign policy abroad. What is the meaning of Russian democracy when in foreign policy Russia is supporting two of the most evil characters on the world stage -- Saddam Hussein and Slobodan Milosevic?
"What the Russians don't understand," said Thomas Graham, a former U.S. diplomat in Moscow, now at the Carnegie Endowment, "is that both Saddam Hussein and Slobodan Milosevic are actually using them. They are being manipulated by two two-bit dictators." Both Saddam and Slobodan, notes Mr. Graham, play on Russia's resentment of its weakness in order to maneuver Russia against America in the gulf and in Europe.
This is a losing strategy for Russia. Sure, even a thriving democratic Russia will have different geopolitical interests than America. Look at France. But as much as the French like to assert their independence and tweak the U.S., in the crunch they understand that if they are part of the democratic West they must stand against Saddam and Slobodan.
The Russians need to understand that their influence on the world stage can only come from their acting as real mediators -- not as the lawyers and advocates for thugs.
Russia will not have the self-confidence to do that, though, until it tackles its domestic problems. Until then, we will thank our lucky stars that Mr. Yeltsin is there to sit on the worst instincts in Russia, and keep the lid from coming off. But we will curse our bad luck that he is not a stronger visionary -- able to produce a Russia that feels confident enough to have both a democratic domestic policy and democratic foreign policy. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (61%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SERBIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (91%); ICELAND (79%); ARCTIC (57%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (61%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SERBIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (91%); ICELAND (79%); ARCTIC (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); MAMMALS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); MEN'S HEALTH (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



335 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Korean Issue Signals a Possible Upturn in Emerging Markets

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
There were several new signs yesterday of healing in emerging financial markets as the Korean Development Bank sold $1 billion of bonds and Brazil indicated that it would soon be ready to return to the capital markets to borrow.
The fact that the Brazilians can consider asking foreign investors to come back just three months after they suddenly devalued their currency is a testament to the fact that hard-hit financial markets can turn around quickly. 
 While the Brazilians have not announced a specific bond issue, they are expected to come to the market in the next several weeks. Yesterday, the Government filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for permission to sell $3.75 billion in dollar-denominated bonds. Earlier this week, William Rhodes, vice chairman of Citigroup and a leader in the debt reduction negotiations of the 1980's, said he expected Brazil to sell bonds by the end of the month.
The Korean Development Bank's five-year notes were the first sold by the state-owned bank since the end of 1997. They were also the first issue to win back an investment-grade credit rating from Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service since the global financial crisis spread to Korea at the end of 1997.
Underwriters said the issue, rated at the bottom of the investment-grade category, was in hot demand, with about 70 percent of the global deal being bought by United States investors. The five-year notes were priced to yield 7.302 percent, 225 basis points above the yield on the five-year Treasury note. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
Richard Luddington, the global head of emerging-market syndication at J. P. Morgan Securities, the lead underwriter with Chase Securities, said the demand reflected the fact that some Asian economies "have made a pretty quick recovery." The South Korean stock market is a top performer this year, he said, as interest rates come down and foreign investors return.
On the heels of the success of the Korean deal, Colombia jumped in to sell $500 million of 10-year notes. They were priced to yield 10.121 percent, 495 basis points over the comparable Treasury.
In the Treasury market, prices were pushed lower as investors sold to make room for heavy corporate issues, including a $4 billion deal from Conoco, the fifth-largest oil company that is being spun off by the DuPont Company. The $4 billion is to be paid to DuPont as part of the spinoff.
The price of the 30-year bond fell 8/32 , to 96 2/32 , while the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.52 percent, from 5.50 percent on Wednesday. Traders said the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank's report that its regional manufacturing index rose sharply in April also weighed on investors, who worry that the Federal Reserve will have to raise interest rates if the economy does not slow down soon.
The Conoco deal, which was led by Salomon Smith Barney and Credit Suisse First Boston, was another indication that the rise in oil prices this year has piqued new investor interest in the oil sector. "This is clearly a validation that the energy sector has stabilized," Geoffrey Coley, the co-head of global capital markets at Salomon, said.
Mr. Coley said there were $15 billion in total bids for the Conoco issues, which included $1.35 billion in 5-year notes, $750 million in 10-year notes and $1.9 billion in 30-year bonds. The 5-year notes were priced to yield 5.934 percent, 88 basis points above 5-year Treasuries; the 10-year notes at 6.35 percent, 120 basis points above 10-year Treasuries, and the 30-year bond at 6.95 percent, 134 basis points above 30-year Treasuries.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since Dec. 1998. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (73%); JPM (LSE) (73%); 8634 (TSE) (73%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (73%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK; TREASURY DEPARTMENT CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (73%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (68%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (60%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (93%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK; TREASURY DEPARTMENT NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (93%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; BRAZIL; BRAZIL (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; FINANCES; INTEREST RATES BONDS (92%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SYNDICATED LOANS (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEVALUATION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); TRENDS (66%); INTEREST RATES (61%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN WILLIAM C RHODES III (56%); WILLIAM C RHODES III (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



336 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Give Mediation Another Try

BYLINE: By John R. Kasich; John R. Kasich is chairman of the House Budget Committee and a member of the House Armed Services Committee.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Before our country steps any deeper into the Balkan conflict, it is essential that we stop and examine the Kosovo crisis in light of our vital national interests, our humanitarian obligations and our enduring need for a more peaceful, stable world. It would be a grave error to replace no long-term policy, which is what the Clinton Administration has executed thus far, with the wrong long-term policy.
The question we must answer is whether military intervention in a centuries-old civil war in the Balkans is likely to be either resolved on our terms or resolved over the long term. If so, intervention on the ground might be worth it, assuming casualties could be minimized. I have reluctantly concluded, however, that military intervention -- through air power or ground troops -- is not in the national interest. Nor will either achieve our goals. 
 Those who have called for ground troops have not specified the goal. Is it to take Kosovo, fortify it and occupy it for years, perhaps decades, against the Serbian threat? Or should the goal be to conquer all of Serbia, with incalculable consequences for wider Balkan stability? Is "victory" at all costs worth a bitterly hostile Russia? And would achieving it hurt our ability to respond on short notice to the world's other regional flashpoints?
Of course, no one can help but be moved by the plight of the Kosovo refugees. The United States has an obligation to get President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia to withdraw his forces from Kosovo. Just as surely, we need to help Albania and Macedonia economically. But military escalation is not the best way to achieve those goals.
The United States should encourage new attempts at a peaceful resolution, before this crisis flashes over into a wider conflict. The negotiations at Rambouillet Castle in France last winter were destined to fail because both parties were expected to agree to a draft document, without substantive changes. But it was unrealistic to expect Yugoslavia to accept the presence of a NATO implementation force in Yugoslavia and the probability of independence for Kosovo after three years. A sovereign country would probably not agree to such terms.
A realistic mediation needs the efforts of neutral parties. We need to involve the Russians, not only because of their influence with Serbia, but also because we must reward, not spurn, President Boris Yeltsin and other democratic forces for their efforts on behalf of peace. Rigidly rejecting their overtures would simply strengthen nationalist extremists like Vladimir Zhirinovsky. Other neutral countries, like Sweden and Ukraine, should also be encouraged to take part. And we must actively consult with countries in the region, including Italy, Bulgaria, Greece and Turkey.
Should Mr. Milosevic balk at such overtures, we could still apply military pressure from the air. Once a settlement is reached, an international force may be necessary to assist the return of refugees and reconstruction. We should be more flexible about the makeup of this force than we have been in the past.
World War I began in the Balkans because a great power, Austria-Hungary, scoffed at the idea that Russia would intervene on behalf of its Serbian ally. The world has turned over many times since 1914, but it could be an equally grave mistake to assume that the Russians will remain passive indefinitely. They have already sent truck convoys carrying relief supplies to Yugoslavia, and there is public agitation in Russia to send military equipment.
President Theodore Roosevelt understood when military action brought no advantage. When regional instability arose, like the war between Russia and Japan, his instinct was to be an "honest broker" and mediate peace. He was awarded a Nobel Peace Prize for these efforts.
The United States should remain strongly engaged internationally, because regional instability will not solve itself. But we must choose our missions carefully. Power is a finite quantity; if we wantonly expend it, for any cause, we diminish ourselves.
A mediated settlement in Kosovo may not be politically popular at the moment, but it may look like the considerably wiser course in the future.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (WBMG)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALBANIA (79%); BULGARIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); FRANCE (73%); GREECE (58%); UKRAINE (55%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALBANIA (79%); BULGARIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); FRANCE (73%); GREECE (58%); UKRAINE (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REFUGEES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); 

PERSON: KASICH, JOHN R (REPR) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



337 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Ford and G.M. Post Increases in Earnings

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 15

 BODY:
Cashing in on very strong sales of high-profit sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks in the United States, the General Motors Corporation and the Ford Motor Company today posted increases in operating earnings during the first quarter that were even larger than financial analysts had expected.
Americans bought a record 16.9 million cars and trucks in the first quarter, and that meant both companies' factories in the United States were struggling to keep pace, while the need for rebates and other discounts dwindled. The auto makers' car loan divisions and European subsidiaries made more modest profits, while they lost money in Latin America and East Asia. 
 J. Michael Losh, G.M.'s chief financial officer, said in an interview today that G.M. would try to build up its cash reserves in the second quarter in preparation for the expiration in September of the auto maker's three-year national contract with the United Automobile Workers union. G.M. will slow the pace of its pension contributions, its retiree benefits program contributions and its $4 billion share buyback program, with the goal of deferring part of the burden of all these programs until late this year, he said.
"It makes sense to go into the summer with a strong cash position and rear-load all of those programs -- it happens to be a contract year," he said. G.M. could face another strike either because of its planned spinoff next month of the rest of its auto parts operations, Delphi Automotive Systems, or because of the expiration in September of its three-year national contract with the United Automobile Workers union.
G.M. temporarily suspended its share buyback program last summer during a two-month strike that cost it $2 billion in after-tax profits. The U.A.W. declined to comment today on G.M.'s rising cash reserves, which totaled $16.2 billion on March 31, up from $13.1 billion on Dec. 31.
G.M. earned $2.06 billion in the first quarter, up 28.6 percent from the period a year earlier, while fully diluted earnings a share were $3.04, up from $2.27 in the first quarter of 1998. Analysts had been forecasting earnings of $2.89 a share, according to the First Call Corporation.
Ford, which is based in Dearborn, Mich., earned $1.98 billion in the first quarter, or $1.60 a diluted share, also beating the consensus forecast of $1.39. In the first quarter of 1998, Ford reported earnings of $17.65 billion because it took a one-time, noncash accounting gain of $15.96 billion when it spun off a consumer finance unit, the Associates First Capital Corporation. But Ford's operating earnings rose 20 percent, to $1.81 billion, or $1.46 a diluted share, from $1.51 billion, or $1.22 a share.
There had been speculation that G.M.'s profits might be as high as $3.20 a share, so its stock fell today, dropping $3.1875, to $86.5625. Shares of Ford rose 6.25 cents, to $62.8125.
G.M. and Ford are the world's two largest companies in terms of sales, but the geographic distribution of their profits in the first quarter made them look like homebodies at heart. North American operations produced 93.2 percent of G.M.'s worldwide automotive profits, and accounted for all of Ford's automotive operating profits.
Nicholas Lobaccaro, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, said the highly cyclical companies were benefiting from the strength of the American economy. Ford in particular gained from the shift by millions of Americans away from cars and toward pickup trucks and particularly sport utility vehicles, both of which carry much larger profit margins than cars. G.M. benefited, too, but not as much because its factories could not keep up with demand -- its share of the market for light trucks, a category that also includes minivans, fell to 26.5 percent in the first quarter from 29.9 percent a year earlier.
By contrast, G.M.'s share of the car market climbed to 31.1 percent, from 30.5 percent in the first quarter of 1998. Ford's share of the car and light-truck markets was little changed.
But John M. Devine, Ford's chief financial officer, said that Ford was not just relying on sales of large sport utility vehicles for its profits, saying that some car models make money, too. "We're not under some false assumption that we make all our money on S.U.V.'s and everything else is a loss; that's not the case," he said.
Financial analysts believe that Ford also makes money on its large Ford Crown Victoria and Mercury Grand Marquis sedans, as well as some of its luxury cars, while losing money or breaking even on small and midsized cars. Ford does not release profits by model.
Revenue at the Detroit-based G.M. rose 6 percent, to $42.44 billion.Ford said its first-quarter revenue rose 3.6 percent, to $37.89 billion from $36.58 billion.
There has been considerable speculation in the auto industry that Ford might spin off its auto parts division, Visteon Automotive Systems, in response to G.M.'s spinoff of its parts operations. Mr. Devine said that Ford was still working on assembling the right combination of technology and people at Visteon, but added that the spinoff would increase the competition level for parts contracts from other auto makers.
"That is a competitive risk at Visteon; it's one we worry about," Mr. Devine said.
Ford's national contract with the U.A.W. is also scheduled to expire in September, but Mr. Devine said that it was too early to talk about labor issues. Ford is not expected to face a strike because it has good relations with the U.A.W. and there was little in today's release from Ford to suggest that it was hoarding cash.
Indeed, during the first quarter Ford acquired Volvo A.B.'s car division, and in March paid the first $3 billion of the roughly $6.5 billion price; another $1.8 billion is due this month and the rest, the exact amount of which will depend on the value of the Swedish krona, is due in two years. Sales and profits from Volvo cars will start to be included in Ford's figures in the second quarter, he added.
Ford also agreed this week to acquire a British auto service company, Kwik-Fit, for about $1.6 billion.
G.M. had no one-time gains or losses in the first quarter, while Ford reported a $165 million one-time gain from the sale of its stake in an automotive joint venture in Portugal.
An explosion and fire that killed six people earlier this year at Ford's largest factory complex, and caused brief production slowdowns at 10 of Ford's 20 North American assembly plants because of auto parts shortages, produced a loss after insurance of less than $100 million, Ford said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (62%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (60%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (60%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (54%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); EASTERN ASIA (71%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS FORD MOTOR CO (96%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (63%); FIRST CALL CORP (62%); ASSOCIATES FIRST CAPITAL CORP (60%); DELPHI AUTOMOTIVE LLP (54%); UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); EASTERN ASIA (71%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; SALES MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (67%); EXECUTIVES (54%); 

PERSON: LOSH, J MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



338 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Old Favorites Propel Wall St. as Dow Hits Another High

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Investors piled into basic-industry stocks again yesterday in what increasingly appears to be a shift away from the household names that had dominated the market's long advance.
In a wide-swinging session marked by heavy volume, the Dow Jones industrial average climbed 51.06 points, to 10,462.72, yet another record. The Nasdaq market began by extending Wednesday's steep slide, only to stage an impressive rally and close up 14.49 points at 2,521.77. 
 "What you're seeing is a classic" realignment, said Charles J. Pradilla, chief strategist at S. G. Cowen Securities. "Even though the market is hitting new highs, the rotation below the surface has been extraordinarily dramatic."
In a trend that has come into focus over the last week or so, shares of producers of machinery, chemicals, paper, oil and other industrial goods are in strong demand. Chevron, Minnesota Mining and United Technologies all gained more than four points yesterday to pace the Dow blue-chip average, followed by Boeing, Exxon, International Paper and Goodyear, all up more than three points.
Much of the impetus has come from evidence of economic revival -- or at least improved prospects -- overseas and a pickup in business at American factories. A Federal Reserve report of faster industrial growth in the Philadelphia region added to these signs yesterday.
Some recent favorites were hammered, in the meantime, including Pfizer, down 14 5/8, to 130, after reporting first-quarter profits that matched expectations but also warning that second-quarter earnings-per-share growth would be only in the single digits. EMC slumped 9 3/16 , to 115 7/8, after Storage Technology, a chief rival in the data storage business, reported disappointing profits and the layoff of 6 percent of its work force. Storage Technology plunged 7 1/16 , to 19.
Internet stocks slumped heavily but then rallied to finish mostly with small changes. An exception was Ebay, which gained 16, to 178 7/8, after trading as low as 152 1/2.
"It's wild stuff," said Philip L. Rettew, a senior market analyst at Merrill Lynch. "There haven't been many times that this is like -- the enormous degree of speculation," especially in companies that have yet to earn a dime. People have now decided, Mr. Rettew added, that even Internet stocks are to be bought, rather than fled from, on dips.
The April 15 tax deadline, analysts said, contributed to the day's market activity, as some people added money to retirement accounts that might otherwise have gone to Washington.
On the New York Stock Exchange, volume swelled to 1.09 billion shares from 952 million on Wednesday. Trading on Nasdaq eased from Wednesday's record-setting 1.42 billion shares to 1.23 billion, still the ninth busiest ever.
With yesterday's gain, the Dow industrials are ahead 13.96 percent for the year. The Dow's gain briefly surpassed the Nasdaq's before that market's composite index rallied, up 15.01 percent so far in 1999.
Boeing, up 3 3/8 on Wednesday, added an additional 3 11/16 yesterday, closing at 41 11/16 , after announcing earnings that beat expectations.
General Motors and Ford also reported higher profits than most Wall Street analysts had forecast, but Ford edged up only 1/16 , to 62 13/16 , while G.M. fell 3 3/16 , to 86 9/16 . The decline was said to reflect G.M.'s shrinking market share, high retiree costs at the parts unit it is spinning off and the fact that profits were not as good as the most optimistic analysts hoped.
Mattel, the toy maker, climbed 2 5/16 , to 28 1/4, after announcing that it would close plants, discharge 10 percent of its work force and form an Internet unit, part of which would be sold to the public. It also reported a loss.
Several stock brokers were hard hit, including Charles Schwab, which gave back 14 1/4 more points, to 124, after losing 12 1/4 on Wednesday. The firm's earnings matched predictions, but analysts had hoped for faster growth of its on-line trading business. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette slumped 7 15/16 , to 85 1/16 .
Airline stocks, sharply higher on Wednesday, fell yesterday. Delta Air Lines slumped 3 3/16 , to 68, despite stronger earnings, as analysts fretted about overcapacity and a dispute with pilots. UAL fell 4 5/16 , to 77 3/4.
Drug stocks fell again. In addition to Pfizer's skid, Schering-Plough lost 3 1/8, to 52 1/16 , and Bristol-Myers 3, to 61 5/8.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 5.58 points, or 42-hundredths of 1 percent. The Dow industrials and the Nasdaq, up 49-hundreths of 1 percent and 58-hundredths of 1 percent, respectively. The Russell 2000, a gauge of small-capitalization stocks, edged up nine-hundredths of 1 percent.
Advancing issues on the New York Stock Exchange beat declining ones by 1,781 to 1,295; there were 74 new 52-week highs and 56 new lows.
The Mexican Bolsa advanced 3.65 percent, but major markets in Japan, Brazil and most of Europe were down by fractions of 1 percent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since April 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (56%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); PFZ (LSE) (54%); PFE (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); SG COWEN (57%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (56%); BOEING CO (55%); PFIZER INC (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STOCK INDEXES (94%); CHEMICALS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); BONDS (79%); MATURE MARKET (78%); TRENDS (78%); CHEMICALS MFG (77%); PROFIT WARNINGS (74%); PAPER & PACKAGING (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (68%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (68%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



339 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Five Regional Banks Report Quarterly Profits

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C., April 15

 BODY:
The First Union Corporation, the BankBoston Corporation and three other big regional banks posted quarterly earnings today.
First Union, the nation's sixth-largest bank; Keycorp, the 12th-largest, and BankBoston, the 15th-largest, reported higher income from capital markets and fees from purchases of regional investment banks. 
 The National City Corporation and Comerica Inc. said earnings rose because of higher commercial loan growth at the two Midwestern banks.
"The economy is getting good enough so they're getting loan growth; the stock market is doing well, so their stocks and trust funds are doing well, and credit cards are doing well because delinquencies are down," said Anthony Gray, chairman and chief investment officer at STI Capital Management, which oversees $14 billion.
Banks that provide underwriting and trading, as well as mergers and acquisitions advice, have benefited from the surging stock and bond markets. At the same time, a strong economy with low inflation has contributed to higher loan growth at regional banks.
First Union, based in Charlotte, said that its first-quarter profit from operations rose 4.7 percent, to $847 million, or 88 cents a diluted share, compared with $809 million, or 83 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier, matching estimates.
Those results excluded a $118 million gain related to First Union's sale of its interest in Electronic Payment Systems Inc., which runs a system that links automated teller machines. Net income fell 11 percent, to $706 million from $790 million, including the Electronic Payment Systems gain and charges related to acquisitions and reorganization.
Shares of First Union rose 81.25 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $55.875.
BankBoston said its first-quarter profit fell 6.3 percent as the bank spent more on employee compensation after the purchase of the investment bank Robertson Stephens & Company and as profits from investments sold during the quarter fell.
The bank, which agreed last month to be acquired by Fleet Financial Group Inc. to form the nation's eighth-largest bank, said net income fell to $223 million, or 75 cents a diluted share, compared with $238 million, or 79 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier. That beat the average forecast of 73 cents a share from analysts surveyed by the First Call Corporation, which tracks company earnings.
Shares of BankBoston rose $1.5625, or 3.2 percent, to $51.
National City, based in Cleveland, said its first-quarter operating profit rose 17 percent, to $347.9 million, or $1.07 a diluted share, compared with $297.6 million, or 92 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier. Analysts expected the bank to earn $1.04 a share.
National City had a gain of $3.1 million, or 1 cent a share, from selling its stakes in Electronic Payment Systems and Stored Value Systems Inc. In the quarter a year earlier, the bank took merger and reorganization charges of $193.9 million, or 60 cents a share. Including these gains and charges, net income rose to $351 million, or $1.08 a share, compared with $103.7 million, or 32 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier.
Shares of National City rose 87.5 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $69.6975.
Comerica, based in Detroit, said its first-quarter profit rose 10 percent, in line with expectations, to $159.1 million, or 98 cents a diluted share, compared with $144.4 million, or 88 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier.
Shares of Comerica fell 69.25 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $64.
Keycorp, based in Cleveland, said its first-quarter operating earnings rose 11 percent, to $257 million, or 57 cents a diluted share, compared with $231 million in the quarter a year earlier. That was a penny short of Wall Street estimates.
Net income, including one-time gains, was $293 million, or 65 cents a share, compared with $235 million, or 53 cents a share, a year earlier.
Share of Keycorp fell $1.375, or 4.3 percent, to $30.375.

 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (98%); BAC (LSE) (98%); 8648 (TSE) (98%); WFC (NYSE) (95%); KEY (NYSE) (91%); CMA (NYSE) (84%); PNC (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (84%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (84%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (72%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (72%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: FIRST UNION CORP; BANKBOSTON CORP; KEYCORP; NATIONAL CITY CORP; COMERICA INC BANK OF AMERICA CORP (98%); WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); KEYCORP (91%); COMERICA INC (84%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (72%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (72%); FIRST CALL CORP (63%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIRST UNION CORP; BANKBOSTON CORP; KEYCORP; NATIONAL CITY CORP; COMERICA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (72%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; BANKS AND BANKING COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER (89%); MERGERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); BONDS (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (57%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



340 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: City Council in Capital Backs Tax Cuts to Stimulate Growth

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15

 BODY:
In the latest measure of the District of Columbia's march from annual budget deficits to surpluses, a majority of the City Council members today proposed cutting taxes for residents by $418 million as an economic stimulus.
The package includes phased-in reductions of personal income tax, commercial property taxes and business taxes over three years, making it one of the most ambitious plans put forward by the Council since the city was placed under a financial control board four years ago. 
 While Mayor Anthony A. Williams and members of Congress who oversee the city's affairs expressed some hesitation about the size and shape of the package, with concerns that it could affect services, the mere fact it was proposed reflected how far the economic recovery of the city had come in four years.
"We never even would have contemplated this two years ago," Jack Evans, a Democrat who is one of the bill's co-sponsors, said in an interview. "But it shows that the D.C. Council is playing a real leadership role in tax policy."
Mr. Evans and 8 other members of the 13-member Council appeared at a news conference today to discuss details of their proposal, which is designed to bring district taxes more in line with those of neighboring counties in Maryland and Virginia.
It was, at once, an extraordinary show of political force, not only for the initial support by enough Council members to protect it from a mayoral veto, as several of them assured, but also for its texture: The group included both of the Council's Republicans as well as seven Democrats.
In discussing the plan, they stressed that the city's 1998 surplus of $112.5 million and conservative estimates of surpluses for this year and next would make the cuts possible without affecting city services.
The members also said the cuts were the most prudent way to stem a population flow that had cost the district hundreds of thousands of residents over the last four decades. From 1960 to 1997, the city's population fell to 523,124 from 763,956, a 31 percent drop that also took hundreds of small businesses out of the city and depleted the tax base.
"As long as they make suburbs and moving vans, this city is imperiled," said David Catania, a co-sponsor of the package and one of the Republicans. "Are we going to be the engine of growth for this region or not? It starts with tax parity."
Mr. Williams, the city's former chief financial officer who recently completed his first 100 days as Mayor to generally favorable reviews, said he would prefer a more narrow approach to cutting taxes, at least until it could be demonstrated that spending programs would not be adversely affected.
At a hearing today of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on the District of Columbia, Mr. Williams said, 'My particular druthers, focusing on tax reductions where you see real benefits, is small businesses. There is an extraordinary discrepancy between what our businesses pay and what they pay in the surrounding areas."
The subcommittee chairman, Representative Ernest J. Istook Jr. of Oklahoma, said he applauded tax cuts as "maybe the most important part of economic development."
But addressing Mr. Williams, City Council Chairwoman Linda W. Cropp and Alice Rivlin, chairwoman of the financial control board, Mr. Istook said he wanted to make sure that the ongoing efforts to improve management of city agencies would continue, keeping the tax cuts viable.
Other lawmakers praised the Council for the plan, but expressed the hope that Mr. Williams would be more supportive. Representative James P. Moran Jr. of Virginia, the ranking Democrat, said, "The only problem is that it did not come from the Mayor, as head of the city."
Representative Thomas M. Davis 3d, chairman of the House Government Reform Subcommittee on the District of Columbia, agreed, saying "it would be good to have the Mayor on board."
But he added, "The city has to do this to stay competitive with the suburbs."
The tax plan would reduce the city's personal income tax rate by 1 percent a year for three years. Currently, residents who make more than $20,000 annually pay 9.5 percent, one of the highest rates in the country. But even those earning less are now paying 8 percent or 6 percent, which is still more than residents of Maryland who pay 5.75 percent and Virginia who pay 5 percent.
The plan would lower the corporate tax of 9.975 to 8.5 percent the first year and by another percent in each of the next two years, leaving the district between Virginia's rate of 6 percent and Maryland's 7.
And almost all of the district's property taxes would be reduced to make the rates more competitive with Maryland and Virginia.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MAYORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); VETO (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); INCOME TAX (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TRENDS (69%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL JACK W EVANS JR (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



341 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Trade With the Chinese

 BODY:
Prime Minister Zhu Rongji of China did not end his visit to America this week with the trade deal he wanted, but he is likely to get it soon. Thanks in part to Mr. Zhu's energetic lobbying of businessmen as he traveled around the country, the Clinton Administration will probably endorse Chinese membership in the World Trade Organization. Though other important issues continue to divide the two countries, China's commitment to lifting trade barriers qualifies it to join the W.T.O., and President Clinton is right to try to close the deal in the days ahead.
China discovered late last year that the foreign capital it badly needs as it seeks to reform its economy was no longer arriving as it had before the foreign investors grew scared following the devaluations of several Asian currencies and Russia's default on its domestic debt. It appears that the Chinese leadership then decided to essentially accept Western terms for opening its economy enough to join the W.T.O., in the hope that would encourage more foreign capital to arrive. 
 Unfortunately both for the Chinese and the White House, that decision became clear only as pressures were growing in the United States against any accord with China. Suspicions lingering from the Clinton campaign's fund-raising among Asian donors in 1996 were intensified by revelations that China may have stolen nuclear secrets and that the Administration had been slow to act after learning of the apparent security breaches.
The Administration's record on China policy, from human rights to security issues, has not been an impressive one, but that should not stop Congress from accepting this deal. More open trade between the two countries will not only benefit American business, it has great potential for opening China to moderating influences.
The revival of the trade deal, which now seems likely to be completed soon when a team of American negotiators visits Beijing, came after a remarkable road trip through America by Mr. Zhu in which he galvanized support from American businesses that believe they will benefit from the concessions made by China. While there will be losers -- the textile industry is already gearing up to fight the tentative agreement -- the world economy will probably benefit.
There can be no certainty that China will live up to all its promises, particularly since it will be difficult to monitor the extent to which non-tariff barriers to imports are removed. But having China a member of the W.T.O., and subject to its enforcement provisions if there are violations, is better than having it outside the organization. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (53%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (53%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (53%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EDITORIALS; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (79%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (77%); LOBBYING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); CURRENCIES (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); DEVALUATION (68%); FUNDRAISING (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); TEXTILES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



342 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Are Seizing the Democrats' Banner on Social Security

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15

 BODY:
By tradition, it is the Democrats who speak of protecting Social Security. But today the Republicans were stealing their lines.
As the Senate, by a party-line vote of 54 to 44, gave final approval today to a $1.7 trillion budget for the 2000 fiscal year, Republicans took turns saying their spending plan, as Senator Larry E. Craig of Idaho put it, would "safeguard the current Social Security system for today's seniors and those who retire in the near future." 
 The debate was only the latest example of a trend on Capitol Hill, in which legislating has become a kind of political chess match with each party trying to counter the other. With a fierce struggle under way for control of Congress in 2000, the two political parties these days spend more time trying to pre-empt and neutralize their rivals' most popular positions, than they do in staking out their ideological differences.
So last month, Democrats raced to vote in favor of a missile defense system, a Republican staple since former President Ronald Reagan first envisioned it. The Democrats hoped their vote would allow them to focus on domestic issues, where they have an edge.
And Republicans no longer speak of abolishing the Education Department. Aware that the Democrats have an edge with the public on that issue, they have changed direction and put forward their own education bills.
"Maybe we should bring an anti-trust case," joked Stephen Moore, a conservative economist who has been arguing that the Republicans should be sharpening their differences with the Democrats. "They're basically colluding."
Critics of this kind of politics say that it shrinks public policy choices and that is more about campaign tactics than about legislating. "The interest in positioning and getting a leg up in the next election seems to predominate," said Fred Wertheimer, the president of Democracy 21, a public policy group.
By embracing Social Security, the Republicans are stealing a page from President Clinton, who pioneered such tactics four years ago. In the summer of 1995, Mr. Clinton surprised Republicans and many members of his own party by saying he would support a balanced budget.
His stance, which at the time was a heresy for a Democrat, deprived the Republicans of one of their most potent issues: fiscal responsibility. It also narrowed the fiscal debate so that Mr. Clinton and the Republicans were left battling not over whether to balance the budget, but over how to balance the budget.
That was a fight the Democrats were able to win, by vowing to protect education, the environment, Medicare and Medicaid. The theme helped re-elect Mr. Clinton in 1996.
Now, in an age of Government surpluses, it is the Republicans who are trying to narrow the debate and shift it on to terrain they consider more favorable to their party.
Poll after poll has indicated that when it comes to Social Security, the public trusts Democrats more than Republicans. Polls also show that when the voters are asked how they want to use the Federal surplus they prefer to have it dedicated to Social Security or to debt relief rather than to tax-cutting. But Republicans still consider tax cuts their issue.
So to make tax cuts palatable, the Republicans have set out to neutralize the Social Security issue. The budget they passed today would wall off the $1.8 trillion in Social Security taxes that the Government will collect across the next decade so that the money could be used only to reduce the national debt or else overhaul the Social Security and Medicare systems. (In the past, successive Congresses and Administrations routinely spent Social Security money and used it to mask the true size of the Federal deficit. And even now the Social Security funds account for much of the Federal surpluses projected for the next decade.)
The Republican stand on Social Security has left the two parties fighting not over how to use the entire budget surplus -- but only over how to use the portion of the surplus that remains after Social Security funds are walled off. And the Republicans are betting that voters would like to see this money dedicated to tax cuts, not other domestic programs. So their budget also offers tax cuts, which begin modestly but grow to $800 billion over a decade.
"Republicans say, 'Don't grow Government, give it back to the taxpayers,' " said Senator Pete V. Domenici, the New Mexico Republican who is chairman of the Senate Budget Committee.
Deprived of Social Security as an issue, the Democrats have rebounded by accusing Republicans of jeopardizing the Medicare program in order to give tax cuts to the wealthy. "There is nothing to extend solvency for Medicare, in spite of the fact that families and everyone else are going to be very dramatically affected by it in the future" Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader said today.
In fact, despite the talk in both parties of protecting Social Security and protecting Medicare, the likelihood is that Congress will overhaul neither program. The sound-alike rhetoric obscures the reality that the parties have sharp differences.
Take the example of Social Security. President Clinton and the Democrats essentially want to maintain the current system, while allowing the Government to invest a portion of the Social Security reserve in the stock market in order to bolster the reserve. The President would also create a new IRA-like savings program outside the Social Security system to help lower and middle income people save for their retirement.
The Republicans, to a greater or lesser degree, want to transform Social Security from a public program into a private program, with Americans holding their own private retirement accounts and making their own decisions -- within reason -- on how to invest their retirement funds.
No one is expecting the political parties to bridge those differences any time soon. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; LAW AND LEGISLATION SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); MEDICARE (76%); TRENDS (75%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (71%); EDUCATION LAW (70%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (52%); MEDICAID (51%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); LARRY CRAIG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



343 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Roche Holding Says New Products Lift Earnings

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: BASEL, Switzerland, April 15

 BODY:
Roche Holding A.G. said today that sales rose 3.7 percent in the first quarter, fueled by revenue from its testing systems and new drugs, including the obesity treatment Xenical.
Roche, whose other products include the painkiller Aleve, said sales increased to 6.41 billion Swiss francs, or $4.3 billion, from 6.18 billion francs a year earlier, in line with expectations. The Swiss company does not release quarterly earnings. 
 Sales by the pharmaceutical division grew 8 percent, to 3.86 billion Swiss francs, lifted by strong sales of Xenical and the H.I.V. treatment Viracept, among other drugs. Sales in the diagnostics division rose 4.9 percent, to 1.18 billion Swiss francs, but vitamin sales decreased 9.3 percent and sales in the fragrances and flavors division fell 4.3 percent.
The quarter's performance showed that pharmaceutical companies with potential blockbuster drugs like Roche's Xenical may have an edge over rivals, analysts said.
"They're counting on a few blockbusters," said Denise Anderson, an analyst with Bank Sarasin & Company in Zurich. "Those are the things that are driving the sales growth of the company."
Roche said sales by its drug division outpaced its rivals' average growth, even though sales of over-the-counter drugs fell because of Brazil's currency devaluation.
Merck K.G.a.A., a German drug maker, said today that 1998 profit fell 14 percent as recessions in Asia and the strong mark hurt sales, which rose 1.8 percent, short of forecasts.
Analysts said Roche's drug unit was helped by the strong sales of Genentech Inc., one of the most profitable American biotechnology companies, in which Roche owns a majority stake. Genentech said earlier this week that new drugs helped profit rise 43 percent in the first quarter. Sales increased 22 percent.
Roche said it was confident that it would win regulatory approval in the United States for Xenical, the diet drug, during the current quarter. The Food and Drug Administration has delayed approval of the drug because of concerns about a possible link to breast cancer.
Roche has since submitted more data to the agency, and analysts expect it to win approval, giving Roche access to what would be the biggest market for the drug. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ROG (SWX) (98%); MRK (FRA) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (67%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (53%); 

STATE: ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

CITY: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); ZURICH (79%); 

COMPANY: ROCHE HOLDING AG ROCHE HOLDING AG (98%); GENENTECH INC (92%); MERCK KGAA (67%); BANCO SAFRA SA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROCHE HOLDING AG

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (53%); ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (79%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); ZURICH (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); SALES FIGURES (92%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); APPROVALS (85%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (78%); ANTIVIRALS (78%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); BARIATRICS (77%); OBESITY (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (74%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (73%); DEVALUATION (72%); DIETING (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); US FDA APPROVALS (65%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (54%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%); BREAST CANCER (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



344 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Veterans of 60's Protests Meet the Newly Outraged in a March

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD 

 BODY:
They came because they always came. And they came because they never came.
Yesterday's march against police brutality, a highly choreographed crescendo of two months of organized dissension over the fatal shooting of Amadou Diallo, brought out hard-bitten civil rights activists and those more likely to express discontent at a hearing on a zoning variance. In the rampantly eclectic crowd were long-dormant 60's activists and newcomers whose prior notion of dissent was an unyielding refusal to touch French food. 
 For one reason or another, all of them believed that this time they, too, wanted to be seen and heard.
The tone of the march, from the Federal courthouse in Brooklyn over the Brooklyn Bridge into Manhattan, was a blend of Selma with touches of radical chic, a meshing of high-energy civil rights agitation and a compulsion by more quiescent voices to be part of a defining moment.
Ilene Kent, a 44-year-old unemployed marketing executive from Manhattan, said she simply had to get out from beneath her E-mail and join in. "I have never been to any kind of rally in my life," she said. "There was never anything I felt I could be part of where my presence could make a difference. Today, I think my presence can make a difference. The Mayor needs to receive a key message. This is not just a Latino-black issue. Everyone cares about it."
Ms. Kent, who is white, had been complaining at home and sending agitated E-mail messages about the Diallo shooting to her friends. She finally decided, enough already, she was marching. "I am thrilled and honored to be here," she said. "I'm overdue."
Batya Lewton of Manhattan did not imagine that she would ever be joining one of these marches again. After all, she is 67, a retired grade school teacher; opinionated, all right, but with her vocal energies usually confined to tenant rallies. Yet she had to feel counted again. "There has to be change," she said. "This is much larger than one event."
To her, the mood yesterday rang of the 60's and the South. That was the last time she marched, in Memphis after Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was shot. At that time, she was teaching the fifth and sixth grades in central Harlem, and she took a bus down with two fellow teachers.
She had her own thoughts about conducting a protest, but she knew that things were different now. "In Memphis, one of the most powerful things about the march was you had tens of thousands of people marching in absolute silence," she said. "That silence was more powerful than any slogan."
In the march, there were infants and grandparents, the able and the disabled, veterans' groups and gay and lesbian groups, Baptist minister groups and Jewish groups, labor groups and civil rights groups, community groups and postal workers' groups, people with earrings in their ears and people with earrings in their tongues. There was a young woman in a Jimi Hendrix jacket and a redheaded man with an American flag stitched to his sweatshirt, a 90's Abbie Hoffman.
There were lifelong New Yorkers and recent interlopers. John Reed, 24, a student of metropolitan studies at New York University, came here from Austin, Tex., in January. Outside class, he is a literacy tutor at Public School 133 in Brooklyn.
"There are a lot of black and Latino kids," he said. "Everyone there speaks about harassment by the police as just a fact of life. I thought that was really sad. So I realized that this was widespread and I wanted to march. I've never been to a protest before in my life, but this seemed worth it."
He has had his own minor but irksome encounters with the police. "I was riding my bike on the sidewalk in the Village," he said. "I didn't know you couldn't. Three policemen came at me. I laughed, because I couldn't help it, and that really made them mad. I had to stand there while they called in my license and everything. Unreal."
After coalescing in Cadman Plaza in downtown Brooklyn in the inviting spring weather, the marchers proceeded over the Brooklyn Bridge in a slow-moving mass, past stoic police officers and beneath a half-dozen police helicopters frozen in the sky. As they stepped onto the bridge, they passed people hanging out apartment windows who were recording the march on videotape. As the marchers cast aspersions on Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and the police, many of the Brooklyn-bound motorists honked their horns in agreement.
For Rick Rossein, the march enabled him to assuage some personal unease. He is 53 and teaches civil rights law at the Queens College law school, including a course on police conduct and police brutality, but he has been absent from any sort of rally for a decade. "Quite frankly, I felt a little guilt about not coming out before," he said. "I had to take time off and express myself."
He explained his plans to his 15-year-old daughter and she told him that she was glad because she was very bothered by the Diallo case as well, he said. He was at once relieved. As he put it, "She is often embarrassed by me."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two people talk in Federal Plaza in lower Manhattan during a rally that drew thousands of people, and a variety of messages. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; BLACKS POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); VETERANS (86%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (85%); MISCONDUCT (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); RIOTS (73%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%); ZONING (71%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (64%); 

PERSON: KLEINFIELD, N R; DIALLO, AMADOU MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



345 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: Rabbi in Plot to Siphon Millions In Public Money to Private School

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG 

 BODY:
It was an elaborate scheme that somehow went undetected for nearly two decades, investigators said yesterday: a prominent Hasidic rabbi and a Brooklyn public school district conspired to place dozens of Hasidic housewives in no-show jobs on the district payroll as part of a plot to siphon more than $6 million to a private Jewish girls' school and its affiliates.
The women got health insurance benefits for their families -- some with as many as 10 children -- but often handed their paychecks over to the rabbi, Hertz Frankel, investigators said. The rabbi gave most of the money to the school, Beth Rachel, in Williamsburg, which bills itself as the largest Jewish girls' school in the world. 
 In exchange, investigators said, there appeared to be an understanding: Rabbi Frankel assured administrators of the public school district, No. 14, that they had the support of a critical bloc of Hasidic men on the nine-member community school board.
In a resolution of the case announced yesterday by the Special Commissioner of Investigation for the city's schools, Rabbi Frankel, 68, pleaded guilty last Friday in Federal District Court in Brooklyn to one count of conspiracy in the scheme, which lasted from the mid-1970's until 1994, two years after investigators were given the first hints of its existence.
Judge Eugene H. Nickerson sentenced Rabbi Frankel to three years' probation and ordered him to pay $1 million in restitution. The school, where the rabbi is a principal, was permitted to pay the money on his behalf because there was no evidence that he had benefited personally from the arrangement.
The rabbi, a survivor of the Nazi concentration camps who is well known in the international Hasidic community, did not appear in public yesterday. But in a statement distributed on a Williamsburg street crowded with Satmar Hasidim in black hats, long beards and black coats, he confirmed the unusual scheme but dismissed it as an acceptable -- albeit under-the-table -- private-school voucher program.
And he laid much of the blame on two dead men: William A. Rogers and Mario DeStefano, the district's superintendents during the course of the scheme, who died in 1993 and 1996, respectively.
"In meetings with me," the rabbi said, "Dr. Rogers repeatedly told me that this was equitable because our private school was lifting a serious economic burden from the New York taxpayers by educating our children in religious schools."
Rabbi Frankel, who denied holding any sway over the district board members, said he first learned that the financial arrangement was "unlawful" from Federal investigators.
Investigators said the rabbi and his associates used several ruses to siphon the public funds. Many women were listed as employees of the school district -- largely as security guards in the area's public schools -- and drew salaries from city and state funds even though they did no work.
In addition, Rabbi Frankel received Federal funds funneled through the school district as part of the Title I program, which pays for remedial education for needy students in private and public schools. Some of those listed as remedial teachers eligible for Title I funds were actually regular teachers at Beth Rachel, while others were no-show employees.
Investigators on both the city and Federal levels, along with prosecutors and aides to Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew, were at a loss yesterday to explain how such an extensive arrangement involving so much money had eluded so many potential levels of detection for so long.
"Many people benefited from this corrupt bargain," said the Special Commissioner, Edward F. Stancik. "None of them were New York City public school students or their parents. It is the students who were the real losers in this."
Mr. Stancik said two of the district's superintendents -- Mr. Rogers, who served from 1973 to 1992, and his successor, Mr. DeStefano -- had been implicated as prime movers in the scheme but had died without being charged over the course of the six-year investigation. The case was overseen by Mr. Stancik's office and the United States Attorney in Brooklyn, Zachary W. Carter.
The conspiracy charge to which Rabbi Frankel pleaded guilty is a felony. Three lower-level District 14 administrators have pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges related to perpetuating the scheme.
One of those officials, Daniel LaBianca, the director of Funded Programs for the district, remains on the job, Mr. Stancik said, despite pleading guilty in January to one count of aiding in an embezzlement. City Board of Education officials said that Mr. LaBianca's job status would not be resolved until he was sentenced in the case; a telephone message left at his lawyer's office was not returned yesterday.
Mr. Stancik said he was recommending to Dr. Crew that he remove the district's acting superintendent, John Musico, who served as Mr. De Stefano's deputy, for hampering the investigation. Mr. Musico, who did not return a telephone message left yesterday, has not been charged in the case.
Dr. Crew, who met with Mr. Musico yesterday afternoon, said through an aide that he would not make a decision on whether to remove Mr. Musico, or some or all members of the District 14 board, until he meets with the board on Monday.
Prosecutors have not charged any of the 80 women who Mr. Stancik says were involved. Many of them allowed their names to be given to the local school board as school security guards. In fact, none patrolled a perimeter beyond their living rooms.
One of the great unsolved mysteries of his investigation, Mr. Stancik said, was why the central Board of Education, which until recently oversaw the school security program, was not alarmed by an infusion of as many as 30 new officers at one time in one district. Other women added to the district payroll were teachers or aides at the private school, whose salaries were in effect paid by the local school board.
Dr. Crew, who became Chancellor in October 1995, a year after investigators had finally penetrated the arrangement, said he shared "the outrage and betrayal that parents in the district must feel."
In Williamsburg's public schools, there were expressions of anger yesterday. Residents who send their children to the public schools of District 14 have often had an uneasy coexistence with the 40,000 Satmars in their midst, almost all of whom use the private Jewish schools.
Luis Orta, 52, the parent of a fifth-grade girl in a class of 36 at Public School 16, half a mile away from Beth Rachel, speculated about what a portion of those millions of dollars might have done for his child.
"These kids, instead of getting a better education, had the money go somewhere else," he said. "They could have hired more teachers."
Phyllis Milker, a third-grade teacher at the public elementary school, was more blunt. "Those children were robbed of their educational rights," she said.
Under the terms of the rabbi's plea arrangement, prosecutors hope to return some of the $1 million to the school district. And Dr. Crew said he would ask the city's Corporation Counsel to seek to recover the remaining money.
But that may not be easy, in part because investigators have only accounted for a fraction of it.
Mr. Stancik outlined the following scenario for how the money made its way out of the district office and into the coffers of the school.
He said the no-show workers signed fraudulent time sheets, which they then gave to Rabbi Frankel. The rabbi, according to Mr. Stancik, then organized the time sheets in various envelopes earmarked for various district officials. Those officials then processed the time sheets and issued paychecks to the workers, who cashed their checks and turned the money over to Rabbi Frankel.
Though Mr. Stancik said he had been able to trace much of the money to Beth Rachel or to its parent organization, the United Talmudical Academy, he had been unable to account fully for how it was used. A statement issued by the academy yesterday emphasized that no charges had been filed directly against the school or the academy.
Outside Beth Rachel, housed in a dilapidated former New York City high school building identified on a sign as "Bais Ruchel," a transliteration of its Hebrew name, disbelief coalesced with acceptance of the rabbi's plea yesterday afternoon. Many described the rabbi as "gentle" and "fatherly," a fixture at the school for 40 years.
"I am sure his intentions were good," said Rivky Beilush, 44, who attended the school herself. "This is not the man we knew and loved."
Libby Cohen, 48, who lives across Marcy Avenue from the school, found herself strangely envious.
"I never heard of this program," she said. "I should have heard. I am a housewife. I would like such a program."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rabbi Hertz Frankel pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy. (pg. B8)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; JEWS; HASIDISM; EMBEZZLEMENT; SECTARIAN SCHOOLS; ETHICS RELIGION (95%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EMBEZZLEMENT (77%); FAMILY (77%); HOLOCAUST (76%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (73%); SENTENCING (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); PROBATION (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES; FRANKEL, HERTZ (RABBI); STANCIK, EDWARD F; NICKERSON, EUGENE H (JUDGE) EDWARD F STANCIK (79%); WILLIAM A ROGERS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



346 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12
 
Pentagon Wants Authority To Call Up Reserves
The Pentagon plans to ask President Clinton for the authority to call up about 30,000 reservists and National Guard members to bolster the NATO attack against Yugoslavia, senior Government officials said. A1
 
 
NATO acknowledged that an allied warplane had mistakenly bombed a civilian vehicle in southern Kosovo in a botched effort to stop Serbian forces from attacking Albanians. A1
 

Refugees spoke of being bombed as they formed a mileslong convoy fleeing Kosovo toward Albania. A10
 
 
The United States believes that the Yugoslav Army has stocks of lethal and nonlethal chemical weapons and that some of the less deadly forms have probably been given to the Serbian paramilitary forces that have terrorized Albanians in Kosovo, according to Pentagon and other Clinton Administration officials. A11
 
Benazir Bhutto Is Sentenced
A Pakistani court convicted former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto of having taken kickbacks while she was in office in the mid-1990's. She was sentenced to five years in prison and barred from political office. A4
 
Pakistan Missile Test
Pakistan, for the second time in two days, has tested a missile that is able to carry a nuclear warhead. The tests were in response to an Indian missile trial, and Pakistan renewed its call to India to agree to restrain their arms race. A4
 
New Iraq Inspection Effort
Britain and the Netherlands proposed that the United Nations Special Commission, known as Unscom, be replaced by a new enlarged body to make more intrusive inspections of suspected weapons sites in Iraq. A3
 
Pinochet Extradition Case
Britain gave an official go-ahead to extradition proceedings against Gen. Augusto Pinochet, dashing his hopes of being freed to return to Chile and setting the stage for months of legal maneuvering over Spain's effort to try him. A4
 
Election in Algeria
Algeria went ahead with a presidential election, despite the withdrawal of six of the seven candidates. Polling places in many urban areas were nearly deserted. A3
 
World Briefing A12
 
NATIONAL A14-22
 
Astronomers Discover Star With Family of Planets
Astronomers said they had detected three large planets around Upsilon Andromedae, a star 44 light-years away. The finding lays to rest any lingering notion that the solar system is a singular phenomenon. Although solitary planets have been observed elsewhere before, this is the first clear evidence showing another star accompanied by multiple planets in a stable system bearing some resemblance to the Sun's. A1
 
Doubt on Drug-Marrow Therapy
Four major studies showed that high-dose chemotherapy followed by bone-marrow transplantation did not prolong the survival of women with advanced breast cancer overall. But scientists cautioned that it was too soon to pass final judgment. A1
 
Blood Vessels Grown in Lab
A biomedical researcher using a container built to pulse like a heart and act like a nurturing mother has succeeded in growing blood vessels from a few cells of an animal and using them in the blood-vessel system of the same animal. A18
 
Bush Leads Rivals in Funds
Gov. George W. Bush of Texas reported that he had amassed $7.6 million in contributions in just 28 days -- and without holding a single fund-raising event -- dwarfing what every other Republican hopeful raised in the first three months of the year. A22
 
Governor Seeks Compromise
Gov. Gray Davis said he would ask a Federal appeals court to mediate the legal fight over Proposition 187, the ballot measure to end government services for illegal immigrants, in hopes of reaching a negotiated settlement that would not rankle his Hispanic supporters. The measure was approved by voters, but a Federal judge held it unconstitutional. A14
 
District Tax Cut Proposal
A majority of the District of Columbia City Council members proposed cutting taxes for residents by $418 million as an economic stimulus. A14
 
Deadly Rampage in a Library
A 70-year-old gunman entered a genealogical library at the heart of the Mormon Church -- Temple Square in Salt Lake City -- and killed two people, wounded five others and died after a gun battle with the police. A14
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Scheme to Divert Money To Private Religious School
A prominent Hasidic rabbi, Hertz Frankel, has pleaded guilty to conspiracy in a phantom-employee scheme that investigators said had siphoned millions from a Brooklyn public school district to a Jewish girls' school and its affiliates. A1
 
March Focuses on Police
Thousands of people marched from Brooklyn to Manhattan to protest the police shooting of Amadou Diallo and to demand better civilian oversight and changes in police conduct. B2
 
 
Police Commissioner Howard Safir said his force needed to do better in reaching out to New Yorkers. B8
 
A Killing on a Busy Street
A 34-year-old woman was shot to death by a purse snatcher on a busy sidewalk in Morningside Heights at about 9 A.M., the police said. B1
 
Charges in Baseball Card Theft
Two chefs at the Official All-Star Cafe and two associates were charged with pilfering rare baseball cards from the collection of Charlie Sheen that was on display. B3
 
WEEKEND E1-30; E31-44
 
A Record Release on the Net
The rap group Public Enemy plans to release a new record on the Internet, allowing buyers to download the music to their computers. E5
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Arrest Jeopardizes Career
Darryl Strawberry's arrest on drug and solicitation charges threatens his career, just as he was preparing a comeback from cancer surgery. D1
 
Lineman's Future in Doubt
Leon Lett, a star defensive tackle for the Dallas Cowboys, recently failed a drug test for the third time in his eight-year career, according to a Cowboys official and a player. D1
 
OBITUARIES A23
 
Anthony Newley
The versatile entertainer who gained international stardom in 1961 with the musical "Stop the World -- I Want to Get Off" was 67. A23
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20
 
Union Assessed $46 Million
A Federal judge ordered the American Airlines pilots' union to pay the carrier nearly $46 million in damages arising from a sickout. A1
 
Boeing Beats Forecasts
Boeing, the world's largest aerospace company and the country's single largest exporter, earned $469 million, or 50 cents a diluted share, for the quarter, with its troubled commercial airplane division showing a significant profit for the first time in more than a year. C1
 
Layoffs at Troubled Toymaker
Mattel, which reported a loss in the first quarter, will dismiss more than 3,000 employees, or about 10 percent of its work force. C1
 
Arrest in Internet Hoax
Gary Dale Hoke, 25, a computer engineer at Pairgain Technologies, was arrested in North Carolina and charged with securities fraud in connection with the posting of a fake announcement on the Internet last week about a takeover of the company. The hoax drove Pairgain's stock price up as much as 30 percent. C1
 
Strong Auto Sales and Profits
General Motors and Ford posted increases in operating earnings during the first quarter that were even larger than financial analysts had expected. The auto makers reported very strong sales of high-profit sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks in the United States. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A24-25
 
Editorials: The Chinese trade deal; the message in the march; grisly accident in Kosovo; Shackleton and the James Caird.
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Crossword E42
 
TV Listings E29
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather B9
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); ALBANIA (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ALGERIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); ALBANIA (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ALGERIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EXTRADITION (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (85%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (85%); INSPECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRISONS (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); REFUGEES (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); EVIDENCE (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (69%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); CANCER DRUGS (63%); BREAST CANCER (62%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (62%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (60%); BIOMEDICINE (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



347 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2500 words

HEADLINE: Sugar Companies Play a Pivotal Role in Effort to Restore Everglades

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: CLEWISTON, Fla.

 BODY:
Alex Thompson wheeled his giant harvester around, lined it up to mow a strip of scorched sugar cane and, over the engine noise, allowed as how he had heard just about enough from environmentalists who blame the sugar industry for the slow erosion of the Everglades.
The air was heavy with the smell of singed sucrose. All around, cane fields stretched to the horizon. Herons, precious birds that are disappearing from the swamps to the south, followed Mr. Thompson's machine in a furious flock, scavenging insects stirred up by the cutting. They seemed pathetic, like one-time royalty reduced to begging. 
 "We all talk about it a lot, and a lot of us think the whole thing's been blowed up," said Mr. Thompson, who has nine children and a fifth-grade education and makes $9.25 an hour. "There are a lot of things that's been laid on the farmer that ain't the farmer's fault."
The industry that employs Mr. Thompson and 16,000 other farm workers is at the center of a political struggle over a $7.8 billion project to restore the watery wilderness of the Everglades, one of the most threatened ecosystems in the world.
Under a plan made public last week after two years of study, the Army Corps of Engineers intends to improve the flow of fresh water to the Everglades by removing barriers like dikes and canals and by building reservoirs to save rainwater that is pumped out to sea in the wet season to prevent flooding. The plan will go to Congress for its approval in July.
But the biggest barrier remains the cane fields, former marshlands drained by a huge flood-control project for South Florida 50 years ago, which stand between the Everglades and their historic water source, Lake Okeechobee. And after a decade of resisting Government efforts to make them pay for an expensive plan to combat water pollution from their fields, the state's politically powerful sugar growers have emerged relatively unscathed by the restoration plan.
"We were going to support anything we could survive," said Robert Buker, a vice president of the UnitedStates Sugar Corporation, which with the region's other dominant grower, Florida Crystals Corporation, pumped more than $2 million into Federal campaigns for both major parties over the last three elections. "We just want to be left alone as much as possible."
For years, environmentalists have labored to push back the fields. But the sugar industry is part of a transformed South Florida landscape, as much as the condos and cul-de-sacs of its 6 million people. As a result, the battle over the Everglades and the water it needs to regain health is also a fight about economics and power, agribusiness and growing cities.
As some of the most influential interests in the state have faced off, the sugar industry has skillfully repulsed efforts to return more of their fields to marshland or convert them into a giant reservoir.
Indeed, the sugar companies not only survived the just-concluded battle over the Everglades restoration plan, but guaranteed their future water supplies.
The restoration plan goes to Congress for approval in July, and the Government engineers and ecologists who designed it say it is the most ambitious attempt in history to restore a natural system. But it is also a gargantuan public works project to provide enough water for six million more people in South Florida and to keep lowland farmers in business for decades.
Perhaps no other group has more at stake than the companies that grow about a fifth of the nation's sugar on half a million acres of fertile muck-soil south of Lake Okeechobee. Environmentalists want to take more than 150,000 of those acres for a reservoir.
 
From Everglades To Fields of Cane
Driving up Highway 27 from Miami to Lake Okeechobee, it is hard to believe that the fields of cane stretching to the horizon were once part of the Everglades. A hundred years ago, in wet seasons, the lake would fill and water would flood the wide sawgrass flatlands to the south in a shallow sheet that nourished the Everglades marshes as it flowed gently to the sea.
Now the table-top landscape is a patchwork of vegetable farms and cane fields. Here and there a wall of fire marches across the fields, where workers are burning the leaves off the plant before cutting.
Perhaps nothing has so fundamentally altered the natural flow of water to the Everglades as this 750,000-acre block of farms and sugar plantations, ecologists say. The farms forever severed the Everglades from Lake Okeechobee and stopped the shallow sheet-flow of water.
"South of the lake, you basically have a plug," said Roderick Tirrell, of the Sierra Club.
The change began in the 1920's and 30's, when the state diked the lake and tried to drain the Everglades to create farmland. But the canals failed to stop flooding in wet seasons, and in 1947 back-to-back hurricanes flooded most of south Florida, killing thousands.
In 1948, under orders from Congress, the Army Corps of Engineers began draining 750,000 acres south of the lake with a web of levees, canals and pumping stations. It built a mammoth levee along the east coast to protect Miami, Fort Lauderdale and other cities from floodwaters.
These measures proved to be wonderful for the sugar growers and other farmers, who began producing bumper crops in the fertile muck left behind. But the artificial system turned out to be a slow-moving disaster for the Everglades.
The natural flows and rhythms of water were altered, drying out some marshes at critical times and flooding others when they should have been dry.
In the wet season, 85 percent of the water falling on South Florida was pumped out to sea as runoff, just to keep the farms and cities from flooding. In the dry season, the farmers and cities were served first, and the Everglades dried out.
Worse, the runoff from the sugar fields was high in phosphorus, a nutrient. The Everglades water is remarkably pure water. On the edge of the agricultural area, cattails, which thrive on phosphorus, began to overtake the native sawgrass on thousands of acres.
The intent of the restoration project is to capture the water that is pumped out to sea in an elaborate system of reservoirs, then pump the water into the Everglades at the right times, mimicking nature's old pattern.
"We are trying to replicate the functions that we lost," said Stuart Appelbaum, the Army Corps of Engineers' lead engineer on the project.
But critics say the plan was co-opted by the sugar companies and urban interests during its two-year gestation and is weighted too far toward protecting the sugar companies and providing water for cities.
A prime example of this, the critics say, is the Government's decision to take 60,000 acres of sugar cane land out of production to create reservoirs in the agricultural region, rather than the 150,000 to 200,000 acres some environmental groups wanted.
The growers will not lose land; they are being compensated with land the Federal Government bought from a willing seller.
 
Political Influence Seen In Restoration Plan
 Many environmentalists have long argued that the cheapest and easiest way to save the Everglades would be to buy more sugar farms and turn them into a large reservoir that would mimic the lake's old function.
"There are people on the other side of this who will say no matter what the answer is, take more sugar land out of production," Mr. Buker, of United States Sugar, said. "Their real goal is to punish us."
But environmentalists say the idea has proved politically impossible, not only because of the hue and cry over the loss of agricultural jobs, but because of the sugar companies' influence in Tallahassee and Washington.
Instead of building a large reservoir in the sugar lands, the corps of engineers is relying on expensive underground storage systems for water around the lake and the creation of a large reservoir on land yet to be chosen north of the lake.
"What happened in the early development of the plan is that the environmental groups wanted to take more land out of the agricultural area, but the corps was heavily lobbied by the sugar industry to look for alternatives," Charles Lee, a lobbyist for the Florida Audubon Society, said.
Sugar executives do not deny that they lobbied hard. But they say the decision to create a smaller reservoir is supported by science. A larger one, they say, would lose more water to evaporation than would be saved.
"A lot of government agencies have looked at this and they have all been gravitating toward a smaller reservoir," said Jorge Dominicis, a vice president of Florida Crystals, which with United States Sugar dominates the cane fields.
 
Plan's Authors Deny Favoring Sugar Industry
The engineers and ecologists who put together the plan deny that the sugar industry was given special treatment. "Our answers are technically driven," Mr. Appelbaum, of the Army Corps of Engineers, said.
Steven Davis, an ecologist for the South Florida Water Management District who worked on the plan, said: "There was no plot, no policy effort to direct policy to favor anyone in this thing."
Sugar executives point out that environmentalists and urban interests were also at the table lobbying.
"I don't think sugar's the issue any more," Mr. Dominicis, of the Florida Crystals Corporation, said. "I think we are all pretty comfortable that we will be there for a long time."
Most people working for the sugar corporations regard themselves as victims of changing attitudes. When Napolean Bonaparte Broward won the race for governor in 1907, he ran on a promise to drain the swamps in south Florida and reclaim it for farmland.
"They called it reclaiming," Mr. Buker said. "Now it's restoration. They were reclaiming swampland, and now we are restoring a delicate ecosystem."
At least 200 family farms are in the district, but more than 80 percent of the sugar is produced by two large companies. The older company, United States Sugar, is owned by its employees and two charities controlled by the C. S. Mott family in Flint, Mich. It has operated farms here since 1928.
The second, Florida Crystals, is owned by Jose Pepe and Alfonso Fanjul, the scions of a Cuban sugar magnate who fled the island after Fidel Castro took over. The Fanjuls rebuilt their sugar business in South Florida in the 1960's and now control several sugar companies in Florida and the Dominican Republic under a corporate umbrella, Flo-Sun Inc.
Both companies give heavily to political campaigns on all levels and to both major parties, having a vital interest in maintaining Federal support programs for sugar prices. During the 1996 Presidential race, Jose Pepe Fanjul served on Bob Dole's finance committee, while Florida Crystals employees and Alfonso Fanjul raised money for the Clinton campaign.
"They are very powerful," said Representative Dan Miller, a Florida Republican who has failed three times to overhaul the Federal sugar program. "Sugar's goal is basically to get the program going to keep up the high price of sugar."
During the last three election cycles, the Fanjul family pumped more than $575,500 into campaigns for Federal offices, and its sugar companies donated at least $843,000 directly to national committees for both major parties, according to Federal Election Commission records analyzed by the Center for Responsive Politics, Washington group that tracks the influence of money in politics.
Over the same period, United States Sugar donated at least $584,000 to national party committees while its employees gave $276,000 to Federal candidates, the records show.
The Fanjuls' contacts extend to the White House. In February 1996, for instance, President Clinton interrupted a meeting with Monica S. Lewinsky to accept a call from Alfonso Fanjul, according to White House records made public in the investigation by Kenneth W. Starr. The two later spoke for more than 20 minutes.
Environmentalists say the companies were so powerful that Florida agencies turned a blind eye to the phosphorus pollution problem for decades. Then in the late 1980's, the Federal Government sued Florida, charging state officials with allowing the cane growers to pollute the Everglades.
Since then, the cane growers have fought a successful political retreat, scrapping every step of the way to slow attempts to take fields out of production and to avoid paying for the full cost of cleaning up the phosphorous, environmentalists say.
The environmentalists' wariness of the sugar companies is understandable. Sugar executives have outmaneuvered them several times in the last decade, several said.
When Gov. Lawton Chiles settled the Federal lawsuit in 1991, for example, he promised Federal authorities that Florida would clean the pollution from the farms. But the sugar companies mounted a blizzard of legal challenges that threatened to delay the cleanup indefinitely.
 
Clinton 'Delivers,' Sugar Executive Says
 After Mr. Clinton was elected President in 1992, the new Administration quickly reached a new agreement with the state and the sugar industry. It limited the amount the sugar companies would pay to about a fourth of the total cleanup cost.
The Administration defended the decision as the only way to get on with the cleanup. But at a news conference in Washington announcing the deal, Alfonso Fanjul left little doubt that the sugar industry believed its support for the Democratic Party and Mr. Clinton had paid off.
"In November 1992, Americans cast a vote for change," Mr. Fanjul said. "Today the Clinton Administration delivers."
Over the next two years, the industry's lobbyists defeated a state ballot initiative that would have made the industry pay a penny-a-pound tax on sugar to finance the entire $700 million cost of the cleanup, the construction of buffer marshes of cattails to cleanse phosphorus from the water coming off cane fields. The industry spent an estimated $25 million on television advertisements to sway voters. In the end, the growers are to pay about $230 million of the cost and Florida taxpayers the rest.
And once Congress set in motion the current plan for the Everglades in 1996, the sugar growers protected their interests at every step of the protracted negotiations.
These days, the sugar companies style themselves as model environmental citizens. Under the agreement with the Clinton Administration, they note, they have halved the amount of phosphorus coming off their lands through simple management practices, like dredging canals every year.
They have a difficult problem, scientists say. The water flowing into their farms from Lake Okeechobee is high in phosphorus to begin with, because of farms to the north. Even rain has more phosphorus than the 10 parts per million the Government wants to see flowing into the Everglades.
"We are the only people in the country who have to clean water cleaner than the water that falls on us," Mr. Buker said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The sugar cane industry is at the center of a struggle over an Everglades restoration project. Here a worker harvested the cane. (Laura Kleinhenz for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Florida: A 750,000-acre block of farms and sugar fields has altered Everglades water flow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS111930 SUGARCANE FARMING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS FLORIDA CRYSTALS CORP (63%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (82%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (82%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EVERGLADES (FLA); FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; SUGAR; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; RESERVOIRS; LAND USE POLICIES SUGAR FARMING (90%); SUGAR MFG (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (89%); EROSION (77%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); LAKES (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (75%); ARMIES (73%); AGRICULTURE (72%); ELECTIONS (71%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (71%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (70%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); ENGINEERING (70%); FLOOD CONTROL (70%); FARM LABOR (69%); WATER QUALITY (66%); WATER POLLUTION (64%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR ALEX THOMPSON (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



348 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1584 words

HEADLINE: Buffalo Braces for Another Storm;
Residents Uneasy as a Week of Abortion Protests Is to Begin

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN 

DATELINE: BUFFALO, April 13

 BODY:
When Martha Hulings's 21-year-old daughter became pregnant two years ago, her family went through a wrenching discussion over whether she should have an abortion. She was unmarried, after all, and still in college. But in the end, she kept the child, named Alyah, a playful girl with dark curly hair. And because of that experience, Martha Hulings stands squarely in the anti-abortion camp.
But when Ms. Hulings heard that anti-abortion protesters were coming to Buffalo this month, seven years after they drew national attention with a series of large, unruly demonstrations at abortion clinics here, she rolled her eyes and groaned. She said the protesters should just stay away. 
 "Everybody should mind their own business," said Ms. Hulings, 51, who was shopping with her granddaughters at the Broadway Market, a 111-year-old working-class institution stocked with ethnic bakeries and butcher shops. "Them coming here again, I think it's going to cause a lot of problems. We don't need the bad publicity."
Many people in this city of 328,000 share Ms. Hulings's apprehension. Whatever their views on abortion, residents here are voicing wariness, ambivalence or even dread as they brace for Operation Save America, a weeklong anti-abortion rally that begins on Sunday.
Part of the concern is the memory of the raucous events of seven years ago, when more than 1,000 protesters from around the country descended on Buffalo, blocking entrances to clinics and doctors' offices, and more than 600 people were arrested. The so-called Spring of Life rally closed no clinics, but generated intense media coverage in that election year, just as its organizers, the group Operation Rescue, had planned. Operation Rescue is also organizing this year's event.
But this time, many people in this predominantly Roman Catholic city feel especially uncomfortable with the timing of the event, less than six months after the unsolved killing of Dr. Barnett A. Slepian, a doctor who performed abortions and who was shot in his home by a sniper.
Perhaps not surprisingly, the specter of the rally has nudged to the surface Buffalo's bruised hometown pride, a defensiveness of sorts. In a city that has been down on its luck and dismissed as a punch line of a place, good only for crippling blizzards and controversial demonstrations, few residents seem ready for another ugly, messy protest.
"It's a lovely city, with lovely people," said Jim Hall, 72, a retired security officer who was strolling with his three dogs in Delaware Park, a Frederick Law Olmsted jewel flanked by Victorian and Prairie-style homes. "It's a shame that those people are coming back," said Mr. Hall, who said he supports abortion rights. "They're going to put us in a bad light again, like the last time. Why the same thing, over and over again?"
But leaders here on both sides of the abortion divide are crossing their fingers that next week's demonstrations will be more muted than the politically charged protests of 1992.
For one thing, the laws governing abortion protests have changed. Under a 1994 Federal law, demonstrators must stay at least 15 feet from abortion clinics to allow physicians, patients and others access.
The rhetoric, too, has evolved. A new group of religious leaders called the Buffalo Coalition for Common Ground, for instance, has held workshops and programs in recent months for both sides to discuss the underlying causes of abortion, said the Rev. G. Stanford Bratton, the coalition's founder.
Organizers of Operation Save America, meanwhile, say that their agenda is broader this time. The focus will no longer be on abortion alone, but on other issues that they say are weakening America's moral fiber, like child pornography, teen-age sex and school violence, said the Rev. Robert L. Behn of Last Call Ministries in Cheektowaga, the event's primary local coordinator.
As a result, demonstrators plan to congregate not just at the two remaining abortion clinics in the Buffalo area, but also at bookstores, schools and other places in Buffalo, Rochester and Batavia.
"It's going to be a prayerful and spiritual movement, with Jesus Christ as our standard-bearer," said Hetty Pasco, 74, who demonstrates regularly outside the Buffalo GYN Womenservices Clinic, where Dr. Slepian worked. "We're patterning ourselves after Martin Luther King and Gandhi."
Even so, city officials and abortion-rights groups are unsure what to expect. Protest leaders have said that they have sent 60,000 invitations but expect 200 to 600 demonstrators.
Preparing for possible mass arrests, the city has leased an armory to use as a makeshift jail. And the Mayor, Anthony M. Masiello, an abortion-rights supporter, said he had worked closely with leaders on both sides, as well as with a full deck of law enforcement agencies.
"It probably won't be close to the '92 protests, but in light of what happened, it only takes one person to push it beyond the limit and make you more afraid than ever," said Marilynn Buckham, executive director of the Buffalo GYN Womenservices clinic.
She was referring to Dr. Slepian's death, which still chills a close-knit city that some call the City of Good Neighbors. And in recent weeks, Dr. Slepian's name has been in the news again, after the discovery of a rifle buried behind his house.
Operation Rescue has long disavowed violence, and Mr. Behn has said that protesters next week will condemn all violent acts, including the shooting of Dr. Slepian.
But it may not be surprising that residents' thoughts about Operation Save America are tied to the death of Dr. Slepian, who was a target of a coordinated protest by 200 pickets during the 1992 demonstrations.
In 1992, after all, some Buffalo residents had feared the worst: a repeat of a chaotic protest in Wichita, Kan., the year before, which lasted 46 days and led to 2,600 arrests. Those fears did not materialize; the protesters and counter-protesters were loud but not violent. And few people here are thrilled with the idea of an Operation Rescue reunion.
When asked, many residents have said that the protesters, while not exactly welcome, should remain civil and respect the city.
At the Towne Restaurant, William Swartz, 53, a machinist who is taking computer classes to gird himself for the possibility of being laid off, said quietly that he and his wife, unable to bear children, decided to adopt a girl about a year ago. He said he was fervently anti-abortion, as are other members of his Roman Catholic parish in Tonawanda.
But he also condemned the death of Dr. Slepian as the work of "the Devil" and said he had no tolerance for violence or incivility that might sully the image of his hometown.
Next door to the clinic where Dr. Slepian worked, at a Sunoco station managed by the brothers Kolodziej, Ted Kolodziej said that he and his brother, Walter, might lose a week's worth of business if the protesters spill onto their property.
"Sure, we're worried," said Ted Kolodziej, who said he, like his brother, believes that abortion should be legal. "Are they going to bomb us? It's hard enough dealing with the regular protesters; they're very belligerent people."
Just then, a customer pulled into the station and dived into the conversation about next week's rally.
"Oh, I've got something to say," said Cheryl Lantzy-Goldstein, an architectural designer and abortion-rights supporter. "As a city resident, I'm offended. Buffalo's economy is suffering, and the consensus is that things like this only give Buffalo a worse name. And as a Catholic, and I'm offended by a man kneeling down and saying the rosary. It's not a man's issue."
Some stores near the clinic have displayed purple signs declaring "Buffalo Welcomes Visitors But Not Violence. Keep the Peace in April." But outside the clinic's neighborhood, there has not been much talk about abortion or the rally.
At the Spot Coffee Shop in downtown Buffalo, where the caffe lattes are thick and the vegan specials an occasional offering, Lee Faver, 34, a psychologist, and Gerhardt Yaskow, 27, a businessman, said that they supported abortion rights. But while Mr. Faver said that he was frightened that Buffalo would be overwhelmed by out-of-towners seeking to press "the radical right's anti-freedom agenda," Mr. Yaskow said that he felt it was important "for a democracy to have many voices, as long as no damage is done."
And in a middle-class neighborhood just north of Hertel Avenue, Wendy Cruz, 24, said that she opposed abortion because of her family's experiences.
Her sister, she said, had had an abortion at 15. It was probably the right decision, but she had since mourned the loss of that child. Mrs. Cruz herself, meanwhile, became pregnant at 20, just before she got married, and thought about abortion.
She said she is thankful that she did not; that fetus, she proudly pointed out, is now an ebullient and friendly 3-year-old boy named August who has a thing for Winnie the Pooh and funky sunglasses. But she also remembers visiting a Planned Parenthood center to seek advice and being hounded by protesters. And because of that experience, she planned to avoid the protests next week.
"It's a very personal decision, such a delicate situation, but to have people out there screaming, it only might sway you to make a decision that you wouldn't have made," said Mrs. Cruz, who was carrying her 10-month daughter, Eden, as August tugged on a stranger's jacket.
"I'm not looking forward to it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Martha Hulings's daughter considered an abortion before having Alyah, foreground. Ms. Hulings holds another grandchild, Alyssa. Walter Kolodziej and his brother fear business at their gas station will suffer during next week's protests. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: OPERATION RESCUE BUFFALO GYN WOMENSERVICES (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: OPERATION RESCUE

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO (NY); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; OPERATION SAVE AMERICA; DOCTORS ABORTION (94%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (87%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (77%); RIOTS (75%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (75%); DOGS (70%); MEAT STORES (68%); ARRESTS (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



349 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Jobless Rate Plunges In New York City

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
The unemployment rate in New York City dropped sharply in March, to 6.4 percent, a level not seen for a decade, the State Department of Labor reported yesterday.
The city's unemployment rate had been hovering at 7.6 percent for the first two months of the year; in March a year ago, it was 8.2 percent. The figures are adjusted for seasonal factors. The rate reflects the number of people who are looking for jobs, but cannot find them. 
 The decline of 1.2 percentage points is "pretty dramatic," said Jim Brown, an analyst with the Labor Department. Because unemployment numbers tend to be volatile, he added, it would also not be unusual for the unemployment rate to bounce back up a little in April.
Statewide, the increase in construction jobs was even sharper than it usually is in March, according to state figures. Jobs in retailing and in business, engineering and management services were also strong.
The biggest drop in unemployment occurred in Brooklyn, where the rate declined to 8.1 percent from 9.6 percent. In the Bronx, the rate fell almost as much, to 8.3 percent from 9.7 percent. In the other three boroughs, the rate fell by one percentage point. In Queens, the rate was 6.2 percent; in Manhattan, 5.8 percent, and on Staten Island, 5.5 percent, which is the average for all of New York State. Those figures are not seasonally adjusted.
 LESLIE EATON 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (96%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); STATISTICS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE JAMES NATHANIEL 'JIM' BROWN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



350 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: In Good Times, Who Really Gains?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Robert H. Frank (Op-Ed, April 12) says living conditions have worsened for the majority of Americans since 1970 as real incomes have stagnated. He focuses on adjusted income, but a more sensitive indicator consists of the items we can afford to buy. In their book "Myths of Rich and Poor," W. Michael Cox and Richard Alm note that the average "poor person" in 1994 was as likely as or more likely than the average American in 1971 to own a washing machine, microwave oven, color television, dishwasher or car. 
 Mr. Frank noted that the average size of a new home has increased 50 percent since 1970, although he refers to this increase as a problem, as if a decrease would have been a blessing. Why is it so important for some people to believe that Americans are so much worse off now, when the facts clearly indicate otherwise?
 
MATTHEW STOLL
Syracuse, April 12, 1999
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: FRANK, ROBERT H; STOLL, MATTHEW ROBERT H FRANK (80%); OP-ED APRIL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



351 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: Diallo Rally Focuses on Call For Strong Oversight of Police

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN 

 BODY:
A multiracial throng of thousands marched in memory of Amadou Diallo yesterday, shutting down half the Brooklyn Bridge and several streets in downtown Brooklyn and lower Manhattan during the afternoon rush as they chanted about justice and peace.
Handing out placards decorated with red peace symbols, organizers of the four-hour rally focused on their 10-point plan for police reform, which calls for Federal monitoring of police conduct and civilian oversight of the New York department. 
 But the diverse crowd was filled with a broad range of critics of the status quo, and the message of the march became, at times, a massive thumbs-down to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
Police officials and march organizers on the scene estimated the crowd at 10,000, but later, the Police Department released an official tally of 4,500, and the Rev. Al Sharpton suggested the turnout was 25,000.
"We have worked too hard too long, moving from the back of the bus, to now put our children in the back of an ambulance," former Mayor David N. Dinkins told those at the rally, who filled about two and a half blocks in front of 26 Federal Plaza in lower Manhattan by 6 P.M.
Mr. Sharpton compared the 90-minute trek across the Brooklyn Bridge to the landmark crossing of the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Ala., in 1965. The singer Harry Belafonte invoked the heroes of the civil rights struggles of a generation ago, whom he had also marched alongside: the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., Malcolm X, Fannie Lou Hamer and Ella Baker.
"My fellow warriors demand that I be here -- I will be here until the day I die defending that cause: peace," Mr. Belafonte said. "I'm here to see that that seed of rebellion grows into a mighty forest."
It was the largest and most highly orchestrated in a series of demonstrations that have become a focal point of civic discourse in the 10 weeks since four white police officers sprayed 41 bullets at Mr. Diallo, a West African immigrant, killing him as he stood in the vestibule of his apartment building in the Bronx.
But the turnout fell far short of the 25,000 that some organizers had predicted, despite a $300,000 campaign that included advertising on radio and television, as well as calls from phone banks, direct mail and leafletting at churches and subway stations.
Seeking out reporters as he left City Hall about 7:15 P.M., Mayor Giuliani suggested that the controversial advertisements depicting a black youth frightened by police officers, as well as signs comparing the Mayor and the police force to Nazis, may have backfired.
"The level of rhetoric has been at the stage of frenzy, and that does not reflect at all what is going on in the city," said Mr. Giuliani, whose earlier description of Diallo demonstrators as "silly" became a rallying cry of the protesters. "Maybe the rhetoric had gotten to such a vicious and hateful level that people just don't want to associate with that."
Organizers tried to play down questions about numbers, pointing instead to the large number of white, Hispanic and Asian marchers who joined the black protesters who have formed the core of the Diallo demonstrators. At the rally's end, Mr. Sharpton sniped, "You in the media, we know you count us as three-fifths of a man anyway."
The police said there were no arrests and no problems during the rallies at Federal Plaza and at Cadman Plaza in Brooklyn, or along the two-mile marching route between.
Scores of officers in blue windbreakers escorted the marchers across the bridge, which was shut Manhattan-bound for the occasion, and hundreds more stood guard at barricades in front of City Hall and the Municipal Building as they passed, as well as around the rally site at Broadway and Worth Street.
The peaceful, controlled nature of the event stood in marked contrast to the last rally of a similar size, when Mr. Giuliani -- who was not yet Mayor -- joined about 10,000 police officers at City Hall to protest Mayor Dinkins's plans for the Civilian Complaint Review Board in 1992.
That demonstration spun out of control, with officers damaging cars and storming the Brooklyn Bridge, and many protesters spewing profanity and racial epithets.
"If you are the type of marcher that believes in violence, turning over cars and cursing, you're at the wrong march," Mr. Sharpton told the boisterous crowd gathered at Cadman Plaza, next to the Federal courthouse where jury selection is under way in the trial of four officers accused of torturing a Haitian immigrant, Abner Louima, in a Brooklyn police station in 1997. "That's Giuliani's march against Dinkins. We march with dignity."
Mr. Sharpton and his fellow organizers did lose control of the crowd briefly, as several angry groups -- black Muslims in black T-shirts, then African-American men in white T-shirts and construction hats, then the Congress for Puerto Rican Rights -- tried to upstage them at the head of the line to cross the bridge.
Finally, relatives of Anthony Baez, who was killed by a police officer in the Bronx in 1994, made it to the front, and a group of several hundred was sent ahead of the official march leaders.
Fifteen minutes behind came a group of politicians and labor leaders, arms linked with Saiku Diallo, Mr. Diallo's father. Ten of them wore placards around their necks highlighting one item in the 10-point platform: Mayor Dinkins bore No. 1, which calls for the immediate implementation of recommendations of a commission he appointed, creating an independent group with subpoena power to investigate police corruption and brutality.
Also on the front line were Dennis Rivera, president of 1199, a union representing 150,000 health care workers; Ed Lewis, the publisher of Essence magazine; the Bronx Borough President, Fernando Ferrer; a former Manhattan Borough President, Percy E. Sutton; Jane Bai of the Committee Against Anti-Asian Violence; Rabbi Ellen Lippman of Jews for Racial and Economic Justice, and several members of the City Council.
Every few minutes, the crowd stopped for what has become the movement's most prominent chant: the leader calls out, "How many shots?" and the throng solemnly shouts each of the 41 the officers fired.
Mr. Sharpton and Mr. Diallo, who wore white and gold African robes and a white skullcap, however, did not chant or even speak as they marched.
"We thank almighty Allah that chose Amadou Diallo," Mr. Diallo said in a speech at Federal Plaza. "We thank almighty Allah for the sacrifices that bring multicolor and religion together for peace and solidarity."
Yesterday's rally capped more than two months of demonstrations and civil disobedience inspired by the slaying of Mr. Diallo, a 22-year-old street peddler.
More than 1,000 rallied at the site of the shooting on Wheeler Avenue a few days after it happened. Later, there were vigils outside the Bronx courthouse where the grand jury that ultimately indicted the four officers on second-degree murder charges was deliberating, and marches in Foley Square and down Wall Street.
In 15 days of protests in front of Police Headquarters, nearly 1,200 people were arrested, including celebrities like the actors Susan Sarandon and Ossie Davis, who served as yesterday's master of ceremonies, and the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson.
Some in the crowd at the latest rally were veteran protesters, but many were first-timers.
Maria Gladden of East New York, Brooklyn, a supervisor at the city Department of Finance, said she and several colleagues left the office to participate. "Enough is enough," was her simple message. "If nobody comes out to support, this is going to keep going on and on."
Mona Bregman, 56, became a spontaneous protester on her way home to Brooklyn Heights from the subway. Unable to find a magic marker, she ruined a red lipstick to make her personal sign: "3 bullets is self-defense. 19 bullets is murder. 41 bullets is slaughter."
"I do not go to marches," Ms. Bregman said. "I don't care to be with crowds. I'm not going to stand around and yell, 'No justice, no peace.'
"I did not plan to come, but I just have to say my peace," she explained. "This is not a black issue. It's a people issue."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 1999, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about a protest march in memory of Amadou Diallo gave an incorrect age for Anthony Baez, who was killed by a police officer in the Bronx in 1994, in some copies. He was 29 at his death; he was not a teen-ager.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Protesters not only held peace signs yesterday but also maintained a peaceful tone at a rally for police reforms. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B8); A woman at yesterday's rally in memory of Amadou Diallo, who was killed by police on Feb. 4, held a sign that also drew attention to other cases. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY ; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; BLACKS; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; BROOKLYN BRIDGE (NYC); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); CITIES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); RIOTS (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (64%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); RADIO ADVERTISING (60%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (50%); 

PERSON: WILGOREN, JODI; DIALLO, AMADOU; SHARPTON, AL (REV) AL SHARPTON (85%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



352 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1577 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place -- The Five Hundred;
The Performance of S.& P.'s Benchmark Index Leaves Stock Funds in the Dust

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
Why is it so difficult for professional money managers to beat the market these days? And why does it seem to be getting tougher all the time?
These are questions that investors have asked recently, with increasing distress, as they compared returns generated by their mutual funds or money managers with those of the overall market. And the benchmark that has been so maddeningly unbeatable is the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which tracks the performance of 500 of the nation's top companies in the United States' most dominant industries. It is run by Standard & Poor's, an investment information services company owned by the McGraw-Hill Companies. 
 For the 12 months ended Jan. 31, for example, almost 70 percent of stock mutual funds underperformed the S.& P. 500. According to Joseph J. Mezrich, head of the quantitative strategy group at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, fund performance has deteriorated steadily since 1993, when almost two of three funds actually beat the index.
One reason for the failure may be simply that the membership of the S.& P. 500 itself has become a more exclusive club. While other factors are also at work, James Paulsen, chief investment officer of Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis, makes an intriguing case that the S.& P. 500 may be getting harder to beat for active managers in large part because of how its makeup has changed in recent years. As the index has transformed itself -- by accident and by design -- it has left many managers behind.
The S.& P. 500 is the benchmark used by 97 percent of United States money managers and pension plan sponsors. Moreover, more than $600 billion in investors' money is invested to mirror the performance of the S.& P. 500.
Mr. Paulsen's research shows that since 1994, the S.& P. 500 has become dominated by what he calls new-economy stocks, those in health care, technology, telecommunications, financial services and consumer services companies. While such companies made up roughly 60 percent of the index in 1994, they made up almost three-quarters of it at the end of last year.
At the same time, what Mr. Paulsen calls old-economy stocks, those in energy, transportation, utilities, industrials and basic materials, make up far less of the index than they did in 1994. Companies in these industries accounted for 16 percent of the index recently, down from almost 30 percent in 1994.
The result, Mr. Paulsen says, is a shift in the S.& P. 500 from stocks forged in the industrial era and into companies created by the technology revolution. "These trends are due not only to performance differences in recent years, but also to a change in the composition of the S.& P. names," Mr. Paulsen said. "Most of the names being eliminated from the index are old-economy names, those being added are new-economy names."
Last year, for instance, S.& P. made a record 48 changes to the 500 stocks in the index, up from 30 changes in 1997. Additions included technology companies like Gateway, America Online and Compuware , a software maker. Among those deleted from the index were Pennzoil-Quaker State; Safety-Kleen, a transporter of hazardous waste materials, and Charming Shoppes, a women's apparel retailer.
This shift is even more striking when viewed against two sister indexes, the S.& P. Midcap 400 index and the S.& P. Smallcap 600 index. According to Mr. Paulsen, the share of new-economy stocks in the Midcap index is only marginally higher now -- 56 percent -- than in 1994, when it was 51 percent. And the Smallcap index has not increased its exposure to new-age companies.
Meanwhile, old-economy stocks have declined somewhat in both indexes, but not nearly as significantly as their drop in the S.& P. 500. Roughly 26 percent of the Midcap index's value lies in industrial-age stocks, down from 33 percent in 1994. The Smallcap index has 20 percent exposure in these stocks, down from 23 percent in 1994.
"The large-cap indices are moving faster toward the tech revolution," Mr. Paulsen said. "Most of our small companies are doing more of the industrial pursuits."
Few investors realize how much indexes change year to year. The makeup shifts for two reasons: the performance of the stocks in an index and the additions and deletions made by index administrators.
It is impossible to know which factor is the bigger contributor to the S.& P. 500's transformation. Because it is an index weighted by market capitalization of its stocks rather than an equal distribution of companies, rising stocks inherently gain greater weight. And given that the S.& P. 500 has had such a tremendous run in recent years -- up 170 percent from the beginning of 1995 to the end of 1998 -- a feedback effect propels more investors into it or the stocks that have been most responsible for its returns.
The Dow Jones industrial average is weighted differently, by the price of each of the 30 companies in it. The more the higher-priced stocks move, the greater the impact on the average. While the Dow had lagged behind for a couple years, in recent weeks, the industrial average has risen faster than the S.& P. The Dow is up 13.96 percent for the year versus the S.& P. 500's 7.62 percent gain.
Because of its market capitalization weighting, therefore, the S.& P. is an index that day by day owns more and more of the stock market's stars and fewer of its duds. Recently, while the stars have been few, they have been white-hot.
Leah Modigliani, an equity strategist at Morgan Stanley, points out that five stocks -- Microsoft, America Online, Citigroup, MCI Worldcom and American International Group -- accounted for 52.7 percent of the first-quarter performance of the S.& P. 500. In all of 1998, 15 stocks accounted for such a performance.
Even more astounding, in the first quarter the top 18 stocks accounted for 100 percent of the S.& P.'s 5 percent rise. That means the remaining 482 stocks added nothing to the index's return. Sixty percent of the stocks in the 500 underperformed the index's 5 percent return in the first quarter, while 55 percent lost ground in the period.
But performance is not the only thing that changes an index. These indexes are managed actively by their administrators. Companies are dropped from the S.& P. 500, for example, as they are acquired, if they encounter financial problems or when the Standard & Poor's index committee decides that they are no longer representative of the overall stock market. This committee of nine decides which companies are to replace those that are removed. They are much more likely to add a hot company to the index than one that has been cold of late.
"There's also a certain amount of momentum associated with companies going into the 500," said Elliot Shurgin, vice president for index products and services at S.& P. "Typically we'll look at the universe of companies not in the 500 and rank them in terms of size. What tends to happen is companies going through rapid growth phases become large enough in terms of market cap -- assuming they satisfy liquidity requirements -- to get into the index."
The divergence of new-economy and old in the S.& P. 500 may be another way of explaining why fund managers who focus on value have done so poorly in recent years. As valuations of technology, financial services and health care stocks have been driven well into the stratosphere, value stocks are more likely to be rooted in the old economy, bricks and mortar and all. "The individual investor is out there buying recognizable names," Mr. Paulsen said. "In essence he is going toward the new economy winners faster than a manager might."
As value stocks lag, of course, their market capitalizations dwindle. This has a feedback effect, making them less attractive to institutional investors who require ease entering and exiting stocks in large trades.
Mr. Mezrich has his own theory on why money managers find it nearly impossible to beat the S.& P, 500. It has two elements: Money managers do not typically weight their holdings based on market capitalization, as an index does and, therefore, are unable to mirror the index's performance; and even large-capitalization fund managers are likely to have larger holdings of slightly smaller-capitalization stocks than the S.& P. index holds. This means even those managers who have been investing in large-company stocks recently have been tarred by investors' bias against smaller companies.
"If you're an active manager, you're going to pick stocks that are smaller than the average capitalization in the index," Mr. Mezrich said. "And if you own them in an equal weighting relative to the S.& P., you would have a small-cap bias."
Given all this, it is no surprise that investors are dumping their managers in droves and retreating to automatic pilot -- funds that mimic the returns of a big-capitalization stock index. In the first quarter of 1999, according to AMG Data Services, 73 percent of the $24 billion that Americans put into equity mutual funds flowed into index funds.
Of course, the S.& P. 500's broad outperformance of money managers will not last forever. And in recent days, leaders in the index, stocks such as General Electric, Citigroup, Pfizer and America Online, have grown weak while old-industry stocks such as Caterpillar, Alcoa and Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing have rallied. Still, it might take quite a market jolt to move fund managers ahead of the index again.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 20, 1999, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Friday tracing changes in the makeup of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index misidentified a company that has recently been added. It was Compuware -- not Compuserve, which is a unit of America Online.
The chart also mislabeled the quarter reflected in the "best performers" list. It was the first quarter of 1999, not the fourth.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Changing With the Times"
The S.& P. 500 has become dominated by so-called new-economy stocks, those in health care, technology, telecommunications and financial services, and consumer services companies.
Graph shows weight in the S.& P. 500 for selected sectors, for December 1994 and December 1998. (Source: Wells Capital Management)(pg. C8)
 
Charts/Graphs: "Are You on the List?"
The Standard and Poor's index of 500 stocks is an exclusive club dominated by companies currently in favor among investors. Members of the technology revolution have been ushered in recently, while industrial companies have been edged aside.
 
OLD-ECONOMY STOCKS
 
Graph plots percentage of total market capitalization of the S.& P. 500 for basic materials, energy, industrials, utilities and transportation,from 1994 through 1998.
 

WORST	Contribution	Change	PERFORMERS	to gain as	in	4th. Qtr. 1999	pct. of total	weight	Philip Morris	-8.8%	-0.5 pts.	BellSouth	-3.8	-0.3	Compaq	-3.5	-0.2	Coca-Cola	-2.7	-0.3	
 
REMOVED FROM THE INDEX (In 1998)
Pennzoil
Charming Shoppes
Safety-Kleen
Echo Bay Mines
 
NEW-ECONOMY STOCKS
 
Graph plots percentage of total market capitalization of the S.& P. 500 for consumer services, health care, telecommunications and financial services, from 1994 through 1998.
 

BEST	Contribution	Change	PERFORMERS	to gain as	in	4th. Qtr. 1999	pct. of total	weight	Microsoft	20.5%	+0.8 pts.	America Online	13.5	+0.7	Citigroup	6.6	+0.3	MCI Worldcom	6.2	+0.2	
 
ADDED TO THE INDEX (In 1998)
America Online
Compuserve
Gateway
Lehman Brothers Holdings
 
(Sources: Wells Capital Management; Morgan Stanley Dean Witter; Standard and Poor's)(pg. C1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MHFI (NYSE) (83%); MS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP; MCGRAW-HILL COS; WELLS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT MCGRAW HILL FINANCIAL INC (83%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP; MCGRAW-HILL COS; WELLS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; MUTUAL FUNDS STOCK INDEXES (96%); MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); STOCK INDEX CHANGES (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TRENDS (77%); INDEX FUNDS (77%); BONDS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); HEALTH CARE (65%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; PAULSEN, JAMES JAMES PAULSEN (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



353 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 31; Column 2; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 4045 words

HEADLINE: ON THE ROAD;
St. Louis: The River Runs by It, History Through It

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS

 BODY:
In 1904, St. Louis was the fourth largest American city. It was rich, river-rich, thanks to the Mississippi, then the nation's main north-south artery. Although Chicago had developed into the dominant railroad hub, St. Louis deemed itself the rightful capital of the Middle West.
So the city staged the grandest, giddiest, most glorious fair the world had ever seen, on this continent or any other, the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. It outshone Chicago's Columbian Exposition of 1893 -- that was the point -- and included the first Olympic Games ever held in the United States. 
 Its palaces and exhibitions spun fantasies of perpetual peace and plenty, and it taught the country, with a little help years later from Judy Garland, a song not soon forgotten:
Meet me in St. Louis, Louis,
meet me at the fair.
Don't tell me the lights are shining
anywhere but there.
That was the apogee; life in St. Louis has never been quite as sweet since, and people here still murmur wistfully about the summer of 1904.
But the lights did not go out right away. St. Louis prospered through the next few decades, a "solid expanse of bricks and mortar" stretching away "into dim, measure-defying distances," as Mark Twain wrote, making money on beer and shoes even as it fell behind boomtowns like Detroit and Los Angeles. It built an array of big-time cultural and civic institutions that serve it well to this day. And fate found ways to keep its name on the nation's mind.
A musician named W. C. Handy came to town in 1914, sat on the riverbank overlooking the Eads Bridge, an engineering marvel that was built at the same time as the Brooklyn Bridge, and wrote a tune called "St. Louis Blues." That made two songs about St. Louis that most Americans could hum or whistle or dum-de-dum; can any other city in the United States make such a claim?
In 1925, a skinny young pilot from Minnesota named Charles A. Lindbergh set up shop here. After flying airmail to Chicago for a while, he turned in 1927 to a group of local businessmen to finance a plane for an attempt to fly solo across the Atlantic Ocean. Some thought him a crackpot, but nine of them ponied up the needed $15,000. In gratitude, Lindbergh painted the words "Spirit of St. Louis" on the nose of his frail, silvery Ryan monoplane.
Garrison Keillor, the professional Midwesterner, said on his radio show not long ago that in his part of the country, "We cause them pain, and that makes them the artists they are." He was talking about St. Louis and distinguished writers who once lived here, like Marianne Moore, Tennessee Williams and T. S. Eliot. Especially Eliot, who grew up at 2635 Locust Street, the son of a wealthy brick manufacturer, but spent his writing life in England.
St. Louis stayed with Eliot. "There is something in having passed one's childhood beside the big river which is incommunicable to those who have not," he wrote late in life. The fog in "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock" is the fog from the factory chimneys across the Mississippi, he said, and the urban themes in his poems echo his early fascination with the St. Louis slums.
Other creative spirits, especially musicians, had something of the city in them, though this was never a jazz or blues capital on the level of New Orleans, Chicago, Kansas City and New York. Fate Marable's orchestra, with Louis Armstrong on cornet, played on riverboats that tied up at St. Louis. Chuck Berry, Tina Turner, Miles Davis, Josephine Baker and Scott Joplin were born here or worked here. Blues clubs like Mike and Min's still dot the old Soulard neighborhood, where a farmer's market has operated since 1779.
The musicians were the product of a large, vibrant black community, which co-existed, sometimes nervously, with the dominant German-Americans. Not entirely by coincidence, St. Louis today has two nationally prominent Congressmen: one black, Bill Clay, and one German-American, Richard A. Gephardt.
It was a German, Max Beckmann, driven from his homeland by the Nazis, who gave St. Louis its greatest distinction in the visual arts.
After living out World War II in semihiding in Amsterdam, the gregarious, ambitious Beckmann came to St. Louis to accept a teaching job at Washington University. He found not only "trees at last, ground under my feet at last," as he wrote in his diary, but also a generous friend and patron in the person of Morton D. May, the department-store magnate. The St. Louis Art Museum is the richer for their friendship; it houses the world's premier Beckmann collection and fine groups of works by major German Expressionists.
This spring (through May 9) the museum, whose building, by Cass Gilbert, is the sole surviving structure from the 1904 fair, is staging a show designed to examine Beckmann in a new light. He always aspired to conquer Paris, but he never did; here, his pictures hang alongside those of Picasso, Matisse, Braque and others. Beckmann does not suffer by comparison. He is clearly not the equal of Matisse the master colorist or Picasso the inspired innovator, but his slashing brushwork and stinging colors impart a swaggering energy to his canvases that can make the French masters look a bit effete.
 
Reliving the Gilded Age
Across Forest Park from the art museum is the Missouri Historical Society, where you can pretend for an hour or so that you are visiting St. Louis in the Gilded Age, which lasted from the end of the Civil War to the 1890's, or attending the world's fair. With a nice skepticism that never degenerates into cynicism, the fair exhibition examines myths spawned by the great exposition, including the canards that ice cream cones and hot dogs originated there.
If it is music that one seeks, St. Louis is well endowed for a city of its size. The St. Louis Symphony Orchestra plays in Powell Hall, a converted movie palace with stunning acoustics, under the baton of the Dutchman Hans Vonk. Founded in 1879, it is the second oldest orchestra in the nation, and often listed among the six or eight best; Time magazine, perhaps too exuberantly, decreed in 1983 that it stood second only to the Chicago Symphony.
Maestro Vonk, whose style is the epitome of modesty and economy, makes a contrast to Leonard Slatkin, the adventurous and demonstrative conductor, now in Washington, who spent 17 years as music director here. Mr. Slatkin returns from time to time to conduct the American works that are one of his specialties, while Mr. Vonk has added Russian and French pieces, including Messiaen's Turangalila Symphony, to the usual Austro-German diet.
Classic musicals are revived every summer at the 12,000-seat amphitheater of the Municipal Theater Association of St. Louis, known to the locals as the Muny. A six-week, 31-performance spring season is offered by the Opera Theater of St. Louis, which shares the stage of the Loretto-Hilton Center, in suburban Webster Groves, with the Repertory Theater of St. Louis. This year's feature is the premiere of a new work by Paul Schoenfield, "The Merchant and the Pauper."
The Rep is the leading theater company in town, despite its out-of-the-way location. Next season its program will range from Shakespeare to Sondheim, with the first major production of a new play by Lanford Wilson a high point. Mr. Wilson's 1980 drama, "Talley's Folly," won the Pulitzer Prize.
Close to Powell Hall in the Grand Center district is the St. Louis Black Repertory Company, with an Afrocentric take on classic plays.
Then there is the fabulous Fox, another converted movie theater. It houses musicals, concerts and special events in an interior of indescribable gaudiness, which the management describes as a leading example of "the Siamese-Byzantine style." Bangkok meets Istanbul; is this a great country or what?
 
Yogi, Joe and Stan
Sometimes it seems as if every other restaurant in St. Louis is owned by a sports hero. There's Mike Shannon's and Ozzie's and Dierdorf and Hart's. But then St. Louis has always been a sports town, as the old-time catchers Yogi Berra and Joe Garagiola, both native sons, keep saying.
As late as the war years, St. Louis was one of only four cities in the country (along with New York, Philadelphia and Chicago) with more than one big-league baseball team. It had the National League Cardinals, of course, a team just as popular in 1999, with Bunyan-size Mark McGwire, the home-run king, as it was in the heydays of Dizzy Dean and Stan (The Man) Musial.
The Cardinals built a huge following outside of Missouri; there was no major league team west or south of St. Louis then. The hapless American League Browns, on the other hand, were the subject for years of a familiar taunt: "First in booze, first in shoes and last in the American League." Awash in debt, they gave up and moved to Baltimore in 1954.
By then, St. Louis was struggling, and it has struggled since with economic change and racial tensions that bred poverty and crime. The city was a pioneer in urban redevelopment, seeking to eradicate slums but building new ones instead, like the infamous Pruitt-Igoe project, whose 33 towers became gruesome national symbols of good intentions gone wrong. They were demolished in a telegenic cloud of dust in 1973, only two decades after they opened.
What was left behind -- much of the immense midtown area between downtown and 1,300-acre Forest Park, which was the site of the fair -- was a wasteland. Charles Eisendrath, a St. Louis native whose family settled here after the Civil War, still calls the area "Hiroshima Flats." Mr. Eisendrath, who teaches at the University of Michigan, says the city "smashed itself."
The area has plenty of big employers. Anheuser-Busch, which dominates the American beer market, has its main office and a century-old brew house, full of gigantic copper kettles, just south of downtown. There are dozens of buildings in the Budweiser complex, with enough crenellations and battlements to outfit several medium-size castles. It has been growing ever since Eberhard Anheuser and his son-in-law, Adolphus Busch, started in business in 1861.
Malinckrodt and Monsanto produce chemicals here. McDonnell, now part of Boeing, builds aircraft components on the north side. Trans World Airlines has its headquarters here, as do Emerson Electric and Ralston Purina.
But the city's population has shriveled, declining from a peak of 857,000 in 1950 to 397,000 in 1990, as its suburbs have grown. Clayton, LaDue, University City, Florissant and dozens of other communities ringing the city have attracted not only the well-to-do but also middle-class and working-class fugitives from the largely black north side and the largely ethnic south side.
 
Little Lombardy
When Pope John Paul II visited St. Louis in January, the city found itself derided in The Washington Post as "a hard-knuckle up-South city far removed from the Potemkin village of the Budweiser commercials" -- the ones where the brewery's team of Clydesdales canters through a leafy landscape.
True enough, as far as it goes. But St. Louis has neighborhoods of character, too. Like the oak-lined, gated streets called private places, packed with faux chateaus built 80 or 90 years ago and carefully maintained since. And the Hill, a spic-and-span square mile of modest frame houses, bocce clubs, salami shops, red-sauce restaurants and red-white-and-green fire plugs, centered on St. Ambrose Church, a scaled-down, red-brick replica of the Romanesque cathedrals in Lombardy, whence came most of the Hill's settlers.
St. Louis has The Post-Dispatch, flagship of the Pulitzers, not as influential as it once was, maybe, but still many notches above average. It has Washington University, where 18 Nobel laureates have done research, and St. Louis University, the oldest west of the Mississippi, a Jesuit institution that has taken the lead in reviving the shabby district around its campus.
And it has the Missouri Botanical Garden. "If you do nothing else," our friend Tony Bommarito told my wife, Betsey, and me, "go to the garden," which seemed like bum advice a few days after the year's last snowstorm.
 
Captivating Gardens
It wasn't. These are gardens for all seasons. Nowhere in the United States, except in the Bronx, will you find their equal. Even on a chilly day early in March, we found them captivating: camellias in full bloom in the Linnean House, with primroses underneath, to give us a foretaste of spring; crocuses and snowdrops pushing bravely through the crusty ground outside, winter honeysuckles and Ozark witchhazels belying the season with their scents, and the fanciful shapes of trees, both evergreen and deciduous, in the extensive Japanese garden.
We also walked through an artificial rain forest, replete with soaring palms from Sri Lanka, waterfalls, brilliantly hued birds flying free and coffee and cacao bushes, all inside a geodesic dome called the Climatron. Part of it, we noticed, was named for Robert S. Brookings, the St. Louis philanthropist who founded the Brookings Institution in our hometown, Washington.
Today it is the silvery curve of Eero Saarinen's Gateway Arch, sleek and graceful as the leap of a salmon, that symbolizes the city's dreams and memories. A flattened catenary arc, 630 feet tall, taller than the Washington Monument, it was completed in 1965. It glows golden in the light of a full moon, shimmers in sunlight and turns a dull pewter on overcast days.
The arch is a door ever open to Manifest Destiny. It contradicts one of the commonplace observations about Missouri: that St. Louis faces east and Kansas City faces west. "That arch, that gateway, rankles us," says Representative Karen McCarthy of Kansas City. "We ought to have it." But it was St. Louis, in truth, that bade farewell to Meriwether Lewis and William Clark in May 1804, as they started up the Missouri River to explore the lands of the Louisiana Purchase, which Jefferson had completed the year before.
I know of no other contemporary monument of comparable power.
But don't just glimpse it from your hotel room or through the window of a taxi. Don't reduce it to a postcard. Give it an hour or two, view it from below and from a few blocks away, take the shuttle to the top, and be sure to visit the excellent Museum of Westward Expansion beneath its base.
St. Louis is full of good buildings. Just a few steps from the Arch is one of the handsomest and most historic, the Old Courthouse, with an imposing cast-iron neo-Renaissance dome not unlike that of the Capitol in Washington sitting atop the severely beautiful Greek Revival porticoes. It is reflected, happily, in the glass skin of the nearby Equitable Building.
Begun in 1839 and completed in 1862, the courthouse was still under construction when the Dred Scott trials of 1847 and 1850 took place there. Those cases led to the momentous Supreme Court decision in 1857 that blacks were not legally "persons" and therefore had no right to sue in the Federal courts. That decision, in turn, helped to precipitate the Civil War.
 
Wainwright, a Landmark
A few blocks farther west stands Louis Sullivan's great Wainwright Building (1890-91), a near-twin to his Guaranty Building in Buffalo. Clad in brick and terra-cotta, decorated with botanical motifs of Sullivan's own invention, this is a proto-skyscraper. A steel skeleton holds it up, but you can't see or even sense that, and steel columns lurk behind only half the facade's piers.
Still, the Wainwright Building is a major landmark in American architectural history, hailed by Frank Lloyd Wright (who didn't hail much) as the first building with "height triumphant." So is the domed, delicately ornamented tomb in Bellefontaine Cemetery that Sullivan designed for Charlotte Dickson Wainwright, the wife of his client, the developer Ellis Wainwright.
Even a cursory architectural tour should include Union Station, a neo-Romanesque design of great distinction that serves as a reminder of the talents of Henry Hobson Richardson's disciples -- in this case, Theodore C. Link and Harvey Ellis. The largest terminal in the United States when it opened in 1894, it has been converted into 24 shops and a hotel.
But what a sight it must have been in its heyday! It handled 300 trains and 100,000 people a day in the 1940's. Chicago handled more, but it had several terminals; St. Louis had but one, used by a dozen railroads. "The sleek trains are lined up like race horses in adjoining stalls," John Gunther enthused, ready to speed to New York, Washington, Chicago, New Orleans . . .
 
A City of Music, Art and Gardens, With a Beer-and-Baseball Chaser
 
Here is information about visiting St. Louis:
Where to Stay
 
ADAM'S MARK, Fourth and Chestnut Streets, (314) 241-7400. The view's the thing, but not the only thing, at this red-brick leviathan (814 rooms) overlooking the Gateway Arch. Sharp management has improved the service, the rooms are better-looking than the chain-gang norm and you can choose between indoor and outdoor pools. Faust's restaurant serves bounteous brunches. Double room rate: $99 to $230.
 
HYATT REGENCY ST. LOUIS, St. Louis Union Station, (314) 231-1234. The 65-foot, barrel-vaulted lobby, covered in seafoam green Arts and Crafts tiles, takes the breath away; there is nothing like it in any other American hotel. Bravo for the Hyatt organization, which has added attractive if slightly snug rooms and a pool to a brilliant rehab job. Service is a bit shaky. Double room rate: $135 on weekends to $230 on week nights.
 
OMNI MAJESTIC, 1019 Pine Street, (314) 436-2355. A favorite of visiting musicians and other performers, the Majestic is a National Historic Landmark, built in 1913 and fittingly restored. Small, with only 89 rooms, it is also a question mark as owners pass through a revolving door. Once independent, then a Crowne Plaza, now an Omni, it felt a bit soulless on a revisit. Double room rate: $99, weekends; $139, week nights.
 
RITZ CARLTON, 100 Carondelet Plaza, Clayton (314) 863-6300. The Ritz is the city's best hotel by a country mile, and not just because the competition is feeble. Fifteen minutes from downtown St. Louis in suburban, swinging (yes, swinging) Clayton, it has a lobby that's perfect for drinks, and oversize marble bathrooms. Try the amazing applewood-smoked Ozark bacon at breakfast. Double room rate: $155 to $370.
 
Where to Eat
 
CAFE MIRA, 12 North Meramec Avenue, Clayton, (314) 721-7801. He's only 27, but Mike Johnson has been around, and it shows in the dishes he serves at his casual black-and-white restaurant. He conjures a first course from asparagus, San Daniele ham, goat cheese and the thin sheets of pastry used in making brik, a favorite North African dish. He bones short ribs and serves them with hoisin sauce and grilled pineapple relish. He adds carrot "spaghetti" to a dish of calamari and rock shrimp to provide a bit of crunch. Fun. Good.
 
CROSSING, 7823 Forsyth Avenue, Clayton, (314) 721-7375. Two chefs from Daniel in New York have set St. Louis on its conservative ear with this stylish bilevel establishment. A piece of poached skate that all but melted into a pile of mashed potatoes, giving the same effect as a brandade of cod, formed the centerpiece of a satisfying meal that began with roasted beets and goat cheese and ended with perfectly simple, simply perfect vanilla ice cream.
 
TONY'S, 410 Market Street, (314) 231-7007. There is a bold sign in the kitchen. "Pride," it says, and that quality permeates Vince Bommarito's whole operation. Subtly lit, a bit old-fashioned, with waiters in dinner jackets transferring food from serving dishes to plates at tableside, this is the city's best, most cosmopolitan dining room. From carpaccio to canolli (filled with fresh whipped cream as ordered), by way of red-sauced pasta and superb veal, the menu covers Italian classics plain and fancy.
 
GIANPEPPE'S, 2126 Marconi Avenue, (314) 772-3303. You'll find the soul of St. Louis food on the Hill, the close-knit neighborhood where Italians have clustered for a century. Pepe Profetta and his mother, Gabriella, come from Palermo, but try their red snapper in the style of Livorno anyway. They can cook almost anything.
 
HARVEST, 1059 South Big Bend Boulevard, (314) 645-3522. Stephen Gontram's place specializes in "rustic American food," and it's a knockout. A local pioneer in modern cooking, opened 16 months ago, Harvest charmed us with its sand-hued decor, its fat all-American wine list and its homey Midwestern touches: for example, sweetbreads with pureed parsnips, and a Maytag blue cheese risotto.
 
TED DREWES, 6726 Chippewa Street, (314) 481-2652. This white frame building has been dispensing manna, disguised as frozen custard, since 1929. Take-out only; closed in midwinter. Order a cone, a cup, a sundae or a shake, known here as a "concrete" because it's so thick; whatever you choose, you'll taste whole eggs, honey and pure cream.
 
Attractions
 
ST. LOUIS ART MUSEUM, 1 Fine Arts Drive, (314) 721-0072. "Beckmann in Paris," through May 9. Tuesdays, 1:30 to 8:30 P.M.; Wednesdays through Sundays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Free general admission. Special fee for Beckmann show: $8; $6, students and the elderly; $4, children 6 to 12 years old; free on Tuesdays.
 
MISSOURI BOTANICAL GARDEN, 4344 Shaw Boulevard, (314) 577-5100. Daily, 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. (to 8 P.M. Memorial Day through Labor Day). Admission: $5; $3, the elderly; free for children under 13.
 
THE OLD COURTHOUSE, Jefferson National Expansion Memorial Park, 11 North Fourth Street, (314) 655-1700. Daily, 8 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. Park admission, $2.
 
GATEWAY ARCH, Jefferson National Expansion Memorial Park, Memorial Drive, off the Mississippi River. With the Museum of Westward Expansion, at its base. Daily 9 A.M. to 6 P.M.; 8 A.M. to 10 P.M., Memorial Day through Labor Day. Admission, $6; $2.50, children 3 to 12 years old; $4, the elderly with a Golden Age Passport.
 
MISSOURI HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 5700 Lindell Boulevard, (314) 454-3172. "The 1904 World's Fair," through 2001. Tuesdays, 9:30 A.M. to 8:30 P.M.; Wednesdays through Sundays, 9:30 A.M. to 5 P.M.; closed Mondays. Free admission.
 
ST. LOUIS SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA, Powell Hall, 718 North Grand Boulevard, (314) 534-1700. World premiere of Claude Baker's "Mystic Trumpeter," based on Walt Whitman poems; the Rachmaninoff Piano Concerto No. 3 and Stravinsky's "Rite of Spring" tonight at 8 and Sunday at 3 P.M. Conducted by Hans Vonk. Tickets: $15 to $64; $7.50 to $32 for students and the elderly one hour before performance.
 
THE MUNY, Forest Park, (314) 361-1900. Season opens June 21 with "Grease."
 
LORETTO-HILTON CENTER, 130 Edgar Road, Webster Groves. Repertory Theater of St. Louis in Shakespeare's "Taming of the Shrew," tonight at 8 (sold out). Information: (314) 968-4925. Opera Theater of St. Louis begins its season May 22; information: (314) 961-0644.
 
ST. LOUIS BLACK REPERTORY COMPANY, Grandel Theater, 3610 Grandel Square, (314) 534-3810. Beckett's "Waiting for Godot" opens Wednesday, through May 16. Thursdays through Saturdays at 8 P.M., Sundays at 3 P.M.; some Saturday matinees at 3 P.M. Tickets: $10 to $30.
 
THE FOX, 527 North Grand Boulevard, (314) 534-1111. Parsons Dance Company, tonight and tomorrow night at 8; tickets, $18 to $34. The Chieftains, April 23 at 8 P.M.; tickets, $25 to $40. Sheryl Crow, April 24 at 8 P.M.; tickets, $27.50 and $32.50.
 
Getting There
 
NORTHWEST AIRLINES has daily flights from La Guardia, with stopovers in Detroit or Memphis. Advance fares require Saturday stopovers and are subject to availability. The seven-day advance fare ranges from $558 to $758; the 14-day from $476 to $518; the 21-day from $348 to $379. The last-minute one-way fare is $734; if seating is available, passengers will be upgraded to first class. Information: (800) 225-2525.
 
DELTA AIRLINES has daily flights from La Guardia, with stopovers in Cincinnati. Advance fares require Saturday stopovers and are subject to availabilty. The 21-day advance fare starts at $348; the 14-day at $476; the seven-day fare is $758. The last-minute one-way fare is $734. Information: (800) 221-1212.
 R. W. APPLE Jr.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 1999, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
The On the Road column in Weekend on April 16, about visiting St. Louis, misstated the number of American cities that had more than one major league baseball team in the World War II years. There were five, not four: Boston also had two teams, as did St. Louis, New York, Philadelphia and Chicago.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A garden for all seasons: Signs of spring at the Missouri Botanical Garden in St. Louis. (Bill Stover for The New York Times)(pg. E31); The Old Courthouse (completed in 1862) and Gateway Arch (1965), left; the statue "Italian Immigrants" and the Amighetti Bakery, below, are on the Hill. St. Louis Art Museum, home of a definitive Max Beckmann collection. (Photographs by Bill Stover for The New York Times)(pg. E40)
 
Map of St. Louis highlighting tourist destinations in the city.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (51%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ST LOUIS ART MUSEUM (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ST LOUIS (MO); ; UNITED STATES (94%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (51%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (88%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); OLYMPICS (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (66%); WRITERS (65%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR MAX BECKMANN (57%); ESPECIALLY ELIOT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999



354 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE YEN STRENGTHENS. The dollar fell for the sixth day in seven against the yen after Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said Japan might consider a tax cut. In New York, the dollar fell to 117.90 yen, from 118.83 Thursday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since Oct., 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (75%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); TAX LAW (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); 

PERSON: MIYAZAWA, KIICHI (MIN) KIICHI MIYAZAWA (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1999



355 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: At Home Abroad;
Engine For Change

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS 

DATELINE: BILBAO, Spain

 BODY:
"Optimism is the engine for change," Nerea Abasolo said. "In a climate without hope -- which is where we were in the Basque Country -- even people with money won't invest. But when you see things are happening around you, you want to join in."
Ms. Abasolo is communications director of the spectacular new Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, and she was talking about the effect of the museum on this city and region. It is a transforming effect: economic, psychological, perhaps even political. 
What makes it worth the world's attention is that the real engine for change, the spark for optimism, is a work of art: Frank Gehry's museum building. Everyone has seen the pictures of the exterior -- the curved and angular titanium-clad shapes flowing into each other, changing color from silver to gold with the light. But nothing prepares you for the thing itself.
The interior is as extraordinary as the much-photographed exterior. At its heart is an atrium half again as high as Frank Lloyd Wright's snail-shaped Guggenheim Museum in New York. Glass and steel and limestone soar in lines and curves to unexpected intersections. There are galleries of traditional shape for more traditional works, like a current show of drawings, and of unpredictable shapes for unpredictable modernity.
It is the great building of the 20th century, I think. And it is attracting visitors and supporters in amazing numbers. Before it opened, in October 1997, experts predicted that 450,000 people would visit it the first year. The actual number was three times that, 1,360,000. They added $160 million to the Basque Country's economy.
But the intangibles are more important than the figures. That is what Nerea Abasolo meant in her comment about optimism.
The Basque area of northern Spain used to be a center of heavy industry, notably steel and shipbuilding. As those industries declined in the 1980's, it became a depressed region, further troubled by the decades-long terrorist campaign of the Basque separatist group E.T.A.
In 1991 the Basque regional administration decided that the way out of its slough of despond was culture. It agreed with the Guggenheim Foundation to build a museum, at a cost of $100 million, to be managed by Guggenheim -- and to pay the running expenses thereafter. Within a year an architectural competition had been held and Mr. Gehry selected.
The site was a rust-belt classic: a former factory and parking lot on the Nervion River, just down from the old port. A green metal highway bridge bisected it. The competing architects proposed walling off the bridge. Frank Gehry incorporated it in his design, with one huge wing stretching under the bridge and a tower rising behind it.
Almost all the construction work was done by Basque companies and individuals, so the success of its advanced technology is in a sense a tribute to Basque skill. For example, the building has 300,000 steel beams -- in 250,000 different sizes. A three-dimensional computer program was used for the design and then for the fabrication of the steel and other materials.
Basques are understandably proud of the museum. And Bilbao has undertaken other major projects with such international architects as Sir Norman Foster and Cesar Pelli.
Last year the E.T.A. announced a unilateral cease-fire, which continues to hold. It can only be speculation, but the optimism to which the museum has contributed may play a part in the turn away from violence.
The museum is significant in still another respect. In the developed world today, people want at the same time to be part of the global society and to be attached to local roots. The museum is a symbol of both: an institution of international standing with a strong local attachment.
But for me the inspiring part of the Guggenheim Bilbao story is the function of art -- of architecture. From ancient Athens to Angkor Wat and the great cathedrals of Europe, architecture has expressed the highest aspirations of the human spirit. Here in Bilbao is a glimpse of what it could be for us today.
Inescapably, too, it speaks of the extremes of human behavior. In another corner of Europe, people are dying because of one man's lust for power. Here they live more fully because of an architect's genius for beauty. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SPAIN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM (BILBAO, SPAIN) BASQUE COS (92%); GUGGENHEIM FOUNDATION (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM (BILBAO, SPAIN) GUGGENHEIM FOUNDATION (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN; BILBAO (SPAIN); SPAIN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ART; BASQUES; MUSEUMS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRENDS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); SHIPBUILDING (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY FRANK OWEN GEHRY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1999



356 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1886 words

HEADLINE: Hasta la Vista, Oil Kings;
Venezuela Tightens Grip on State Petroleum Company

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela

 BODY:
The giant state-owned oil company Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. typically holds important meetings in its sleek, towering headquarters here. In late March, however, the country's new President, Hugo Chavez Frias, convened a special session of the company's board at Miraflores Palace, where he has his office.
To Venezuelans who keep an eye on the oil business -- which includes just about everyone in this Texas-sized country of 23 million people -- it was clear that Mr. Chavez was making a powerful statement. Almost from its birth in 1976, P.D.V.S.A. (pronounced pay-day-VISa), as the company is called here, has operated with a level of independence that has rankled the country's political leaders, but which they have been unable to curb. 
 As a candidate in last December's presidential election, Mr. Chavez, a 44-year-old former army paratrooper who in 1992 led an unsuccessful coup attempt, made the state oil giant one of the principal targets of his campaign against what he called a complacent and bloated status quo. He labeled the company an uncontrollable "state within the state," criticized its extravagant "gold-card culture," and vowed to "subordinate P.D.V.S.A. to the Venezuelan state."
Since taking office on Feb. 2, Mr. Chavez has forced the company and its 48,000 employees to reverse course. He quickly halted an ambitious expansion program aimed at doubling oil production, calling it "irrational." He announced plans for new independent companies to develop natural gas and petrochemicals. And he strengthened ties with other members of the reinvigorated Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC..
"We are going to make profound changes at P.D.V.S.A.," the President pledged during an interview here. "This is a state enterprise, and I plan to run it for the benefit of the national treasury. It cannot go on acting like the sovereign Republic of P.D.V.S.A., contracting debt as if it were a country of its own. We have already done more in a short time than has been done in many years, but we plan a deeper transformation, restructuring and redirection."
Mr. Chavez's critics here and abroad are suspicious of his plans, arguing that the oil company functions far more efficiently than the rest of the Government and needs only some minor tinkering, not a major overhaul. But both sides agree that the very size and complexity of the company's operations make Mr. Chavez's goal a daunting one.
Thanks to its autonomy and Venezuela's proven crude oil reserves of 76.1 billion barrels, the company has become the second largest in the world and the largest foreign supplier of oil to the United States in recent years. It regularly accounts for nearly 80 percent of total Venezuelan exports and more than a third of all Government revenue, pumping nearly 3.2 million barrels of oil a day in 1998 and generating revenues of $25.7 billion.
"P.D.V.S.A. is an elephant in a swimming pool," Ali Rodriguez Araque, the new Minister of Energy and Mines, said in an interview here shortly after the March 29 meeting, the first ever to be held outside the oil company's headquarters. "Because it has such weight, any movement it makes immediately produces an effect in the whole of the national economy."
The change envisioned by Mr. Chavez has further clouded the prospects for foreign oil companies operating in Venezuela. The companies had planned to invest $65 billion when the previous Government opened up the industry. But many exploration contracts were signed by foreign companies before oil prices slumped and apply to areas where costs are high and results have been disappointing.
Still, as Luis Eduardo Paul, president of the Venezuelan Oil Chamber, a local industry trade group, noted, "the issue is not just one of prices, but of success in drilling." One positive development came in March when a consortium that includes Conoco announced a significant find in the Gulf of Paria.
Now that prices are beginning to recover, it is unclear how soon the companies will be able to recoup their investments.
"The combination of contractual terms and marginality of the fields means that 9 out of 10 of the ventures are unprofitable or are about to be," Bernard Wheelahan, president of Shell de Venezuela, a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell, recently told The Caracas Daily Journal, an English-language paper here. Mr. Wheelahan, who did not respond to requests for additional comment, also said foreign oil companies here are in an "unsustainable" situation and suggested a renegotiation of contracts might be in order.
"We and every other oil company made those decisions with our eyes wide open," Rob McKee, executive vice president for exploration and production at Conoco, said when asked about the possibility of renegotiating the contracts. "They are tough terms, and P.D.V.S.A. has always told us, and continues to tell us, that if those circumstances develop, come talk to them. My judgment in hindsight is that this is something that needs to be talked about, and over time you can expect Conoco will visit with the Venezuelans about fine-tuning the terms, as opposed to overturning them."
But for the moment, the Government has not only scrapped plans to increase production to 6.5 million barrels a day by the middle of the next decade, it has also ordered cutbacks of more than 600,000 barrels a day as part of OPEC's effort to raise oil prices. Cutting production has enabled the Chavez Government to emerge as an important figure in OPEC's latest effort to raise oil prices. Within the oil group, Venezuela always had a reputation as a quota-buster, but Mr. Rodriguez has pledged that despite the country's yawning budget deficit, the production cuts by the state oil company over the last several months will remain in place, supporting OPEC's latest effort to lift prices.
Mr. Chavez has also made waves by criticizing the performance of the state oil company's extensive American and European refining networks, particularly its wholly owned Citgo subsidiary, saying they do not contribute enough to state coffers. That has led to speculation that the Venezuelan Government, hungry for cash to finance the ambitious social programs Mr. Chavez has promised, might sell all or part of the Citgo unit, whose acquisition was completed in 1989 for $1 billion.
But many oil experts here argue that such a step would be a huge mistake. With oil markets in a volatile state, they maintain, not only would Venezuela not get the best price for the company, but the country's heavier, high-sulfur grade of crude, which requires special processing, would probably lose ground in the United States.
"The Citgo investment was tailor-made to be able to process Venezuela's peculiar crude, and if we didn't have that guaranteed outlet, it's quite possible that Saudi Arabia or Mexico would take advantage," said Angel Olmeta, a former company board member who engineered the original deal.
Indeed, some of Mr. Chavez's advisers are now urging him to increase the company's refining capacity in the United States and to add to its overseas assets, recently valued at $9 billion, of which about $7.5 billion are in the United States. Last year the company bought half of Mobil Oil's refinery in Chalmette, La., and the Amerada Hess Corporation's plant in the United States Virgin Islands, and it is said to be interested in other properties available as a result of recent industry mergers.
But with Venezuela mired in its worst credit and budget squeeze in decades, others here have even suggested that Mr. Chavez sell off the state oil company, formed when the Government nationalized foreign oil holdings 23 years ago. An independent assessment conducted in 1997 put the company's value at more than $80 billion, but disposing of its assets appears to run counter to the President's nationalist instincts.
"P.D.V.S.A. is not privatizable, and we're not going to talk about that," Mr. Chavez said in a recent speech. While his Government respects all existing contracts and recognizes the need to "stimulate private investment," he said, the goal is to make Venezuela "a global energy power" in control of its own assets.
Nevertheless, predicted Mr. Paul, president of the local industry trade group, the debate over selling at least some parts of the company "is a discussion that is going to continue, that is out there on the table and at some point is probably going to be resolved in favor of privatization." Indeed, Mr. Rodriguez, the Minister of Energy and Mines, suggested that the company "could sell some assets and acquire others" as part of the cost-reduction campaign Mr. Chavez has ordered.
The uncertainties over oil policy come at a time when the company's own corporate culture is in flux. Last year, it revamped, merging its three major divisions into a single entity and setting off a factional struggle for dominance.
One of Mr. Chavez's first steps after winning the election was to announce he would dismiss Luis Giusti, the highly regarded executive who had led the company since 1994. Replacing Mr. Giusti is Roberto Mandini, who had been executive vice president at Citgo's Tulsa headquarters.
Mr. Mandini declined a request for an interview. But Mr. Rodriguez said he was chosen for the job in part because he had successfully consolidated several smaller oil companies when he was head of the company's Corpoven division. The other two main divisions were Maraven and Lagoven, all derived from the separate organizations acquired at the time of nationalization.
"I think Mandini can make use of that experience to mold three cultures into one," Mr. Rodriguez said.
Oil analysts here predicted it would be more difficult, however, for Mr. Mandini to resolve contradictions inherent to the company's multiple roles as holding company, driller, exporter and retailer. Not only does the state oil company regulate the foreign oil companies that were invited back into Venezuela, but it is also their partner in some ventures and their rival in others.
"Everything is all tangled up," said Pedro M. Burelli, an investment banker who resigned from the board last year. "There are 70 different companies in Venezuela always operating in association with P.D.V.S.A., and that is a tough challenge for any company in the world, particularly a somewhat insensitive and massive state monopoly."
The state company's most persistent problem, however, may be the Government's habit of viewing it as a cash cow whose assets can be tapped without regard for its balance sheet. Even when oil prices were in free fall last year , for instance, the company was forced to pay an emergency $1 billion dividend to its sole shareholder, the Government.
That left the company squeezed for cash, so it is now seeking $900 million in new credits. Mr. Chavez has also vetoed any increase in domestic gasoline prices that might improve the company's revenue.
"P.D.V.S.A.'s most baffling problem is that it is dealing with a country that doesn't understand it or the complexities of the oil industry in general," Mr. Burelli said. "There are only two really solid state institutions in this country, the military and P.D.V.S.A. One is in favor, one is not. One uses money, the other makes most of what the state, and country, require."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Petroleos de Venezuela officials, from left, Eduardo Lopez, Col. Alfredo Carneiro and Roberto Mandini, at a meeting in February. Executives tend to bridle at the notion of the company as a Government cash cow. (Reuters)(pg. C14); An oilfield in Lake Maracaibo, Venezuela. Oil accounts for nearly 80 percent of total exports and more than a third of all Government revenue. (Van Cappellen/Reporters/Saba); HUGO CHAVEZ FRIAS, President of Venezuela (Reuters)(pg. C1)
 
Chart/Graph: "Less Is More"
Venezuela's new president, Hugo Chavez Friaz, is asserting control over the state-owned oil company, forcing it to further reduce its output to give Venezuela more clout within OPEC, which is trying to raise prices by limiting exports. Graphs highlight Venezuelan oil production from 1992-1998 and oil's contribution to the government budget from 1996-1998.(Sources: Energy Intelligence Group; State Department; Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A.)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); 

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (55%); 

CITY: MARACAIBO, VENEZUELA (59%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC); PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (93%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC); PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA; VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (55%); MARACAIBO, VENEZUELA (59%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRODUCTION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); PETROCHEMICALS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (61%); COUPS (52%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (50%); 

PERSON: CHAVEZ FRIAS, HUGO (PRES); ROHTER, LARRY HUGO CHAVEZ (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1999



357 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Output Rose A Bit in March; Housing Off

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16

 BODY:
Output at the nation's factories, mines and utilities posted a slight increase in March despite a decline in production at automobile plants. Construction of new homes and apartments fell for the second consecutive month.
The Federal Reserve reported today that industrial output was up one-tenth of 1 percent in March, with the strength coming from a big jump in energy production at utility plants. The advance was far below an advance of three-tenths of 1 percent in February and reflected declines in production of autos and appliances. 
 Over all, manufacturing output was unchanged from the February level, while production in the mining sector, which includes oil production, was down seven-tenths of 1 percent.
The Fed also reported today that factories operated at 80.1 percent of capacity in March, the lowest operating rate in nearly seven years.
In a separate report, the Commerce Department said housing construction fell 1.3 percent in March, dropping to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.77 million units. Housing starts had fallen 1.6 percent in February after reaching a 12-year high of 1.82 million units in January.
Building permits dropped 6 percent in March, the biggest decline in four years, since an 8.2 percent fall in January 1995. Permit applications were down 2.1 percent in February.
The drop in construction starts reflected a small dip of one-tenth of 1 percent in single-family homes, which fell to an annual rate of 1.4 million units. Apartment construction was down 5.9 percent, to an annual rate of 365,000 units.
Mortgage rates hit a 10-month high of 7.11 percent in mid-March. But since then they have retreated a bit. This week, Freddie Mac, the mortgage company, reported the nationwide average for 30-year mortgages dipped to 6.87 percent, the lowest level since mid-February.
The drop in housing construction nationwide was led by a 28.9 percent plunge in activity in the Northeast, where builders started work on 150,000 units at an annual rate. Construction in the South was down 4.3 percent, to an annual rate of 821,000 units.
Housing construction rose 12.7 percent in the Midwest to an annual rate of 400,000 units and was up 7.9 percent in the West to an annual rate of 395,000 units.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Industrial Production" plots an index of total industrial production, since Oct., 1997. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (65%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MIDWEST USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION INDEX; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); HOUSING STARTS; MORTGAGES; PRODUCTION; INTEREST RATES CONSTRUCTION (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING STARTS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); MORTGAGE LOANS (86%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (86%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUILDING PERMITS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); MINES & MINING (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (72%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING (69%); 

PERSON: ROSE A BIT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1999



358 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Denounces Growing Protectionism

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, waded into the escalating debate over trade policy today, denouncing growing protectionist pressures and arguing that pockets of workers sometimes had to suffer in order for the nation to prosper.
Mr. Greenspan did not directly address the biggest question on the trade agenda, the possible entry of China into the World Trade Organization. But he laid out a broad case for knocking down trade barriers and warned that attempts to halt the development of a more global economy are futile and harmful. 
 Mr. Greenspan's influence could be of substantial help to the Clinton Administration as it seeks to complete a deal with China and win Congressional approval for the pact.
But Mr. Greenspan differed with the Administration on how best to frame the benefits of free trade.
The point of expanding trade is not to create new jobs, Mr. Greenspan said, directly contradicting President Clinton's main argument for why the United States should be battling to open new markets. Rather, Mr. Greenspan said, trade forces the United States to become more competitive, and to use its resources -- people, technology and money -- in the most productive way.
The Fed chairman also took the Administration and Congress to task for taking what he characterized as an overly adversarial view of trade relations, saying the benefits of trade to one country do not come at the expense of another.
"I am concerned about the recent evident weakening of support for free trade in this country," Mr. Greenspan said in a speech to business executives and foreign ambassadors in Dallas. "Should we endeavor to freeze competitive progress in place, we will almost certainly slow economic growth over all and impart substantial harm to those workers who would otherwise seek more effective longer-term job opportunities."
Mr. Greenspan spoke after 10 days of debate within the Administration and throughout Washington over how hard to push for a deal that would bring China under the internationally agreed rules of trade. Last week, Mr. Clinton backed away from a deal with China's Prime Minister, Zhu Rongji, despite sweeping concessions from the Chinese on a variety of trade issues. Mr. Clinton concluded that he would not be able to win approval from Congress at a time when many members of both parties are particularly unhappy with China because of accusations that it has violated human rights, spread nuclear weapons and spied on American weapons programs.
But after criticism from business leaders, Mr. Clinton restarted talks with China, and White House officials hope a deal can be concluded swiftly.
Unlike the Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, and other Administration officials who advised the President to go for a better deal, Mr. Greenspan does not have to worry about marshaling votes for his position. There are factions within both parties that oppose further trade deals as unfair to American workers, and even among those who are supportive there is a strong sense that other nations too often fail to play by the rules.
The House recently passed legislation that would restrict steel imports from Russia and Japan, among other countries. And Mr. Clinton has been unable to win expedited trade negotiating authority from Congress.
Supporters of a deal with China said Mr. Greenspan's influence could help in Congress, if business leaders and other groups who can explain how more trade will help ordinary Americans also speak up.
"There's no question that we have to hear from people like Greenspan and major C.E.O.'s, as well as the President, of course," said Representative Robert T. Matsui, a California Democrat.
But even some free trade supporters said Mr. Greenspan's absolutist position -- he also criticized tactics like anti-dumping rules as "simple guises for inhibiting competition" -- failed to take account of the effects that changing trade rules can have on companies and workers.
"The main issue is not free trade versus protectionism," said Representative Sander M. Levin, a Michigan Democrat. "The question is the structure in which free trade will operate, which has become an especially salient issue as globalization integrates evolving economies."
As seen by Mr. Greenspan, the effects of trade on workers and companies is part of an all-but-unstoppable cycle of "creative destruction." In his view, a vibrant economy remakes itself constantly by giving up on activities that some other country can do more cheaply to take advantage of new opportunities.
"It would be a great tragedy were we to stop the wheels of progress because of an incapacity to assist the victims of progress," Mr. Greenspan said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, was escorted to a lunch in Dallas yesterday by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (97%); TEXAS, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); APPROVALS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); BILL CLINTON (79%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1999



359 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Chief Was Paid $73 Million In Last Year, Ford Discloses

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 16

 BODY:
Alex Trotman received more than $73 million in his last year of leading the Ford Motor Company, although Graef Crystal, the compensation expert, said Mr. Trotman might have deserved more during a period when Ford's shares rose 82 percent.
Ford paid Mr. Trotman $18.8 million in salary, bonus and other compensation in 1998, his final year as chairman and chief executive of the world's second-largest auto maker, after the General Motors Corporation. He received $24.1 million more for a 1997 incentive-plan payment, and gained $30.1 million from exercising previously granted stock options, the company said in a proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. G.M. is to file next week. 
 Considering only Mr. Trotman's $18.8 million in new 1998 pay, Mr. Crystal called the chief executive a relative bargain. Using a model that factors in the company's stock performance, pay at comparable companies and the relative use of stock options, Mr. Crystal calculated that Mr. Trotman was worth about $54.9 million in 1998,
"This guy is underpaid," said Mr. Crystal, editor of the Crystal Report. "If you believe in pay for performance, Ford should book the Detroit Symphony and give a benefit concert for him."
Without counting incentive payments, Mr. Trotman's 1998 compensation package represented a 50 percent increase from the previous year, when he received about $12.4 million in salary, bonus, options, and other pay.
His 1997 long-term incentive payment of $24.1 million, disclosed in the proxy filing because it was paid in 1998, was almost 2.5 times the size of his $9.8 million payment for 1996.
Mr. Trotman received a $2.5 million salary last year, up from $2 million in 1997. His 1998 bonus rose to $10 million from $7 million, and he was granted options to buy 431,400 Ford shares at $41.07 apiece, an award the company valued at $3.95 million on the day the options were granted. Ford shares rose $2.0625, to $64.875. Mr. Trotman held unexercised options worth about $30.3 million at the end of 1998, the filing said.
Mr. Trotman's successor, Jacques Nasser, received $15.8 million. More than half reflected the value of option and stock appreciation grants that he will not be able to exercise until various future dates.
Two other retired Ford executives, the former vice chairman, Edward Hagenlocker, and former executive vice president, Kenneth Whipple, received $6.2 million and $5.2 million, respectively, including the present value of option grants. They also had long-term 1997 incentive payments and exercised previously granted options, as did Wayne Booker, the vice chairman, who was paid $5.2 million, including $987,906 in option grants.
The chairman, William Ford Jr., will get $375,000 each quarter in restricted shares that cannot be sold for one year, the filing said.
Ford listed the value of the options it grants top executives using a formula to estimate the value of options on the day the board awards them. Some companies use a different method, which calculates an executive's potential profits if company shares rise a certain percentage during the term of the options.
Because the S.E.C. allows companies to use either method in proxy statements, it is difficult to compare executive pay from one company to another.
Like many companies, Ford is using a concept known as "economic value added" to measure its performance. It is a method of determining the efficiency with which it invests its capital. If a company fails to earn a return on its capital greater than what it pays investors for its capital, investors will put their money elsewhere. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (95%); F (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (91%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (95%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (91%); DETROIT, MI, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; WAGES AND SALARIES; BONUSES WAGES & SALARIES (92%); BONUS PAY (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); 

PERSON: TROTMAN, ALEXANDER J; CRYSTAL, GRAEF ALEX TROTMAN (94%); WILLIAM FORD JR (93%); GRAEF CRYSTAL (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1999



360 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Dow Gains 31.17 as Shift From Technology Continues

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average rose to a fifth consecutive record as Eastman Kodak soared on unexpectedly strong earnings. Two stocks rose for every one that fell on the New York Stock Exchange, the best performance in six weeks.
But computer stocks extended their weeklong slide, leaving major indexes mixed, as Sun Microsystems warned that analysts' earnings estimates were too high. 
 "Money is rotating from a narrow, select group of high-tech growth stocks to manufacturing, mid-cap and small-cap stocks -- it's fantastic," said Gil Knight, a money manager who helps oversee $11 billion at Allied Investment Advisors in Baltimore.
The Dow gained 31.17 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,493.89. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 3.86, or 0.3 percent, to 1,319, and the computer-heavy Nasdaq composite index slumped 37.73, or 1.5 percent, to 2,484.04. Some 230 stocks reached 12-month highs, while 156 fell to lows. It was the fourth time this week that such highs outnumbered lows, a reversal of the trend of recent months.
Small stocks, which have lagged behind the market for years, were this week's big winners. The Russell 2000 index of smaller stocks gained 3.81 points, or 0.9 percent.
For the week, the Dow, full of big manufacturing companies, gained 3.2 percent; the S.& P. 500 lost 2.2 percent after setting a record on Monday, and the Nasdaq composite dropped 4.3 percent.
Kodak, the world's biggest photography company, rose 6 7/16 , to 73, contributing most to the Dow's gain, after reporting first-quarter profit from operations of 80 cents a share, 4 cents better than the average estimate from analysts.
Joanna Segal, a New York-based portfolio manager with Bank Hapoalim, which oversees $400 million, said money was flowing to companies reporting top-line growth and expectations for strong earnings.
The Dow swung between a 57-point gain and a 76-point loss yesterday. Volatility may have been greater than unusual because yesterday marked the last opportunity for institutional traders to close out April stock-index options and futures positions before the options expired.
Eleven buy programs and 10 sell programs by midafternoon added to volatility, according to Birinyi Associates Inc., a Greenwich, Conn., research firm.
Sun Microsystems fell 5 1/2, to 55 15/16 . With some customers possibly delaying the purchase of new computer equipment to avoid Year 2000 problems and demand from Asia still weak, Sun's chief financial officer said he was planning "a bit more conservatively" than some analysts for earnings in the first half of the fiscal year 2000.
Signs of slowing revenue growth in the personal computer industry have driven the S.& P. Computer Index down 16 percent since Feb. 1. Dell Computer in February reported a 38 percent rise in quarterly sales, lower than the 50 percent many analysts expected. Then, Compaq Computer warned that first-quarter profit would be about half forecasts, and Intel said weak demand hurt sales in the first quarter.
I.B.M. lost 7 3/8, to 170 3/8, yesterday, and Cisco Systems dropped 4 5/8, to 105 11/16 .
"Investors found enough negatives in the Sun Microsystems report to bring it and other companies in the group down," said Ted Bridges, a money manager with Omaha-based Investment Counsel, which oversees $1.5 billion.
Treasury bonds posted their worst losses in more than two weeks yesterday, after a housing report signaled strength in the economy and the dollar sank against the yen.
"The economy just isn't slowing, and the pressure on bonds keeps building," said Steve Casella, who oversees $600 million at Genoa Management in Dallas.
The price of the 30-year bond fell 2 2/32 , to 95 12/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.57 percent, from 5.52 percent on Thursday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since April 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: POLI (TASE) (53%); 80OA (LSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (66%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (58%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); BANK HAPOALIM BM (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (66%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (99%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FUTURES (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (77%); TRENDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1999



361 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Slip at Caterpillar, But Drop Is Below Forecast

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: PEORIA, Ill., April 16

 BODY:
Caterpillar Inc., which had sounded an earnings warning last month, posted a decline in quarterly profit today that was smaller than analysts' latest forecasts.
Citing lower prices, higher costs and slower machinery sales, the big manufacturer of construction equipment said earnings fell 52 percent in the first quarter, to $205 million, or 57 cents a share, from $430 million, or $1.15 a share, a year earlier. The per-share figure was higher than the 42 cents that analysts had expected since Caterpillar had warned on March 12 that earnings in the quarter would fall as much as 50 percent. 
 The better-than-expected result came at the expense of the current quarter, however. Caterpillar said today that some shipments scheduled for the second quarter had been pushed into March.
Because of the accelerated shipments, the company is lowering its sales projections for the second quarter. But full-year results will not be affected, it added.
Shares of Caterpillar, which have climbed nearly 31 percent this week amid a rally by shares of industrial companies, rose $2, to $63.8125.
The company has been vulnerable to economic weakness overseas. Machinery and engine sales in Latin America slumped 37 percent in the first quarter as Brazil's recession cut into demand. But sales rose 12 percent in Asia and 3.9 percent in North America.
Still, Caterpillar was hurt by higher manufacturing costs and lower prices for its products.
"They're getting hit by price on both the machine and engine segments," said Tobias Levkovich, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney Inc. who has a buy rating on the company's stock. "Caterpillar was losing some market share last year and cut prices to try to win some back. They realized it wasn't a brilliant idea."
Reversing that course, Caterpillar raised prices April 1, he said.
Revenue in the first quarter rose 1.7 percent, to $4.87 billion from $4.79 billion. The market in the United States accounted for 43 percent of equipment sales, down from 47 percent a year ago.
Following the earnings warning last month, analysts sharply lowered their forecasts for full-year earnings. Their average per-share estimate fell to $3.21 from $3.60.
Caterpillar's chairman and chief executive, Glen Barton, insisted last month that earnings would still be around $3.60 for the year. But the analysts remain unconvinced.
"Our estimate is below theirs," said Salomon Smith Barney's Mr. Levkovich, who expects a per-share profit of $3.30. "The Street is skeptical. The company is going to have to prove it."
In its March warning, Caterpillar said it would temporarily idle certain plants and cut jobs, spending and inventory to lower costs. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (98%); CATR (PAR) (98%); CAT (SWX) (98%); CAT (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (98%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (75%); ASIA (70%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (72%); 

CITY: PEORIA, IL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC CATERPILLAR INC (98%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATERPILLAR INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (75%); ASIA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); PEORIA, IL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PROFIT WARNINGS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); MARKET SHARE (73%); LAYOFFS (68%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (57%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1999



362 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Developer Buys Former Plant of Daily News in Brooklyn

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
A Manhattan-based developer has bought the former Daily News printing plant on Pacific Street in the Prospect Heights section of Brooklyn, hoping to convert it into movie theaters and stores, with apartments above.
The project, amid a strip of old industrial buildings just blocks from Park Slope, reflects the growing faith among developers that they can attract entertainment companies and commercial services to a section of Brooklyn where the nearby residential market has strengthened. 
 Shaya B. Developers, in which Shaya Boymelgreen is the principal, bought the property for what is expected to be a $31 million development project if a theater tenant can be found. The theater project is dependent upon the city's granting a zoning revision that would permit residences on the upper floors. The zoning application has not yet been filed.
Mr. Boymelgreen in recent years has built two rental apartment houses in the East Village, one at Avenue A and East Third Street and the other at Avenue B and East Second Street, and is now converting a former factory at 750 Grand Street in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn into loft apartments and stores.
He said in an interview that the eight-story central building of the former Daily News plant, which is flanked to two low wings, was particularly suitable for theaters because it has 30-foot ceilings on the second floor.
The building faces Pacific Street and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's rail cut for Long Island Rail Road trains, on the industrial stretch from Sixth Avenue to Carlton Avenue.
The question of how -- or whether -- the building would be re-used has been matter of considerable interest in Prospect Heights since the newspaper moved its printing operation to Jersey City in late 1996. The plant closed for good in June 1997.
Subsequently, the newspaper sold the building to an investor, Uri Nussbaum of Monsey, N.Y., who first cleaned up the building, cutting up and removing 80 old printing presses -- "two-story monsters," as Harry Freifeld, the Brooklyn lawyer who represented Mr. Nussbaum, put it. "The people who did it looked as if bottles of ink had been spilled over their heads," he added.
Even before the sale, however, The Daily News had looked into the possibility of redeveloping the property for theaters. Brokers were thinking of developing a new vehicular link across the open rail cut that divides Pacific Street from Atlantic Avenue and the Fort Greene community to the north.
"It was deemed to be too expensive," said John Ritter, of Sholom & Zuckerbrot, who was the sales agent for Boston Properties, the real estate company whose principal, Morton B. Zuckerman, is chairman and co-publisher of The Daily News.
The property runs 510 feet along Pacific Street, Mr. Boymelgreen said. A development project would bring new lighting and active use to what is now a dreary stretch of ill-maintained land. The plan would provide for parking for 300 cars, about 110 in the basement of the building and the rest on adjacent land leased by the developer. Cooperation would be sought from the M.T.A. on improving and maintaining the sidewalk across Pacific Street.
Dennis Drucker, chairman of the housing and land use committee of Community Board 8, which embraces Prospect Heights and Crown Heights, said that it was premature to comment on the plan, which requires public review once it is "certified" by the Department of City Planning, to which it has not been formally submitted.
"But I would think we would be happy to see something happen there," he said.
Neighbors of the project are likely to raise concerns about the increased traffic and possibly bigger parking problems, however. The Department of City Planning, which declined to comment on the proposal, could decide to make it part of a larger rezoning plan that included other underused parcels zoned for manufacturing. A commercial designation that allows some residential use within the building would encourage redevelopment, real estate specialists say.
Mr. Boymelgreen said that under the plan, the higher floors would be used for loft apartments -- about 80 units -- if the zoning change is obtained, with the entrance from a small section of the property, now fenced and landscaped, behind the building on Dean Street, which is residential.
New Spectrum Realty Services has been hired to market and lease the space. Carlton Advisory Services of Manhattan represented the buyer in the sale. The sale price was not disclosed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A developer who has bought the former Daily News printing plant in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, plans to convert it into movie theaters, stores and apartments. The theater project depends on a revision in zoning. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: SHAYA B DEVELOPERS (CO); NEW YORK DAILY NEWS AQUANTIVE INC (56%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHAYA B DEVELOPERS (CO); NEW YORK DAILY NEWS LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; PROSPECT HEIGHTS (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; THEATERS (BUILDINGS); MOTION PICTURES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; NEWSPAPERS ZONING (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (74%); TRENDS (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); THEATER & DRAMA (70%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (64%); PUBLISHING (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S; BOYMELGREEN, SHAYA MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1999



363 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: Ventura Is Leading, but Is Offering No Examples

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: ST. PAUL

 BODY:
In a state Capitol reception room ornamented with marble fireplaces and crystal chandeliers, Gov. Jesse Ventura, wearing blue jeans and white socks and looking like someone who could use a shave, was talking -- roaring, actually -- about running for President.
"I could win," Mr. Ventura said, rattling off poll numbers as he jutted his broad chin, "if I wanted it." 
 In his first three months of office, Mr. Ventura, the former professional wrestler known for fighting in a pink boa, has managed to offend, annoy and outrage plenty of Minnesotans -- but win the cheers of most.
"For as much feathers as I've ruffled in being politically incorrect," he said in an interview, "I get 10 to 1 letters from people saying that's why they like me."
A recent public opinion survey showed Mr. Ventura with a 57 percent approval among voters, a high rating, if down from the lofty 72 percent he received just after his stunning triumph last November.
In a state that prides itself on having a painfully earnest style of trying to say and do the right thing, Mr. Ventura has jumped at every chance to be incendiary -- and then to pour on gasoline.
In the 27 appointments he has made as Governor, he has not named a single black man or black woman. He joked on national television -- and later offered a tepid apology -- that St. Paul's confusing street plan had been designed by "drunken Irishmen."
He suggested that college athletes should not be required to attend classes. He called, without success, for a salary for his wife as first lady, and for bodyguards at his suburban horse farm. And he has crossed swords with Garrison Keillor, the Minnesota folklorist who is host of "A Prairie Home Companion," the National Public Radio program.
Mr. Ventura is loud, profane and often seems ready to explode, thrusting a forefinger menacingly in the direction of anyone who poses an unpleasant question.
But for all his bluster, the Governor has shown little inclination to push for big policy changes. Borrowing from approaches from both the Democratic and Republican Party, he has been described as "a centrist with an attitude."
Barbara Carlson, a radio talk-show host and former Minneapolis mayoral candidate, has had Mr. Ventura on her program, where time after time she has corrected what she called his "atrocious grammar."
"Either we are the envy of the nation or the laughingstock," said Mrs. Carlson, the former wife of former Gov. Arne Carlson. "I haven't decided."
Among ordinary Minnesotans, Mr. Ventura's antics continue to amuse. But it is uncertain whether voters will ultimately want more in a Governor than an often delightfully outrageous showman.
"Do I like Jesse?" said Gary Fursetzer, a 45-year-old Minneapolis limousine driver. "Sure I like him. Do I think he'll be a good Governor? Well, that's another question."
For all the attention and, often, affection he has received, the mountainous hulk of a Governor has yet to show much political muscle. Steve Schier, a political science professor at Carleton College, said Mr. Ventura, as a third-party candidate, had no real base of power in the Legislature.
"He can huff and he can puff, but he can't blow their house down," Professor Schier said. "Jesse is a man without a political base. This guy has no votes in the State Senate or House that will, forgive the pun, go to the mat for him."
Governor Ventura has not pressed hard for any agenda. Indeed, some politicians have scoffed that Mr. Ventura, a boat owner, has made regulations on watercraft one of his chief concerns. Moreover, some legislators have complained that Mr. Ventura does not always make himself accessible or engage in the nitty-gritty of government.
The departing Democratic Party chairman, Dick Senese, predicted that Mr. Ventura's outrageous style "will wear thin," especially if the state's robust economy falters. Mr. Senese said the Governor's perceived contempt for negotiation and compromise would ultimately hinder his ability to govern.
"He's fond of saying he's not going to play the games politicians' play," Mr. Senese said. "But it's not only the game of politics, it's the game of life. You and your friends can't decide what restaurant to go to without discussion and compromise."
Professor Schier said the Governor had staked his ground as "a centrist with an attitude."
"His style is fire engine red," he added, "but his policies are beige."
That moderation, Professor Schier said, makes the Governor appealing to many Minnesotans who are weary of the very liberal character of the state's Democratic Farmer Labor Party and the sharply conservative bearings of its Republican Party.
On the biggest issue, how to handle the state's budget surplus, Mr. Ventura favors a rebate to taxpayers. But he would cap the rebate at $5,000 per household. Mr. Ventura has also proposed big increases in spending for education and public housing. And he favors the creation of a light rail transit system between Minneapolis and the suburbs.
Those positions have won the support of Mayor Sharon Sayles Belton of Minneapolis.
"We have a shared agenda," she said of Mr. Ventura. Ms. Sayles Belton, who is black and considered a political liberal, acknowledged that she had winced when the Governor's appointments did not include any blacks.
Questions about the lack of diversity in his Cabinet bring a glower to the Governor's face.
"I don't believe in quotas," he said with an angry growl. "I pick the most qualified people."
Mr. Ventura noted that some of his top advisers have included blacks. And he said he had received few applications from blacks for Cabinet positions. Minnesota is more than 90 percent white.
Mr. Ventura also created a stir by requesting, and obtaining, a permit to carry a pistol. But he said he does not carry it while making his rounds at the Capitol, as some leaders had feared he would do.
Shortly after an apparent cheating scandal was exposed among University of Minnesota basketball players, he raised eyebrows by suggesting on a television show that athletes should not be bothered by school work.
"My view is, to eliminate this cheating, or the possibility of it, why not let kids go to college and just be athletes while they're there?" Mr. Ventura said. "No classes. Let them simply play.
"Then when they're done, if they don't make it in the N.F.L., if they don't make it in the N.B.A., if they don't make it in pro baseball, whatever it might be, then give them their scholarship."
He also offended some Minnesotans with his answer to a young single mother who had described her plight to the Governor at a forum. In essence, the Governor told her, she had gotten herself into trouble and should not expect the Government to solve all her problems.
While some people were outraged by his seeming lack of empathy, many others cheered the Governor for being straightforward.
"He speaks from the heart like an average, ordinary Minnesotan," said Emmett Carson, the president of the Minneapolis Foundation, a private group that supports charities. "That is what is so refreshing, and sometimes so scary, about him."
Mr. Ventura, who rarely misses a chance to promote his upcoming book, "I Ain't Got Time to Bleed" (Villard), has gotten into a war of words with a much more understated Minnesota figure, Mr. Keillor. His book, "Me, by Jimmy (Big Boy) Valente as Told to Garrison Keillor," a stinging satire of a professional wrestler with an unmistakable resemblance to the Governor, enraged Mr. Ventura.
Mr. Ventura has criticized Mr. Keillor as "a high brow," described his radio show as "boring" and said, "I never watched it."
Mr. Ventura said he much preferred the brand of humor found in the movie "Fargo," which lampooned Minnesota stoicism.
"Graphic violence and things you can laugh at," he said, referring to the movie. "That's much better."
As for President, Mr. Ventura said some polling organizations had found that nationally, he had the support of 23 to 32 percent of respondents.
In the White House, he would tell the truth, Mr. Ventura said, as he sprinkled his speech with barnyard epithets and roared in delight.
He said he was not planning a Presidential bid just yet.
"But you never say never," he said, folding his powerfully muscled arms across his chest. "Ten years ago, if somebody would have said I'd be Governor, I would have laughed."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jesse Ventura has given up his boa, but not his informality or bravado. (Steve Woit for The New York Times)(pg. A1); After three months as Governor of Minnesota, Jesse Ventura still has the support of 57 percent of the residents, according to a recent survey. Mr. Ventura is shown with farmers soon after his election. (Allen Brisson-Smith for The New York Times)(pg. A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (53%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA; UNITED STATES (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PUBLIC OPINION US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (73%); MAYORS (72%); WRESTLING (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (68%); PUBLIC RADIO (62%); FOLKLORE (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK; VENTURA, JESSE (GOV) BARBARA CARLSON GAGE (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1999



364 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: Most Get Work After Welfare, Studies Suggest

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: BOSTON, April 16

 BODY:
From Idaho to South Carolina, a growing collection of state reports are coalescing into a preliminary but increasingly suggestive picture of the fates of the millions of Americans who have left the welfare rolls under new restrictions, from the success many have at finding jobs to the hunger some endure.
In Washington State, former welfare recipients earn a median hourly wage of $7.40, while in South Carolina the average is closer to $6. In Kentucky, people who leave welfare tend to work in retail or service jobs; in Maryland, both wholesale and retail trade dominates among new paychecks. 
 And in general, according to the early and possibly over-optimistic glimpse these studies offer of life months after welfare, about two-thirds of former recipients find jobs and about one-fifth find themselves worse off than before.
In the latest such detailed study to come out in Massachusetts, a report released today found that 71 percent of people who got off and stayed off welfare reported a year later that someone in their household was working, and 86 percent reported that their families were at least as well off as in their welfare days. Among those here working full time after a year, the average weekly earnings were $323.
The report "is very, very good news," said Claire McIntire, the state commissioner of what used to be called public welfare and is now called transitional assistance. But, Ms. McIntire said, it also "clearly points out areas we need to keep working on."
Those areas include hunger and food stamp use, Ms. McIntire said. The study found that three months after leaving welfare, about 10 percent of former recipients reported having gone hungry, the same percentage as reported having gone hungry while still on welfare. But though the number did not change, the length of time they said they went without food grew, reaching 10 days or more in several cases.
Also, food stamp use, in keeping with a national phenomenon, looked low: only 6.5 percent of the households still off welfare after a year were receiving food stamps, even though many more were eligible.
Such studies tend to present an overly rosy picture, officials acknowledge, because they depend on a small sample -- 210 households, in the case of Massachusetts -- of welfare recipients willing to be interviewed, and those worst off are by nature tougher to find and less willing to talk. Nonetheless, they do suggest that the pattern of widespread deprivation feared by critics of welfare changes has not yet materialized, though they also document a measurable minority that is clearly worse off.
Like many reports on welfare reform, the Massachusetts study "is a case of whether the glass is two-thirds full or one-third empty," said Lawrence Bailis, a poverty and welfare expert at Brandeis University. Some people are clearly better off, Mr. Bailis said, "but our data and the welfare department data showed there are people falling through the cracks."
In addition, the main thing to keep in mind about such reports is that they are essentially best-case scenarios, cautioned Deborah Harris, a staff lawyer for the Massachusetts Law Reform Institute. "It shows what happens in a booming economy, when the people who are most likely to be able to survive without welfare leave welfare, and are not being forced off by a time limit," Ms. Harris said. "And even so," she added, interpreting data from the innards of the 61-page report, "only slightly more than half had family income from earnings after a year."
The Massachusetts economy is indeed booming, with the latest unemployment rate at 2.8 percent. But the state's welfare numbers are much the same as those turning up elsewhere, said Sheldon Danziger, a professor of social work and public policy at the University of Michigan who is working on Michigan's tracking of former welfare recipients. In particular, the finding that about two-thirds of former recipients are working is about par, Professor Danziger said.
"What I would say is that there are no longer people on welfare who were the stereotypical case that upset the public -- that is, people who could have gotten jobs but stayed on welfare -- because all those people have been pushed off," he said.
So now, the two-thirds proportion many researchers are finding "raises the issue of whether there are people who are truly needy who are not getting anything under the new system," Professor Danziger said. "My own view is that some recipients being forced off the rolls are going to need some sort of guaranteed work-for-your-welfare position of last resort" in a sheltered environment, because private employers will not hire them.
Here in Massachusetts, time limits on certain welfare recipients have begun to kick in, and thousands have exhausted their two-year maximum and are being knocked off the welfare rolls. Advocates for the poor complain that the state is unusually tough about granting extensions to those who apply.
Intentionally, Commissioner McIntire said. Otherwise, she said, "we wouldn't have a time limit."
But the report, advocates said, highlights the kinds of troubles awaiting those who lose their welfare benefits now. The report showed that about one-quarter of those who left welfare got back on it, Ms. Harris pointed out. Other states have shown similar numbers, with 24 percent of families returning to welfare within three months in Michigan, 19 percent in Maryland and 38 percent in New Jersey, according to a compilation by the National Conference of State Legislatures.
But with new time limits, many would lose that option, Ms. Harris and other advocates emphasized. And those who remain on the rolls are likelier to be in more difficult situations than those who promptly left.
Brian Flynn, a lawyer at Greater Boston Legal Services, offered as an example his client, Rene Marvel, whose request to get back on welfare after she lost her job was recently denied. Ms. Marvel was told -- incorrectly, Mr. Flynn said -- that she could not get food stamps without welfare. So, though she is scraping by raising a family of five children and sometimes goes hungry, she has not applied, Ms. Marvel said.
"They referred me to the food pantry," she said. "They don't tell you what you really need to know. They tell you what they want you to know, which is that you've been on assistance for this amount of time, you need to find a job."
Ms. McIntire said Massachusetts officials were investigating why the rate of food stamp use was so low, and would not tolerate hunger in the commonwealth. The state is gathering more data and looking into programs to get more information about food stamps to current and former welfare recipients who do not realize it is a separate program with separate eligibility, and will also move to make the stamps easier to apply for, she said.
The Massachusetts report highlighted an array of other telling aspects of life after welfare. It found, for example, that a year out, nearly 18 percent of respondents reported income over $500 a week, while 12 percent reported income below $150. Households also reported greater debt a year out than earlier on, with 20 percent reporting debt of over $10,000, compared with 17 percent after three months.
What the report did not answer, however, was a central mystery of welfare reform: how the many thousands of people who have dropped off the welfare rolls but are not working are managing to support themselves.
In the Massachusetts report, Ms. Harris said, 23 percent were "off welfare and not working, and we have no idea what their sources of income were."
Ultimately, said Mr. Bailis of Brandeis, the bottom line of the report must be that "even if most are better off, we as a society have a concern for people who are in trouble, and our data and these data showed hungry kids."
"I know the commonwealth has planned all kinds of steps to make sure people don't fall through the cracks," he said, "but this is suggesting that even more may be needed."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (STATE); MARYLAND; MASSACHUSETTS; KENTUCKY; SOUTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US) INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FOOD STAMPS (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); FAMILY (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (76%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (76%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY CLAIRE MCINTIRE (65%); SHELDON DANZIGER (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1999



365 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Film Sales Lift Kodak Profit, Sending Stock Up Sharply

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
The Eastman Kodak Company, buoyed by six months of steady growth in film sales, announced yesterday that its net profit in the first quarter, excluding one-time charges, rose 9.3 percent, to $259 million, or 80 cents a diluted share, from $237 million, or 73 cents. Sales rose 6.5 percent, to $3.1 billion from $2.91 billion. The company also said it would buy back $2 billion in stock over the next four years.
Investors reacted positively to the news, sending shares of Kodak soaring $6.4375, or 9.67 percent, to $73. 
 The delighted reaction was a bit startling, in that as recently as February analysts had been predicting that Kodak would earn 89 cents a share. In fact, the stubbornly high expectations worried Kodak so much that on March 29 it warned investors that its earnings for the quarter would not top 80 cents. It indicated that the earnings might even drop as low as 73 cents. But most analysts figured that was a low estimate, and the consensus settled at 76 cents.
Now analysts say it was not the earnings numbers, or even the promise of a stock buyback, that drove the share price up. Rather, they say, it was the indication that Kodak's sales were finally growing again.
"The key is that the revenues were stellar," Jonathan Rosenzweig, an analyst with Salomon Smith Barney, said.
That the stock has long traded at less than 15 times earnings helped as well, added B. Alexander Henderson, an analyst with Prudential Securities. "You put together a cheap stock with significant improvement in revenues, and you're going to get this kind of movement," he said.
Kodak's sales growth came from various places. Film sales in China, Brazil and a few other economically troubled markets were surprisingly strong, as were sales of low-end digital cameras in the United States.
But film sales in America provided the happiest surprise. The nation's entire consumer film market was up 10 percent this quarter from the first quarter of 1998, after rising 9 percent in the last quarter. Kodak did even better, with the number of rolls of film sold rising by 17 percent.
"Sales were a lot stronger than even we had expected," said Harry L. Kavetas, Kodak's chief financial officer.
Moreover, unit sales were up even though neither Kodak nor its archrival, Fuji Photo Film, slashed prices this year. "They're all finally realizing that it is marketing, not price, that makes the difference," Ulysses Yannas, an analyst with Mercer, Bokert, Buckman & Reid, said.
Of course, no one expects film sales to keep growing at a double-digit clip. "It seems unlikely that the very strong growth in consumer markets that's been observed in the fourth and first quarters will persist," Michael Ellmann, an analyst with Schroder & Company, warned.
Indeed, even Kodak's president, Daniel A. Carp, tempered his glee. "It's been quite a while since I've seen two back-to-back quarters of such strong industry growth," he said. "But industry numbers do bounce around a lot as the year goes on."
And pricing may yet put a damper on profits. Kodak promised its retailers aggressive price cuts on films and single-use cameras in May and June, the time when film sales normally start to heat up. "They sell the most film in the second and third quarters, which means they've yet to establish what the really important prices for the year will be," Jack L. Kelly, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs & Company, said.
Moreover, Kodak's sales of consumer digital cameras keep growing, which may not be such a blessing. Kodak still loses money on every unit it sells. And if enough consumers embrace digital cameras, it could be bad news for films. "Digital sales aren't negatively impacting film sales yet, but that will be a front-and-center issue by Christmas 2000," Mr. Henderson of Prudential Securities, said.
There were more immediate tarnishes on the quarter's shine as well. Kodak brought its costs down by only $80 million, possibly jeopardizing its chances to deliver the $470 million in cuts it had promised for the year. Kodak executives, however, insisted the company was on target.
It has delayed its much-anticipated project to electronically deliver processed photos to America Online's 17 million customers. Its sales of motion picture film, long a steady growth area for the company, were sluggish at best.
The company's Eastman Software subsidiary, which lost $65 million last year, continued to lose money. And Kodak wrote off losing bets on some inkjet technologies and retail photo kiosks. Those three troubled areas resulted in a combined charge of $68 million against the latest quarter's earnings.
Still, for the first time since June, the good news in a Kodak quarter handily outweighed the bad. "I know that one quarter does not make a year," Mr. Carp said. "But we are very pleased with where we are right now." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EK (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO EASTMAN KODAK CO (98%); SCHRODER & CO INC (60%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EASTMAN KODAK CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; FINANCES COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS & SUPPLIES MFG (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MARKET SIZE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); PRICE CUTTING (66%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (62%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H MICHAEL MCMAHON (66%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1999



366 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Crime

BYLINE: By Marilyn Stasio 

 BODY:
Storytellers are always digging up the past, but few bring to that melancholy task the exquisite delicacy achieved by Peter Robinson in his new police procedural, IN A DRY SEASON (Avon Twilight, $24). When a drought dries up a reservoir in the Yorkshire dales and uncovers the ruined village of Hobb's End, Inspector Alan Banks of the North Yorkshire Police is given the punishing assignment of identifying the human skeleton that also emerges from the mud.
In a tricky feat of parallel narration, Robinson juxtaposes Banks's attempts to reconstruct the history of Hobb's End with the efforts of a former resident to keep its secrets buried. As Banks pieces together the bare outline of a young war bride who deserted her shellshocked husband after V-E Day, she springs to full life in the memoirs of Gwen Shackleton, her sister-in-law and closest friend. In journal entries that provide a moving portrait of rural England during wartime, Gwen re-creates the daily life of a village by writing about all the things that are missing from it: the fuel and the foodstuffs, the local boy killed at Dunkirk. Remembering a wedding with no confetti, no church bells and no icing on the cake, Gwen feels a great sadness that communicates itself over the years to Banks, who is a sensitive man, and to readers who appreciate a mystery that must be unfolded gently, like an old letter. 
 The wise children and prescient animals that always manage to find their way into Martha Grimes's Inspector Jury mysteries have a book of their own in BITING THE MOON (Holt, $25), which sends two brave girls on a hair-raising road trip from Santa Fe, N.M., to Salmon, Idaho, in pursuit of a child molester and animal abuser. Although this villain is described as "a charming cuss," he seems a pretty straightforward creep, as do the other unfeeling brutes who trap coyotes, stage savage dogfights and slaughter endangered animals in "canned hunts."
The girls are quite another matter. At 14, smart, shy Mary Dark Hope needs to come out of her shell, which she does on this coming-of-age odyssey with the big-eyed wonder of a true explorer. The young amnesiac who calls herself Andi Olivier and feels an affinity with the coyotes she frees from traps is more complicated. Too wise for her years, she's a sober realist with a romantic imagination that makes reality bearable. In Mary's shrewd assessment, "it was as if part of her were weaving a fabric that the other part kept unraveling." Although their "vision quest" bogs down in bumpy scenes and skimpy characters, it crests in a white-water raft trip down the Salmon River (they don't call it "the River of No Return" for nothing) that tests the girls' mettle and inspires some grand nature writing from Grimes.
Maureen O'Donnell, the protagonist of Denise Mina's shattering first novel, GARNETHILL (Carroll & Graf, $24), lives at the top of the highest hill in Glasgow. From this vantage she broods on her homeland, a nation lashed by "drizzling rain and a 50-year recession," its social fabric strained by "endemic domestic violence and armies of drunk men shouting about football."
If Maureen sounds glum, consider her situation: haunted by recurring flashbacks of her father's sexual abuse and still shaky from a breakdown that landed her in a psychiatric hospital, she has just got word that her boyfriend is married. Being a gritty sort of girl, she gets blasted with a friend and wakes up the next morning to find her rotten boyfriend tied to a kitchen chair, his throat cut from ear to ear. With her mental history, Maureen is a natural suspect. But even though her own mother thinks she's guilty, she manages to expose an old, ugly pattern of abuse that has been the ruination of women who lack her resilience -- and her cleansing anger.
The writing isn't pretty, but you can't look away from it. When Maureen visits her former psychiatrist and watches another patient flaunt the scars on her wrists, she makes the wry observation that "visible scars are a good way to stop casual approaches from the happy and content."
Lev Raphael sets his campus mysteries at a factory-like state university in fictitious Michiganapolis, Mich., and populates them with the kind of stupid students and pretentious faculty members who blacken the eye of academia. Happily, he also gives his narrator, a lowly English professor named Nick Hoffman, license to mow down these intellectual pretenders with his scathing wit. In THE DEATH OF A CONSTANT LOVER (Walker, $23.95), Nick risks life, limb and tenure to investigate the disappearance of one student and the violent death of another, while regaling us with nasty digs at "cruel-eyed" administrators, "subliterate and maladjusted" students and department colleagues who treat one another with "all the charm and dignity of snarling terrorists." Although Nick can be a sweetheart when he's with his live-in lover, Stefan, and a smart guy in the company of genuine scholars, the idiocies of academe always bring out the caustic humor that is the best part of him.
Just when you despair of ever finding one of those devious puzzle mysteries that no one seems to write anymore, along comes Robert Barnard with a crafty whodunit like THE CORPSE AT THE HAWORTH TANDOORI (Scribner, $22). Although not much is made of the fact that the story is seated in Bront country, Barnard works some clever variations on the governess-in-peril theme of Romantic literature with a confounding plot that hinges on the fate of an amiable Irish lad who wanders into an enclave of artists and becomes the manservant of a once famous painter, now grown old and living in seclusion on his estate. The whole setup is sinister, but the Gothic atmosphere really thickens when Charlie Peace and Mike Oddie, the likable Yorkshire coppers in this series, confront the "ruthless, egotistical, amoral" genius who lives in the big house surrounded by his adoring disciples -- only to find themselves in the dark heart of a colony of lost souls.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: IN A DRY SEASON (BOOK); BITING THE MOON (BOOK); GARNETHILL (BOOK); DEATH OF A CONSTANT LOVER, THE (BOOK); CORPSE AT THE HAWORTH TANDOORI, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (71%); 

CITY: SANTA FE, NM, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NORTH YORKSHIRE POLICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH YORKSHIRE POLICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (71%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: REVIEWS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MAMMALS (86%); DROUGHT (77%); RIVERS (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); LITERATURE (73%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (72%); CHILD ABUSE (71%); ANIMALS (69%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (66%); COMMERCIAL HUNTING & TRAPPING (64%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (64%); WILDLIFE (64%); 

PERSON: ROBINSON, PETER; GRIMES, MARTHA; MINA, DENISE; RAPHAEL, LEV; BARNARD, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



367 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 6; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1965 words

HEADLINE: A Century Of Art: Just How American Was It?

BYLINE: BY MICHAEL KIMMELMAN 

 BODY:
ARTWISE, was this really the American century? We take the cliche for granted because, well, because we are so arrogant. Never mind that it's just a catch phrase cooked up in 1941 by Henry Luce, the most thoroughly unreconstructed of American chauvinists, partly out of missionary zeal and partly to sell his magazine.
We accept it because, let's admit it, we're proud to have taken over the planet. We only feign embarrassment that people living in remotest Borneo drink Coke and like Mike. Better us, we think, than, say, the French, heaven forbid, because then we would all have to speak their language and eat their food and have shorter work weeks and maybe even live in Paris for a while, and wouldn't that be awful? 
 The American Century is the title of what looks to be an immense two-part survey at the Whitney Museum of American Art, the first part of which, covering the years 1900 to 1950, will open Friday. It's one of several century-ending extravaganzas (the Modern is planning another). And no doubt they all, to some degree, will confront the cliche of American predominance in visual art, deciding what it means and whether it really makes sense.
Why doubt it? For starters, of course, because during half the century not even most Americans cared about American art. Artists like Hartley, O'Keeffe, Weston, Dove, Demuth, Davis, Lawrence, Benton and Marin made little impact here or elsewhere. Their profiles have gone up considerably in the United States as we've had more chances to see their work, but they're undervalued and still hardly ever exhibited elsewhere. People abroad mostly regard them as provincials, the way we regard artists like Ben Nicholson and Stanley Spencer as provincial British painters. It may be unfair but it's the case. John Marin was perhaps the most admired American artist in the United States at midcentury. I'd wager that Marin today is no more familiar even to an art-savvy European than Francis Gruber and Cornelis Corneille are to us.
So when we boast about the American century in art, we really mean the American half-century. Then we must figure out what, if anything, is specifically American about American art during the last 50 years, because otherwise we easily make the mistake of confusing the quality of American art with the impact of the American dollar: to acknowledge that we have dominated the marketplace and the media since World War II is not to say that the visual art that we have produced has been truly distinctive and, more than anyone else's art, has shaped worldwide taste. There's no question about the influence everywhere of jazz and rock and Hollywood films. But we're talking here about painting and sculpture.
And from the beginning, as Robert Hughes has written, American art has oscillated between dependence and invention. Another way of putting it is that American art, for much of this century, couldn't decide how American it ought to be. On the one hand were the regionalists (John Sloan, George Luks, George Bellows, Grant Wood, John Steuart Curry and so on). And on the other hand were the modernists, who, whether they were pure abstractionists or Surrealists, pursued a European model of what you might call pan-nationalism or universalism (Burgoyne Diller, Ilya Bolotowsky, Peter Blume, O. Louis Guglielmi). We devalued them both: American art seemed to us either too derivative of Europe or too local, a contradiction that we never quite resolved.
Then Abstract Expressionism came along, and it was soon touted as the first distinctly American brand of modernism. America, it was said, had finally invented an abstract art that owed nothing to Europe. The American century had begun.
Or at least, that's the standard account. Politically minded art historians during recent decades have added to it the notion, which has become fashionable, that artists like Pollock and de Kooning were then aggressively exported to further an American agenda during the cold war. Abstract Expressionism, according to these historians, became a form of propaganda. The idea was that the Abstract Expressionists enjoyed a freedom of expression that was not possible in the Soviet Union. So the United States Government and the Museum of Modern Art conspired to promote them abroad, in exhibitions like the Venice Biennale and the Sao Paulo Bienal, and pretty soon American art had insinuated itself around the globe along with other American products.
Is it true? Looking back, the Abstract Expressionists don't seem quite so all-American. We can see, for example, how much de Kooning, the Dutchman who sneaked into the United States as a stowaway in 1926 and changed the course of art here, continued to owe to previous Dutch painters like Hals. And there's not much strong evidence that the Abstract Expressionists were ever embraced by the Government during the early 50's; nor were they extensively pushed elsewhere until they had already begun to be supplanted here by a new generation that included Johns, Rauschenberg, Lichtenstein and Warhol. The first Pollock retrospective to tour Europe was in 1958. By then he was already dead. No one abroad seemed terribly impressed, anyway. Shows in Europe of new American art were panned throughout the 50's.
The first Americans to achieve global fame were probably the Pop artists during the 1960's, whose success was obviously linked to the ascendance of American pop culture generally. But it's useful to recall that British artists like Richard Hamilton, Malcolm Morley and Eduardo Paolozzi, and Germans like Sigmar Polke and Gerhard Richter, at the same time and for different reasons, were also using pop images in their work.
So you could say that cutting-edge American art during the early 60's did not so much dominate or shape world taste as dovetail with it, or with a part of it. Meanwhile, America, having developed an inflated ego, no longer seemed to feel it had to pay the same close attention to what was going on elsewhere, and it wasn't until the 1980's, when a booming art market buoyed interest in almost everything, that many myopic Americans finally noticed what Polke and Richter (and also Beuys and Kiefer and various others) had been up to.
Looking back on the generation that emerged during the late 50's and early 60's, it's a guess that internationally speaking, Polke and Richter will be remembered with Rauschenberg, Warhol and Johns among the major figures, and that American art will seem neither as distinct nor as dominant as we tend to think it was.
Prognosticating, of course, is a risky enterprise, but while we're at it, let me also suggest that the most singular agglomeration of Americans in the century may turn out to be the ones who came next: the Conceptualists, Minimalists and Post-Minimalists, among them Donald Judd, Bruce Nauman, Eva Hesse, Richard Tuttle, Ana Mendieta, Robert Irwin, Richard Serra and the artists of diverse stripes who went to work on a vast scale in the American West: Walter De Maria, Robert Smithson, James Turrell and Michael Heizer.
I might add the exceptional case of Philip Guston, an Abstract Expressionist in the 50's, who in the 70's, ignoring almost everyone's advice, remade himself, until he died in 1980 producing what the artist Elizabeth Murray has called sad, nutty songs: wild, angry, cartoonish pictures that caused many people to say he'd lost his mind. Today, when there's so much new art that involves cartooning and surrealism, his weird late works seem astonishingly prescient and moving. Guston has turned out to be one of the most influential American painters at the end of the century.
I don't mean by all this to say that the artists to emerge in the late 60's and 70's are necessarily the best ones we've ever produced. I mean they belong to the first American generation in this century that depends principally on what, by now, had become a modern American tradition: they built on works by Pollock, Rauschenberg, Johns, David Smith, Ad Reinhardt and others who were not even strictly visual artists, like John Cage.
What they produced, moreover, bespoke a specifically American context. Artists like Smithson were working in the American landscape, and Minimalists and Post-Minimalists like Judd and Serra were exploiting a vocabulary of industrial forms that grew out of the American cityscape. Their art actually resembled the streets of SoHo, then still an industrial neighborhood only beginning to be taken over by artists. Earlier Americans like Demuth and Sheeler had painted pictures of industrial buildings in a streamlined style. But the sculptures by artists of the late 60's and early 70's consisted of steel and tar, their stripped-down esthetic evoking not only an urban present but also a Puritan past.
Now we're at the end of the century, and the American paradigm, it seems, has gradually shifted. No doubt all the big century-ending exhibitions will have to confront this fact. Throughout our history, the notion has prevailed that there could be a distinctly American art, as if a particular form or style might encapsulate the nation's identity. Assimilation was an underlying assumption.
But there really has been no national art. It's curious but true that we do not, as a nation, identify with specific American paintings, or at least not with any paintings of serious quality, as Mexicans identify with the works of Rivera and Italians identify with the works of Raphael or Titian. I put it this way to exclude the work of an illustrator like Norman Rockwell.
Can you name any American picture, which, if it were to be sold and end up in another country, would provoke anything like the national heritage debate that surrounds the Greeks and the Elgin marbles? Certainly not a Pollock or a Warhol. And if you cite "Washington Crossing the Delaware" then consider the fact that not more than a handful of Americans have even heard of the man who painted it (Emanuel Leutze).
We're so enamored of the free market that we don't think of American art in terms of national treasure. But more to the point, we're so diverse culturally: the goal of a synthetic American art remains illusory because the idea of an American identity is, in the end, an illusion. If we cling to the melting pot idea, we have also become increasingly alert to its inadequacies.
This is why the paradigm has begun to change. The 90's are a pluralist decade in art, the legacy of multiculturalism, economics and technological change. The breakdown of old borders, thanks to the end of the cold war and the burgeoning of the Internet, has hastened American awareness of culture globally, and vice versa: we see more new art from around the world, and people elsewhere see more easily the art we make.
If, consequently, art around the world today isn't actually more varied than it used to be, we have become more respectful of a wider range of it. We're regularly given chances to view contemporary work from Japan, Korea, India, Africa and Central America, not to mention Europe, and emigre artists here trumpet their roots.
Diversity is now regarded as an asset. That is a prevailing theme in American art at this moment. And America, particularly New York City, as the world's economic epicenter, remains the crossroads for new art, so by extension, diversity is a message being spread around the world. We may be leaving the American century without having produced an American art that speaks for us collectively as a nation, but as a nation we have developed into the nexus for world art.
And who knows? In the future, the American century, if it's still called that, may be defined, paradoxically, not by the art we began to invent at midcentury but by the global culture we helped to disseminate at century's end.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A detail of "Three Flags" (1958) by Jasper Johns, in the forefront of the artists who emerged in the 1950's. (Copyright Jasper Johns/Licensed by VAGA, N.Y.)(pg. 1); "Spiral Jetty," 1970, an earthwork in the Great Salt Lake, by Robert Smithson. (Photograph by Gianfranco Gorgoni/Courtesy of John Weber Gallery and the Robert Smithson Estate); Jasper Johns's "Three Flags," from which the detail shown on page 1 is taken. ( Jasper Johns/Lic-ensed by VAGA, N.Y.)(pg. 37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (57%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

COMPANY: WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (NYC) AMERICAN CENTURY CORP (92%); AMERICAN CENTURY SERVICES CORP (92%); AMERICAN CENTURY PALLET CO (92%); AMERICAN CENTURY COS INC (92%); AMERICAN ART INDUSTRIES (85%); AMERICAN ART CLAY CO INC (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (57%); UTAH, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

SUBJECT: ART; TWENTIETH CENTURY ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (88%); VISUAL ARTS (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (88%); SCULPTURE (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); FILM (68%); 

PERSON: KIMMELMAN, MICHAEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



368 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 27; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: DANCE;
A Performer of Many Faces, All Brazilian

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO; Diana Jean Schemo, a correspondent for The Times, has just completed an assignment as Brazil bureau chief.

 BODY:
ANTONIO NOBREGA, a Brazilian performer who will be making his United States debut at the Kennedy Center's American Dance Festival April 27 through 29, trots out a variety of characters in "Figural," the one-man show he will use to greet North American audiences. The figures he conjures, through mime, dance, music and acrobatics, are not simply creatures of the artist's fancy but a string of types meant as a showcase for Brazil's culturally rich northeast.
That is because Mr. Nobrega, more than most performers these days, feels himself on a mission greater than exploring his own emotions. In his case, he has set out to do no less than preserve Brazilian culture, both inside and out of the country. 
 To Brazilians, Mr. Nobrega is perhaps the most popular performer of music and dance from the northeast, which serves as an artistic wellspring for the rest of the country. In recent years, Brazil's northeast has undergone a cultural resurgence, with the release of films, books, music and dance from the area. The region's music, from the spirited forro to the fusion of choro to the African drums of groups like Olodum, is now a staple of the Rio de Janeiro club scene, and Mr. Nobrega himself typically sells out the Canecao, one of the top concert halls for popular music in Rio.
In a recent telephone interview from his home in Sao Paulo, Mr. Nobrega said he considered Brazil's northeast "the most representative area of Brazil, if you talk about anything cultural at all." Salvador of Bahia was the first capital of Brazil, in the early 1500's. And from Recife, in the neighboring state of Pernambuco, came the country's first export, the sugar cane produced by African slaves. It was here that the cultures that form Brazil -- Indian, African and European -- first mingled and made music.
One of Mr. Nobrega's recent shows in Rio, "Wood That the Termites Don't Chew," recreated the traditions of traveling minstrels of the arid northeast, performers who visit towns and play for the spare change tossed from windows. Mr. Nobrega credits some lyrics and music to texts and traditions more than a century old. True to the minstrel shows of the northeast, Mr. Nobrega's wife and children took part in the show, swirling around the shacks and clotheslines on stage for the exuberant umbrella dances of frevo.
In Washington, audiences will see Mr. Nobrega alone, performing one of the first pieces he choreographed and wrote for his repertory. In "Figural," he dons the brilliant costumes and masks by Romero Andrade Lima, among Brazil's most talented costume designers, to portray a scoundrel, a saint, a beggar woman in rags and Casanova, who dances with a doll. He portrays a clown, Tonheta, to tie the images together in the second part of the show, using humor and music to comment on life's sad parade. Tonheta, who plays several instruments at once, is the only character not to wear a mask.
"What most distinguishes the work of Antonio Nobrega," wrote Barbara Heliodora, dance critic for the Rio daily O Globo, "is his total delivery of himself as an instrument of creation."
Throughout the character changes of "Figural," "there is not one gesture, not one look, that calls attention to Nobrega's person or personality," wrote Ms. Heliodora, who has called the performer's talent and technique "exceptional."
Mr. Nobrega, 46, came to dance only as an adult. He originally trained in classical music, encouraged by his father, a doctor in a sanitarium. In the late 1960's, he played violin with two orchestras, the Chamber of Paraiba and the Recife Symphony. He then joined the Armorial Quintet, a group of classically trained musicians who sought to promote Brazil's native, as against strictly European culture. It was with the Armorial that Mr. Nobrega picked up the rabeca, a four-string instrument of country music similar to the violin. The move would redirect the artist in him utterly.
In the following years, Mr. Nobrega gave himself over to researching Pernambuco, his native state. Economically, the northeast is the poorest piece of Brazil. If Brazil is sometimes nicknamed Belindia -- part first world like Belgium and part third world like India -- Pernambuco belongs firmly in that second end of the definition. But culturally, the northeast is Brazil's richest area, Mr. Nobrega realized. Most of the art with a distinctly Brazilian flavor, from the books of Jorge Amado to capoeira, a form of martial arts borne of slavery and balletic in its symmetry, came from the northeast.
"The roots of Brazil are there," said Roberto da Matta, a Brazilian anthropologist at the University of Notre Dame in Indiana. He noted that the music of the Bahian composer and singer Dorival Caymmi opened the way for bossa nova, while Olodum has played with Paul Simon. "Music in Brazil is an essential element: it's considered the equivalent of money here," Mr. da Matta said. "You have three forro disks, some local food -- which is really national food -- and it's like having a bank account."
Mr. Nobrega studied Brazilian modern dance with Klauss Vianna, and learned pantomime, mimicry and acrobatics at the Dmitri School of Theater in Switzerland. Later, he went to the Advanced School of Circus Art at Chalons-sur-Marne in France.
He calls "Figural" a "synthesis" of archetypes from the northeast, "little choreographic designs that spring form the Brazilian imagination, adding, "The figures represent a Brazilian mythology."
THOUGH Brazil's population, at 163 million, and its Portuguese language provide an instant market for everything home-grown, from computers to line dances, as an artist Mr. Nobrega decries the dominance of United States pop culture.
"I think the health of the world, culturally speaking, lies in what is a part of your soul," he said. "If you cut out that soul, you leave a sad people." On the Rio radio dial, a listener is as likely to pick up American as Brazilian music. If it is Brazilian, it often sounds like American music that just happens to be sung in Portuguese.
"The concept of globalization will be true only on the day that it creates genuine contact," he said. "I'm speaking about my country, which is completely colonized by your country, and by the worst elements. The music of yours that makes it here is not the best of your music, it's the junk. The same with the television and movies. It's a kind of cultural imperialism."
On a more selective level, Charles and Stephanie Reinhart see Brazil exerting an important influence on American culture. The couple, artistic advisers for dance at the Kennedy Center, invited Mr. Nobrega as the only foreign performer in a series about American dance.
"If you look at the history of dance in the United States, a major part of the fusion that's happened has come from Latin America," said Mr. Reinhart. "In the early years of modern dance, you have Catherine Dunham drawing on Caribbean and Brazilian movements. It's part of our heritage in that it's part of what's formed us."
Mr. Reinhart said he had seen Mr. Nobrega rehearse "Figural" at his Sao Paulo studio several years ago and thought his work a good panorama of Brazilian movement. "I think that what he's done, he's done in a new way, even though it's old," he said. "It's like Picasso and the African sculptures: what's modern and what's not modern? It was innovative and yet based on his interpretation of tradition."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Antonio Nobrega, in "Figural," conjures a scoundrel, a saint, a Casanova and others from northeastern Brazil, which has undergone a cultural renaissance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); 

COMPANY: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING DANCE (92%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); VISUAL ARTS (76%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (73%); MUSIC GENRES (71%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (71%); CHILDREN (69%); FASHION DESIGNERS (60%); 

PERSON: NOBREGA, ANTONIO; SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN ANTONIO NOBREGA (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



369 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 13; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2008 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
Seeing the 60's Through a 90's Corrective Lens

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN 

 BODY:
A WHIFF of incense mixed with marijuana smoke drifts through two recent movies, "Hideous Kinky" and "A Walk on the Moon," both of which conjure an era that Hollywood, in its devotion to snugly happy endings, has largely avoided. In the countercultural dream that has so intimidated Hollywood, a hippie Pied Piper with stringy shoulder-length hair, a fringed jacket and reeking of patchouli oil is banging a tambourine on his knee with one hand and flashing a peace sign with the other. Beside him are a trio of spaced-out go-go girls shimmying and gazing groggily into the purple haze.
Although that signature scent, blown across three decades of shifting winds, isn't overpowering in these films, it is just pungent enough to suggest that what we think of as "the 60's" -- the years (1964-72) bracketed musically by Beatlemania and "American Pie" -- were not a hallucination but a messy, uncomfortable reality. In their hesitantly nostalgic ways, both films remind us that in the days of turning on, tuning in and dropping out, people actually followed Timothy Leary's notorious prescription for personal enlightenment. 
 But in remaining true to Hollywood's tidy, late-90's formulas, they also suggest that dropping back in was just as easy and that all that dope smoking, acid tripping, searching, protesting and free love was an adolescent prank, a temporary lapse of judgment.
The notion that this heady ethos was really just an episode in a cultural mini-series whose happy ending finds the Dow Jones industrials hovering around 10,000 and garish $1 million houses sprouting all over the American landscape is a quintessential revisionist view of what the 60's were about. These films insinuate that thousands of ex-hippies, now in their late 40's and 50's and presiding in executive suites, emulated Bill Clinton's experiment with marijuana and never inhaled. And if they did inhale, God forbid their children should follow suit.
Both films focus on young, attractive women who break the rules to pursue sexual and spiritual transcendence, then return to the middle-class lives they renounced. In the smart, beautifully acted "Hideous Kinky," set in Morocco in 1972, Kate Winslet is Julia, a young Englishwoman drifting around North Africa with two young daughters in tow and no money. In Marrakech she meets a Moroccan street acrobat (Said Taghmaoui) who is also penniless. The two make love, smoke hashish and drag the girls along on a risky trek into the Moroccan countryside. Now and then, Julia, who aspires to learn Sufi dancing, makes noises about wanting to experience pure joy by obliterating her ego.
In reimagining an era of hippies, dropouts and seekers after a higher consciousness, "Hideous Kinky" is accurate as far as it goes. But that isn't very far. The movie conveys only the flavor of the time. Julia's quest is portrayed as muddled and vague, and the movie nudges us again and again to recognize what a terrible, irresponsible parent she is. When one daughter insists she wants to return to England and have a proper education, her mother is dumbfounded. True, Julia radiates a certain defiant charm. But in the film's overall judgment, she is also a silly spaced-out fool who must come to her senses. And in the end she does.
"A Walk on the Moon" follows its protagonist Pearl Kantrowitz (Diane Lane) to a working-class Jewish resort in the Catskills in the summer of 1969. Pearl, who married her husband, Marty (Liev Schreiber), when she became pregnant at 17, is now the mother of a 14-year-old daughter, Alison (Anna Paquin), who is just entering adolescence. On weekdays, while Marty is back in New York City repairing televisions, Pearl plunges into an affair with Walker (Viggo Mortensen), a smolderingly handsome peddler of blouses that he sells to the summer colony out of his van.
Pearl momentarily loses her head and slips off with Walker to the nearby Woodstock festival, where her daughter accidentally witnesses Pearl, body-painted and ecstatic, being whirled in her lover's arms. Alison is understandably upset. When Pearl finally must choose between Marty and Walker, the small, finely acted film caves in to 90's movie values. In the final scene, Pearl and her husband begin a tentative slow dance to music on the radio: a soupy version of Dean Martin's "When You're Smiling." Marty, realizing that his wife has almost left him behind in the 50's, switches to a station playing Jimi Hendrix's "Purple Haze." Signaling that he'll try to get with the times, he relaxes and swings out.
"A Walk on the Moon" is a decent little film, but in reducing a wrenching life decision to a matter of switching radio stations, it blithely denies the enormous power of the forces that have tugged Pearl into an affair. An earlier scene in the film juxtaposes images of Pearl and Walker making love at the exact moment Neil Armstrong first sets foot on the moon. The implication is clear. For Pearl, this is not just a dalliance but an earthshaking, life-changing sexual awakening. Had "A Walk on the Moon" been made in the 70's, there is little doubt that the character would have forsaken her family to go on the road with her sexual savior. Today, that's just not permitted.
IN what they show and don't show of the 60's, both films raise disturbing questions: When did it become embarrassing for the mass media to portray the counterculture as a movement driven by passionate idealism and a reckless insistence on crashing through barriers? Could it be that the movies are too scared of the era and the freedoms it represented to confront it head-on?
Every now and then, Hollywood has tried. "Easy Rider," which came out of left field in 1969 and was made for a dime, proved to be a one-of-a-kind, a fluke. While other films of the period, like "Midnight Cowboy" and "Five Easy Pieces," and later, "Shampoo" and "Coming Home," expressed a combative, rebellious spirit, they didn't dive in to the thick of things. Hollywood was very late in addressing the Vietnam War. It had to be safely behind us before we could begin to watch movies about it. Among Hollywood's leading filmmakers, only Oliver Stone, in films like "Born on the Fourth of July," "Platoon" and "The Doors," has taken the passions of the 60's seriously enough to portray the full impact of the generational and political fissures that ripped open the American psyche.
Outside of Mr. Stone's films, vintage rock music and rock documentaries, from "Monterey Pop" to "Gimme Shelter," seem to do a much better job than most feature films of capturing the era.
One could list a hundred reasons why Hollywood has never given the 60's their due. High on that list would be the problem of 60's fashions. Even at the time, the hordes who donned the more extravagant hippie regalia often looked ridiculous. How could anyone take such weirdly dressed characters seriously? Another problem is the stoned-out argot adopted by millions of young people in the late 60's and early 70's (with its "right ons";"like, mans" and "heavies"). Today it sounds quaint and surprisingly conformist.
Post baby-boomers may find it hard to envision block after city block of shaggy-haired youth clad in exotic robes and finery milling in the streets. But such scenes were commonplace in San Francisco, in college communities and in the East Village of New York City in the late 60's. On Sunday afternoons, the area around the Bethesda Fountain in Central Park became a stoned soul picnic in which hundreds of artists, pot-smoking hippies, drug dealers and musicians congregated for fragrant, dreamy communal love-ins.
As one who embarked on the same pharmaceutical, sexual and political consciousness-raising adventures that millions of others did, I can remember a day when I was so convinced that the world had changed forever that I tossed all my neckties into the trash. In the antimaterialistic spirit of the times, I gave away treasured possessions, which amounted to almost nothing in those days: a collection of cherished 45 rpm records donated to a friend's jukebox. Determined to "rip off" the system, one day I bravely pilfered a can of tuna fish from a supermarket shelf.
Visiting some friends in Key West, Fla., in the spring of 1969, I descended on a town crawling with drugged-out hippies, including a self-proclaimed white-robed Jesus. During that sojourn, I met a skinny, acid-tripping girl who solemnly informed me that "Any Day Now," the title of Joan Baez's new album of Bob Dylan songs, referred to Mr. Dylan's imminent suicide. "He's just going to trip right out," she said with that special hushed "Wow!" in her voice that seriously hip people attached to all things mystical.
As much as that counterculture was mobilized by antiwar sentiment, its driving force was really drugs, and not only psychedelics. In the quest to "break on through to the other side," as Jim Morrison bellowed, any and every stimulant was enlisted for the cause. Amphetamines, which were widely available back then and carried little stigma, contributed immeasurably to the collective paranoia that was rapidly building up. And, of course, there was always booze to smooth the transitions.
Two other random flashbacks. In one, I am hounded out of a Chinese restaurant by a radical feminist and her poet husband after I describe my extremely liberal political views. But they and their revolutionary comrades have big plans to sabotage the 1968 Presidential elections by, among other tactics, vomiting on the voting machines. Liberals were their worst enemies. "When the revolution comes, you'll be one of the first to go!" they scream, and I'm out of there. Fast.
In the other, I am living in New York and supplying lyrics for a revolutionary rock band no one has ever heard of in another city. Asked to donate $300 -- a third of my life savings at the time -- for sound equipment, I gladly obliged, only to discover that the money has gone up the leader's nose in crystal methedrine. So much for the new Beatles!
Recalling such crazy 60's moments, I wonder if what we call the 60's was a mass psychosis that is either best forgotten or swept under the rug. But I don't think so. For all the smashed lives and insanity that such excesses brought, the root of that frenzied exploration still strikes me as an honest, if naive, effort to improve the human condition by storming the barricades of consciousness. That idealism is distilled in the best music of the era, which combines a majestic rage with an exhilarating eroticism.
Today's social climate is in many ways antithetical to that of 30 years ago when the notion of capitalism itself was under siege. The power of today's American economy combined with the country's conservative, comformist values, make joining the system irresistible to all but a few. Rebellion is reduced to a matter of fashion statement.
IF the AIDS epidemic ended the sexual revolution, sexual allure has increasingly become the major marketing tool fueling the economy. Rock may have been superseded by rap, but the history of rock-and-roll is probably the one with which more Americans are familiar than any other. As for drugs, the new miracle elixirs, Prozac and the other serotonin boosters are tools to help people become happier, more efficient producers in the great American money machine.
Movies may never get the 60's right. For one thing, those days are fading fast, and many of the Hollywood studio executives calling the shots are Wunderkinds in their 20's and 30's whose closest contact with the 60's are VH1 flashbacks or their parents' (censored) anecdotes.
In his sweetly prescient 60's ballad, "Younger Generation," John Sebastian, a quintessential Woodstock-era songwriter, contemplated impending fatherhood and the raising of an adolescent son. "And then I'll know that all I've learned my kid assumes/ And all my deepest worries must be his cartoons," he mused.
In a way he was right. But the lessons taught by the 60's are not the ones that those who lived through them imagined they would be.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kate Winslet, in "Hideous Kinky," as an Englishwoman broke and with two daughters in North Africa, who tries to resist the pull of home and her middle-class life. (Stratosphere Entertainment L.L.C.)(pg. 13); Viggo Mortensen and Diane Lane as Woodstock-era lovers in "A Walk on the Moon." (Jonathan Wenk/Miramax Films)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HIDEOUS KINKY (MOVIE); WALK ON THE MOON, A (MOVIE)

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (88%); AFRICA (66%); MOROCCO (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (88%); AFRICA (66%); MOROCCO (51%); NEW YORK, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS FILM (90%); CANNABIS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (50%); 

PERSON: WINSLET, KATE; LANE, DIANE; SCHREIBER, LIEV; PAQUIN, ANNA; HOLDEN, STEPHEN KATE WINSLET (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



370 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 2; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: THE VIEW FROM/NEW HAVEN;
Afraid of Shakespeare? Not These Students

BYLINE: By PEGGY McCARTHY 

 BODY:
JAMES ANDREASSI JR. loves to tell about a tough-talking teen-ager with an arrest record who was a reluctant student in his Shakespeare program.
"At first, he was less than enthusiastic about participating. Little by little, we were able to draw him into our evil Shakespeare web," Mr. Andreassi said. He said he assigned the boy a speech from Hamlet and "to say he was having difficulty with the text, would be an understatement. But, by the end, he was performing it with a great deal of panache and aplomb." 
 At the cast party, the boy grabbed Mr. Andreassi. "Thanks man," he said. "I ain't never done nothing before."
Mr. Andreassi, artistic director of The Elm Shakespeare Company in New Haven, said the boy's ultimate response symbolizes the transformation that can occur when students are taught Shakespeare in a stimulating and encouraging way.
"Every kid wants to be validated. Every kid wants success," he said. "There's something about paricipating in a project where Shakespeare is the focus that's intimidating to kids. When they succeed in that forum, it really is significant to them."
The Elm Shakespeare Company includes Equity actors, and in the summer performs Shakespearean plays, with no admission charge, in Edgarton Park in New Haven. During the academic year the company works with students and teachers from the High School in the Community in New Haven, a magnet school with students from New Haven and surrounding towns.
As part of an English class, the students read and analyze Shakespearean plays, and write papers, much like students in any Shakespeare class. In the course, however, they also work with members of the Shakespeare Company. They perform a play, learning skills as varied as fight choreography for battle scenes to stage managing.
In the process, they usually develop self-esteem, self-confidence, and a love for something they would never have expected to enjoy, according to teachers and Elm Shakespeare staff.
Charlene Andrade, director of "Julius Caesar," which the students performed last month, explained that "we start by telling them, 'you cannot fail. You have permission to be as wonderful as you are.' When they're given that kind of permission, they're not afraid."
At a rehearsal, Ms. Andrade pointed out a dark-haired girl who was too shy to say one word on stage, so was working as stage manager. But, like others without speaking parts, she was expected to appear in crowd scenes. In a run-through of a battle scene, Richard Squeri, the fight choreographer, made a point of singling out the girl, saying that she was desparately needed in that scene. "I love what you're doing," Mr. Squeri told the girl. Then he called to Ms. Andrade who sat in the audience: "She can't be the stage manager for this scene because she's in the battle."
Ms. Andrade, who teaches theater in the New Haven school system, said "I want these kids to leave with a sense of success." She said "they will shine" whether they have only one line or, in the case of the shy girl, "she will shine in the battle."
High School in the Community is an alternative magnet school which has classes in 3 1/2-hour blocks, which makes it suitable for the sizeable task of putting on a Shakespearean play. And, as the play's performance date nears, students put in some six-hour days just for this class, learning lines and rehearsing.
The school attracts a diverse population of students, racially, ethnically and economically, Ms. Andrade said, adding their success at working as a cohesive group in the Shakespeare class "is a microcosm of what is possible" in society.
Student participants, taking a break from a rehearsal to study their lines, said the class is far from typical. Dante Freeman, a 17-year-old junior from New Haven, had never been in a play before he was given the lead role in "Julius Caesar."
"I thought I was going to have a small part. When I found out I was Caesar, I said, 'You're kidding.' Now, I'm at home every night rehearsing my lines.
"I finally get to find out what I can really do," Mr. Freeman added. "I can reach out and grab the part.
On the other hand, Nicole Avellani, an 18-year-old senior from Hamden has taken theater workshops in the past, prompted by her mother who was a theater major in college. But, the student who played Portia and the narrator said before she took this class, "I never really had as much passion for it."
On the stage, the atmosphere is professional. The students are expected to meet high standards and be attentive, but are also lavished with praise.
"It's something you actually have to put your mind to," said Shantell Darden, 16, a sophomore from Hamden. She added that she particularly enjoys the cooperative aspect of it. She said she has been in plays since the fourth grade and she's "not used to working with everybody helping each other with lines."
The Elm Shakespeare Company was established in 1995. The relationship with the High School in the community began the same year. Ellen Dion, an English teacher who conducted the class this year, said when former students are asked what they remember most about high school, they point to this class.
Mr. Andreassi said the school doesn't have sports or an identifiable "school spirit" activity. "We help with that," he said.
Company staff also conducts workshops and two-week seminars in other schools around the state. The group, a non-profit organization, is a member of "Young Audiences of Connecticut," which coordinates arts education activities for schools.
Next summer, 10 students will receive internships to Elm Shakespeare and become part of the crew that works on the production that is performed for the public.
This year, "Henry IV, Part I," will be performed Aug. 18-22, Aug. 25 through 29, and Sept. 1-5, all at 8 p.m. The company's goal is to attract 30,000 people, who are encouraged to bring their families and picnics. For information: (203) 772-1474.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Students from High School in the Community, a New Haven magnet school, choreograph battle moves for "Julius Caesar," right. Nicole Avellani, below, with a speaking part. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JR (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ELM SHAKESPEARE COMPANY SHAKESPEARE CO UNITED KINGDOM (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: ELM SHAKESPEARE COMPANY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (86%); ARRESTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); THEATER (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); CHOREOGRAPHY (75%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); 

PERSON: SHAKESPEARE, WILLIAM (1564-1616); MCCARTHY, PEGGY MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



371 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: Q & A/Mary Travers;
When Life Is a Song, and Also a Cause

BYLINE: By NANCY POLK 

 BODY:
MARY TRAVERS, folk music icon, mother, grandmother and idealist, lives quietly with her husband, Ethan Robbins, two cats and a dog named Peaches in an exquisitely restored 250-year-old Redding farmhouse. The house is filled with books, antiques and memorabilia from worldwide touring as part of the group called Peter, Paul and Mary.
An enormous painting of the singer topless dominates one wall of the living room. Another wall holds a picture of Ms. Travers at 19 playing her guitar. Photos of her mother, her two daughters, Erika and Alicia, and her two grandchildren crowd the top of the piano. "We are four generations of strong women," she said. 
 Her 1960's principles have not faded with time but she says, "I'm not an ideologue," then adding, "except when I was a parent. Parents are not democratic. We need democracy in the big picture. As a parent, it's 'Go to your room.' "
After almost 40 years of performing, Peter Yarrow, Noel Paul Stookey and Mary Travers have hardly slowed down. She said they have no plans to retire, as she got ready to fly to Minneapolis, Toronto and Chicago for a week of performances. Every year the group prepares new material. They add six new songs and remove six. They rehearse in Manhattan at the home of Peter Yarrow.
The one aspect of her performing life she dislikes getting to the performances. "What isn't fun is getting on and off airplanes," she said.
Recently the group released a new compact disk called "Songs of Conscience and Concern," a collection of lesser known folk songs with social and political messages.
Ms. Travers's farmhouse is a retreat between performances. It is a place where she indulges her passions: cooking and gardening. She also reads and writes poetry and says "From time to time I fix lyrics." One of her poems has been set to music by Noel Paul Stookey. It was written about Ms. Travers's mother, who died last year of Alzheimer's disease.
Recently Ms. Travers shared some of her memories and plans. Following are excerpts from that conversation.
Q. Why do you credit your mother with influencing your life the most?
A. My mother was a marvelous woman: bright, beautiful, dry wit. She was the head of public relations at Danbury Hospital for years. She wrote a couple of books. One was on Margaret Sanger for children, a cookbook, one about the children's crusades.
She used to say to me "be careful of compromise, Mary. There's a very thin line between compromise and accomplice." So that was Mom. I think I grew up at a time with mentors. I think it's very hard for young people today because there isn't really a whole lot of good mentor material out there. I had Pete Seeger, I had my mother and my father, although my mother and father were divorced. My father was a very ethical person.
I was surrounded by a very committed community growing up in Greenwich Village. Most of my mother's friends were writers and artists, people who by nature are committed and, also many of them were committed in what I call the ethical-political sense. So I grew up listening to Paul Robeson and Pete Seeger, believing that inequality was an evil, that women had the right to be anything they want to be and should work.
Feminism wasn't something I discovered in the 60's. It was something I had generational input into. The women who had been the most vibrant in my life all worked. And were responsible for themselves as well as for and to other people.
Q. How did you begin your singing career?
A. Singing was a very social thing in the Village. Every Sunday you met up with friends and sat in the park and sang. You went from one group to another. One minute you were singing blues with somebody. Then you went to another group filled with banjoes and did something like the "Rocky Mountain Rundown." There were lots of different groups.
Q. Is that how you met Peter Yarrow and Noel Paul Stookey?
A. I was living on MacDougal Street and Noel Paul Stookey was working across the street at the Gaslight Cafe. He was working as a half singer, half comedian, half master of ceremonies. I realize that's three halves. I didn't pass math.
Peter had just graduated Cornell and was going to take off for a year bumming around. He had a manager named Albert Grossman who wanted to form a group with Peter and some other people. There was a store called Izzy Young's Folklore Center. It had pictures all over the wall of folk singers, everybody who had opened their mouth. There was a picture of me. Peter is purported to have asked Albert "Gee who's that?" and Albert said "That's Mary Travers. She'd be great if you could get her to work." He's been trying to get me to work for years, almost 40 of them.
We've fought. We've cried. We've made up. We tried never to say the thing you can't take back while dancing as close to that line as you can.
Q. How did you raise two children and perform?
A. Dancing very fast! I remember when Erika got the mumps. I forget whether it was Peter or Paul who'd never had the mumps, but we had a dicey moment there hoping that they wouldn't catch it.
It wasn't totally easy, but on some levels in retrospect, it was great to have children. When I started singing at the very beginning with Peter and Paul, Erika was 9 months old. So I always did it with kids. I had never wanted to be famous. It never occurred to me. It never occurred to be that I was going to be a singer. I sang as a hobby, something I did for fun. It was really a surprise to me that I ended up doing this professionally. Fame hit rather quickly. Erika was in many ways my sea anchor. She was my reality base. "The baby has to go to the doctor." "The baby needs new shoes." "I can't do that because I can't find a baby-sitter." There was always that reality. I think it saved me from a lot of trouble or what would have become trouble. Fame be can a very destructive force on somebody's life if they are an unformed human being. I was just 23 at that time.
Q. Where does the political activism come from?
A. There are moments in our lives that are pivotal. I think the March on Washington in 1963 with Dr. King was such a moment.
I've always been the ravenous reader in the group and I had read about having a moment where you have a kind of revelation, usually in a religious context. I never understood what words like epiphany meant. They are great words but what do they mean? At the March on Washington I had both an epiphany and a revelation. I felt like I was three feet off the ground and I saw the truth.
The truth was that people of good will could effect, nonviolently, a moment of social change. Up until then I think the only time I saw large crowds functioning was on newsreels and they weren't functioning for good reasons.
Q. Does society still need changing?
A. We need to have a change. The change that I'm looking for has to do with a realization things have gone too far. For instance, this latest shooting in New York and the coincidental firing of a New Jersey police officer over the issue of racial profiling. All of a sudden the issue of racial profiling is popping up everywhere. This could be a very good thing because it may just wake up some folks to the fact that racial inequality still exists. We have not finished this job.
Q. How is life different today from your youth?
A. What we have in common with the 50's at the moment is a strong economy. I have the Mary Travers theory of social change. That is, when the economy is really good people tend to be more generous about social issues, so I'm hopeful. We need to get on with the business of being a more integrated society.
We make a mistake expecting that everyone is going to have the time now. One of the wonderful things about the 60's was college kids could take a year off and work on voter registration for example. You can't do that now. It's so damn competitive out there and everyone is worried about money. Lots of those activists from the 60's got married, had children, sent them to college. I think when college costs $33,000 a year, more than a lot of people earn in a year, we have to ask what's wrong with this picture?
Q. Why do Peter, Paul and Mary do so many benefits?
A. I was raised to believe that everybody has a responsibility to their community and I use the word very loosely. It's a big community. If I get recognized in the middle of the Sinai Desert I have a big community.
Q. Has folk music lost its appeal?
A. Folk music can be found at folk festivals like the one in Curryville, Texas or Philadelphia and also at lots of little clubs. Folk music is alive and well and so is Mary!
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Travers, in her 250-year-old Redding farmhouse and still performing after nearly 40 years, says folk music is alive and well. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); NEW YORK, USA (54%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: PETER PAUL AND MARY (MUSIC GROUP) PETER PAUL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: PETER PAUL AND MARY (MUSIC GROUP)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); NEW YORK, USA (54%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); GRANDPARENTS (90%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (77%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); POETRY (67%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (50%); 

PERSON: TRAVERS, MARY; POLK, NANCY MARY TRAVERS (96%); PETER YARROW (79%); NOEL PAUL STOOKEY (74%); ALBERT GROSSMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



372 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 2; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: Habitats /Sutton Place;
For a Designer, the Agony Of Renovation Is a Joy

BYLINE: By TRISH HALL 

 BODY:
EVERYONE talks about how difficult it is to renovate: the time, the energy, the angst. Potentially wonderful apartments sit on the market for months, even in this economy, because they require extensive work, and nobody has the nerve to take them on.
Joann Brancato, however, loves to renovate. A designer who does a lot of residential work in Manhattan, she talks about the thrill of renovating the way other people talk about a vacation in Paris or a great score in the stock market. She feels ecstatic when a space is being gutted, when there is an opportunity to create something new. "I love the disruption of it all," she says. 
 So when a broker showed her a particularly infamous apartment on Sutton Place a year ago, she didn't flee they way other people had. In the world of disaster apartments, it ranked among the worst. It hadn't been occupied in three or four years. It had an overpowering stench of mothballs and mold. When the curtains were pulled back to let in a bit of sunlight, the fabric disintegrated. Thick dust covered everything.
On the other hand, the co-op apartment was 2,700 square feet, not including the wrap-around terrace, for $800,000, with a maintenance of $3,300 a month in a doorman building. She had just given birth to her second child, and she and her husband, David Wirtz, a lawyer, really wanted to move out of their small two-bedroom apartment on Fifth Avenue near 86th Street.
They didn't want to leave their neighborhood, because Central Park is a paradise for parents whose children grow up knowing every inch of the terrain, every bump on the playground slides. But when Ms. Brancato told real estate brokers what she and her husband could pay, and that they wanted 2,000 square feet on the Upper East Side near the park, "all of them laughed at me," she says. They would have liked a loft downtown, in TriBeCa, but they couldn't find one they could afford with a doorman.
And so they ended up looking at the apartment on Sutton Place. Her husband liked it immediately. He is 6 feet, 4 inches tall, and although the 8-foot, 6-inch ceilings were not unusually high, the large space felt comfortable, especially compared to the boxy apartments they had been looking at. . The price was right. And he trusted that his wife, something of a miracle worker, could fix it up.
Ms. Brancato, however, had the opposite reaction. "I hated it," she says. She knew the L-shaped apartment had a southern exposure, but the draperies were so massive and heavy that the presence of light was a theoretical concept. The apartment was even more chaotic than most because it had been assembled from three units and never completely integrated. Vinyl and pink carpeting covered the floors, and there were gates everywhere that had been used to restrict the movement of dogs. "It was really hideous," she says.
She disliked it so much that she didn't want to spend much time there considering the design possibilities. "It stunk," she says. She knew she had to see a floor plan before its potential would be clear. And she agreed to do that only to please her husband. She had absolutely no interest in living on Sutton Place.
"I didn't want to be on the East River," she says. "I didn't like the lobby. I didn't like the hallway." And she didn't know anyone in the neighborhood. She had never even thought of looking in Sutton Place, an area that to her seemed filled with old people, with no potential playmates for her children.
But when she saw the floor plan, she knew she could give it the open, easy, loftlike feeling that she likes, because the structure, and the light, were there. "I knew I could eliminate walls," she says. She didn't know, though, whether she could overcome her negative feelings about the neighborhood. But she decided she had to try. Moving to the suburbs was impossible, in her mind.
"I grew up on Long Island," she says. "Everybody was the same. I didn't know anybody black, or with an accent, or anybody very rich or poor." Besides, the suburbs are clearly too quiet for a woman who likes to watch walls fall. "I need my adrenaline pumping all the time," she says.
AND so they began. Fast. The day after they closed on the apartment last May, they moved in, because they couldn't afford to rent another place while renovating the new one. She and her husband, as well as their daughter, Meghan, who is soon to be 4, and their year-old son, Michael, lived in a section of the apartment that had been a studio. "Once they started ripping things out of here, it was such a high," she says. "It took a lot of Dumpsters." Although she does the same thing for a living, she says, "it's also my obsession; the transformation of space to me is very exciting."
Last October, they moved into the finished section while work proceeded in other areas. But construction never progresses seamlessly. "It was a nightmare for me," she says. "The night the cabinet guy was installing the kitchen cabinets, my daughter is in there playing with dolls, and I'm cooking, and my son is eating nails off the floor. And that was typical." Her son never did swallow a nail, she says, but "he tried very hard."
The finished space is clean, spare and serene, but also warm and inviting. There are no messy piles around. "For fun, I clean closets," Ms. Brancato says. But she also designed the space to hold the clutter that multiplies in families with children. Near the entry is her "stroller closet," an urban version of a country mud room.
The lighting is subtle and multifaceted. In the hallway are tiny halogen lights, and over the dining room table one small tightly focused light shines down on a box of grass. The windows, of course, have been stripped of the light-deadening fabric, and the apartment now has the airiness it should have on the eastern edge of Manhattan. She reconfigured the space to create three bedrooms, as well as a dining room, den, living room and kitchen, and an office for her business. Through the door of her daughter's room she cut a square; through her son's, a circle. It gives them a place to have fun, and throw balls, and allows her to peek in.
AMAZINGLY, she did all the work for about $220,000, which was possible, she says, because "I don't like to spend money foolishly." Her knowledge of materials and their prices helped her make choices that kept costs down.
She used simple tiles in the bathrooms, not marble. In the kitchen she used slate, not granite. Rather than putting down new flooring to replace the flawed parquet, she had it painted with Benjamin Moore China White and stenciled in a checkerboard pattern. All the walls are painted a shade of gray, or purple gray. "If you have wonderful lighting, a good paint job, and good floors, you don't need anything else," she says.
She is happy with her new place, but naturally, would move tomorrow, to have the chance to gut something again. "I would do it in a heartbeat, but my husband would have a nervous breakdown," she says. "It's not his temperament."
She has even begun to like the neighborhood, At first, she says, "I was nervous because it felt like midtown." But now she appreciates the fact that she can walk to designer showrooms, and that First Avenue is filled with services. "There's a wonderful fish market, and you can get your nails done," she says. "Not that I get my nails done."
She has discovered some small, pleasant parks nearby, and even some children. She credits her broker, Cristina Marzullo of Douglas Elliman, with convincing her that the neighborhood was being unjustly overlooked by people like her. And indeed, Ms. Marzullo says, while apartments there are one-third less than they would be in SoHo or TriBeCa, prices are rising as young families realize it's not as staid as they feared.
While Ms. Marzullo has sold about 20 apartments in the area in the last few years, the sale to Ms. Brancato and Mr. Wirtz stands out, she says -- in part because even her mentor said that she would be crazy to take the listing, that she would never be able to sell it.
After the sale, Ms. Marzullo was one of the brokers nominated by Douglas Elliman for "the deal of the year." Based, of course, not on the price, but on the challenge.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tightly focused light shines down on box of grass on dining-room table. Door to child's bedroom has a window. Joann Brancato and husband, David Wirtz, with children, Meghan (in father's arms) and Michael. View from apart-ment. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (88%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); CHILDREN (70%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (69%); RANKINGS (53%); 

PERSON: HALL, TRISH; BRANCATO, JOANN JOANN BRANCATO (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



373 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: In the Region /New Jersey;
Builders Rush to Meet Call for Flexible Structures

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
MOVING to capitalize on what they say is an increasing demand from tenants to combine several different operations under one roof, developers are constructing a spate of buildings that can accommodate uses from office to distribution and from research and development to light manufacturing and storage space.
Some 1.1 million square feet of space in a collection of such new and renovated one-story structures, called flex buildings, are nearing completion, under way or planned throughout the state, according to Grubb & Ellis, the national commercial brokerage. Most of the buildings are being developed on speculation, including projects in Roxbury, Plainsboro, Franklin Township and East Brunswick. 
 Others are being constructed as build-to-suit deals for specific tenants. An example is the 160,000-square-foot building that Prologis, an industrial real estate investment trust based in Aurora, Colo., with offices in Cranbury, is developing on 22 acres at Darlington Avenue and MacArthur Boulevard in Mahwah for Konica Photo Imaging. Konica will be consolidating its Englewood Cliffs offices and its warehouse in Wayne into larger space in the $15 million Mahwah building when it is completed in September, said Michael Nachamkin, vice president at Prologis.
Much of the demand for flex space, commercial brokers agree, is coming from small companies that are expanding and larger firms that are consolidating. Tenants in the market include telecommunications, pharmaceutical, biotech and computer companies as well as Internet-related concerns. Internet-related tenants may also begin to filter over from Manhattan, brokers say.
"Because of the explosive growth of Internet and new media firms in Manhattan and the tightness of the market there, you may see tenants look at New Jersey as a less costly alternative, just as financial institutions and more traditional corporations did in the past," said Mark Mandell, an associate director at Cushman & Wakefield, another national brokerage firm.
The appeal of such space is its flexibility. The structures, which generally have 30,000 to 130,000 square feet and ceilings just under 20 feet high, can be carved into individual units as small as 3,000 square feet, each with its own entrance and utilities.
"Today, tenants are leaving old space for new," said Arthur Della Salla, regional research manager at Grubb & Ellis. But that flight to quality has not left an unmanageable amount of space available for the market to absorb, given that much of it is in older buildings that, like those in the state's manufacturing sector, may never get leased, he added.
His company put the vacancy rate for flex space in the state's 11-county northern and central New Jersey market, which comprises 25.6 million square feet, at 17.5 percent, up from 14.2 percent the same period last year. At the same time, average annual square-foot rental rates, combining office space with space for other uses, have fallen to $8.35 a square foot from $8.74 a year earlier. Tenants pay their own utility costs. Rents for newly constructed space are higher, about $10 to $11 a square foot on average.
DESPITE the vacancy rate, Mr. Della Salla said, developers are taking a "calculated risk that the strength of the state's economy will continue to fuel the demand for modern and efficient space, particularly in central New Jersey, where many small businesses in emerging industries are located."
Eric Witmondt, president of Associated Realty, a Parsippany commercial brokerage, added that many concerns see flex buildings "as a way to control their work environment and as a less costly and more efficient alternative to pure office space."
In turn, an increasing number of tenants are interested in using up to half of the space in a building, and sometimes more, for offices, he said, noting, however, that for these projects to be successful they must provide "a higher ratio of parking for the increased office usage."
That is the case at the Roxbury Business Park, a single 61,000-square-foot brick flex building on nine acres at Route 46 and Interstate 80 in the Morris County township of Roxbury.
The building, developed by Roxbury Associates, a local development company, was completed in January. It is fully leased to four tenants, each of which is using half its space for offices and the other half for storage, said Mr. Witmondt, whose brokerage handled the marketing and leasing for the project. Annual rents are $6.50 to $7 a square foot for nonoffice space and $13.50 to $14 for office space. Traditional office space in the area rents for $22 to $24 a square foot, Mr. Witmondt said.
He added that his company was also handling the marketing for a 53,000-square-foot structure in which he expects tenants to use 80 percent of the space for offices.
The structure, which the Roseland Property Company of Roseland will start building this summer, will be the final building at the Enterprise Business Center along Route 1 in Plainsboro. The park already has six flex buildings, each with 30,000 to 60,000 square feet, and two 50,000-square-foot office buildings. Annual rents at the new flex building, to be completed by the first quarter of next year, are expected to be $16 for office space and $7 for other space, Mr. Witmondt said.
At the World's Fair Corporate Center at Exit 10 of Interstate 287 in Franklin Township in Somerset County, First Industrial Realty Trust, a real estate investment trust based in Chicago with offices in Livingston, is nearing completion on two speculative buildings. One has 30,000 square feet and the other, 46,000 square feet.
In July 1997, First Industrial took over the 150-acre business park as part of its purchase of 1.8 million square feet of commercial space from the Punia Company, an industrial developer. Some 800,000 square feet of flex space had already been built at the park, which is 97 percent leased, said Hayden Tiger, a regional director of the New Jersey office of First Industrial.
Mr. Tiger said his company pressed ahead with development because of the high occupancy rate and the fact that there had been no new construction of flex space in the immediate area in a decade. The park is also one block from three million square feet of office space, and many of the businesses that moved into the park "to service the corporate users are expanding," he said, adding, "There is a demand for newer upscale flex space." Tenants have already leased 10,000 square feet in each of the two new brick and glass buildings. Rents are $14 a square foot for office space and half that for other space.
In East Brunwick, Denholtz Associates, a commercial development concern based in Rahway, in a joint venture with Praedium Fund, an affiliate of Credit Suisse First Boston, is converting the former Interstate Bakery on Tice's Lane, where Twinkies were once made, into the Tice's Lane Corporate Center. It will contain 283,046 square feet of flex space in three single-story buildings.
Denholtz bought the empty complex, set on 34 acres just off Route 18, last fall for $6 million, or $20 a square foot. "We saw it as a value-added opportunity to take a single-user factory that could be reconfigured and redesigned for multiple users," said Steven J. Denholtz, the developer's president. Even after investing more than $3 million on renovations, he said, the cost to buy and convert an existing building was still lower than the $60 to $65 a square foot it would cost to build a new one.
Mr. Denholtz said he was also encouraged to proceed with the Tice's Lane project because his company has an 84,000-square-foot flex complex nearby that is fully leased. "We are seeing our existing tenants expand and in a good economy tenants are looking for better space," he said.
The old bakery buildings will be converted into blocks of 3,000 to 25,000 square feet each to accommodate up to 22 tenants. Additional windows will also be carved from the exteriors of the structures, which will be given new glass and stucco facades. In addition, truck loading docks will be added, as will landscaping and additional parking.
Rents at the complex, where occupancy will start this summer, will be $10.50 a square foot for office space and $5 a square foot for other space. Mr. Denholtz said there was room on the site for 84,000 more square feet of flex space, which he will build once two-thirds to three-fourths of the space in the larger complex is leased. "Almost every company has an application for flex space," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Rendering of part of three-building Tice's Lane Corporate Center in East Brunswick, with 283,046 square feet of flex space. (Michael Berardesco) Map.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PLD (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (57%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (56%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GRUBB & ELLIS CO (57%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (57%); PROLOGIS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (64%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (54%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (54%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (54%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



374 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: In the Region /Long Island;
Commercial Builders Are Stepping Up Landscaping

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN 

 BODY:
FROM his fourth-floor office at 7600 Jericho Turnpike in Woodbury, Peter Tilles, one of the principals of the Tilles Companies, can look down on a three-acre spring-fed pond that his late father, Gilbert, donated 38 years ago to the Town of Oyster Bay for a town park.
Now he and his brother, Roger, the other principal, are using an ongoing landscaping program to turn their 137-acre, 1.5 million-square-foot Nassau Crossways International Plaza into a parklike setting as well. 
 When Gilbert Tilles and partners began developing the property in 1961, most of the surrounding area, including his acreage, was farmland. Now much of the area bordering Jericho Turnpike has become a dreary string of car dealerships and shopping strips, while Nassau Crossways offers a different environment.
The landscaping program has already cost more than $1 million, as the Tilles brothers turn what was once flat farmland into a rolling terrain of berms landscaped with shrubs, flowers and trees. At their adjoining 87-acre Gateways Executive Mall, they will spend $250,000 on landscaping.
Recently, magnolia trees, daffodils and forsythia trees were blooming and the town-owned pond at the northeast corner of Nassau Crossways was alive with Canada geese and other water birds.
"An office complex should not just be a workplace, but also a park where people can walk and relax," said Peter Tilles, who is also president of the Planting Fields Arboretum in Oyster Bay. "And because of the environment we've created we've never had vacancies even in the bad times, and have attracted some of the top companies in the country."
Although most towns and incorporated villages have a site plan review process that includes requiring developers to submit a landscaping plan, much of the commercial and retail development in Nassau County in the planning stages or under way is going well beyond the basic municipal requirements. Providing curb appeal has become an important marketing tool. "To me, the environment sets the atmosphere for attracting tenants," Peter Tilles said. "Everyone can build an office building, but how do you get people to come?"
A 520,000-square-foot office project being planned by the Tilles Companies for a 52-acre tract near Route 110 in Melville will cost an estimated $125 million, $1 million of which will be budgeted for landscaping, Mr. Tilles said.
The project, to be called Expressway Corporate Plaza, still needs several approvals from the Town of Huntington before it can proceed, but construction could start by the end of the year, with an opening in 2001. The project's three buildings -- one of 100,000 square feet and the others of 200,000 square feet each -- will be built in phases.
"In our work, the landscape is just as important as the exterior design because it is of the essence, in our opinion, to provide the corporate world we work in with a sense of dignity, energy and letting one feel it's their home away from home," said Michael H. Spector, a principal in charge of the Spector Group of North Hills, the architects of Expressway Corporate Plaza.
The Tilles Companies has retained Oehme, van Sweden & Associates of Washington, D.C., as its landscape architect.
Although the landscape design is in the preliminary stages and still needs town approvals, proposals will likely include a series of decorative ponds in front of the three buildings and a natural amphitheater where concerts and other events can be held, with rock outcroppings providing the seating for up to 300 people.
"Landscaping gives a project a panache that nothing else can," said James A. van Sweden, president of Oehme, van Sweden. The Washington firm is also the landscape architect for the Americana shopping center in Manhasset, which has become well known on Long Island for its seasonal displays of flowers, ornamental trees and grasses.
"The first impression is so important," Mr. van Sweden said. "If a shopping center doesn't wow you, you may not even drive in."
THE Americana, which has about 200,000 square feet of shopping with such high-end retailers as Brooks Brothers, Emporio Armani, Tiffany and Polo Ralph Lauren, opened in 1956 "and we have virtually no vacancies," said Frank Castagna, a partner in Castagna Realty, which owns the complex.
"The North Shore has always been a highly landscaped area, so we felt that landscaping our front yard, which happens to be 1,500 feet long and 15 feet wide; our parking lot, and a 20-foot-wide strip in the back established our credibility and was a good business judgment," Mr. Castagna said.
Maintaining the landscaping costs $300,000 a year, added Mr. Castagna, who also owns Wheatley Plaza on Northern Boulevard in Greenvale. The 122,000-square-foot Greenvale shopping center, completed in 1980, reflects the philosophy "that pride of place should not only be reflected in your home but also in the streets you drive along and by public buildings," Mr. Castagna said.
Now Castagna Realty, in conjunction with Stephen Hess of Manhasset among other partners, is planning a 200,000-square-foot office project for an eight-acre site on New Hyde Park Road in North Hills, for which Oehme, van Sweden is also the landscape architect. The five-story precast concrete and glass building is being designed by the Spector Group.
The landscaping, on which the developers intend to spend almost $2 million, will include a reflecting pond, fountains and terraces. Construction will start when rents, now averaging about $28 a square foot, reach the $31 a square foot level needed to justify the $23-million building, Mr. Castagna said.
In Hauppauge, a 408,000-square-foot office complex to rise on 19.6 acres by the Tritec Real Estate Company of East Setauket will include a landscaped plaza between the two buildings, with outdoor seating for office workers. The landscape architect is Richard B. Ignatow of Huntington.
"Architects in general have always tried to include a good deal of vegetation and green area, but unfortunately many times landscaping is the first to go if there are budget constraints," said Charles Baldassano, president of the Baldassano Architectural Group of Ronkonkoma, the architect along with Mojo Stumer Associates of Roslyn, of the Tritec project.
Landscaping usually represents 10 percent to 12 percent of total costs, Mr. Baldassano said, and with the economy doing so well, "developers are more likely to do that today," he said.
Commercial brokers say that buildings that offer an inviting environment have a strong competitive edge, even though landlords may charge somewhat higher rents.
"A top-end company that competes for high-level people wants to offer them as good and as friendly an environment as possible," said Theodore P. Sasso, senior managing director at the Syosset office of Insignia/ESG, which is handling the leasing at the Tritec property, which is known as 100 Motor Parkway.
Starwood Ceruzzi of Fairfield, Conn., which is upgrading a 510,000-square-foot shopping center in Bay Shore called Gardiner Manor Center, is investing $200,000 in landscaping to enhance the redesign of what had been an aging mall.
"A high level of curb appeal makes a difference to shoppers and in turn to the level of sales, and that's what determines whether you attract tenants and whether they exercise the option to renew their leases," said Louis L. Ceruzzi, the president of Starwood Ceruzzi, which is spending $50 million on its project.
The center, still under construction, is already fully leased. New retailers include a Target department store that has taken 135,000 square feet, a Barnes & Noble that will be in 25,000 square feet and a Nobody Beats the Wiz electronics store that will occupy 30,000 square feet. An existing 150,000-square-foot Stern's department store will continue to be the anchor.
Town officials say that the growing emphasis on the environment is all about retaining Long Island's suburban character.
"People move here wanting to get a little patch of green in their lives and it is important that we make every effort to maintain that," said Anthony J. Santino, a Town of Hempstead council member. "Creeping urbanization is always around the corner if we let our guard down."
Oyster Bay adopted a site plan review ordinance in 1996. It requires developers not only to meet setback and parking requirements but also to plant shade trees in parking lots and to use landscaping to shield the view of cars.
"The rationale is to make development more esthetically pleasing and in turn more acceptable to the community," said John Venditto, the Town Supervisor.
"Residents always fear developers will ravage the land, and developers think residents will say no to everything," he added. "Now we have a process that brings all the varied interests together so that they can constructively exchange ideas on the best way to develop property."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Tilles at Gateways Executive Mall in Woodbury, where his company is spending $250,000 on landscaping. Company has spent over $1 million on landscaping for adjoining Nassau Crossways International Plaza. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)
 
Map.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TILLES COMPANIES TILLES COS (78%); NASSAU CROSSWAYS (66%); GREENVALE SHOPPING CENTER (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TILLES COMPANIES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NASSAU COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LANDSCAPING; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; OFFICE BUILDINGS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (88%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (85%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); RETAILERS (74%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (72%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (70%); NEW CAR DEALERS (54%); 

PERSON: SHAMAN, DIANA PETER TILLES (66%); GILBERT TILLES (66%); FRANK CASTAGNA (65%); VAN SWEDEN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



375 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: In the Region /Connecticut;
Drug Maker Buys Vacant GTE Building in Stamford

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
PURDUE PHARMA, a division of Purdue Frederick, a 100-year-old pharmaceutical company that relocated from New York City to Norwalk a quarter-century ago, bought the vacant GTE building in Stamford on March 27 for $77 million.
In doing so it will eventually take some 513,000 square feet of first-class office space off the market in a city where the vacancy rate for such space is at a 10-year low of about 6 percent. 
 The glass-sheathed GTE building, resembling an inverted ziggurat, has stood at 201 Tresser Boulevard as an icon of the city's rebirth since it was completed in 1973. It was the first owner-occupied corporate headquarters to be built in downtown Stamford during the urban renewal period.
Newmark & Company Real Estate of Manhattan represented the seller, the Zurich Reinsurance Company, in the sale and in the purchase of the building from GTE in January of this year. Zurich Reinsurance had contracted to buy the building in 1997, planning to occupy it after the last of GTE's employees left last fall. But late last year, Zurich Reinsurance changed its mind and never moved in.
The company's decision to abandon its plans and sell was based on "a gradual shift in our business to complex financially driven products that we expect to accelerate; we thought it advisable to stay close to the financial community in Manhattan," John Cross, its chief financial officer, said from its Manhattan headquarters.
Stephen Banker, executive managing director for Newmark's Fairfield County operations, said: "This is a milestone for Stamford. The city was at a point where no new construction projects could go forward until GTE was spoken for. Now developers-in-waiting can more aggressively formulate plans to go into the ground."
According to Robin Stein, a land use planner for the city, "there is nothing else like GTE left in the city, not even 100,000 square feet available for any user looking for a large space."
But because Purdue Pharma will not initially occupy the entire GTE building, 70,000 to 100,000 square feet of space will go back on the market, with Newmark as the leasing agent.
Without substantial preleases in hand, lenders are still extremely cautious about making financial commitments for speculative office buildings, but it now appears likely that one of three potential projects will proceed first -- a 480,000-square-foot tower that was approved by the city's zoning board in 1997 for Hines Interests L.P.
The site, at 425 Atlantic Street, within walking distance of the Metro North-Amtrak railroad station and one block north of the new Warburg Dillon Read building, is viewed as "an exceptional setting," said Kenneth W. Hubbard, executive vice president at Hines. At present, he said, "we are very concentrated on preleasing to two financial services tenants who would fill half the building and could assure financing."
A second entry, the Louis Dreyfus Property Group, based in Manhattan, expects to submit an application for a 508,000-square-foot building on Washington Boulevard this month, said David Friedman, a vice president in the developer's Stamford office. The site is across the boulevard from the Warburg Dillon Read property.
A third project, by the Toombs Development Company of New Canaan in partnership with Howard Milstein, a New York developer, "is the quietest," Mr. Stein said. It involves a vacant, excavated parcel that the partners have owned for two years. It lies behind the Town Center mall at Greyrock Place. Scott Toombs, president of the company, said, "we have been talking to prospective tenants on a regular basis and remain optimistic."
Reactions to the Purdue Pharma purchase among Stamford's real estate professionals have been mixed. "We could have had a scenario where Zurich sold it to a less-than-full-building user and more space would have hit the market," said Ed Tonnessen, an executive vice president at Albert B. Ashforth, real estate brokers in Stamford. "With space so tight, we need a new building, something to set the musical chairs in play again. Nobody significant is moving out -- there is no juggling for space. New construction will give us some backfill operations."
O N a more conservative note, Owen J. Brown 3d, a senior director at Cushman & Wakefield, said: "One new building would lease in a heartbeat in the mid-$30's a square foot. The need and demand are there. But not all three buildings. They are all about the same size and tenants requiring 100,000 to 200,000 square feet are few and far between these days."
That may be changing. The number of companies in the area that are expanding, like Purdue Pharma, is growing. The Thomson Corporation, for example, an international publisher of newspapers and educational and technical publications based in Stamford, now occupies more than 175,000 square feet of space spread over five locations in Fairfield County. "We are exploring alternative space opportunities," said Ray Meglio, vice president for real estate, indicating that a consolidation might be coming.
Purdue Pharma now owns or leases 240,000 square feet of space in five Norwalk locations, and in the last three years it added 200 of the 600 people that make up its current headquarters staff, all of whom will be transferred to Stamford. In addition, it has manufacturing and chemical research facilities in Totowa, N.J., and in Ardsley in Westchester County.
Strong growth in the last three to five years was attributed by Howard R. Udell, vice president and general counsel for the company, to the introduction of two highly successful products: OxyContin for the relief of chronic pain and MS Contin, a morphine-based, controlled-release substance, to relieve cancer pain.
"Starting in the spring of next year we will move in in phases," Mr. Udell said, "after facade repairs, some reconfiguration of office space, and upgrading of the mechanical systems and windows are completed." He gave the building high marks for being well maintained, for the beauty of its terrace and ground level gardens, and the elegance of its cafeteria and other interior spaces.
"We've been looking for new quarters for several years," he said. "We had a building designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill to be constructed on our present site at 100 Connecticut Avenue in Norwalk, but shortly before we were to break ground last year we realized that we had outgrown it."
After dropping construction plans, Purdue bought a 10,000-square-foot building at 200 Connecticut Avenue from the Davis Companies of Boston and Wilton, a company that has been providing Purdue with an overall program of asset management. "Now we are negotiating to buy the building back," said David Fiore, a Davis senior vice president in Wilton. As part of its service, Davis made Purdue aware of the availability of the GTE building last December. Purdue bought it without a broker.
Jeffrey Dunne, a senior vice president at CB Richard Ellis in Stamford, has been hired by Purdue Pharma to sell both of its Connecticut Avenue buildings. Regarding the GTE sale, he said: "It takes away potential competition for developers who want to do spec projects, but the problem is that rental rates are still not quite high enough at the low- to mid-$30's. You need mid- to high-$30's, and I don't think rentals will rise quickly. There are still more than three and a half million out of a total of 14 million square feet of office space available, including older buildings around the city that are very hard to lease."
Purdue Frederick was founded in 1892 by John Purdue Gray, a doctor, and W. W. Frederick. By 1952, it had become a small pharmaceutical manufacturer in Greenwich Village that was in serious financial difficulty.
It was bought by two doctors, Mortimer and Raymond Sackler, brothers who had a psychiatric practice on Manhattan's Upper East Side. The company was expanded through acquisitions and the development of new products, eventually moving to Yonkers and then to Norwalk in 1973, where the headquarters was built. The company is still owned privately by the the Sackler family of Greenwich.
Its relocation to Stamford may have some beneficial tax consequences. Connecticut gives companies that move their headquarters to municipalities with state-designated enterprise zones a five-year 80 percent abatement on real estate and personal property taxes, plus a 10-year 25 percent credit against state corporate income taxes. Personal property is made up of office, manufacturing and other business equipment.
If the company goes into a vacant or underutilized building outside the enterprise zone, the benefits are somewhat reduced. Stamford's enterprise zone was established in 1994 south of Interstate 95 and the railroad tracks to bring new business and industry into that depressed area. GTE is north of the highway, outside the enterprise zone but still eligible for the lesser benefits, according to James Heckman, a spokesman for the state's Department of Economic Development.
"We've had discussions with the state that are not yet resolved," Mr. Udell said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former GTE building in Stamford, left, purchased by Purdue Pharma for $77 million. Entrance to the building, right. (Photographs by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)
 
Map.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BGCP (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (61%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (50%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PURDUE PHARMA; ZURICH REINSURANCE CO HINES INTERESTS LP (61%); BGC PARTNERS INC (56%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: PURDUE PHARMA; ZURICH REINSURANCE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: STAMFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INSURANCE (90%); REINSURANCE (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ZONING (76%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (76%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (74%); APPROVALS (60%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



376 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1588 words

HEADLINE: Should Artists Give Way to Parking Space?

BYLINE: By RICHARD WEIZEL 

 BODY:
THE twin brothers Enzo and Germano Russo arrived in the United States three decades ago, after graduating from the School of Fine Arts at the University of Florence in Italy.
But the portrait and landscape artists say it was not until 1993 that they finally found a home after stumbling on an old factory building in South Norwalk. 
 Along with dozens of other artists, artisans and a few merchants, they turned a cavernous structure made of red brick -- where workers made locks for more than a century -- into an artists' colony that has been at the center of an economic renewal in the South Norwalk, or SoNo, section of the city.
Now the building is also at the center of a growing battle over the city's plans to tear it down and replace it with a 600-space parking garage as part of a $250 million project called Reed-Putnam, after two streets in the historic district. The plan would include a hotel, restaurants, shops and pubs as well as studios and lofts for artists along what is described as "70 strategically placed acres."
"We have lived and worked in many places, including New York City, but this is the best space we have ever had, the people in this building are our family," said Germano Russo, who compares the four-block South Norwalk area to the SoHo section of Manhattan. "Like SoHo," he said, "this is a true community of artists who thrive and inspire each other to create many different forms of art."
But the city, following the advice of its planners and development agency, would tear down the building and replace it with a six-level parking garage for the expanding Maritime Aquarium, which is considered the area's economic anchor.
"Of course we would like to see the artists stay," said a spokesman for the Aquarium, Dave Sigworth, "but we need more parking and it has to be in close proximity to our building. The artists are great for the community, but accessible parking is our top priority."
That angers the artists who say they are particularly upset by what they view as the "pave paradise, put up a parking lot" stance being taken by the aquarium and city planners.
"I think I could accept just about anything else," said Mary Kenely, an artist, "but to even think about tearing down such an historic building for the proverbial parking garage would actually be funny if it weren't so sad and pathetic." Ms. Kenely draws and paints and shares a loft and studio in the building with her husband, Richard Klein, a sculptor and museum curator who is vice-president of the Historic Lock Building Association, which has organized a campaign to save the building.
To wage that battle, the artists -- who say the city's plan would punish the very people who have helped revitalize the area and even helped make fashionable its SoNo nickname -- have enlisted the help of a national group, Artspace Projects Inc., a Minneapolis-based nonprofit group that specializes in saving historic buildings and transforming them into space for artists to live and work.
An official with Artspace, Chris Velasco, recently spoke to more than 300 people at Norwalk City Hall who had come to protest the city's plans to raze the building. "This is a story we hear all over the country," said Mr. Velasco, artists coming into a downtrodden neighborhood and helping to bring about an economic rebirth, and then it becomes so upscale the very artists who helped bring the area back can't afford to live there anymore."
Norwalk officials, including city council members, who attended the meeting say they are having second thoughts about whether to move ahead with the plan that many believe made more sense when it was first proposed in 1983 than when it was updated two years ago. (It was delayed for more than a decade because of an economic downturn and sagging real estate prices.)
Those doubts were only reenforced recently with an apparent 11th-hour disclosure of the redevelopment agency's plans to include a $3.4 million subsidy and $2 million parcel of land for the developer -- Stamford-based Spinnaker Industries -- as part of its contract to raze the Lock Building and construct a multi-use structure and parking garage.
Said the city council's president, Peter Nolin: "There are so many questions about whether this is the most economically viable plan for the city, and now that we find out so late in the process about what amounts to a $5.5 million subsidy for the developer, I think it's even more important to slow down and reevaluate the entire proposal. We were told there might be some kind of subsidy, but nobody thought it would be anywhere near the figure that is being mentioned."
But the need for more parking at the Maritime Aquarium, across the street from the Lock Building and at the heart of the area's decade-long revitalization with more than 600,000 visitors a year -- is forcing the city's hand and limiting its options, city planners say.
The executive director of the Norwalk Redevelopment Agency, Edward Musante, said he still prefers the Reed-Putnam plan. "I like historic buildings," he said, "I consider myself a preservationist, but the problem is, we desperately need more parking and there just aren't a lot of places to put it."
Mr. Musante insisted the council had been made aware of the $3.4 million in money and $2 million in land that would go to the developer -- and denied that the $3.4 million is a subsidy, explaining, "That money will not be going into the developer's pockets, it will be used to insure that parking fees are kept reasonable so that people will be able to afford to park down there. He added that "the problem with this situation is there are so many competing interests involved here it would be very difficult, if not impossible, to satisfy everyone."
But Artspace, which has helped preserve and develop 75 artists' communities around the country, is trying. The group is working on a proposal it plans to present within the next few weeks that some artists and Artspace officials estimate will cost at least $11 million. Mr. Velasco said that they were trying to blend the best elements of the Reed-Putnam plan with one that would save the building and continue providing affordable space for the artists.
Mr. Velasco coninued, saying that, "It would mean a lot of hard work and we would have to raise a great deal of money, probably from a variety of private, philanthropic and government sources, and a lot of things still have to fall in place. But it can be done, and the turnout in Connecticut was the best I have ever seen."
While the building has been in bankruptcy for several years, it is still being used for studios and lofts by about 40 artists, arts exhibitions, and a few businesses. The owners, two families that constitute Maritime Square, Inc., say they believe the artists contribute greatly to the fabric of the city, but aren't sure if the building is worth saving.
"We love the artists and what they have brought to the community," said an owner, Michael DiScala. "I'm just not sure they have to be in that particular building."
But the artists say they are committed to saving the building for its historic significance and for the sprawling space that is perfect for studios.
The structure, built in 1856 at the height of the industrial revolution, has been declared a state historic landmark. It may not look like much from the outside, but its 112,000 square feet include hardwood floors, 25-foot-high ceilings, and wide, wood-framed windows with beaming light.
With its view of the Long Island Sound and its site near the Metro-North railroad station, the Lock Building has become the hub of an artistic renaissance in the South Norwalk neighborhood where a micro-brewery, historic museum and new restaurants are chasing away the last vestiges of decay that once threatened to make the area a slum.
Planners for the city say they are interested only in what is best for the city and community, and that with more than $30 million invested in the Aquarium and with the real estate market booming again, the redevelopment plans need to move ahead soon. "We can't sit on this forever," said Mayor Frank Esposito, a supporter of the current plan who said he was now willing, however, to consider alternatives after the recent outpouring of support to save the Lock Building.
City planners say they are keeping an open mind too, but still believe the current plan has the most benefits.
The city's assistant director of redevelopment, John Burritt, said, "We're not opposed to taking another look at this, and I don't know that anything is ever cast in concrete until a final contract has been signed, but frankly we think the original plan is still the best one for the community. The aquarium is expanding and parking is shrinking."
But city council leaders say the artists make a strong case.
"It is indeed rare to see this vigorous a display of public support for any project," said Mr. Nolin, "and there is no question we may be able to find a better plan that could include saving the building."
Tom Becker, a president of the SoNo Business Association Inc., which represents more than 200 businesses in South Norwalk, said his group's board voted recently to ask the city to review the entire redevelopment plan. "We're not convinced this building has to be torn down," said Mr. Becker.
"That plan may have made sense years ago when it was originally designed, but we don't know if it's the best way to go anymore -- even for the business community."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The artists Germano and Enzo Russo in their studio in the Lock Building on Marshall Street in South Norwalk. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 7); Enzo Russo, standing far left, and Germano Russo, far right, were among artists preparing for an exhibition at the Lock Building in South Norwalk when Bill Lee (on stool), part of a group trying to save the building, arrived to share a status report. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MARITIME AQUARIUM (SOUTH NORWALK, CONN) HISTORIC LOCK BUILDING ASSOCIATION (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARITIME AQUARIUM (SOUTH NORWALK, CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH NORWALK (CONN); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ART; AQUARIUMS; LAND USE POLICIES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (67%); 

PERSON: WEIZEL, RICHARD GERMANO RUSSO (60%); CHRIS VELASCO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



377 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 3; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: Grumman Retirees Win but Don't Rejoice

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
IN its glory years, the Grumman Corporation built planes that helped win World War II, and its lunar module won the space race by landing the first man on the moon.
The company propelled Long Island's economy for decades as its leading private employer, peaking in 1986 with a work force of 25,000. And in the hearts of the thousands of workers who benefited from its model paternalism, Grumman felt more like a family than a corporation. 
 But all that changed in 1994 when the ailing company was taken over by the Northrop Corporation. Employees were forced out of their jobs by the thousands, and benefits were slashed for the few who remained.
The involuntary retirees fought back. Claiming they had lost hundreds of millions of dollars, they filed a class action suit against the newly merged Northrop Grumman. They sought restitution of pension and severance benefits, reinstatement in their jobs and back pay. About 16,000 retirees and employees were notified of the suit; about 11,000 joined it.
Now their battle of nearly five years has reached a bittersweet conclusion.
Judge Thomas C. Platt of Federal District Court in Uniondale issued an order on March 24 approving a settlement under which Northrop Grumman will pay $6 million -- a fraction of what the retirees claimed they had lost. With up to a third of that amount reserved for legal fees, the individual payments would average a few hundred dollars apiece.
"Our settlement is totally, totally inadequate, by any standard," said one retiree, Pericles C. Tsombanis of Huntington Station. A 31-year veteran of Grumman, he was an electronics engineering supervisor earning "in the high 60's plus overtime" when he was forced out. Based on a preliminary formula, he estimates that individual payments will range from $83 to $2,400, and he expects to get about $1,400. "It is no way fair. It hurts. You gave all these years, and this is what their thanks is. It's an absolute horror. The plaintiffs were basically exploited for a legal fee."
Even the lead plaintiff named in the suit, Bob Walsh, said he felt betrayed. An engineer living in Melbourne, Fla., he estimated that he lost $70,000 in the Northrop takeover.
Although the opposition is vocal, it is relatively small, according to a lawyer for the retirees, Karl J. Stoecker. "Relatively few have that view," he said. "Most people seem to view it favorably." About 400 of the 11,000 lodged objections, most of them on two petitions, he said.
Northrop Grumman admitted no wrongdoing, a routine disclaimer in out-of-court settlements. The company, in a press release, said it settled "to avoid further cost of litigation and disruption to the company." The company declined to further discuss the case.
The judge's order started the clock running on a 30-day period for parties to file notice of appeal, but the legal fees in such a complex case and the possibility of years of litigation are daunting. Mr. Stoecker said of an appeal's chances, "I think it would be a long shot."
Litigants looking for their payments will have to wait. "There's a lot that still has to be done," Mr. Stoecker said. "The distribution is pretty complicated. It will take several months to compute the final figures and send out the checks."
Judge Platt presided over an 18-day trial of the case, with 20 witnesses and 140 exhibits, which ended early last year. He reserved decision and urged the two sides to compromise, saying a settlement would spare them further litigation and avoid the risk of their losing in court. They eventually agreed in December and submitted their proposal for his approval.
"It is clear that the proposed settlement is both fair and reasonable in view of the significant obstacles each side would have to overcome to succeed on the merits," Judge Platt ruled.
The decision offered consolation to both sides. Referring to the company, the judge wrote: "While the defendants claim no wrongdoing and apparently are not happy with this negotiated settlement, they recognize the extensive problems, expense and delay associated with further litigation."
Sympathizing with the workers, the judge also said: "A significant number of plaintiffs, on the other hand, claim that they are outraged at their treatment by, and claimed wrongdoing of, defendants and assert the settlement is grossly inadequate, particularly when it is divided among the thousands of claimants. While this court recognizes the legitimacy of plaintiffs' claims that they fell victim to defendants' perceived wrongdoings, proof of legal liability and proximately caused damage in excess of the $6 million amount is another matter."
Without a settlement, the judge wrote, the retirees "would still face the possibility of hundreds of trials to establish damages for a great many if not all of the class members" in the case.
The suit was partly based on a Grumman severance policy adopted in 1990 to protect employees and fend off a takeover. It guaranteed a week's pay for every year worked to employees who lost their jobs in the first 30 months of a new ownership. Grumman changed the policy in 1993 to apply only to hostile takeovers.
The next year, the Martin Marietta Corporation and Northrop competed to buy Grumman. Nearly a third of its stock was held by the Grumman Employee Investment Plan on behalf of workers and retirees. The plan's three trustees joined Grumman's other major stockholders in accepting Northrop's offer of $62 a share, $22 above the market price at the time.
The new management announced in September 1994 that it was abolishing severance pay at the end of that year and reducing future pension benefits. But it offered severance to anyone who quit the company by Dec. 8. Those who stayed faced an uncertain tenure with no severance and smaller pensions.
"It wasn't a good deal for employees," said Mr. Stoecker. Many workers felt forced out, and they filed suit that November.
Among their arguments was that the takeover was hostile. They also contended that the investment trustees breached their fiduciary duty in a conflict of interest because as executives they benefited from "golden parachutes" in the takeover. The suit said they should have deferred to an impartial trustee or left the decision to a vote of the employees and retirees. The critics also questioned whether the trustees got the best stock price. And they challenged the changes in pensions and severance.
The defense contended that Northrop Grumman, Grumman officials and the investment trustees had all acted within the law. Company officials testified that severance and pensions were subject to revision, and they doubted that the old policy could have been imposed on a new owner. Any losses suffered by retirees were offset by the $250 million paid to the investment plan for the stock, the company said, and the plan's trustees had no obligation to pursue the severance issue.
"Defendants made a strong argument that Grumman retained the ability to terminate the severance plan with impunity, or without liability to anyone," Judge Platt wrote. "When one adds to all of the above uncertainties of the innumerable appeals on the various disputed issues of fact and law, and the expense and time thereof, the proposed settlement, while not very appealing to any of the parties, appears to be eminently fair and reasonable."
Life was much simpler when Leroy R. Grumman and his partners started their tiny plane-repair company in 1930. Defying the Depression, their plucky enterprise blossomed into a giant Navy contractor that built fighter, bomber, reconnaissance and cargo planes used in every major conflict from World War II through the fighting now in Yugoslavia.
Although Grumman's sales topped out at $4 billion in 1990, its demise started earlier with the fall of Communism and the other dominoes that followed: the end of the Cold War, the slashing of military and space budgets and the collapse of the aerospace industry.
Today, 2,500 Northrop Grumman workers are left on Long Island, said the company's spokesman, Richard C. Dunne. The company's former 3,000-acre site at Calverton is being redeveloped, and 450 of its 600 acres in Bethpage are being converted to various office and industrial uses, a police helicopter hangar and 500 homes for the elderly.
One intangible casualty of all the changes was the intense loyalty that the old Grumman fostered. Each employee had a number, and a low one proudly signified long seniority. People with difficult illnesses were sent to the Mayo Clinic at company expense. There were birthday cards, Christmas turkeys, bouquets for spouses, scholarships for children, the "green car service" for flat tires and the world's biggest company picnic, according to the Guinness Book of Records.
"It felt good to work for them, very, very satisfying, a great sense of pride," recalled Mr. Tsombanis, who never found another steady job and still attends annual Grumman reunions. "There was a great sense of caring and security." Returning to the present, he said: "This is so counter to the Grumman reputation, to come down to this. Well, this is the new look. It's happening to everyone, it seems."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Grumman workers on assembly line working on F14 jets in 1971. Northrop took over the company in 1994. (Robert Walker/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (98%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (98%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (98%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (98%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (98%); NEW YORK JETS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP NEW YORK JETS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; LABOR; CLASS-ACTION SUITS LITIGATION (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (88%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (88%); WORLD WAR II (78%); OVERTIME (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); BACK PAY (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); PETITIONS (74%); CLASS ACTIONS (74%); AIRLINES (73%); JUDGES (73%); LAWYERS (70%); SEVERANCE PAY (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (64%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE; PLATT, THOMAS C (JUDGE) KARL J STOECKER (66%); THOMAS C PLATT (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



378 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 20; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: PLAYING IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD

BYLINE: By MAUREEN C. MUENSTER

 BODY:

PARK SLOPE
Music Is Bach and African: The Rest Is All Brooklyn
Multiethnic and multigenerational (with performers from age 3 to 73), Spoke the Hub Dancing will begin its 20th anniversary season this weekend and next with old and new theater works by Elise Long, the artistic director, in the "Local Produce Festival of the Performing Arts." 
 All performers are artists and teachers from Brooklyn. Ms. Long will present the premiere of her new dance production, "Balsamic Brooklyn," set to music of Bach and West Africa. At right is a scene from "Balsamic Brooklyn," in which, Ms. Long says, the young girl shown is "projecting the daily life lessons learned from her parents onto her doll."
"Local Produce Festival of the Performing Arts," performed by Spoke the Hub Dancing; Old First Reformed Church, Seventh Avenue and Carroll Street, Park Slope; two different programs, Friday through Sunday and April 30 through May 2; Fridays and Saturdays at 7:30 P.M., Sundays at 5 P.M.; $12 for adults, $5 for children 12 and under and people 60 and older; a complete schedule is available by calling (718) 857-5158.
 
UPPER EAST SIDE
Solving Family Problems At a Hotel in the 1830's
Next Sunday, visitors to the Abigail Adams Smith Museum and Gardens can take part in a musical play set in 1830, "Fare for All," and meet these characters: James Woodhull, keeper of the Mount Vernon Hotel; his daughter, Sarah, and son, George; Flora, a freed slave who worked at the hotel, and James Stuart, a visitor from Scotland.
The characters are based on historical fact and the musical deals with social, economic and cultural transitions of that period. Geared for children, the play will invite audience members to help the characters solve their problems.
"Fare for All," next Sunday at 1:30 P.M. and 3:30 P.M.; Abigail Adams Smith Museum and Gardens, 421 East 61st Street, between First and York Avenues; $5, $3 for children under 12 (price includes museum tour); reservations recommended; (212) 838-6878.
 
EARTH WEEK EVENTS
As All Children Know, Mud Is the Cadillac of Dirt
Earth Day is observed Thursday nationwide, but events honoring our planet's environment will be celebrated all week across the city.
Wave Hill will have an Earth Day weekend next Saturday and Sunday called "Mudstock! A Celebration of Peace, Land and Wet Soil." Mud in all its forms: mud pack facials, planting soil and mud pie masterpieces (children are making some at right) are on the schedule from 1 P.M. to 4 P.M.; West 249th Street and Independence Avenue in Riverdale, the Bronx; $4, $2 for students and people 62 or older; (718) 549-3200.
Tom Womick will bring costumed characters called Treetures to the New York Botanical Garden today at 1 P.M. for a family event about trees. Another event there is "Big Help" Day on Wednesday from 1 P.M. to 6 P.M. Children can create Earth Day crafts and learn how families in other lands garden; New York Botanical Garden, 200th Street and Kazimiroff Boulevard, the Bronx; Tuesdays through Friday, 1 to 6 P.M., and Saturday and Sunday, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M.; adults, $3; students and people over 65, $2; children 2 to 12, $1; (718) 817-8700.
The Shadow Box Theater will present "The Earth and Me," a musical about the creatures of the earth; 6 P.M. Thursday; Symphony Space, Broadway at 95th Street; $8; for tickets, (212) 864-5400, or for more information, (212) 724-0677.
 
ALSO AROUND TOWN
 
WILD STORIES -- Frank McCourt, author of "Angela's Ashes," will play host and read "Stories of Marriage and Wild Adventure" in the series "Selected Shorts: A Celebration of the Short Story," Wednesday at 6:30 P.M.; Symphony Space, Broadway at 95th Street; $17, $13 for students; (212) 864-5400.
 
MIGRATION -- Orlando Patterson, Harvard sociologist and author of books on race and immigration, will speak at a forum on "Beyond the Nation State: Caribbean Migration in the West Atlantic System," 7 P.M. Wednesday, Barnard College, Brooks Living Room, 3009 Broadway at 119th Street; free; (212) 854-2037.
 
NEW MUSIC -- The Talujon Percussion Quartet will perform works by new and emerging composers, today 3 P.M.; Snug Harbor Cultural Center, Veterans Memorial Hall, 1000 Richmond Terrace, near Snug Harbor Road; free; (718) 448-2500.
 MAUREEN C. MUENSTER
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); EARTH (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MOUNT VERNON NEON (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); EARTH (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); DANCE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); EARTH DAY (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); THEATER (77%); HISTORY (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); FAMILY (74%); HOTEL STAFF (65%); 

PERSON: ELISE LONG (60%); PARK SLOPE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



379 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES;
Starting the Rehabilitation Journey at Parkchester

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
AT the annual meeting of the South condominium of the sprawling Parkchester housing complex in the Bronx last January, Howard Hall made a vehement speech. He said he bought an apartment last November and was deeply dissatisfied with the conditions he found when he moved in. "If I have to pay a few more dollars to fix the place up, I'm for it!" he declared.
Half an hour later the balloting closed on the issue that brought him to his feet: whether to accept a far-reaching rehabilitation proposal by the Parkchester Preservation Company L.L.C. Last year the partnership bought the Parkchester holdings of the late Harry B. Helmsley, who sponsored its conversion from a rental into the North condominium in 1974 and the South condominium in 1986. Approval required a two-thirds vote. 
 The final count showed that 73 percent of the ownership interest had voted for the plan. Most of the affirmative vote came from Parkchester Preservation itself, which holds a 62 percent stake in the South condominium, mainly in apartments, but also including stores. But even among the nonsponsor residential owners who voted, the margin was 3 to 1 in favor -- 12 percent to 4 percent. There was no vote from owners representing a 22 percent stake.
In the South condominium there are 8,286 apartments, of which Parkchester Preservation owns 4,781. The voting is not one-apartment, one-vote, however. As in a co-op, the apartments' vote shares are based on their size and other factors.
Now, three weeks after Supreme Court Justice Anne E. Targum dismissed a challenge to the vote by a minority faction of unit owners, a $123 million rehabilitation program is getting under way. It will go on for two to three years. If in coming months the North condominium decides to embrace the program, construction work at Parkchester will be in progress for four years.
A plumbing and electrical upgrade, plus new windows, are the key parts of the program. It is perhaps the most ambitious and complex community preservation effort ever undertaken in New York City -- new financing for systems replacements in a large-scale, moderate-income condominium, and one with limited ability to borrow on its own in the private financial market.
Parkchester apartments had been failing to maintain their value, buyer and lender interest was diminishing and residents were plagued by plumbing and electrical failures. Most owners in the South condominium agreed with Mr. Hall that an infusion of capital and management capability was required. In fact, Parkchester board members said at the annual meeting that the condominium could not on its own have attracted the private-sector financing that was needed.
Parkchester Preservation owns 500,000 square feet of retail space, four parking garages and -- above all -- 6,391 never-sold apartments in the two condominiums, which have a total of 12,271 apartments.
"The rental market has already improved since the vote, because people know that renovations will take place," said Kumar Kancherla, president of the South condominium. "The sales market has also improved." Mr. Kancherla is an electrical engineer with New York City Transit who lives near Parkchester and owns or manages about 150 apartments there. He said that market prices were currently about half what they were 10 years ago when outsiders were paying $55,000 for one-bedroom units.
Parkchester Preservation Company is a partnership of two real-estate investors, Morton L. Olshan and Jeremiah W. O'Connor Jr., and CPC Resources, the for-profit subsidiary of the Community Preservation Corporation. The corporation is a lending consortium that specializes in rehabilitation-oriented multifamily housing in moderate-income neighborhoods.
"We felt there was a need for an entity to assume ownership when a major property is going downhill and there is no appropriate ownership to take hold," said Michael D. Lappin, president of the preservation corporation. CPC Resources was created to pursue such ventures. Because of the size and scope of the Parkchester undertaking two experienced partners were found to come aboard.
THE partnership has established another entity, Parkchester Preservation Management, as a joint venture with Ashton Management L.L.C., to lease and manage its apartments. The principals in Ashton Management are Linda Field and Stephen Warren. Ms. Field is also the principal in a separate company, Ashton Management, which owns or manages 1,700 apartments in the Bronx. Mall Properties, in which Mr. Olshan is the principal, is handling the commercial leasing.
Parkchester Management is now in the process of improving and renting out those of its vacancies that are in buildings not involved in the early phases of renovation work, Ms. Field said. Over the next year about 750 vacancies will be filled, she said. No immediate sales program is planned.
On Parkchester Preservation's recommendation the South condominium selected Wagman Construction Company of Valley Stream, N.Y., as the construction manager. Moving two buildings at a time and beginning with window replacement, Mr. Wagman said, workers will wend their way through Parkchester's housing clusters, starting at the Unionport Road entrance off Westchester Avenue.
The new casement windows have been designed and manufactured by Efco Corporation of Monett, Mo.
"All the plumbing lines will be replaced and we'll upgrade the electrical service with new risers," Mr. Wagman said. The new wiring will increase residents' electrical capacity fourfold, he said. During construction residents will not have to move out but they must be prepared for two weeks of domestic inconvenience, he said.
The apartments will get individual electric meters, and unit owners will be able to install air-conditioning. Individual metering will assure that those who use most electricity will pay for it, while those who use less will get the benefit of thriftiness, said Kathleen A. Dunn, project director for the Parkchester Preservation Corporation.
Ms. Dunn, former development director of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development, noted that legislation enacted last year would enable the city to prorate the contemplated J-51 tax benefit for all apartments in advance of completion, essential in a project of this scope. The tax abatement lets the condominium handle renovation costs without excessive increases in monthly charges.
Negotiations are under way for Consolidated Edison to take over responsibility for maintaining the subsurface electrical lines, Ms. Dunn said. The condominiums inherited a situation in which they have that responsibility, and must contract out the work. This has led both to burdensome costs and undermaintenance, Ms. Dunn said.
With electricity excluded, residents' net housing costs are expected to rise on average $30 to $35 a month. This takes into account increases attributable to the improvements, and decreases attributable to the J-51 tax abatement. Con Ed has told the sponsor that the average cost per apartment for those with air-conditioning, based on the utility's experience in similar housing, is about $44 a month, Ms. Dunn said.
UNIT owners will also be able to refinance their mortgages -- a prospect that has been difficult for many years -- through arrangements made by the Community Preservation Corporation. With banks making new mortgages and refinancing old ones, many resident owners will probably be able to improve their financial situation significantly, Ms. Dunn said. There are an estimated 3,000 resident owners in Parkchester's two condominiums.
To soften the impact on older residents, a subsidy fund will be established by the sponsor for resident owners who were 62 or older as of July 1, 1998. If the income of these owners is, or ever becomes, less than $25,000 a year (plus an inflation factor calculated from last July), the sponsor may pay a portion of their maintenance costs.
The subsidy will be based on the net increase in maintenance costs attributable to the rehabilitation, plus an allowance for utility usage. The expectation is that a substantial proportion of the older owners in the South condominium will qualify, Ms. Dunn said, and get financial aid of anywhere from $45 to $100 a month.
Some time this year the North condominium is expected to vote on the rehabilitation plan. In the North condominium, the Parkchester Preservation Corporation owns only a 40 percent interest (and 1,610 out of 3,985 apartments). A positive vote by 45 percent of the nonsponsor ownership would provide a two-thirds majority.
A committee is currently evaluating the proposal, said Harry L. Brown, the retired postmaster of Hartsdale, N.Y., and a 25-year Parkchester resident who was elected board president of the North condominium last year. But he himself already supports it. "We're in bad shape right now," Mr. Brown said. "We need to accept this plan."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harry L. Brown, president of Parkchester North, and Kumar Kancherla, president of South condo. Left, fountain at Metropolitan Oval. (Photo-graphs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (54%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; PARKCHESTER HOUSING COMPLEX (NYC); CONDOMINIUMS REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (71%); RETAIL PROPERTY (66%); POWER FAILURES (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S HARRY B HELMSLEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



380 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1550 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In / Prospect Heights, Brooklyn;
A Diverse Neighborhood Spruces Up in a Turnaround

BYLINE: By ROBERT WALZER 

 BODY:
IN the eyes of many Prospect Heights residents, the Alcazar is a metaphor for the change the neighborhood is undergoing.
Four years ago the prewar rental building at 347-365 Lincoln Place was a dilapidated, half-vacant eyesore with broken windows, fire damage and erratic hot water service. 
 The Chase Manhattan Bank foreclosed on the building and sold it to the BFC Construction Corporation of Manhattan for $540,000 in 1995. A year later the five-story, 54-unit building was renovated, its red brick gleaming alongside the restored stone portico and marble entrance. It is now fully occupied with a three-year waiting list.
"It used to be a drug-infested nightmare," said Joseph Ferrara, BFC's vice president. "Now the whole block has had an amazing turnaround."
Two decades after an economic downturn left Prospect Heights spotted with shuttered and abandoned buildings, the neighborhood is undergoing a revival. Newcomers are renovating long-neglected brownstones and Vanderbilt Avenue, a main commercial streets, new tenants trickle in as existing merchants spruce up their facades.
Prospect Heights has always lived in the shadow of the renowned Park Slope. But with Slope prices surpassing $1 million for the most desirable buildings, more buyers are looking at Prospect Heights, where prices for comparable buildings are 20 to 40 percent less, brokers said.
"We get a lot of the spillover from Park Slope, that is, people who can't afford the Slope but want a nearby neighborhood with similar amenities," said Karin A. Haerter, who manages the Park Sterling Brokerage Ltd. in Prospect Heights.
Yet Prospect Heights's ambiance is decidedly different from its wealthier neighbor. Nearly a quarter of households report under $15,000 in annual income, and another quarter earn $50,000 to $99,000. Culturally and racially, Prospect Heights is more diverse, with Caribbean immigrants and their descendants forming its backbone.
About 14 block-, merchant and residents' associations help "make it feel like a close little community," said John Policastro, who owns the Garden Cafe on Vanderbilt Avenue and Prospect Place. The Vanderbilt Avenue Merchants Association last year reinstated an annual block party after 15 years, said Duke Saunders, one of its organizers. Other organizations clean up graffiti, put fencing around tree bases and raise money for after-school programs.
Brokers say newcomers -- many of them professionals from Manhattan in their 20's and 30's -- tend to buy a building, rent out part of it and live in the rest.
Natasha Sweeten, an artist, and her husband, John Haskell, a freelance editor, bought a three-story brownstone in Prospect Heights late last year. The recently married couple needed more space, but the area they most wanted, Carroll Gardens, was too costly. So they bought a deteriorated building on Carleton Avenue for $220,000 and are spending $80,000 more to renovate it, while renting out part of it. "It was nice to come here and feel you're living in a neighborhood and not a mall," said Ms. Sweeten, who had rented a studio in SoHo before moving to Brooklyn.
Besides its brownstones and limestone and brick town houses, there is also a smattering of carriage houses and freestanding mansions, as well as about 9,000 apartments, many former rentals converted in the 80's to co-ops, and a handful of condominiums.
CO-OP units in less desirable buildings and blocks still sell for below the peak reached in the 1980's, brokers said.
But co-ops on the prime residential blocks -- such as those along Eastern Parkway, Plaza Street and Park and St. Johns Place -- are selling briskly. Brokers said two-bedroom co-ops on those streets go for $150,000 to $280,000.
Annie Rose, a broker with Joseph Berman Realty in Park Slope, said a two-bedroom apartment she sold in 1997 on Eastern Parkway for $124,000 just resold for $180,000. And James Cornell, a broker with Warren Lewis Realty Associates, said that five years ago he was "pulling teeth" to sell a co-ops in a building on Plaza Street for $115,000. Yet some months ago he sold a unit there for $215,000 the same day it went on the market after it received four offers above the asking price.
 The prices of brownstones are also spiraling upward. In what amounts to an apparent record for Prospect Heights, one four-story home went into contract this month at "a little higher than $750,000," said Mary Ann Albano, sales manager of the William B. May Company in Park Slope. And, she added, at least two other building sales surpassed $600,000 in the last year.
Residents value the easily accessible subway, bus and rail links and the neighborhood's proximity to major cultural institutions: the Brooklyn Museum of Art, the main branch of the Brooklyn Public Library, the Brooklyn Academy of Music and the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. Also at its border is the 526-acre Prospect Park, where a lively food market takes place on Saturdays.
In addition to Flatbush and Vanderbilt Avenue's stores, residents shop at the Atlantic Center, whose developer, Forest City Ratner, has received approval to build a $180 million shopping center alongside that Atlantic Avenue site.
The neighborhood's eating establishments include the Dean Street Garden Cafe, which serves light American fare and has live music and outdoor seating in the summer. Residents have also enjoyed an old-fashioned diner, Tom's Restaurant, since 1936.
Education options within the neighborhood are limited. Elementary school pupils are zoned for one public school, P.S. 9, where only 37.5 percent of children through sixth grade read at or above grade level last year. That placed it 500th of 674 city elementary schools in ranking, said Arthur Nieves, an assistant to the superintendent of Community School District 13.
Middle-school opportunities are somewhat better. The Park Place Community Middle School, formerly the St. Augustine Catholic School, opened in September after a remodeling that left its stained-glass windows intact. The well-regarded school with 200 students has a waiting list to enter. "It has a very small, intimate environment which some people like," said Yvette Douglass, deputy superintendent of District 13.
OF the four other middle schools zoned for Prospect Heights children, reading achievement is highest in I.S. 113, where 61.7 percent of its students read at or above their grade levels last year, ranking 51st of 235 middle schools citywide.
Prospect Heights students are served by five high schools, including Prospect Heights High School, which has a prelaw program. Clara Barton High School, another nearby option, specializes in nursing careers.
Last June, 83.4 percent of Prospect Heights High School's 283 seniors and 92.5 percent of Clara Barton's 398-student graduating class went on to higher education.
The neighborhood got a smear of notoriety last March because of the slaying of Amy Watkins, a 26-year-old student studying social work at Hunter College. But Hubie Raton, community affairs officer with the 77th Police Precinct, called the neighborhood safer than most and characterized the murder as "a pretty isolated incident."
Prospect Heights was initially part of the Revolutionary War neighborhood known as Crow Hill, which was inhabited by freed slaves. Development gained ground in the 1870's, after Prospect Park was completed, and the area was first called Prospect Heights in 1892. Unlike Park Slope, which developers built cohesively, Prospect Heights "mushroomed in a mishmash of styles and locations," said Ronald A. McLaren, a local broker and architect.
UNTIL World War II, Prospect Heights's Italian and Irish residents were mainly middle class, with wealthier Jews living along Eastern Parkway. As those groups filtered out to suburbia, American blacks and, later, West Indians replaced them, at first occupying Prospect Heights's rooming houses.
The neighborhood underwent a depressed period in the 60's and 70's, when the Federal Housing Administration foreclosed on some residential buildings, and many merchants along Washington Avenue shuttered their stores. In the last two decades, most of the neglected structures in central Prospect Heights have been renovated and in a border area along Pacific and Dean Streets developers are starting to gobble up empty industrial buildings.
In one project, the New York City Housing Partnership is leading the development of a $12 million complex that includes 30 new three-family homes on Bergen Street. The partnership is getting financing from New York City and State as well as private funds, said a spokesman, Justin Blake.
In another transaction, investors including Manhattan-based Shaya B. Developers Inc. bought the former Daily News printing plant on an industrial strip of Pacific Street between Carlton Avenue and Sixth Avenue and are planning a commercial development, possibly with a theater complex, and including apartments above if the proper zoning can be obtained.
Speaking of the industrial buildings in the border area on Dean and Pacific Streets Mr. McLaren said: "It's the last large concentrated amount of square footage in brownstone Brooklyn. These are no handyman specials. You need to have sophistication in navigating city bureaucracy to make them work."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: "On the Market" : 3-bedroom, 2-bath co-op at 295 St. Johns Place, $250,000. 4-bedroom, 2-bath co-op at 61 Eastern Parkway, $385,000.
5-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath brick house at 218 St. Marks Avenue, $450,000. Entrance to Alcazar. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times); Houses on Park Place between Flatbush and Washington Avenues, above, and the Old P.S. 9 condominiums. (Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "GAZETTEER"
 
POPULATION: 15,806 (1997 estimate).
AREA: 0.28 square miles.
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $45,764 (1997 estimate).
MEDIAN PRICE OF A ONE-FAMILY HOUSE: $369,500.
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $355,500.
MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $253,500.
MEDIAN PRICE OF A TWO-BEDROOM CO-OP: $183,000.
MIDRANGE RENT ON TWO-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $1,900.
GOVERNMENT: Councilwoman Mary Pinkett, Democrat.
DISTANCE FROM MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 4 miles.
RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION: 25 minutes by 2, 3, 4, D, Q subway lines.
CODES: Area, 718; ZIP, 11238, 11217.
PLAZA MEMORIAL: Grand Army Plaza, the traffic circle where Prospect Park West, Flatbush Avenue and Eastern Parkway meet at Prospect Heights's border, has one of the largest sculptures in Brooklyn, the 103-foot-high Soldiers' and Sailors' Memorial Arch. Built in 1892, it is a New York City landmark that honors Union servicemen of the Civil War. It was designed by John H. Duncan, the architect of Grant's Tomb, and sculptures were later added by the Brooklyn-born sculptor Frederick MacMonnies. The sculptures are of Lincoln and Grant, along with allegorical figures representing soldiers and sailors. Starting May 15 through the summer, the Parks and Recreation Department will open a stairway to the roof of the arch to the public, admission free, on weekends from 1 to 5 P.M.
 
Map of Prospect Heights, Brooklyn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 9 SAY NO TO DRUGS COMMUNITY CENTERS ACT OF 1999 (53%); 106 S. 9 SAFE AND SOBER STREETS ACT OF 1999 (53%); 106 S. 113 FEDERAL JUDICIARY PROTECTION ACT OF 1999 (52%); 

TICKER: ARE (TSX) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); SIC1622 BRIDGE, TUNNEL, & ELEVATED HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION (72%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AECON GROUP INC (72%); AQUANTIVE INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; PROSPECT HEIGHTS (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); VANDALISM (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); FUNDRAISING (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (62%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (61%); MARRIAGE (60%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (60%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (60%); FORECLOSURE (57%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: WALZER, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



381 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
Managing When Profit Isn't the Goal

BYLINE: By TODD COHEN 

 BODY:
NONPROFIT organizations, long known as an invisible sector in the economy, have grown rapidly over the last two decades, now accounting for 8 percent of the gross domestic product.
To meet the rising demand for trained leaders for these groups, a number of universities are offering graduate programs in nonprofit management. 
 "It's not enough to only want to do good; you have to do good well," said Michael Seltzer, acting chairman of the master's program in nonprofit management at the New School University in Manhattan.
The number of charitable nonprofit groups grew from 82,000 in 1975 to 181,000 in 1995, the most recent data available, according to the Internal Revenue Service. And in the last decade, the number of American universities offering three or more graduate courses in nonprofit management has grown from 17 to 82, say researchers at Seton Hall University, which offers a program of its own. Other universities with big nonprofit programs include Auburn, Boston University, De Paul and Notre Dame.
The programs do have their critics, who contend, among other things, that they have too narrow a focus for students who may switch fields later.
Still, the surge in degree programs reflects rising competition for support from foundations, corporations and government, which increasingly expect nonprofits to be more professional, said Alan J. Abramson, director of the Nonprofit Sector Research Fund of the Aspen Institute in Washington.
People who move to nonprofit work from business or government jobs may have leadership experience, Mr. Abramson said, but they may want more training in nonprofit issues.
Consider Jeff Aulenbach. Two years ago, he worked for the mental health department in New York City, managing contracts with nonprofit groups. He wanted to work for a nonprofit, but lacked the skills he thought necessary. So he enrolled part-time in the master's program at the New School.
A year later, while still taking classes, he landed a job as executive director of the Variety Boys and Girls Club of Queens. "I could not have gotten the job without the program," Mr. Aulenbach said.
Last month, he moved to a larger organization, as assistant executive director of the Gloria Wise Boys and Girls Club in the Bronx. He expects to finish the New School program next year.
Mr. Aulenbach said classes on topics like financial planning and marketing taught him "every issue that an executive director needs to deal with." At Gloria Wise, he applies lessons of his leadership class to help program directors work together after a string of mergers.
Many of the students are nonprofit managers who take classes part-time, with assignments often focusing on their real jobs.
"Because I was in classes with nonprofit managers all the time, I understood what the day-to-day challenges of working in a nonprofit were like," said Armanda Famiglietti, a 1993 New School graduate who manages grants for the Carnegie Corporation.
 NOT everyone is impressed with a nonprofit-management degree. Peter Dobkin Hall, director of Yale Divinity School's program on nonprofit organizations, called the credential "a degree of unproven and dubious value," explaining, "there is no such thing as generic nonprofit management." His program focuses on research rather than on teaching management skills.
To accommodate job-switching, he said, "you want to give people portable skills, skills that are as applicable to the public sector as to the business sector or the nonprofit sector."
Pablo Eisenberg, senior fellow at the Georgetown University Public Policy Institute, said nonprofit graduate programs tend to focus on internal issues like fund-raising and accounting, not on external issues like collaboration with business and government. "Most of them are really creating technicians, " Mr. Eisenberg said. The programs do not address a "crisis of leadership," he added.
Proponents like Mr. Seltzer of the New School say the curriculum is guided by student demand. This semester, he is teaching a course in advocacy, public policy and social change. This fall, he plans to begin training nonprofit managers to make better use of computers and the Internet.
The field of nonprofit studies is still relatively young. But some pioneers who have built their careers on such training now recommend it to others.
Dale Needles, now vice president for finance and administration at the Hispanic Scholarship Fund, has used the skills he learned at the University of San Francisco to manage organizations in the arts, international development and education. "Having that degree definitely helps in opening doors," he said. "Going through a program like that gave me a sound footing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeff Aulenbach says a master's program in nonprofit management has helped him in his new job. He worked with children at Gloria Wise Boys and Girls Club in the Bronx. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CWE (ASX) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE WAVE ENERGY LTD (50%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (56%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); ASPEN INSTITUTE (54%); ASPEN INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (56%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); ASPEN INSTITUTE (54%); ASPEN INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (94%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (77%); PHILANTHROPY (75%); MERGERS (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (70%); TAX AUTHORITIES (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (66%); 

PERSON: COHEN, TODD JEFF AULENBACH (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



382 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS;
It's the Sprawl, Stupid. The Economy's Always Good.

BYLINE: By Iver Peterson; Iver Peterson reports from New Jersey for The New York Times.

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK

 BODY:
The governor is running for the United States Senate, and in her campaign she will remind voters how much the state's economy has improved since she took office in 1994. Quite a change from her early days in State House, when she frequently worried aloud about the New Jersey's competitiveness with the Carolinas and points south.
The Senate President, Donald T. DiFrancesco, meanwhile, will inherit the governorship, on an acting basis at least, if Mrs. Whitman wins in November, and he, too, makes note of the fine state of the economy in his publicity material. 
 Benefiting from a strong economy seems to be a perk of office when times are good, just as paying for a slump is a cost of incumbency in hard times. And now that things have been good for so long, we may see school board candidates -- don't forget to vote on Tuesday -- campaigning on their abilities as educators and for keeping mortgage rates low. But will voters always reward state candidates for a sound economy?
New Jersey is now in the 83d consecutive month of economic expansion since the last recession ended in May 1992, which means that this month, the state has matched in length the boom of the 1980's, which ran from 1982 to 1989. But while the 80's boom was fading as Gov. Thomas H. Kean was approaching the end of his second term, the roaring 90's show no sign of diminishing, and economists from the Federal Reserve to James H. Hughes, dean of the Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers, are starting to talk about the advent of a new economic paradigm, one where the efficiency of computer-driven global markets have ironed the cyclical wrinkles out of the economy.
So the question arises: Who gets credit when prosperity is permanent? Clearly the Whitman administration's corporate tax cuts and regulatory reforms deserve prominent mention in the record of job expansion in New Jersey, with 400,000 new jobs in the state since 1992 easily making up for the 262,000 jobs lost in the recession of 1989 to 1992.
And here's another factoid from Mr. Hughes that describes the growth of the new information-based employment boom in New Jersey: 80 percent of all the office space ever built in the state went up in the 1980's, and when the additional 110 million square feet were added to that base in the current boom, New Jersey's 11 northern counties, from Mercer and Monmouth north, have between them erected as much office space as all of metropolitan Houston.
Clearly there is a general sense in which a good economy helps incumbents, or, as Maurice Carroll, director of the Quinnipiace Poll put it, "Good economic numbers are good news for people in power."
But that is not the same thing as giving an office-holder the kind of specific credit that candidates seem to want, which is the kind of credit that can be applied against negative effects of other problems.
That, at least, is what Cliff Zukin, director of the Star-Ledger/Eagleton Poll, discovered when he tried to find out why the governor, with universal name recognition and the benefits of both the incumbency and a strong economy, nearly lost to Jim McGreevey in 1997.
"We devoted nearly five minutes to questions about perceptions of the governor in our February 1998 poll," Mr. Zukin said, "and the bottom line is that she does not get much credit for what's going right in the state because what's going right tends to be seen as Federal issues, but she does get blamed for what's going wrong."
So only 23 percent of Mr. Zukin's respondents gave the governor credit for the healthy state economy, but 49 percent blamed her for high automobile insurance rates, and only 19 percent gave her credit for low unemployment, but 42 percent blamed her for high property taxes.
Add one other intangible: in the 1980's, when Governor Keane was winning 80 percent approval ratings, New Jersey's real estate values jumped by 150 percent, and people felt rich. The new boom has not brought the same housing feeding frenzy, and many homeowners who bought at the peak may still owe more on their houses than the houses are worth. "Negative equity," as this situation is called, can have a depressing effect on any homeowner's political outlook.
Mr. Hughes suggests that with the economy effectively off the table as a campaign slogan, the voters start to look around at other measures of political success. When New Jerseyans do that, they see traffic congestion -- 400,000 new jobs equals 400,000 more cars -- less open space, less sense of community -- all items that show up as sources of voter dissatisfaction.
"In 1982 the Clinton campaign was famous for saying, "It's the economy, stupid," Mr. Hughes remarked. "But with the economy doing so well, the next campaign slogan might better be, "It's the sprawl, stupid."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iver Peterson

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: STATE HOUSE PRESS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: LAND USE POLICIES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; PUBLIC OPINION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RECESSION (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (77%); JOB CREATION (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); SCHOOL BOARDS (68%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (64%); MORTGAGE RATES (53%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



383 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: THE RIGHT THING;
When Fear Of Firing Deters Hiring

BYLINE: By JEFFREY L. SEGLIN; Jeffrey L. Seglin is a visiting fellow at Harvard University's Center for the Study of Values in Public Life. His column on business ethics appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail may be sent to: righthng@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
OVER the last few years, several people have spoken to me about their reluctance to hire people whose race, color, creed or national origin -- or age, disability or sex -- put them in protected classes under anti-discrimination law.
The reasoning goes this way: You have to be absolutely sure that someone in a protected class is the best possible candidate, because people in these categories can make your life miserable with litigation if you ever have to dismiss them. 
 "It's a dirty little secret" that people are thinking this way, said Tama Starr, president of Artkraft Strauss, a sign-making company in New York, and one of the few business people who has spoken out on the subject. Those who subscribe to these ideas "have to choose between different protected classes and weigh the risk of hiring them," she said, adding, "This is a very obnoxious way to think."
Managers tread on swampy ethical terrain when they allow fear of possible problems to deter them from hiring apparently capable minority applicants -- or to hesitate so long over a decision that a candidate loses interest or gives up in frustration.
The fear of discrimination suits is not wholly groundless. A 1997 survey conducted by the Society for Human Resource Management found that of 616 personnel executives who responded, 53 percent said their organizations had been sued at least once by former employees in the last five years; nearly half the 611 suits they reported involved claims of discrimination.
But Martha R. A. Fields, chief executive of Fields Associates, a management consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass., says the risk of a suit is often an excuse that masks a deeper motive for not hiring people in protected classes. It is more likely, Ms. Fields said, that managers really just feel safer hiring people like themselves.
Some people, she said, find it easy to think to themselves: "If I know people who are like me, I know the good, bad, and the ugly about them. If I don't know them and I see images of them in the media, I'm, like, 'Oh man, those black people, they might be welfare-dependent, or criminals, or crime victims. I don't know if I really want to bring that into my organization.' "
Increasingly, such bias is economically irrational as well as unethical. "The demographics of this country are shifting in major ways," Ms. Fields noted, as minority groups, especially Hispanic people, account for a rapidly growing share of the population and its purchasing power. "Consumers want to see people like themselves in organizations," Ms. Fields said.
Another underlying problem is managers who are poor at managing. Some who speak these fears are simply afraid to fire anyone -- not just someone in a protected class -- and shy away from situations they perceive as requiring them to take a chance.
To avoid hiring problem employees from any group, managers just "need to do a good job of checking resumes, identifying the time gaps and verifying simple facts," said Mary C. Dollarhide, an employment lawyer with Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker in Stamford, Conn. For $200 to $300, a manager can also get a criminal background check on a candidate and a docket search to see if he or she often files lawsuits. "If you do your due diligence, you're going to stand a much better chance of not bringing in the gripers, complainers, bad actors and poor performers," Ms. Dollarhide said.
BUT a thorough screening does not absolve managers of having to manage. "If you get somebody in your midst whom you fail to discipline because you're afraid you're going to get slammed for having reprimanded someone in a protected class, well, guess what: The failure to do that is going to land you in exactly the same spot," Ms. Dollarhide said. "If the employee is terminated, he can sue and you're left with no records to support your case."
Much sound management translates into ethical behavior. Employees who are treated fairly, honestly and directly are both less likely to require dismissal and less likely to sue over it later.
That frees everyone to concentrate on the business they enjoy. "I still believe that people are good and honest and they want to do a nice job," said Ms. Starr of Artkraft. "Having to fight through more stupidity just hampers everybody's humanity."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: ARTKRAFT STRAUSS SIGN CORP (55%); SOCIETY FOR HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIETY FOR HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; DISCRIMINATION; HIRING AND PROMOTION LITIGATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); ETHICS (89%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (63%); SIGN MFG (55%); 

PERSON: SEGLIN, JEFFREY L MARY C DOLLARHIDE (68%); TAMA STARR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



384 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
Stepping Back, to Go Forward

BYLINE: By JULIE FLAHERTY 

DATELINE: STOUGHTON, Mass.

 BODY:
IN 1998, the National Basketball Association players were locked out and buyers of athletic shoes went on strike. Hurt by changing fashions, foreign recessions and the job dispute that gave the league's shoe spokesmen a collective bad name, shoemakers saw their earnings plunge. As a result, Reebok, for one, lost more than half its stock market value last year.
So in December, Reebok called in its ace: Angel Martinez. He had pulled Reebok out from Nike's shadow in the 1980's, when he created the aerobic-workout shoe. And as chief executive of Rockport, Reebok's street shoe subsidiary, the last four years, he even managed to convince younger shoppers that their grandfathers' clunky brown shoes could be sexy. 
 Now Reebok is waiting to see what magic Mr. Martinez, as its new marketing director, can create for its flagship brand. Should he do well, he could eventually succeed Paul Fireman as chief executive.
Mr. Martinez says he wants to put the humanity back into Reebok and its products. Instead of sitting grimly at computers, he says, employees should spend more time jamming, both on the company basketball court and in a company jazz band he hopes to revive.
He talks of making customers feel good not only about their shoes, but also about the benevolent athletes who promote the products and the workers who made them under what he calls more humane conditions than past industry practice. While some analysts say Reebok's foreign factories treat workers better than most in those countries, some human-rights groups call for far higher wages.
Mr. Martinez, from Reebok's headquarters in this suburb south of Boston, announces the end of the hype. "Yes, we did go through that period where you had to have the athlete with the giant contract slam-dunking in the N.B.A. or doing incredible things in the Olympics to sell any shoes," he said. "And that's not who we were. All we're doing now is going back to our roots."
Way back. It is hard to remember when this corporate giant was not spending more than $140 million a year on advertising, promoting gimmicks like shoes that inflated. But if there's a model for the down-to-earth company that Reebok now strives to be, it is Mr. Martinez.
A 43-year-old with close-cropped dark brown hair and a goatee, he wears a collarless dress shirt and a pair of the black Rockports he helped glamorize. He spoke frankly about the mind-set that brought Reebok to its present state.
"We've had an industry on steroids," he said. "It's been an industry that convinced itself that the average consumer out there was going to go from nine pairs a year of $100 shoes to 12 pairs a year of $100 shoes. And the consumer decided that no, maybe two pair a year was all they need."
No longer a strong challenger to Nike -- which has about 45 percent of the athletic footwear market to Reebok's 10 percent -- the company is depending on its new chunky DMX design for serious runners, a strong seller since it was introduced last year. But even as he discusses its virtues, Mr. Martinez freely acknowledges that the garish blue-and-chartreuse DMX in his hand is no thing of beauty.
"My first reaction was: 'Boy, that is ugly,' " he said. "But you know what happened? It happened for the Volkswagen Beetle, right? People buy it despite it being ugly. It feels so good that they buy it anyway."
Wall Street remains skeptical. John Shanley, an analyst with First Security Van Kasper, doubts that customers are looking for the softer side of Reebok. "We're talking about teen-age males, who have almost no sense of humanity," Mr. Shanley said. "They are basically looking for whatever is new, whatever is hottest."
Style was crucial when Mr. Martinez was a Reebok marketer in the 1980's. It was the start of the aerobics craze, and he saw that his wife, Frankie, would rather go barefoot to class than wear sneakers. "She didn't want to wear bulky, ugly-looking running shoes," he said. He convinced Mr. Fireman to promote a sleeker, yet very comfortable shoe just for women, and sales took off.
After marketing Reeboks for 14 years, he was sent by Mr. Fireman to head up the stagnant, tradition-bound Rockport in 1994. Linda Lewi, now Rockport's senior vice president for marketing, said Mr. Martinez had encouraged his workers to "get the hairballs out of the plumbing." Whether it was coming up with new styles or using less expensive materials, "he would be the evangelist for that idea, and really, people would want to suspend their disbelief and join him."
Mr. Fireman, 55, confirmed that the Rockport success had helped groom Mr. Martinez as his possible successor. Only one thing has changed about Mr. Martinez in 20 years, he said: "He gained weight. I knew him when he was running track and field and he was skinny. Now he's normal."
Mr. Martinez came to America from Cuba when he was 3, to live with his grandmother's sister in the Bronx. He remembers saving nickels to buy a $5.95 pair of Converse Chuck Taylors and walking home on the sides of his feet to keep the soles from getting dirty. Now he can afford toys like a Harley-Davidson and the Fender Stratocaster he might play in that company band.
But getting employees to loosen up at a headquarters where 100 colleagues were laid off last year is another matter. Mr. Martinez says he's not kidding when he tells them to shun E-mail in favor of real chat. "People weren't talking to each other; nobody was picking up the phone," he said. Pointing to his computer, he added, "I almost threw this thing out the window."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Angel Martinez, Reebok's chief marketing officer, in his office in Stoughton, Mass., with a Fusion DMX running shoe, a new model the company is counting on to help it out of a sales slump. (Jim Bourg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (90%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (90%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (90%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (90%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REEBOK INTERNATIONAL LTD NIKE INC (90%); EARTH CO LTD (62%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: REEBOK INTERNATIONAL LTD NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SHOES AND BOOTS BASKETBALL (90%); FOOTWEAR (90%); STRIKES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ATHLETIC FOOTWEAR MFG (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SPORTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); FOOTWEAR MFG (78%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); JAZZ & BLUES (51%); 

PERSON: MARTINEZ, ANGEL; FLAHERTY, JULIE MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



385 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: PRELUDES;
Temporarily Yours

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN; Abby Ellin is a Manhattan writer. Her column on starting out in the world of money will appear the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: preludes@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
TEN years ago, I took a job stuffing envelopes. It was a necessity: I had just graduated from college and had no idea what I wanted to do with my life, but the lenders who had financed my college education weren't sympathetic to my existential crisis.
The job came through a temporary-employment agency, which paid me $7.25 an hour to cram manila envelopes with a company's pap. I lasted one day. 
 Since then, the temp world has changed dramatically. According to the National Association of Temporary and Staffing Services, there are nearly three million temporary employees in the United States, up from 500,000 in 1983. Today's temps are younger (50 percent are 20 to 34 years old) and smarter (30 percent have an associate or bachelor's degree). And the Bureau of Labor Statistics says they make an average of $10.62 an hour. Experts expect the $57 billion temp industry to nearly double its annual revenue by 2006.
Temporary employment has grown in part because employers are more cautious about committing themselves. "They want to try people out before hiring them," said James Essey, president of the Tempositions Group of Companies in Manhattan.
Many companies also prefer temps because they may not have to give them full benefits, or any benefits at all.
BUT it is not only employers who are fickle. Many young people engage in serial workplace monogamy, refusing to enter into serious relationships until they have sowed their corporate oats.
"You test each other out, like a trial marriage," said Georgia Ellis, a vice president at Fifth Avenue Temporary Services in Manhattan. "And it doesn't look bad on your resume, because it doesn't look like you've jumped from place to place. You have an excuse. You're a temp."
Kristin Robinson, 29, has morphed into what is known as a "permanent temp" -- one with a long-term assignment. For the last two years, Ms. Robinson, who is also an actress, has had a continuing temporary position as a graphics artist, three days a week, at Andersen Consulting in Manhattan. She freelances the other two days from connections made at other temp jobs. The freedom, she said, is invaluable: "I try to be respectful and give notice, but if I need to leave I leave. And I don't take work home."
Most young corporate nomads, some of whom are actors, musicians and writers, want to focus on their "real" careers without having to ask, "Do you want fries with that?" They thrive on the flexibility and often use their day jobs as floating office spaces for managing the rest of their lives.
In a full-employment economy, the competition among temp agencies has intensified. Many offer benefits to attract workers; employees staying six months may be eligible for vacation pay, child-care reimbursement and the purchase of medical coverage at group rates.
But the life of a temp isn't all free Krispy Kremes. Stories abound of demeaning treatment from employers and permanent workers. For details, check Tempslave, a magazine, or the Temp24-7 Web site (www.temp24-7.com), where temps can vent. Temp24-7 includes "Temps vs. Suits," a game in which temps can attack a virtual boss.
A recent "gripe of the week" on the Web site told of how a group of temps were all called "Jane" by colleagues who didn't feel like learning their names. Elsewhere on the site, temps posted stories of endless dry spells with nary a job proposition.
Cyberwrath aside, most of today's temps have strong bonds with bosses and agencies. Some employers are so fond of their longer-term temps that, when they take time off, other temps are hired to stand in.
Once displeased, temps can also request transfers. Or walk away. Suzanne Lynn, 27, said she left a Greenville, S.C., law firm for lunch and, angry about being yelled at, didn't come back. Her agency understood and handed her another assignment.
With that kind of freedom and unconditional love, temporary work might be the wave of the future. And even envelope stuffing, now paying $10 an hour in New York City, might be a slightly more profitable, if not enviable, experience.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Carpenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (68%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TEMPOSITIONS GROUP OF COS (68%); ACCENTURE PLC (63%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT; INDUSTRY PROFILES EMPLOYMENT (93%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (92%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (76%); STATISTICS (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (65%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (60%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%); 

PERSON: ELLIN, ABBY MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



386 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: CALLINGS;
A Manager Who Moved From Innings To Arias

BYLINE: By LAURA PEDERSEN-PIETERSEN; Laura Pedersen-Pietersen is a Manhattan author and public speaker. Her column profiling people whose work is their passion appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: yourmind@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
WHEN a headhunter called him in 1986 to ask if he wanted to become house manager for the Met, James H. Naples Jr. immediately thought of shortstops at Shea Stadium, not coloraturas at Lincoln Center. At the time, Mr. Naples, then 35, was in charge of a staff of 900 as manager of Yankee Stadium.
If the offer was out of left field, the destination wasn't. The recruiter told him that the Metropolitan Opera House had gone through 22 house managers in 20 years and that "anyone who can last 10 years with George Steinbrenner can do this job." 
 Mr. Naples accepted the offer and, like legions of other workers in an age of ever-changing career paths, demonstrated that his skills were indeed portable. Economists note that despite low unemployment today, the labor force is still churning with workers losing, changing and gaining jobs.
"Skills are becoming increasingly transferable from job to job and industry to industry," said Paul Saffo, a director of the Institute for the Future, a forecasting and research firm in Menlo Park, Calif. "While expertise may be limited, an individual's skills may be very transferable."
Mr. Naples developed many skills in his Yankee Stadium job. In addition to overseeing all home games, he was in charge of high-pressure events like four World Series, the 1976 championship fight between Muhammad Ali and Ken Norton and a Mass celebrated by Pope John Paul II in 1979. For that one, Mr. Naples remembers praying for a logistical miracle; he had to coordinate communion logistics for 80,000 people -- 23,000 more than the stadium usually holds.
The job, of course, had rewards. At the Mass, he escorted the Pope onto the field as they chatted. After-hours during baseball season, he passed the time with the likes of Billy Martin, the often fired and rehired manager. The most memorable night was at Jimmy Weston's restaurant in Manhattan, talking baseball with Frank Sinatra.
Despite his love of the game, Mr. Naples eventually heeded the recruiter. Managing Yankee Stadium required up to 100 hours a week. Having married two years earlier, he had a 1-year-old daughter whom he hardly had time to see. Working for the Yankees was "a dream job for someone who's single," he said.
Offered a better compensation package and a more sensible schedule, Mr. Naples traded himself to the Met, where he has stayed 13 years. He manages 13 departments and 250 people, who work under several labor contracts he helps to negotiate. He is in charge of the building, security, the box office, the cleaning crews and the ushers. And not just during the opera season, since the Met plays host to groups including the American Ballet Theater and the Kirov Ballet.
"It's actually not that different from my old job," he said. "There we were presenting baseball and here we're presenting opera." His workweek, however, is more manageable; he works about 50 hours.
But how does a guy who was a pre-law student at Canisius College in Buffalo -- and who never took a business class -- become a businessman, manager and negotiator? "I learned about people from my father," he said. "He owned a bar in Buffalo where I worked as a kid, and you figure out pretty quick who is real and who you want to emulate and, conversely, whom you don't want to be like."
THAT'S how Mr. Naples got to know Mr. Steinbrenner, who was a frequent patron of the bar in the late 1960's, when he traveled to Buffalo on business for his family's shipping companies.
Mr. Steinbrenner later took control of the Yankees. In 1976, after the renovation of Yankee Stadium, he asked Mr. Naples, then 25, to oversee the ball park's concessions and luxury suites at a starting salary of $16,000. After a year, Mr. Naples became assistant stadium manager; in 1980, he became manager and in 1984 he received the additional title of vice president.
Mr. Naples also relied on lessons learned from watching an uncle, Max Margulis, a Buffalo nightclub impresario, handle not only his staff but also stars like Mel Torme and Aretha Franklin.
What about his own management techniques? "I'm in touch with all department heads almost daily and my door is always open," Mr. Naples said. "The minute I get to work there are eight people with eight problems. Solving them is like winning, and I love winning."
He has learned his negotiating skills on the job. Mr. Steinbrenner and Joseph Volpe, general manager of the Met, "are not only visionaries in their respective fields but sagacious negotiators," Mr. Naples said. "I've learned from them how to make both sides feel like they've accomplished something."
A recent surge in matters operatic has not hurt Mr. Naples's career. The Met has added performances, television broadcasts and recordings; attendance has risen and deficits have vanished. A survey by the National Endowment for the Arts shows that opera attendance rose 12.5 percent nationwide between 1992 and 1997.
And in saying goodbye to World Series rings and hello to Wagner's, Mr. Naples has found more time to spend with his wife, Nancy, and their children, Nicole, 14; Jimmy, 11, and Gavin, 5. Though he hasn't chatted with the Pope recently, Mr. Naples talked with President Clinton at opening night last fall.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: James H. Naples found that the skills he gained as house manager of Yankee Stadium transferred comfortably to his present job, managing the Metropolitan Opera House. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN OPERA IPRINT TECHNOLOGIES INC (MENLO PARK, CA) (55%); INSTITUTE FOR THE FUTURE (55%); INSTITUTE FOR THE FUTURE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN OPERA INSTITUTE FOR THE FUTURE (55%); INSTITUTE FOR THE FUTURE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: OPERA; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION OPERA (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); BASEBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (87%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (72%); DANCE COMPANIES (72%); THEATER (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); BALLET (60%); 

PERSON: NAPLES, JAMES H JR; PEDERSEN-PIETERSEN, LAURA MUHAMMAD ALI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



387 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
In Asian Markets, Some Signs of Spring

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
ECONOMICS is not accounting, but the sense seems to be spreading that Asia may be the FIFO region of the developing world: First in, first out of recession.
It has been nearly two years since bad times swept first through Thailand and then the rest of East Asia. But now there are some signs of life. 
 Growth estimates in countries like South Korea, Malaysia and India are being raised. Risk premiums on corporate and sovereign -- or government -- debt are shrinking. And equity markets are starting to recover.
In the last two quarters, Morgan Stanley's EMF Asia index, which covers nine markets, has risen 48 percent. But it still has much ground to make up, as do all emerging markets.
Robert J. Pelosky Jr., global emerging markets strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, took some time last week to discuss signs of spring in Asia, as well as other exotic precincts of the world.
 
Q. Some specialists in the emerging markets look at the recovery in certain stock markets and see a dead-cat bounce. Is that what you see?
 
A. Our feeling is that emerging markets in general are turning and that we are at the beginning of a new cycle for these markets -- one that has three stages. The value stage, which is where we are today and have been for some time, is first.
Then there is a growth phase, in terms of improved economic activity and corporate profitability. The third stage is momentum, which takes place as perceptions of risk decline, multiples improve and a broader spectrum of investors return to the investment class.
Asia had its dead-cat bounce a year ago, in the first quarter of 1998, when markets had a powerful rally and then petered out. The big question we have about Asia now is if the region can stage a broad-based recovery without a recovering Japan. We are increasingly of the opinion that Japan is recovering.
 
Q. Aren't economic conditions improving in some countries without a vibrant Japan?
 
A. It does seem that some parts of the region have started to recover. We recently have raised our 1999 growth forecasts for South Korea, Malaysia and India. And in terms of financial market performance, South Korea, Taiwan and India have been doing well.
 
Q. What is the risk if Japan doesn't come back as strongly as you hope?
 
A. In the late 1980's, Asia was a leveraged play on developed-country growth because these countries were basically export platforms to Europe and the United States.
Since then, there has been an increase in inter-Asian trade, which is where Japan comes in. If a Japanese recovery is generated by an aggressive monetary policy, then the risk is the yen will weaken. The question then will be if financial markets look through the negative implications of a weak yen to the positives of a Japanese economic recovery, one that would lead to greater demand for Asian exports.
 
Q. A year ago, many were worried that China would do further damage to the overall economic picture by devaluing the yuan. At this point, how much harm would it do?
 
A. The possibility of a devaluation has already been discounted by financial markets. But we feel the case for a significant Chinese devaluation is just not that strong.
Chinese exports are more demand-dependent than price-dependent. Last year, the Chinese didn't lose a lot of market share even though the currencies of their competitors in Asia fell sharply. If the United States is going to continue to have growth of around 4 percent, if Europe is bottoming and if emerging markets are bottoming, then demand for Chinese exports will pick up.
 
Q. It would seem that Latin America, which felt the impact of the world financial crisis well after Asia, would take longer to recover. Is that how it will play out?
 
A. We are starting to make the case that Latin America will recover more quickly than people think because the shock there was a secondary shock and because a lot of restructuring in that part of the world has been going on since 1994, when the region was also gripped with a financial crisis.
The fact that the American economy remains vibrant is a big positive for Mexico. And the Brazilian devaluation, when it came, was not a huge surprise. If interest rates in Brazil continue to decline, then the region can recover more quickly than people think.
 
Q. You mentioned the cycle that emerging markets are entering. How long will it take?
 
A. I would prefer to see a steady recovery rather than a big spike upwards because volatility in these markets has been what has kept most investors away.
I think this is a one-to-three-year kind of cycle. I think the growth stage will play out in 2000 and 2001, with the momentum stage following after that.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pelosky

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (95%); INDIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); MALAYSIA (93%); THAILAND (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (95%); INDIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); MALAYSIA (93%); THAILAND (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS EMERGING MARKETS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); BONDS (71%); CURRENCIES (62%); JAPANESE YEN (61%); MONETARY POLICY (50%); 

PERSON: PELOSKY, ROBERT; GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



388 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Is Mr. Gates Pouring Fuel On His Rivals' Fire?

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
THE worthies of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology had just finished thanking William H. Gates profusely for paying for a planned new computer science building with a handwritten personal check for $20 million. No sooner had Mr. Gates walked out the door last week than a procession of leading researchers at the university's renowned Laboratory for Computer Science sketched out projects and visions of the technological future that all headed in one direction: away from the personal computer.
In a talk called "The Post PC Internet," David Clark, an M.I.T. computer scientist, described a world in which the personal computer is less important because everything -- TV, wristwatch, eyeglasses, toaster -- has a computer-on-a-chip and "everything is going to be connected to the Internet." For example, a watch face might temporarily become a tiny screen displaying your appointments for the day, information sent wirelessly to the watch from its storage folder on the Internet. 
 "The future of computing is inevitably heterogeneous," Mr. Clark asserted. "Get used to it." He means technologically heterogeneous, not ruled, as PC's are, by a dominant technology standard like Microsoft's Windows operating system.
Shrink-wrapped software will go the way of the buggy whip, according to the M.I.T. computer experts. Consumers will be given computers -- "information appliances" in the new world -- free, or more accurately, bundled into a monthly service charge, on the model of cellular phones.
Much of corporate computing, predicts Hal Abelson, an M.I.T. professor, will shift to the service model as well. The large computer installations at companies that run their own Web sites will be replaced by centralized hosting services. The analogy is with electricity: in the 19th century, factories had their own generators, but with the rise of electric utilities, manufacturers left power generation to the specialists.
Mr. Abelson expects that even storage of corporate data, from procurement orders to customer records, will be handled by outside service suppliers. "You'll see the market for disks being replaced by storage services," he said.
Mr. Clark summarized with this forecast: "What does the future look like? Well, it's a network full of services."
So is Mr. Gates supporting a computer lab dedicated to the destruction of Microsoft's world? After all, many of the pronouncements heard last week at the conference marking the 35th anniversary of the M.I.T. computer lab -- an incubator for pioneering work ranging from word processing and spreadsheet software to PC networking and E-mail -- sound strikingly like the marketing slogans of Microsoft's rivals.
The network is king? The mantra of Sun Microsystems is "The network is the computer." Big iron at the hub of hosting operations and Internet services as the business of the future? Key chapters in the I.B.M. playbook of Louis V. Gerstner Jr.
Microsoft, of course, resists the notion of the post-PC era. An unrivaled marketer, Microsoft knows the opinion-shaping power of a deftly phrased concept, and buying patterns tend to follow ideas. But mostly, the company seems to object to the term post-PC; failing to counterattack when the demise of your lifeblood business is heralded would be a strategic mistake.
BUT Microsoft itself is moving toward the future foreseen at M.I.T. Steven Ballmer, Microsoft's president, described a reorganization last month as the "renewal of our vision" to put a "PC on every desk and in every home." But now, Mr. Ballmer says: "We want to extend that notion. While the PC will stay central, we realize there is demand for computing on non-PC devices." Translation: The only religion at Microsoft is winning. And the Windows CE operating system is its bid to get its software into these non-PC devices.
If the lucrative commodity of the future is Internet services sold by subscription, that is fine with Mr. Gates. He just calls it by a different name: software. In a question-and-answer session in Technology Review with Michael Dertouzos, director of the M.I.T. computer lab, Mr. Gates said, "Software will evolve into even more of a service business than it already is, and in the long term there will probably be a move toward a subscription-style model."
The stakes are high in the future shape of the information economy, and not just for Microsoft. That makes some people suspicious that Mr. Gates is trying to buy the future, by using big donations to computer science departments at M.I.T., Stanford, Harvard and Cambridge to bend academic research in Microsoft-friendly directions.
But Mr. Dertouzos, at least, has demonstrated independence of mind. He was briefly on the list of witnesses Microsoft planned to call in its antitrust trial, but according to colleagues, he agreed to testify as an expert witness on one condition: no coaching from the Microsoft legal staff. He was soon dropped as a witness when his deposition testimony did not echo Microsoft's defense.
A towering man, Mr. Dertouzos issues an emphatic declaration of academic independence. "Nobody has bought me yet," he said, "and I'll cripple anyone who claims they have." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (55%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (50%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; MICROSOFT CORP MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET COMPUTER SCIENCE (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); SPREADSHEET SOFTWARE (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (70%); DATA PROCESSING SERVICES (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (67%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: GATES, BILL; LOHR, STEVE BILL GATES (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



389 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
How Too Much Purple Could Mean Less Green

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

DATELINE: CONCORD, Mass.

 BODY:
AT first glance it seems pretty simple. A food processing company with a strong brand in a relatively narrow niche finds the competition toughening and the niche's sales trend flattening. To grow, it needs to extend its brand to new product categories, to make acquisitions, or both. That calls for a big financial commitment, which most companies can raise by tapping capital markets.
But Welch Foods isn't most companies: it is owned by a farmers' cooperative, the National Grape Cooperative Association. And that makes meeting its competitive challenges anything but straightforward. 
 With roots in 19th century agrarian socialism, co-ops can seem a quaint counterpoint to the unbridled capitalism energizing most of the economy. But they play a huge role in American agriculture. And the value-added co-ops -- the ones like National Grape that process members' produce into consumer products rather than just handling bulk commodities -- own more well-known supermarket brands than many consumers realize.
Co-ops help farmers by assuring that each year's harvest will be bought at predictable prices and by sharing profits, expertise and purchasing muscle. But the ownership structure can also be a significant competitive handicap.
By definition, a co-op cannot sell stock or use it to pay for acquisitions, or even build a war chest of cash from retained earnings; profits must be distributed to the members each year. So co-ops often have a difficult time financing major expansion, unless they borrow or merge with other co-ops, as many dairy co-ops have been doing.
In recent years, National Grape has managed to find steady if unspectacular growth by aggressively marketing the Welch's line of juices, jellies and related products, whose sales topped $600 million in 1998. But against increased competition from publicly traded companies with formidable marketing and financial strengths, Welch's now needs to look further afield.
"They have the capability to get beyond the billion-dollar mark in sales," said Ted Dardani, a principal with BT Capital Partners, a unit of Bankers Trust, who has worked with Welch's on acquisition and joint venture ideas. "They have done a very good job of building their brands back. The point now is, how can Welch's take all that brand equity and expertise and do some other product lines that make sense?"
Welch's now finds its longtime strength, an undistracted focus on jelly and juice, turning into a shortcoming, as ever more rushed Americans skip eating a traditional breakfast and demand sags.
For decades after the co-op acquired it in 1945, Welch's did well by remaining steadfastly grape-centric and conservative. It shunned new product development and avoided advertising spending like a bad grape disease. But by 1983, that strategy was flagging, and the co-op was in danger of reneging on its promise to buy 70 percent of its members' ever-growing harvests, according to Daniel P. Dillon, the president of Welch's, who joined the company around that time as a vice president.
Welch's management overcame initial resistance from the growers and shifted gears, stepping up marketing to rebuild demand through new TV advertising and a revival of the cartoon-character jelly glasses that were a 1960's hit.
The company paid for and trumpeted a study that concluded, somewhat controversially, that white grape juice is better than apple juice for babies and toddlers suffering from diarrhea because it is lower in sorbitol. It seized on studies in France finding that red wine helps control cholesterol, hoping that they would rub off on grape juice.
And it stretched the juice line any way it could, with new blends like pineapple-banana, frozen smoothies, concentrates that don't require refrigeration and, briefly, kosher grape juice. A new research center tests innovations like a plastic can for frozen juice that can be thawed in a microwave. And there are plans for more single-serving items, an area where Ocean Spray (another co-op) has made great strides.
"To really push ahead in the juice business, you have to deliver more than one kind of juice," said Kevin Murphy, chief operating officer of Ocean Spray, which recently bought a big stake in Nantucket Nectars. "I don't think Welch has been aggressive in that regard. They've really tried to stretch grape juice out." Mr. Murphy questioned whether Welch's should use scarce resources to chase growth in a shrinking category like frozen concentrate.
But moving beyond grape juices means tangling with the likes of Pepsico's Tropicana, Coca-Cola and Cadbury-Schweppes, a league in which Welch's is at a distinct disadvantage. "My competition isn't the local cooperative down the road," said Joe Falcone, a National Grape board member and fourth-generation grape farmer. "It's Nestle, and Pepsi, and big companies like that," which can raise capital faster and more flexibly. Still, co-ops can take advantage of low-interest loans from the National Cooperative Bank, a $19 billion entity that lends only to them.
Much of what has kept Welch's intact can also hold it back. With grape farmers for owners, "it's a conservative environment," said Rex Green, a managing director at Advest, a Boston investment bank that has advised Welch's. "These are men and women of the soil, rather than day traders. They look at their company and their stewardship of Welch's in the long term."
The next step for Welch's seems to be acquiring or pursuing joint ventures with companies that make other kinds of consumer packaged foods. Executives were quiet about specific plans.
Approaching such ventures slowly works in Welch's favor, Mr. Green said. "They have an excellent record of not launching failed products," he said. "They can't afford to invest the capital, and then not have it work. That absolutely reflects being in the environment of a co-op."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joe Falcone, a fourth-generation grape farmer, is a leader of the National Grape Cooperative Association, which owns Welch Foods, the jelly and juice maker. (Mike Groll for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "The Co-op Behind the Brand Name"
Many familiar names on store shelves are the products of farmer-owned cooperatives. Here are some of the largest such co-ops, listed in approximate order of 1998 sales.
 
COOPERATIVE: Dairy Farmers of America
EXAMPLES OF BRANDS: Many regional milk and dairy brands, Borden cheese
 
COOPERATIVE: Farmland Industries
EXAMPLES OF BRANDS: Farmland meats
 
COOPERATIVE: Land O'Lakes
EXAMPLES OF BRANDS: Land O'Lakes butter
 
COOPERATIVE: Gold Kist
EXAMPLES OF BRANDS: Gold Kist poultry, Gold Nut peanuts
 
COOPERATIVE: Ocean Spray Cranberries
EXAMPLES OF BRANDS: Ocean Spray juices and fruit
 
COOPERATIVE: Sunkist Growers
EXAMPLES OF BRANDS: Citrus fruit; trademark licensed for other products
 
COOPERATIVE: Tri-Valley Growers
EXAMPLES OF BRANDS: S&W, Libby's, Sacramento and Redpack vegetables
 
COOPERATIVE: Riceland Foods
EXAMPLES OF BRANDS: Riceland rice, Chefway rice and oil
 
COOPERATIVE: Pro-Fac Cooperative
EXAMPLES OF BRANDS: Birds Eye frozen food, Comstock fruit, Snyder's snacks
 
COOPERATIVE: American Crystal Sugar
EXAMPLES OF BRANDS: Crystal and Pillsbury sugar
 
COOPERATIVE: National Grape Cooperative
EXAMPLES OF BRANDS: Welch's juices and jellies
 
COOPERATIVE: Blue Diamond Growers
EXAMPLES OF BRANDS: Blue Diamond and Smokehouse almonds
 
(Sources: National Cooperative Bank; Agriculture Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3999 MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRAPE COOPERATIVE ASSN; WELCH FOODS INC NATIONAL GRAPE COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION INC (57%); BLUE DIAMOND GROWERS (59%); FARMLAND INDUSTRIES (59%); SUNKIST GROWERS (59%); FARMLAND INDUSTRIES (59%); SUNKIST GROWERS (59%); BLUE DIAMOND GROWERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GRAPE COOPERATIVE ASSN; WELCH FOODS INC BLUE DIAMOND GROWERS (59%); FARMLAND INDUSTRIES (59%); SUNKIST GROWERS (59%); FARMLAND INDUSTRIES (59%); SUNKIST GROWERS (59%); BLUE DIAMOND GROWERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: BEVERAGES; JUICES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES BRANDING (90%); FOOD MFG (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (90%); BRAND EQUITY (90%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); CONSERVATISM (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (70%); JOINT VENTURES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



390 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 7; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: HARLEM;
9 Groups Join in a Marriage of Art and Cultural Institutions

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL 

 BODY:
The gathering at the National Black Theater on East 125th Street Tuesday morning had the trappings of a wedding ceremony, with catered hors d'oeuvres and waiters in tuxedos. There was even a performance by a gospel choir.
The event, billed as a news conference, was actually a marriage of sorts, joining together nine of Harlem's most prominent cultural institutions. The nine -- Aaron Davis Hall, the Apollo Theater Foundation, the Boys Choir of Harlem, the Dance Theater of Harlem, the Harlem School of the Arts, Jazzmobile, the National Black Theater, the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture and the Studio Museum in Harlem -- now make up the Harlem Strategic Cultural Collaborative, a coalition to market and promote the neighborhood's rich tradition of culture and arts. 
 "This coalition has been a dream of the Department of Cultural Affairs for a long time," said Schuyler G. Chapin, the Commissioner.
The actor Ossie Davis, who introduced a representative from each group, was equally effusive.
"The excitement that I feel comes from an understanding of the implications of what's happening here," he said. "Our history is one in which we have had to prove that we are even human beings. And the struggle has been led all these years, and is still being led, by people in the arts."
The collaborative was forged in several meetings that began this winter, when the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone organized a series of focus groups on improving Harlem's economy, said Howard Dodson, director of the Schomburg Center.
The organizations hope to share audiences by promoting one another's events, distributing brochures and creating special deals for people to attend programs at various spaces.
The first collaborative effort is a discount card, which will be issued automatically to subscribers and members of each of the nine groups, offering a 10 percent discount on various products and programs.
The coalition plans to try collective marketing strategies, like a cooperative Web site promoting all of Harlem's arts.
Patricia Cruz, director of Aaron Davis Hall, said she hoped the collaborative could build on the growth in economic development and rebirth of night life that are already taking place in Harlem to build audiences for all the neighborhood's cultural institutions.
"We have been programmed to be rugged individualists, to think we're all competing for the same pot of money," said Barbara Ann Teer, founder and chief executive of the National Black Theater.
"This whole paradigm has been one of scarcity. That has been a barrier, so we have to re-educate ourselves."
 NINA SIEGAL 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARLEM STRATEGIC CULTURAL COLLABORATIVE (ORGN) APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (57%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARLEM STRATEGIC CULTURAL COLLABORATIVE (ORGN) APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (57%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; BLACKS CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); FOCUS GROUPS (75%); MARKETING STRATEGY (74%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); DANCE COMPANIES (73%); DANCE (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: SIEGAL, NINA MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



391 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
A Search For Growth On the Vine

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER 

 BODY:
LAST year was a good one for plenty of newly released wines, from Oregon pinot noirs to Napa chardonnays. For investors in wine-company stocks, however, 1998 left a generally unpleasant aftertaste.
The Nationsbanc Montgomery Securities Wine Index, which tracks three wine-related stocks -- Robert Mondavi Winery, Beringer Wine Estates, and Canandaigua Brands -- rose just 4.9 percent last year, compared with a 26.7 percent gain for the Standard & Poor's 500. And the wine index has tumbled 13.5 percent so far this year through Friday. 
 But David Goldman, a Montgomery analyst, says winery stocks have been held down by fears, some of them unfounded.
Some investors feared a grape shortage from heavy rains in 1998, while others feared a glut as large amounts of vineyard acreage entered production during the year; neither came to pass. More broadly, worries about an imminent recession have also been discounted. Worries remain, however, that a new excise tax could be placed on alcohol. And small- to mid-cap stocks of all types continue to languish.
"These things won't always be true," Mr. Goldman said. He predicted 9 to 12 percent growth in sales volume, with higher growth in revenues as consumption continues to shift to better, pricier wines. "Bottom-line earnings growth looks like it will be 15 to 20 percent for the next few years," he said. "Lastly, there is a certain sex appeal."
The latter factor has long been the main reason to like the Chalone Wine Group, a maker of many high-end wines. The company went public in 1984 at $9 a share; 15 years later it is trading at $8.375, despite sales growth that has been in the double digits throughout the 1990's. (Investors who hold at least 100 shares, however, enjoy a 25 percent discount on Chalone wines.)
Mondavi went public in 1993 at $13.50 a share; it closed on Friday at $32.25 but has traded as high as $42.75 in the last 52 weeks. Beringer went public in 1997 at $26; it is now at $38.375, down from a 52-week high of $54.75. Two smaller wineries, R. H. Phillips and Willamette Valley Vineyard, are also publicly traded, as is Golden State Vintners, which makes wines sold under various labels. Canandaigua, a huge producer of lower-priced wines, made news this month by agreeing to buy the premium Simi Winery of California from LVMH Moet-Hennessey Louis Vuitton.
Mr. Goldman is especially bullish on Mondavi and Beringer, which he expects to hit $47 and $55, respectively, over the next 12 months. He is cautious about Ravenswood Winery, which sold one million shares at $10.50 each over the World Wide Web on April 9, through W. R. Hambrecht & Company, in an on-line auction without traditional underwriters. "I love the company -- they have a real success story," Mr. Goldman said. "My only concern is that Ravenswood will end up on the dark side of the moon in terms of analyst coverage."
Mr. Goldman has much company in recommending Mondavi and Beringer. Both have known brands and prime, extensive acreage in California. Mondavi had some earnings shortfalls last year, which it attributed to a shortage of grapes for its low-end Woodbridge chardonnay. Beringer has enjoyed steady sales and earnings growth.
John O'Neill, an analyst at BT Alex. Brown upgraded Mondavi to a buy in January, after the company announced a restructuring that trimmed the work force by 4 percent and refocused attention on core brands. "The structural change indicated the company will be more profit-focused," Mr. O'Neill said.
At Beringer, he said, a new line of $8 to $10 wines, Beringer Founders Estate, should increase sales volumes.
Bernice S. Behar, manager of the John Hancock Emerging Growth fund, said of Beringer: "The growth rate is there, and the demand is still pretty high. We continue to believe Beringer is the best-managed company in the business."
Among the doubters of Mondavi and Beringer is Tom Pirko, president of Bevmark Inc., a beverage industry consulting firm based in New York. He likes Beringer's management and the Mondavi family, but he does not believe either company should be public. "All these projects are the province of private equity deals," he said. "I don't know of any that really qualifies for a public offering."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tourists love wineries, but investors have been leery. At the Beringer Wine Estates in the Napa Valley of California, a mirror reflected visitors who were sampling wine. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)
 
Graph, "Meager Harvest," tracks the Nationsbanc Montgomery Wine Index, which tracks three wine companies, as compared to the Standard and Poor's 500, since January 1, 1998.
(Source: Nationsbanc Montgomery Securities Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MC (PAR) (80%); LVMH (BIT) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (80%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (80%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); NAICS111332 GRAPE VINEYARDS (54%); SIC0172 GRAPES (54%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (90%); 

CITY: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONSBANC MONTGOMERY WINE INDEX LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (80%); WR HAMBRECHT & CO LLC (60%); CHALONE WINE GROUP LTD (54%); RAVENSWOOD WINERY INC (50%); BERINGER FOUNDERS ESTATE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONSBANC MONTGOMERY WINE INDEX BERINGER FOUNDERS ESTATE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (90%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; WINES; ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES WINERIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); WINE (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); EXCISE TAX (73%); BEVERAGE PRICES (73%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (69%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (67%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M ROBERT MONDAVI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



392 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Value Is Suddenly Looking Nifty

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
For years, stock market investors have resembled the fellow Oscar Wilde once described as knowing the price of everything and the value of nothing.
Last week, value suddenly mattered again to investors. 
 For anyone in value stocks, a rally has been a long time in coming. These companies have severely underperformed compared with their growth-stock brethren since the middle of 1994.
On Monday, however, the trend turned. Assets flew out of stock market darlings like Pfizer, Wal-Mart and Dell Computer and headed directly for former duds like Caterpillar, DuPont, even Eastman Kodak.
After peaking on Monday, the Standard & Poor's Barra Growth index lost 6.2 percent by week's end. But the S. & P. Barra Value index gained 1.9 percent for the week.
The about-face was all the more remarkable in that it was not caused by a market correction. Byron R. Wien, United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, says it usually takes a market fall to shock investors into value havens.
So what scared investors out of growth stocks? Mr. Wien cites two events: the European central bank's interest-rate cut on April 8 and Compaq Computer's warning last Monday that its first-quarter earnings would be half what analysts were expecting. "Compaq's announcement reminded people that there can be disappointments even in technology," Mr. Wien said. "And the E.C.B. cutting interest rates reminded people that policy makers are determined to keep the world on a growth path."
Before they celebrate, value investors may be wondering whether the sudden shift is just a cruel head fake to an already beleaguered bunch.
Douglas R. Cliggott, United States equity strategist at J. P. Morgan Securities, thinks the value story has staying power. One reason is an upswing in global earnings that he expects during the next 6 to 12 months as economies around the world emerge from the doldrums.
That, he said, will help value stocks stay strong. When world economic growth is falling, Mr. Cliggott noted, growth stocks win. "In periods of slow economic growth, earnings growth is scarce, so those companies that can demonstrate growth tend to get very high multiples put on those earnings," he explained. As growth accelerates, paying up for earnings makes less sense, and value shares typically rally.
It is perhaps not surprising that the value rebound is happening now. Such sentiment shifts often occur after the last diehard investor -- in this case a value type -- has thrown in the towel. This year, 98 percent of net inflows into equity mutual funds have gone to growth managers.
To investors who think that growth stocks always bounce back, Alan F. Skrainka, chief market strategist at Edward D. Jones in St. Louis, says history shows the perils of such faith.
Harkening back to 1972, the last time that a small group of growth stocks -- the Nifty 50 -- so dominated the investment scene, Mr. Skrainka looked at the performance of that era's four top technology stocks: Texas Instruments, I.B.M., Xerox and Polaroid. The shares, he found, fetched 40 to 95 times earnings in 1972.
But then the bear market of 1974 hammered them. And by 1982, the former leaders had not yet recovered; their average annualized returns for the 10-year period ending in 1982 were well below that of the S.& P. 500.
Market leadership, once it has been unseated, can take a long time to return.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the gap between the S. & P. Barra Value index and the S. & P. Growth index since April 1, 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (57%); PFE (NYSE) (57%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (68%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (57%); PFIZER INC (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); BONDS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); TRENDS (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN BYRON R WIEN (72%); ALAN F SKRAINKA (60%); DOUGLAS R CLIGGOTT (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



393 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: War and Analogy

 BODY:
Every war is conducted in the shadow of its predecessors, and the conflict in Kosovo is no exception. The nation is haunted by memories of the Second World War and Vietnam as it considers how intensely to prosecute the war in the Balkans. That is entirely appropriate, for the history of those struggles is relevant to this one. But neither analogy exactly fits Kosovo, and seeing beyond them is essential if the country is to make a searching examination of the proper course to follow in Yugoslavia. 
 Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and other proponents of American military involvement in Kosovo cast the conflict as a test of American and European willingness to confront aggression and homicidal ethnic hatred before they spread. They argue that in dealing with Slobodan Milosevic, the West must not repeat the appeasement at Munich in 1938 and other mistakes that initially allowed Hitler to move unimpeded against his neighbors and led him to conclude that Nazi policies would go unopposed. Because of the unimaginable devastation of World War II and the Holocaust, this view has great moral resonance today.
Opponents of American military action in Kosovo fear that, as in Vietnam, the country is being drawn deeply into a conflict where the national interest is unclear or concocted, the sacrifices may be dear and the outcome is uncertain. They see another protracted, unpopular war that ends with an imperfect settlement that might have been reached before fighting escalated. The echoes of Vietnam are understandably -- and properly -- strong in a White House and Pentagon populated with men and women who saw the lives of their peers wasted by Lyndon Baines Johnson.
For every American generation of this century, the power of war analogies has been undeniable, and they have framed debate about every recent American military venture abroad. George Bush, who was probably the last of the World War II veterans to occupy the White House, took America to war in the Persian Gulf not only to protect the flow of oil, but also to defeat Saddam Hussein, a tyrant whom he equated with Hitler. Ronald Reagan maintained that his invasion of Grenada broke the paralyzing spell of Vietnam.
In fact, both analogies contain enduring truths. World War II did show that maniacal dictators are best crushed early. Vietnam taught us that it can be a criminal act to send troops into combat without the support of the American people and Congress. But historical contexts change, and that affects the fit of old analogies to new circumstances. The bipolar world of the cold war no longer exists. Does that mean that the remaining superpower has unavoidable responsibilities to function as a humanitarian police force? Or does it mean that America should intervene in genocidal conflicts that would undermine the stability of an important region or ally and ignore more isolated bloodlettings?
President Clinton began to grope toward an answer to these difficult questions last week when he told a gathering of newspaper editors, "At the end of the 20th century, we face a great battle between the forces of integration and the forces of disintegration, the forces of globalism versus tribalism, of oppression against empowerment."
In this new world, the savage assault on Kosovo demands a response, and one that proceeds from a clearer policy than has yet been defined by Mr. Clinton or the foreign-policy leaders in Congress. Advancing the economic, political and ethnic integration of Europe is hard enough without a bomb-thrower like Mr. Milosevic. His actions present an intertwined humanitarian and diplomatic test to Europe and the United States. By forcing hundreds of thousands of ethnic Albanians to flee, Mr. Milosevic is using refugees to destabilize neighboring areas that he is unwilling to attack with his army. The sudden, explosive movement of peoples across Europe is a new form of aggression.
In the days ahead, Americans must ponder how vital these interests are to the United States. For the time being, NATO air strikes are the right way to attack the Serbian military and may weaken Mr. Milosevic's resistance. But the hour has come for a national conversation about how deeply the country is willing to be engaged in the defense of Kosovo.
Senator John McCain, directly tackling the Vietnam analogy, predicts that a NATO ground force operating with advanced American weapons would quickly overcome Serbian troops. Even if that is not the case, Americans outraged by the Serbian brutality in Kosovo may be willing to risk the casualties that could come with an invasion. To make that judgment, Americans need to learn more about the conflict and its potential consequences.
Mr. Clinton is the only person who can lead a national seminar on Kosovo, and he made a good start last week, speaking in San Francisco, Detroit and Boston. Before long, Congress must commence a full debate. Though the military obstacles in Kosovo are different from those in Vietnam -- the Serbian army, for example, is clearly not supported by large segments of the population in Kosovo -- one lesson of Vietnam should be foremost in Mr. Clinton's thinking. In these excruciating situations, the President has to decide, in his own heart and mind, exactly what he wants and then seek the support of the American people and Congress for his military plan. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); VIET NAM (91%); EUROPE (79%); GRENADA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (67%); 

CITY: MUNICH, GERMANY (53%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); EUROPE; UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); VIET NAM (91%); EUROPE (79%); GRENADA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (67%); MUNICH, GERMANY (53%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE WORLD WAR II (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); COLD WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GENOCIDE (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); VETERANS (73%); ARMED FORCES (70%); HOLOCAUST (68%); POLICE FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); RONALD REAGAN (67%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



394 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: The World: Checkered Flags;
Sovereignty Isn't So Sacred Anymore

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS

 BODY:
AT the century's last session of the Commission on Human Rights, Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations unveiled a doctrine with profound implications for international relations in the new millennium. The air strikes against Yugoslavia, he said on April 7, showed that the world would no longer permit nations intent on committing genocide to "hide" behind the United Nations charter, which has traditionally safeguarded national sovereignty.
The protection of human rights, he said, must "take precedence over concerns of state sovereignty." "As long as I am Secretary General," said Mr. Annan, the United Nations "will always place human beings at the center of everything we do." This was not the Secretary General acting alone. He was, he acknowledged, only embracing an "evolving" international norm. He also acknowledged that using force to protect human rights poses "fundamental challenges" to the United Nations. 
 In fact, an erosion of sovereignty when it conflicts with human rights standards is reflected in many events of the last decade: the creation of international tribunals to try individuals accused of crimes against humanity in Yugoslavia and Rwanda; Spain's effort to extradite the former Chilean leader, Gen. Augusto Pinochet, from Britain for trial on charges of crimes against humanity, and the impending trial of two Libyans before a Scottish court in the Netherlands over charges that they bombed an American jetliner over Lockerbie, Scotland.
To a certain extent, analysts agree, Mr. Annan's own stance is a reaction to his own searing experience as the head of peacekeeping in Rwanda, when more than half a million people were slaughtered as the Security Council withdrew United Nations forces.
Some argue that Mr. Annan has merely blessed a "given" of the political climate today: the growing importance of human rights to the United Nations and many of its 185 members. This was most evident in the Security Council's overwhelming rejection two weeks ago of a resolution condemning NATO's air strikes as illegal on grounds that the Security Council had not authorized them. Only Namibia joined Russia and China, the co-sponsors of the motion, in arguing that Serbia's treatment of its Albanian minority was essentially an internal matter.
Mr. Annan's doctrine, predictably, has won praise from the burgeoning human rights community. But others argue that though well-intentioned, it is naive, dangerous and likely to increase tensions and paralysis within the Security Council.
And at least one close adviser to Mr. Annan worries that intervening to save white Europeans (albeit Muslims) in Kosovo, after having ignored even worse massacres in Rwanda and elsewhere, leaves the United Nations open to charges of selective morality and double standards. Others argue that in a world with some 40 million refugees and displaced people, Mr. Annan's stance risks stretching United Nations resources to unbearable limits.
Herbert S. Okun, a former American diplomat and United Nations adviser on narcotics, warns that going to war to protect people is also perilous. "The use of force," he warns, "is a very blunt instrument on behalf of human rights."
Still others worry that respect for sovereignty has often been a barrier to the expansion of internal conflicts, and has served as a rallying point for collective action against aggressors.
IN speeches and articles last year, Mr. Annan addressed some of these worries even as he signaled his growing anxiety about the violations of rights occurring in Kosovo. Nation-states are not going to disappear, he wrote in the journal "Humanitarian Intervention." Respect for the "fundamental sovereignty, territorial integrity, and political independence of states" will remain a "cornerstone of the international system." Nevertheless, he said last summer in Rome, the principle of sovereignty cannot provide "excuses for the inexcusable." The United Nations charter, he reminded people in England last June, "was issued in the name of 'the peoples,' not the governments, of the United Nations."
Even China, said Kenneth Roth, executive director of Human Rights Watch, has not uniformly blocked humanitarian intervention by the United Nations. For instance, it did not object to the creation of "no-fly zones" in Iraq to protect the Kurdish minority in the north and Shiite Muslims in the south against Saddam Hussein's furious repression. The grosser the oppression (or, more to the point, the less directly it resembles China's own actions in Tibet) the greater Beijing's willingness to tolerate humanitarian intervention. "So even for China the door is not completely shut," Mr. Roth said.
There is, as well, a link between the idea of stopping atrocities and preserving the general peace, another key goal for the United Nations. Mr. Roth argues that failure to respond to brutal internal repression often emboldens would-be aggressors. "Our failure to punish Iraq for its brutal repression of, and use of chemical weapons against, the Kurds in 1988 led Saddam to conclude he could get away with invading Kuwait," he said.
The resort to force, of course, need not be the first or preferred means of intervention. Patiently applied, targeted economic sanctions against Libya eventually prompted Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader, to surrender the two men charged with bringing down Pan Am 103 over Scotland. On the other hand, almost a decade of harsh sanctions against Iraq have failed to persuade Saddam Hussein to disclose information about his quest for unconventional weapons.
"The military intervention in Kosovo reflects to some extent the lessons of Iraq and of Rwanda," said one senior diplomat.
THE case for humanitarian intervention in Kosovo was persuasive for both Europe and the United States for different reasons, one senior diplomat asserted. America, an "idea" nation whose national identity derives more from a "value-driven agenda" than from traditional bonding notions of blood, religion or soil, has long been an aggressive promoter of human rights. Also at stake for America is NATO's very purpose and effectiveness as an alliance.
And for Europe, the question of appearing indifferent to repression and brutality was especially evocative. Even Germany, which since World War II has resisted the use of force to solve political problems, did not want to end the century by appearing cold toward an echo of the atrocities it caused 60 years ago. Paraphrasing Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer of Germany, the diplomat said the decision for Germany was between "no more wars" and "no more Auschwitzes." It, like the rest of NATO, chose to go to war this time.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: An elderly woman was among thousands of Albanians from Kosovo bound for temporary refuge in Germany. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (93%); RWANDA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); SCOTLAND (87%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); NAMIBIA (79%); CHILE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); SPAIN (72%); NETHERLANDS (69%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION (UN); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION (UN); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (93%); RWANDA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); SCOTLAND (87%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); NAMIBIA (79%); CHILE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); SPAIN (72%); NETHERLANDS (69%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE HUMAN RIGHTS (93%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); MILLENNIUM (78%); GENOCIDE (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); REFUGEES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); MILLER, JUDITH KOFI ANNAN (92%); KENNETH ROTH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



395 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
A Booming Economy That Confuses the Fed

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
It's boom time in America. The United States economy is acting as if it just got a new wind, and growth -- which virtually every forecaster was sure would slow this year -- seems to be accelerating. Unemployment is low and so is inflation.
The seers at the Federal Reserve Board are as puzzled as the rest of us. "Recent performance is both better than expected and better than most of us thought the structure of the economy would allow," said Laurence Meyer, a Fed governor, in a speech last week. 
 The new belief in the vibrancy of the American economy was visible in the stock market last week as investors moved money out of Internet wonders and into companies that actually make stuff. America Online stock fell 13 percent while Caterpillar soared 30 percent. You would think this economic recovery was just starting, rather than in its ninth year. Recessions, investors think, are for other countries.
It was only last fall that there was a consensus that it was just a matter of time until the world's economic illness infected America. There were signs that it had already started, as manufacturing companies reported falling profits and exports declined.
It now looks as if the contagion went the other way. Brazil's recession is less serious than was expected and Asia is recovering. American manufacturers report that exports are picking up.
Meanwhile, American consumers have decided to spend more than ever. "The things that were strong last year have not missed a beat," said Robert Barbera, the chief economist of Hoenig & Company. Retail sales are up 6 percent over last year, after adjusting for inflation. That is a pace that is unprecedented except when the country is coming out of a recession. The last time we saw such growth was in 1983.
All this suggests that confidence is about as high as it has ever been. Investors believe there will be no recession, and consumers have no fears that their incomes will fall.
In retrospect, it seems clear that the Fed overdid it last fall, when it cut interest rates three times in an effort to stave off world recession and moderate the expected slowing in this country. Instead, it fostered a boom that may be unsustainable and could bring on inflation. It also provided the liquidity needed to push the Dow Jones industrial average up 39 percent since August.
Now the question is whether the Fed will reverse course and start to tighten. If it does, that would certainly put upward pressure on interest rates, and it might dampen both the stock market and the economy.
The answer probably depends on what conclusions the Fed members reach about why the economy has been so strong. If they still believe in conventional forecasting, they probably will tighten. In the past, unemployment rates this low and consumption this strong were deemed sure signs of incipient inflation.
But the old economic indicators do not seem to be working the way they once did, a fact that is reflected in the poor forecasting record of the Fed and most other economists. The Fed members wonder whether much of this can be explained by a surge in computer-related productivity, and whether weakness in the rest of the world is keeping a cap on American wages even when jobs are plentiful.
Most on Wall Street think the Fed is not likely to act soon. "The days of pre-emptive tightening are over," says Mr. Barbera, predicting that action will be delayed until inflation is clearly on the rise. Similarly, Stephen Roach, the chief economist at Morgan Stanley, thinks the Fed should raise rates to at least partly offset last fall's cuts, but says it appears that such a move will come later rather than sooner.
But the bet here is that the Fed will act sooner than most people think. Mr. Meyer, the Fed governor, said last week that a rate increase might be appropriate if the economy continued to grow rapidly, even if inflation did not rise immediately. If that was a hint, it was one that Wall Street was not in a mood to hear. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM HOENIG & CO INC (66%); HOENIG & CO LTD (66%); AOL INC (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; CREDIT; EDITORIALS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); COMPANY LOSSES (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



396 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 3; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: The World;
How Globalism Ruined An Asian Success Story

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia

 BODY:
HIS children were weeping and his wife looked shell-shocked. But as the guards led him away to serve a six-year prison sentence last week, Malaysia's ousted Deputy Prime Minister, Anwar Ibrahim, seemed to be prepping himself for the next round of a boxing match.
"Hold fast to the struggle," Mr. Anwar said in a fiery statement just after he was found guilty of corruption. "Love Malaysia. And if we do love Malaysia, then the fight against injustice must be invigorated." 
 While Mr. Anwar, 51, vows he will lead a campaign to unseat Malaysia's strong-willed leader, Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, it is not clear he can be much of an insurgent from behind bars. If Malaysia recovers from the ravages of the Asian economic crisis, the 73-year-old Dr. Mahathir seems likely to survive the most serious threat to his 18-year rule.
Still, the downfall of Mr. Anwar shows how outside economic forces can sunder the political culture of even a well-governed country. Before the Asian crisis devastated Malaysia's economy, Mr. Anwar and Dr. Mahathir rarely disagreed. Now, the two men are locked in a feud so bitter that Mr. Anwar likens his former mentor to Hitler, while Dr. Mahathir accuses his protege of being a sodomist.
"The economic crisis unfolded into a political crisis, with changes in regimes throughout the region," said K. S. Jomo, a political economist at the University of Malaya. "That scared Mahathir, and it emboldened Anwar."
Mr. Anwar's wife, Wan Azizah Wan Ismail, believes her husband had become too much of a threat to Dr. Mahathir. "It was a foregone conclusion that he was going to be found guilty," she said.
For two decades, Dr. Mahathir and Mr. Anwar were inseparable, united in a drive to turn this former British colony into Exhibit A of the Asian miracle. With foreign money pouring in, Malaysia became a wonderland of development. American companies built factories to take advantage of the cheap work force, and the living standard rose.
Dr. Mahathir and Mr. Anwar flexed their muscles in different ways. The Prime Minister built the world's tallest skyscrapers in Kuala Lumpur, while Mr. Anwar cultivated an image as a new-style Asian leader. In his book, "The Asian Renaissance," he tried to square Asian values with Western capitalism.
But last year Malaysia got caught in the riptide of globalism, and the strain drove both men to extreme positions. Dr. Mahathir argued that Malaysia should shield itself against the predations of foreign currency speculators by erecting barriers around its markets. Mr. Anwar favored the International Monetary Fund's castor-oil remedy of open markets and high interest rates. He said the Prime Minister was just trying to protect his cronies.
Just when Dr. Mahathir seemed to be on the ropes, he lashed back -- imposing controls on Malaysia's currency markets and sacking his deputy. Three weeks later, Mr. Anwar was arrested and charged with corruption and sex crimes.
It is tempting to cast the feud between Dr. Mahathir and Mr. Anwar in Manichean terms. Mr. Anwar's trial had all the appearances of a railroading. And Dr. Mahathir has won few friends outside Malaysia with his inflammatory remarks about the influence of the financier George Soros and Jewish currency speculators.
In an Op-Ed article in The New York Times on Thursday, written from prison, Mr. Anwar accused Dr. Mahathir of being "a has-been leader who had descended to cruelty in a desperate bid to cling to power."
BUT such a portrayal is simplistic. Political analysts here said Dr. Mahathir mixes populist, anti-Western rhetoric with a sophisticated understanding of the global economy. Even critics credit him for fashioning a harmonious country out of a combustible mixture of Malays, ethnic Chinese and Indians.
Likewise, Mr. Anwar is no helpless victim. Analysts describe him as a skilled and even ruthless politician who did not hesitate to hand out his share of plum Government contracts to solidify his power base. Mr. Anwar has honed his image overseas, through a network of Western-style spin doctors.
In the end, Mr. Anwar's downfall is yet more evidence that global capitalism can be a powerful destabilizing force. It set off poisonous animosities in two leaders who shared a common vision of Malaysia's future. And the resulting power struggle left this once-peaceful and prosperous country sadly diminished. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA; MALAYSIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT SENTENCING (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); POLITICS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); BOXING (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CORRUPTION (71%); TRENDS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: MAHATHIR MOHAMAD (PRIME MIN); ANWAR IBRAHIM; LANDLER, MARK MAHATHIR MOHAMAD (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



397 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 3; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: The World: Clinton Foreign Policy;
China: a Hot Issue That Takes the Back Burner

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IN their new book "Preventative Defense" (Brookings Institution Press), former Defense Secretary William J. Perry and a former Pentagon colleague, Ashton B. Carter, argue that 10 years into the post-cold war, Washington forgets that some nations matter a lot more than others.
There is a short "A list" of nations that could some day pose a threat to "the survival or way of life of Americans" -- a Russia that goes the way of Weimar Germany, or a China that becomes a hostile superpower. 
 Then there is a well-stocked "B list" of "imminent threats to U.S. interests," including the fractious Persian Gulf states and North Korea.
And finally comes the "C list," which the authors say is composed of "the Kosovos, Bosnias, Somalias, Rwandas and Haitis" -- all urgent, but places where American interests are usually hard to define.
On paper, it sounds reasonable and orderly. But the C list looms vivid onlive TV, making it all-consuming for Washington while less dramatic A list problems go to the back burner.
And that appears to be exactly what happened over the last 10 days as China's savvy Prime Minister, Zhu Rongji, drove up to the White House ready to resolve one of the most complex issues in Sino-American relations -- a huge trade deal that is really about China's influence in the world and America's influence on China. Problem was, he arrived at a moment when a President who has pressed "engagement" with China was elsewhere engaged.
The result was a weeklong White House fumble that left the Chinese angry, the President embarrassed, the business community enraged and Congress in disarray. In the end, Mr. Zhu left the United States with a hastily telephoned assurance from Mr. Clinton that China would get into the World Trade Organization this year, with American blessing, if China kept its promises and gave a bit more. But the whole messy handling of China's premier reformer left some Administration officials wondering whether this White House can bomb Belgrade and negotiate with Beijing at the same time.
"This was a classic case of distraction," one White House official conceded late last week, trying to explain why the White House had to issue three separate joint statements with Mr. Zhu in five days.
Mr. Zhu, the man bringing market reforms to China even as millions wander the countryside unemployed, decided earlier this year that China was either going to get globalized fast or get lost in the race. "Either we look like Singapore or we look like Russia," one of his aides commented recently. "And that's not a choice."
So Mr. Zhu offered market-opening concessions in agriculture, telecommunications, banking, insurance and other industries that go far beyond what most American officials thought possible. And the morning of his arrival here, Mr. Clinton made the strongest case yet for ushering China into the World Trade Organization, arguing it would not only mean billions for American companies, but that it would bring the rule of law to China. And, breaking new ground, he argued that an economically weak China was more dangerous to America than a strong China.
HOURS later, though, Mr. Clinton walked away from the deal, at least for the time being. China had not given enough, his aides argued. He was worried, his advisers say, that the Democratic left, backed by the unions, would kill off any deal once they allied with conservatives saying there should be no deal with a China that steals nuclear secrets and represses dissidents.
"The critical middle that you need to support a deal like this is shrinking," said Commerce Secretary William Daley, explaining why the White House needed what he called "a bulletproof deal."
But in trade, nothing's bulletproof. American textile makers will never like a deal that lets China expand its presence in the American market. Nor will steel makers, or steel unions. Many in Congress argue that China has no intention of fulfilling its market-opening promises. But the vast majority of big businesses say that if Mr. Clinton doesn't sign soon, the huge gains made in many areas will be eaten away as soon as Mr. Zhu returns to Beijing and faces bureaucrats screaming: "You gave away what?"
"That's what makes this such a critical moment," said Edward S. Steinfeld, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor who has studied China's state-owned enterprises. "This agreement puts tremendous pressure on China to change its industrial structure, and to some degree its politics.
"It will be painful. And the question is, how can you say that you want a market-based China, enmeshed in a global legal system, and walk away from this?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Put off: In Chicago, Premier Zhu Rongii was given a 1,500-pound bull. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (77%); GULF STATES (56%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); INDIAN OCEAN (56%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (57%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (77%); GULF STATES (56%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); INDIAN OCEAN (56%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (85%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WRITERS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (51%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ZHU RONGJI (PREMIER); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



398 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 34; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 306 words

HEADLINE: The Value of Stock Options

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Corporate Profits Are Tasty, but Artificially Flavored" (Economic View, March 28), which described corporate accounting for stock options as a cause of overstated profits: 
 Such opinions oversimplify a highly evolved, complex subject. Employee stock options have been a major driver of our booming economy, of our global technology leadership and the current bull market. To gain an appreciation for stock options, just look around the world and see the lack of linkage between management and shareholder interests in many foreign countries. And think back to the demands of institutional shareholders a generation ago for a stronger correlation between results for shareholders and results for management. Today, that correlation is strong, and the results have been powerful for both groups.
Corporate financial statements today include extensive, overly complicated and, in part, meaningless information about stock options. More changes to the accounting methods and disclosures won't change investors' proper focus on cash flow and underlying growth rates in assessing a business.
Executive pay is driven by a formal governance process and by dialogue among the owners of a corporation, their representatives (directors and compensation committees) and management. That is where the discussion can be lively, thoughtful and marketplace-driven.
Because of continuous improvements in corporate reporting, as well as the growth of the Internet and the number of analysts covering stocks, the amount of information available to investors is up dramatically. And the quality of that information has never been better.
 
PHILIP B. LIVINGSTON
Morristown, N.J., April 1
 
The writer is president and chief executive of the Financial Executives Institute, an association of corporate executives. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CORPORATE FINANCIAL INSURANCE SERVICES INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK OPTIONS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); BONDS (68%); 

PERSON: LIVINGSTON, PHILIP B MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



399 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1694 words

HEADLINE: Competition for Patients Spurs Some Hospitals Toward Providing Only Private Rooms

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Private rooms in hospitals were once only for those affluent patients willing to pay as much as $300 a day extra for some peace from the chatter, beeping machines and groans coming from the next bed. Now a growing number of hospitals are eliminating shared rooms and offering all patients -- Medicare and Medicaid, rich and indigent -- their own rooms, often at no extra charge.
The shift toward private rooms is largely a byproduct of the revolution wrought by managed care. Most hospitals are under pressure to compete for patients. Insurers used to pay hospitals based on a semiprivate room rate. Now they typically pay the same flat amount no matter what the type of room. 
 Technology is also a factor, as hospitals need more space for increasingly sophisticated life-support devices. Indeed, many hospitals want to build rooms that can be easily converted to intensive care units, which health planners project as a growth area over the 30-year life of a typical hospital building.
So while building private rooms is more expensive than shared rooms, many hospitals say the extra cost is worth it to fill a higher percentage of beds and to prepare for the future.
"Almost everybody is building hospitals with private rooms only," said C. Thomas Smith, president of VHA Inc., a national purchasing and consulting network of 1,850 hospitals.
New York hospitals have not joined the trend, put off, executives say, by high local building costs.
Big university hospitals have recently completed buildings with only private rooms in Chicago and Little Rock, Ark. Construction will start this summer for an all-private medical center in Los Angeles.
Other current projects include a new Florida center of the Cleveland Clinic; a county hospital near San Bernardino, Calif., and a new regional center for the South Jersey Hospital System in Bridgeton.
At 315 square feet, many rooms in the new medical center at the University of California at Los Angeles will be almost as big as some Manhattan apartments. In the new building at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago, the rooms will be 225 square feet, with separate sinks for patients and nurses and a vanity in the hotel-style private bathroom.
The new private rooms have a number of health care advantages, hospital executives say. They help protect patients from infections in the hospital. They also encourage family members to stay with the patient and become more engaged in the patient's care. In the end, that helps because managed care has in many cases shortened hospital stays and patients need all the help they can get, in the hospital and at home.
An independent study found that patients recovered faster in a cooperative care unit at New York University Hospital, where family members stay with them in 40 private rooms, compared with patients in traditional units.
Faye LeDoux, an architectural project director for Ellerbe Becket, a Minneapolis-based firm, added, "If you are in a room with a person who requires a lot of care and a lot of noisy equipment, it can be very stressful for you."
Thelma Waln, recovering from hip surgery after a painful fall, enthused over the all-private attractions of San Bernardino County's new Arrowhead Regional Medical Center in Colton, Calif. They include "my own bathroom, my own TV." Teasing, she told a nurse, "This is going to lead to malingering."
Mrs. Waln, 64, was transferred to Arrowhead on opening day, March 30, from a 1940's building with a radically different ambiance. Her old room had six beds and a television that attracted "20 or 30 people who came in every day" to watch soap operas. She remembers opening her eyes there, still woozy from anesthesia. "I thought I was in a garage," she said.
Hospital executives say the economics of private rooms make sense in many parts of the country. Medicare, which typically covers half of a hospital's budget, pays a flat sum that varies with the diagnosis.
Some managed care plans also pay this way; others negotiate a daily rate for each patient, and some pay a monthly fee for each plan member that is supposed to cover expenses for those who require care.
As a result, the private rooms do not add directly to costs for insurance companies and employer health plans. Instead of billing the patient, many hospitals now absorb the relatively minor costs of the larger, private room.
"If a hospital can do it, great," said Ben Zelman, a vice president of Medical Mutual of Ohio, a big insurance company based in Cleveland.
As they pursue patients, many hospitals have eliminated extra charges for private rooms.
"We were always reluctant to charge a differential rate for a private room," said Gary Mecklenburg, chief executive of Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. "It would not be positive public relations, when somebody is already paying a lot."
A scattering of hospitals around the country have had all-private facilities for a number of years. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles has long had all-private rooms at no extra charge.
In Cleveland, the University Hospitals system opened Lerner Tower, a 210-bed, all-private unit for adult patients, five years ago. More than 90 percent of the beds are usually occupied, which helps generate above-average profit levels for the system. On average, only 61 percent of available beds are occupied in Cleveland hospitals.
In New York, where space is short and building costs are high, the newer hospitals have not gone the all-private route, although many have luxury accommodations for those who can afford it. "The economics are prohibitive in New York, compared to other places," said Kenneth Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association.
Preliminary plans for a new children's tower at Presbyterian Hospital, for example, include both semiprivate and private rooms.
It would cost the average hospital in New York City $25,000 more a bed to convert to private rooms than it would to convert to two-bed, semiprivate rooms, said Robert Larsen, a principal in the architectural firm Larsen, Shein, Ginsberg & Associates. That would mean $750,000 more for a standard 30-bed floor.
But in most places, in the accelerating race to draw on a shrinking pool of generally sicker patients, it can be easier to fill private rooms than to scramble to match up people by gender and compatible ailments.
Hospitals are building "as many private rooms as real estate and financial conditions will allow," said Larry Neiterman, global director of health care for the Deloitte Consulting firm.
George J. Mann, a professor of architecture at Texas A & M University, said: "The trend is toward a model more like a hotel. At the Holiday Inn or the Marriott, you don't get a stranger as a roommate when you check in."
The downside, he said, is that the patient in a single room "can be pretty isolated and far away, if something happens and you can't reach that emergency cord." The new hospitals rely on electronic patient-monitoring.
Jocelyn Frederick, a principal with Perkins & Will, an architectural firm in Chicago, said, "It is often cheaper to build new buildings with the correct support space for medical technology and the correct floor plan than to convert an older building."
Planners at Northwestern Memorial said that converting a 1940's structure would have cost more than erecting the new building. In some of the old areas, it was just not feasible to install 1990's technology, said Meredith Zelewsky, a spokeswoman for Northwestern.
On May 1 Northwestern Memorial will open the $580 million center, with 400 private rooms and 92 more for intensive care patients. The big teaching hospital will shut an older facility with 680 beds, 200 of which were often empty.
The rooms are equipped with fiber optic wiring so that nurses and doctors can plug into a patient's medical records or digitally stored X-ray images. Specially programmed air systems screen out harmful bacteria to protect rooms with cancer or AIDS patients who have weak immune systems. The systems also screen air coming from rooms with patients who have contagious diseases.
Still, some health care experts see the move toward private rooms as driving up overall health care costs, which are now rising 6 percent a year after several years of slow growth.
"Ultimately the private rooms do drive up the cost of health care," said Uwe E. Reinhardt, a health care economist at Princeton University. "But it is amazing how cheap the costs per square foot are compared to the costs of supplies and staff."
Hospital buildings cost $120 to $250 a square foot around the country, except in California, where earthquake protection raises the cost, and in New York, where building costs are especially high.
Spending on building and equipment is typically spread over a number of years and represents only about 7 percent of a hospital's annual operating expenditures, with most of that for the equipment, said William O. Cleverly, who heads the Center for Healthcare Industry Performance Studies in Columbus, Ohio.
Buildings with all private rooms, he said, may raise total operating costs, including labor, supplies and capital spending, by five-tenths of 1 percent at most.
Making the rooms at the new U.C.L.A. medical center all private has contributed tens of millions of dollars to the $600 million total cost, said Dr. Michael Karpf, director of the medical center, which is part of a new $1.3 billion research and teaching complex.
But the private rooms will allow more treatment to be done in the rooms, as "the tendency of patients being sicker and sicker" continues, he said. Most of the 525 private rooms are being designed to convert easily to intensive care units.
"We assume that as technology is improved and miniaturized, patients will get more done in their own rooms," Dr. Karpf said. Among other things, they may have a dialysis machine, multiple intravenous drips and an aortic balloon to assist the heart.
As a result, the extra cost will be "well worth it," he said. "If the new building was antiquated 20 years after it was built, it would have wasted a lot of money."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thelma Waln, recovering from hip surgery at the new Arrowhead Regional Medical Center in Colton, Calif., likes her private room, with bathroom and television. "This is going to lead to malingering," she told a nurse. (Edward Carreon for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8741 MANAGEMENT SERVICES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: VHA INC (67%); MEDICAID (84%); MEDICARE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (84%); MEDICARE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; MEDICARE; MEDICAID; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE HOSPITALS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (78%); MEDICARE (77%); TRENDS (77%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (75%); NURSES & NURSING (73%); MEDICAID (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); INSURANCE (70%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



400 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: SLAVS UNITED;
Russia's House Betroths Belarus and Yugoslavia

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 17

 BODY:
Politics makes strange bedfellows. Then there is Russian politics, which seemed this week hellbent on the downright weird: a menage a trois of Russia, Belarus and Yugoslavia, bedding a wobbly democracy, a Soviet-style dictatorship and an international pariah three borders removed from either of them in death-do-we-part union.
Barely a week after President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia first proposed it, Russia's lower house of Parliament voted Friday by 293 to 54, with one abstention, for just such a marriage of nations. Belarus's eccentric strongman, President Aleksandr Lukashenko, was in Belgrade on Wednesday, making arrangements with Mr. Milosevic for the linkup. 
 Russian Communists were jubilant.
"Everyone is busy leading a new world order," Gennadi Seleznyov, the Communist Speaker of Parliament's lower house, told the news radio station Echo Moskvy on Wednesday.
"Washington is a leader regarding this idea of a new world order. Therefore, let those of us who do not belong to NATO put our heads together and state what kind of world order we see."
That the union is in fact highly unlikely to take place soon, if ever, was almost irrelevant. Whatever the talk of world order and thumbing Washington's eye, the drumbeat here for marriage with Yugoslavia is far more a matter of domestic politics, not foreign.
And in the context of the despair and helplessness that seem to drive much of Russian politics these days -- despair over Russia's plight and the West's comparative supremacy; anger over the helplessness to do much about it -- talking up a union with Belarus and Yugoslavia begins to look like very good strategy indeed.
"It's like demonstrations near the U.S. Embassy, which reflect not the desire of the majority of Russians to get into a confrontation with the West, but some remnants of some imperial feelings," said Andrei Smirnov, a political writer for the Russian daily Segodnya.
"To the majority of the population, the visibility of confrontation flatters them."
To the Communists and supernationalists who are the major backers of union, the notion is that flattery will get them somewhere in the parliamentary campaigns that are just beginning to crank up across Russia.
Voters will choose all 450 members of Russia's politically dominant lower house in elections this December. Already the idea of reasserting lost Russian glory has become both the subtext of parliamentary politics and a main theme of the house's effort to impeach President Boris N. Yeltsin.
This year's elections in Belarus are canceled, courtesy of a new Constitution Mr. Lukashenko pushed through in a referendum widely condemned as rigged. But from the start, he has based his regime on the proposition that Soviet power should be rebuilt to counter Western influence. In the last year, as Belarus's state-planned economy has run aground, he has used the West more and more as a foil for the country's troubles, and promoted reunification of the old Soviet empire as the solution.
But despite widespread popular support for the idea of unification with Belarus -- and a formal announcement of plans for economic and semipolitical union this winter -- the idea so far has gone almost nowhere. In part, that is because Russia is too preoccupied with its own problems to be able to absorb the 10 million residents of Belarus, who are in even worse economic straits.
In part, it may be that neither Mr. Yeltsin's camp nor Russia's Communists and nationalists want Mr. Lukashenko, a charismatic and cunning politician, as a rival in future elections.
On its face, a union with Yugoslavia seems equally appealing to many Russians. One poll of 3,108 Russians, taken this week by the Moscow-based Center for International Sociological Research, showed that 71 percent of respondents supported a Russia-Belarus-Yugoslavia pact and that more than three-quarters would consummate it now rather than later, after the NATO campaign has ended.
For Mr. Yeltsin, who clearly wants to avoid any military or political entanglement in the Yugoslav crisis, such support has been a problem. The President initially said he would favor a union of the three nations after the Communist Speaker, Mr. Seleznyov, met with him last week.
But since then, his aides have backed away from the idea, calling it premature and even wrongheaded because of the danger that it would drag Russia into a European war.
Mr. Smirnov, of Segodnya, suggests that Mr. Yeltsin's opponents will seize on his foot-dragging in the coming parliamentary elections and the presidential campaign that will follow to attack the President's supporters and any successor he may endorse.
That said, support for a three-nation union is hardly unanimous. And some analysts point out that the idea has serious implications that Mr. Yeltsin has raised obliquely and that Communists and nationalists have yet to discuss.
Almost unmentioned, but clearly on everyone's minds, are race and religion.
Communists and nationalists have promoted the merger as a "pan-Slavic union"; the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church, Alexy II, endorsed it as a "great miracle" and a "guarantee of our common spiritual triumph."
Russia's 20 million Muslims, almost a seventh of the nation's population, may see things differently. Already, leaders of some predominantly Muslim regions in southern Russia have warned that the union threatens to further split Russia's already fractious states.
"Such initiatives have very dangerous implications since they propel the non-Slavic part of the Russian population to adequate measures and steps," Farid Abdullovich Asadullin, the Moscow adviser to the Mufti, the Muslims' spiritual leader in Russia, said in an interview on Friday. "I think this initiative won't find support either in the Cabinet of ministers nor from our President."
Then there is the prospect, however remote, that a union with Yugoslavia would bring with it a mutual defense agreement, the stationing of Russian troops and a direct confrontation with a nuclear-armed NATO.
A number of Russian politicians underscored that prospect this week. "The worst thing Russia can do is respond to insanity with insanity," Grigory Yavlinsky, the liberal leader of the Yabloko political faction in the lower house, said in a statement on Friday. "For the first time in history, it opens the possibility for actual military confrontation between the leading nuclear powers." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); BELARUS (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; RUSSIA; YUGOSLAVIA; BELARUS; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); BELARUS (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); REFERENDUMS (76%); IMPEACHMENT (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999

 
