

601 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/New Jersey; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Gentrifying Without Evicting the Artists

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

DATELINE: HOBOKEN 

 BODY:
IT is a truism of urban redevelopment: whatever shabby spot artists choose to populate, that place will be gentrified next. A related truth goes like this: as the neighborhood turns upscale, the artists are forced out to find new and funkier circumstances.
 In the rapidly changing northwest section of this city, however, a developer is trying to break that pattern -- and turn it on its head -- by enticing artists to remain while a new ''culturally anchored'' neighborhood is built around them.
''No artists have been evicted,'' Dil Hoda, managing principal of Monroe Center Development, proudly proclaimed. His company has begun creating a new ''mini-village'' development on Monroe Street by rehabbing two old factory buildings where about 70 artists have studios. ''In fact,'' Mr. Hoda said, ''the role of artists will be at the core of the new community.'' 
 Many of the artists and 130 small businesses operating from the two buildings, part of a former Levelor blinds factory, did have to move to accommodate construction of first-and second-floor retailing space, the developer said. But most were transplanted to new studio spaces created on the three upper floors of the buildings -- with no rent increases.
 Now, the factory buildings at 720 Monroe have been renamed the Monroe Center for the Arts. And the 72,000 square feet of new retailing space is being marketed as part of a ''culturally anchored'' project.
 The developers propose filling that retailing space with boutiques and restaurants as well as an independent film and performance theater.
 Meanwhile, work has also begun on the first of four new residential buildings that will be part of the mini-village. All of them are to have retailing and commercial arts space on the first and second floors, gardens on their rooftops and parking structures built into their cores. 
 The first structure, to be completed by next fall, will house 123 condominium apartments, 17,000 square feet of retailing and 386 parking spaces. Ground will be broken for two other buildings next summer, Mr. Hoda said.
 No date has been set for the final building, but when completed, the entire development will have 435 residential units -- ranging from studios to penthouses -- 116,950 square feet of studio and office space, 125,000 square feet of retailing space and 1,120 parking spaces.
 The outdoor public areas at the mini-village are to include two large plazas featuring fountains, large seating decks and a ''hammock park'' designed by Victoria Marshall, a landscape architect and urban designer who teaches at Columbia University and has been working with the developers on the concept for four years.
 The Monroe Arts Center site is adjacent to the new New Jersey Transit light rail station at Ninth and Congress Streets and is part of a state-designated Transit Village. ''We have worked closely and carefully with state planning authorities to make the project commuter-friendly,'' Mr. Hoda said.
 ''We envision this as a place where people might regularly arrive from work, or just stop by, to have dinner, browse the shops and galleries, maybe see a film or hear a presentation on holistic health, or take a dance class before heading home,'' said Aida Jones, who is the marketing and artistic director for the project. Ms. Jones has already started setting up a schedule of artist presentations, exhibits, open studio days and performances, and promoting them to the public.
 ''We have really really interesting tenants,'' she said, conducting a walking tour inside the building one recent day and pointing out the studios of a floral artist, a puppet maker, a silk fabric painter, a cake decorator, a dishware designer and several jewelry designers, in addition to music and dance studios. ''We think a lot of people will want to live and shop and be entertained here, and be a part of this.''
 Ten percent of the Monroe Center housing will be set aside for low- and moderate-priced units, which will be offered to artists before the general public.
 In Jersey City, this is also the case at the new Powerhouse Warehouse Arts District live-work lofts. Eight artists meeting requirements set down by a local Artist Certification Board were recently selected to occupy lower-priced units there.
 The selection process for subsidized units is still being developed in Hoboken, according to Mr. Hoda.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A CORE GROUP OF ARTISTS -- Nancy Green in her studio space in a new ''mini-village'' development on Monroe Street in northwest Hoboken, where two factory buildings are being rehabbed and four new residential buildings are to be built. (Photographs by Michael Falco for The New York Times
 rendering, right, by Ed Tadiello Studio)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (87%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); FILM (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (63%) Housing ; Art ; Culture

ORGANIZATION: Monroe Center Development (Co)

PERSON: Antoinette Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (64%) Hoboken (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



602 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3141 words

HEADLINE: How Wall Street Wrecked United's Pension

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
HAD anyone listened to Doug Wilsman, tens of thousands of United Airlines employees would not be facing big cuts in their pensions. And the federal agency that guarantees pensions might not be struggling with its biggest losses ever.
 So who is Doug Wilsman? He is a retired pilot and a former fiduciary of United's pension plan for pilots, and in 1987 he discovered that the company had abandoned its older, tried-and-true approach of investing retirees' money in bonds timed to pay when the pensions came due. Instead, it had bought into the promises of Wall Street that it could put less money into the plan -- and take out more later -- if it just put most of the assets into the stock market.
Mr. Wilsman was skeptical of such promises, and soon after learning of the change in strategy, he filed a grievance with his union, the Air Line Pilots Association. ''Hey, you guys are really building yourselves a trap,'' he recalled warning them at the time. ''Someday, at the worst possible moment, when the bottom falls out of the stock market, the plan is going to have to come up with new money, and it's going to be enough to kill the company.'' 
 ''Everybody knows stocks are cyclical,'' Mr. Wilsman said last week. So is the airline business. All along, he said, he thought it was almost inevitable that both would one day go south at the same time, with catastrophic results -- which is just what happened this year.
 Given Mr. Wilsman's prescience, one might think that experts would be examining how United's investment strategies contributed to the demise of its pension funds -- and whether similar scrutiny elsewhere could prevent more pension plans from crashing.
 Not a chance. Congress, regulators, lobbyists and the news media are all scrambling to find out what has gone wrong with the pension system. Hearings have been convened in the wake of United's default, chief executives examined under oath, bills introduced in Congress, numbers crunched. But virtually everyone is looking at the rules covering how much money a company puts into a pension plan every year -- not at what happens to the money after that.
 While the money managers and other pension professionals who ran United's pension plan walked away from the wreck unscathed -- indeed, they collected about $125 million in fees over the last five years alone, records show -- the ones who will have to pick up the bill for the advisers' collective failure will be the airline's 130,000 employees and pensioners, the federal pension guarantor and probably, someday, the taxpayers.
 The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation has said that since 1974, when the insurance program was created, United has paid a little less than $100 million in premiums to insure employees' pensions. Of the $6.8 billion the agency will pay United's retirees in coming years, all but what United paid in premiums will be borne by the other companies participating in the insurance program. 
 If those companies ever tire of footing other companies' bills, they may cancel their pension plans and drop out of the system. At that point, the taxpayers will have to step in.
 United is far from unique. Lifting the lid on how most pension funds are invested might raise an outcry if the 44 million Americans covered by company plans knew these things: 
 Pension investing is largely unregulated, even though the federal government effectively covers the investment losses when a defined-benefit plan fails. At United, this freewheeling approach gave rise to investments in junk bonds, dot-coms and even what appears to be an energy venture in Albania.
 The Securities and Exchange Commission recently said that more than half of the consultants who help pension funds invest their money have outside business relationships that could taint their advice.
 It's impossible to get a current list of a company's pension investments. The most detailed, up-to-date information, on file at the Labor Department, is at least two years old.
 The Labor Department records also show that the money managers, actuaries, consultants and other professionals who handled United's pension plan earned about $125 million from 1999 to 2003, paid out of plan assets. The records are silent on how the individual money managers performed, nor do they even mention United's main pension consultant, the Russell Investment Group, or how much it was paid.
 OFFICIALS at the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the federal agency that takes over pension funds when they fail, are combing through United's pension documents, trying to ascertain how much the agency owes. What is clear is that as United's pension obligations soared, its pension assets fell. By the time the airline turned over its plan to the pension agency, the shortfall was $10.2 billion.
 While the federal agency tries to pinpoint its obligations, apparently no one in an official capacity is pausing to ask who the plans' outside investment professionals were, much less how they made their decisions and how they responded as the airline's fortunes faded.
 ''It's just a nonstarter,'' said Richard A. Ippolito, the pension agency's former chief economist, who is now retired. A few years ago, he recalled, a director of the federal pension agency appeared before Congress and suggested that if companies wanted to invest their pension funds in stocks, they should pay more for their pension insurance coverage.
 ''I could politely say that he was vilified,'' he said. ''They basically accused him of being un-American because he was asking companies to pay for the privilege of investing in stocks. He just dropped that idea.''
 United's actions offer a typical example of how most companies manage their pension funds. Its portfolio may look aggressive in hindsight -- including high-yield bonds in companies like Adelphia and Bethlehem Steel that eventually went bankrupt, technology stocks that evaporated when the bubble burst and an assortment of private partnerships.
 But the general approach was in keeping with what most companies do: about 60 percent stocks, 30 percent bonds and a mixture of ''alternatives'' including real estate and private equity investments. Local governments often invest their pension funds much more aggressively.
 A spokeswoman for United, Jean Medina, said United's pension investments ''have outperformed other similar large plans.'' She added: ''United has always operated our plans in the best interests of our participants and beneficiaries, and believe our advisers act similarly.''
 Companies do not generally invest their pension money themselves, but instead farm out the work to an array of outside professionals. There are pension consultants to help set an investment strategy and recommend the money managers who actually pick the stocks and other particular investments. There are actuaries to design benefits packages and calculate how much companies need to contribute each year.
 Custodial banks hold the assets in trust. Brokers execute trades. Once a year, an outside auditor is supposed to review the plan and issue an opinion about its conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
 Problems can arise when there are undisclosed relationships among these different service providers. 
 ''Asset allocation is very much driven by hidden financial considerations,'' said Edward A.H. Siedle, the president of Benchmark Financial Services, a company that audits pension funds. He said one reason that pension funds tend to invest heavily in high-turnover, active equities is that ''those investments have commissions and fees that can be shared with gatekeepers and others that pave the way.'' Companies that sponsor pension plans can also reap accounting gains if they increase the risk of their pension investments. 
 There are regulations and other legal safeguards intended to protect pensions, and companies often cite the cost and difficulty of complying with those rules. But much of this protective superstructure was designed decades ago, before the rise of the independent money manager -- and before some of today's investment instruments were invented.
 ''Pensions are heavily regulated,'' Mr. Siedle said, ''yet it's a kind of funny regulation where the regulators who are responsible for pensions really don't know much about managing money.''
 Thus there are rules to make sure that pension plans are not really tax shelters in disguise, rules to make sure companies treat low- and high-income workers equitably and, since 1989, rules to keep companies from taking money out of pension funds and using it to run their businesses. 
 But there is no rule limiting aggressive investment strategies or requiring companies that want to pursue them to pay more for their pension insurance.
 Congress sets the premium rates, and there are bills in both houses that would raise them. But even now, the bills make no mention of studying, much less capping, investment risk, or of setting insurance premiums based on portfolio risk factors. 
 The S.E.C. monitors investment advisers but has no legal standing to enforce the pension rules. In a study, released in May, of pension consultants, it found the industry vulnerable to abuse and referred a dozen consultants to its investigative branch for possible enforcement action.
 But it did not name individual consulting firms it suspected of conflicts, nor did it look specifically at how United's pension consultant, the Russell Investment Group, performed in the years leading up to the collapse of the airline's plans. Nor did the S.E.C. say if Russell was one of the consultants now being investigated more deeply.
 A spokeswoman for Russell, Jennifer Tice, said the company had not received any inquiries from S.E.C. since the commission completed its general examination of the industry.
 Ms. Tice said Russell could not explain why its name and fees were not listed in the United plan's official records, noting that plan sponsors file those records, not the consultant. United said Russell's omission from its filings was an oversight. Both Russell and United declined to say how Russell was compensated.
 Ms. Tice, however, said Russell helps its clients answer any questions raised by the S.E.C.'s findings, and regularly tells its consulting clients in the United States about potential conflicts of interest and Russell's policies for managing them. ''Russell is committed to full and timely disclosure of any potential conflicts of interest,'' she said.
 THE Internal Revenue Service provides yet another layer of protection to pensions, but it has authority only over how companies design their benefits and contribute money to their plans -- not over whether they have fulfilled their fiduciary duty to invest prudently. That is a job for the Labor Department. 
 In June, the Government Accountability Office warned of chronic weakness in the Labor Department's enforcement of the pension law, and said the department ought to be coordinating its efforts with the S.E.C.
 The Labor Department also has authority over the disclosure of pension data. It collects long lists of all the investments in each pension fund, and of all of the money managers. But it does not track which money managers were responsible for which investments.
 That does not sit well with the United employees and retirees who are waiting to find out how much of their pension benefits is covered by the federal pension agency's insurance and how much they may lose.
 ''When I get a job, I put my name, my file number and my license in a permanent record, and I'm accountable if something goes wrong,'' said Bob Stone, a lead mechanic for United Airlines who retired this year. ''It's possible for every single aircraft mechanic in the country to keep track of every single job they do. But we can't keep track of the money managers. That's too complicated for us.''
 Because of limits on the government's pension insurance, they will collectively lose benefits worth about $3.4 billion. Pilots will lose the most because they were promised the richest pensions.
 Finally, at the end of the regulatory patchwork is the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. Officials there have access to some of the most current and detailed information about pensions, but they cannot do a lot with it; a 1994 act of Congress requires them to keep it secret. 
 Officials at the pension agency sometimes confide that they feel like they are running not an agency but a big garbage can, where companies can dump their defunct pension plans, no questions asked.
 Earlier this year, when United defaulted, Mr. Stone's union began to ask questions about the money managers who handled its pension plan in its final years -- who they were and how they had made their decisions. That labor group, the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association, began to represent United's mechanics only in 2003, after the airline had gone bankrupt. It had no qualms about asking questions about how the pension fund was handled when the previous union had some say over it.
 ''We have to learn what went wrong,'' Mr. Stone said. He added that he was sure that some money managers ''did their level best for people,'' but that they all should stand by their decisions. ''Unless you separate it out and have accountability,'' Mr. Stone said, ''how are you ever going to reward the good guys and get rid of the bad guys?''
 This summer, the labor group wrote to Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao and Bradley D. Belt, executive director of the pension agency, asking for a forensic audit of United's pension plans, ''to determine whether any of the parties providing financial services to the plans may have contributed to their demise.''
 The letter, signed by the association's national director, O.V. Delle-Femine, cited the recent S.E.C. report warning of potential conflicts of interest among pension professionals, and it urged the pension agency to find out whether tainted advice had played any role in plan losses or underperformance.
 ''While the plan sponsor may be bankrupt, the parties that have been dealing with the plan are not,'' Mr. Delle-Femine wrote. ''It may be possible to recover assets from these parties on behalf of the plan's participants.''
 The association also called for an audit of the pension plans at Northwest Airlines, where it also represents the mechanics. Northwest is still running its pension plans but intends to freeze one of them, for salaried employees, at the end of August, locking in employees' benefits at current levels rather than allowing them to increase as they normally would as people worked longer. 
 Northwest is also seeking its unions' permission to freeze the other three plans. The airline has been warning that if it does not get a break on its pension funding requirements, it may have to declare bankruptcy sometime next year. Bankruptcy is often a prelude to a pension default.
 Mr. Delle-Femine sent his letter in June. So far, said the association's legislative liaison, Maryanne DeMarco, there has been no response from the pension agency. The Labor Department told her that Ms. Chao could not participate in an audit of Northwest's pension plans because she served on that airline's board before her confirmation as labor secretary and had recused herself from any involvement in its labor disputes. The Labor Department has yet to respond to the request for an audit of United's pension fund.
 ''We're all stunned that there isn't a review taking place,'' said Bill Moons, a United mechanic and the president of the union's local in Denver. ''We all want the truth.''
 He said he and Mr. Stone were two-time losers, having earlier lost another chunk of their retirementsavings when United first went bankrupt and its employee stock ownership program lost all of its value.
 The pilots' union had pushed hard for the employee stock ownership program back in the 1980's, at about the same time that Mr. Wilsman, the retired pilot, noticed that the airline had changed its previous investment policy for people like him.
 In the past, whenever a pilot retired, the airline used money from the pension fund to buy him or her an annuity from an insurance company. Annuities are lifelong streams of monthly payments, but insurance companies pay them, not pension funds. 
 Insurance companies are regulated differently, and they have no federal guarantor like the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation to cover potential losses. Therefore they tend to invest conservatively, in assets that will not become wildly out of step with the payments they owe.
 Mr. Wilsman said he thought that an annuity was a surer thing than a pension promise backed by stocks. He also thought United had violated the terms of the pension plan, and maybe the pilots' labor contract, by making the change unilaterally. 
 He persuaded other retired pilots to join him in bringing a case before the airline's pension board. Each retiree chipped in $25 to cover the cost of a lawyer. At roughly the same time, Mr. Wilsman also filed a grievance with the union.
 But the retired pilots were no match for the siren song of the stock market. The union, which handled their grievance, sided with the airline on investment policy. It said it believed that a high-risk, high-return strategy was best because, over time, it would lower United's compensation costs and free up more money to raise salaries.
 ''The argument was that the new people could get more benefits if they could do it by gambling than if the plan was secure,'' Mr. Wilsman said.
 A spokesman for the pilots' union said he could not recall Mr. Wilsman's grievance and was unable to comment on it.
 Ms. Medina, the United spokeswoman, said that United tried to buy all the pilots' annuities in 1985, as part of a plan to terminate the pension fund and take out the surplus assets for business purposes, but that the pilots' union had blocked it. Two years later, when Mr. Wilsman and the other retirees said they wanted annuities, United told them they were too late, she said.
 NOT only were United and the pilots' union lined up against the retirees, Mr. Wilsman said. Even the arbitrator who was brought in to hear the case before the pension board said that he couldn't see why the retirees preferred an annuity to a pension, if the monthly payout was the same either way.
 ''He said that as far as he was concerned, there was absolutely no difference between an annuity and the company's promise,'' Mr. Wilsman recalled. Afterward, he said, he thought he should have come up with an example of why they weren't the same, but he was tired of arguing with people dead-set against him. So he withdrew the grievance.
 ''It has always haunted me that I failed to cite an example,'' he said in a recent telephone interview.
 But the best example didn't happen until 18 years later.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Stone, who retired last year as a mechanic at United Airlines, belongs to a union that wants details about the failure of the pension plan. ''We have to learn what went wrong,'' he said. (Photo by Matthew Staver for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
United flight attendants protested at Denver International Airport last Thursday over their beleaguered pension plan, which is now overseen by the federal pension agency. (Photo by Jerry Cleveland/The Denver Post, via Associated Press)(pg. 8)Chart: ''Where the Money Went''United Airlines' pension fund failed this year after a big gap developed between the value of its assets and the amount it owed present and future retirees. But even as the gap widened, the fund's asset managers continued to collect their fees for investing the money. The fees are paid out of the plan assets.Graph tracks United's pension gap (pension fund assets [year-end fair market value] and (pension fund obligation) from 1998-2004.Disclosed fees paid by United's pension funds, 1999-2003Investment managers: Amounts in millionsSanford C. Bernstein*: $11.7Pimco: 8.9Columbus Circle Investors: 8.0W.R. Huff Asset Management: 6.7Lincoln Capital Management: 6.4Baillie Gifford: 6.3Jacobs Levy Equity Mgmt.: 6.1Sit Investment Associates: 5.8J.P. Morgan Investment Mgmt.: 5.7Walter Scott & Partners: 5.5Cambiar Investors: 5.2Iridian Asset Management: 5.2Hotchkis & Wiley: 4.7Lazard Freres Asset Mgmt.: 3.3John A. Levin & Company: 2.8Merrill Lynch Investment Mgrs.: 2.7Ariel Capital Management: 2.6Marathon Asset Management: 2.4I.A.I. International: 2.2Batterymarch Financial Mgmt.: 1.9Glenmede Trust Company: 1.4First Manhattan Capital Mgmt.: 0.7BZW Barclays Global Investors: 0.7KRR: 0.5Dietche & Field: 0.4First Reserve Corporation: 0.3RReef (Deutsche Bank): 0.1Graph also tracks pilots, salaried workers, mechanics, and flight atts., though no exact number figures are given.TrusteeNorthern Trust Company: $10.2Consultant for private equitiesPathway Capital Mgmt.+: $4.8All othersIncludes actuary, check writing, consulting, accountants and legal: $ 3.1TotalFigures are rounded and do not add up to the total: $126.2 million Total* Unit of Alliance Capital. Alliance received the 2000 and 2001 portion of these fees directly.+ The general consultant, Russell Investment Group, and its compensation do not appear in the pension fund annual reports.(Sources by UAL annual reports
 Pension fund annual reports via U.S. Department of Labor)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (91%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (63%); EXECUTIVES (61%) Airlines and Airplanes; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Labor; Pilots; Organized Labor ; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (60%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%) Air Line Pilots Assn; United Airlines; Ual Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: Mary Williams Walsh

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



603 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Q&A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Restrictions on Sales in a Condo

 BODY:

Q. A recent column in the Real Estate section referred to a New York State court ruling that appeared to give condominium boards greater flexibility in adopting restrictions on sales of units that go beyond the simple right of first refusal (''Your Home,'' June 19, ''Court Backs Condos on Sale Restrictions''). Our board is concerned that low interest rates and aggressive lenders are making apartments affordable to buyers who may have trouble down the road if interest rates increase. Does this recent case suggest that a bylaw change limiting the extent of financing may now be allowed? ... Stewart Halpern, Manhattan.

A. Arthur I. Weinstein, a Manhattan co-op and condominium lawyer who is familiar with the case referred to by the letter writer -- Demchick v. 90 East End Avenue Condominium -- said that traditionally, the major difference between co-ops and condominiums has been the belief that condominiums are easier to sell because co-op boards have broader powers to prevent a sale.
 ''Indeed, many purchasers opted to buy condos rather than co-ops because of those differences,'' Mr. Weinstein said. But, he said, the court in the Demchick case appears to have provided condo boards with the ability to impose ''reasonable'' restrictions on the sale and leasing of condominium units. ''And it is likely that the courts will find more restrictions on condominium sales and leases to be permissible 'reasonable restrictions,''' he said.
 Accordingly, he said, a condominium bylaw provision that sets forth clear and reasonable economic criteria as a prerequisite for board approval of a sale would have a good chance of being upheld by the courts.

A Monthly Sublet Fee In a Co-op

Q. I would like to know whether a co-op can charge a monthly fee when a shareholder sublets an apartment. I can understand paying a fee to the board for interviewing the prospective subtenants, but I am being required to fork over an additional $60 in maintenance fees each month for having a renter. The building is not providing any additional service for my subtenant. So is it legitimate for them to charge me a monthly fee when no additional service is being rendered? Jake Leibovich, Forest Hills, Queens.

A. Alexander Suslensky, a Manhattan co-op lawyer, said that the relationship between the owner of a co-op apartment and the co-op corporation is governed by the terms and provisions of the proprietary lease. And most proprietary leases, Mr. Suslensky said, provide that subletting requires the consent of the board and that such consent may be subject to any conditions the board may impose.
 So, he said, if the proprietary lease contains such a provision, the board probably can impose a fee even if the fee is not specifically provided for in the lease. But, he said, if the lease does not provide the board with the authority to impose conditions on its consent, then the fee would be prohibited. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (94%); CONDOMINIUMS (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); APPROVALS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



604 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; LETTER FROM NEW ORLEANS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Keep les Bon Temps From Rolling Over Them

BYLINE: By Shaila Dewan

DATELINE: New Orleans 

 BODY:
On a Friday morning in 1995, a group of French Quarter residents swarmed a tour bus full of female barbershop singing contestants and held it motionless for nearly an hour. 
 The residents had nothing against the contestants, known as Sweet Adelines. But they were fed up with tour buses, saying they were too big for the Quarter's narrow streets and delicate old buildings.
Buses were banned by the City Council after that standoff, but they continue to rumble through the Quarter, clipping shop signs and banging balcony supports so often that residents have become vigilantes once more. Last month, after a motor coach swiped a stop sign and damaged a historic lamppost, a prominent restaurateur and chef, Horst Pfeifer, used his body to block the bus until the police could arrive. 
 Many cities would trade their own problems for that of having too many tour buses. But like the boy with his thumb in the levee, those who call the French Quarter home are struggling not only against a surfeit of tour buses but also new hotels, neon signs, T-shirt shops, public sex acts and, the latest offense, six-foot-tall, solar-powered parking meters that have as much to do with the Quarter's historic character as do frozen blue drinks in containers shaped like space aliens.
 All of which, residents say, are illegal (except for the drinks, of course). The problem, they say, is that the city seems uninterested in enforcing the laws meant to balance the pressures of tourism with the concerns of residents and preservationists. The state's biggest tourist attraction has been besieged by tourism.
 The police ticketed the driver of the motor coach stopped by Mr. Pfeifer, but they did not stop there. They also gave Mr. Pfeifer a summons for disturbing the peace and took another restaurateur who had joined him in solidarity, Patricia Boswell, to jail, saying she had struck a taxicab bureau agent, which she has denied.
 Such incidents are contributing to a sense that tourists have more rights than do the French Quarter's residents, whose numbers declined from 11,000 in 1940 to about 4,000 in the 2000 Census. The number of tourists, meanwhile, increased by more than 1.5 million from 2003 to 2004 alone, to 10.1 million. 
 ''I think a lot of people, political people, look at it as the golden goose over here and say, 'Let's not do anything that might hinder tourism at all,''' said Lyn Reed, the vice president of the French Quarter Citizens, a neighborhood preservation organization. ''But protecting the area would be just about the best economic development you could do, you would think.''
 Since the economic hardships of the 1980's, New Orleans has been a city desperately dependent on tourism. That has meant more stress on the Quarter, from an aquarium to the city's first land-based casino (the others must be on water). 
 ''There is still, I think, not enough understanding of the delicate nature of the Quarter,'' said Jane Brooks, a professor of historic preservation at the University of New Orleans who has written extensively about illegal hotel expansions. ''It is a finite resource just like the Grand Canyon or Yosemite, with a carrying capacity.''
 On July 14, the City Council approved the first new hotel in the Quarter in 36 years, after voting in December to lift a 1969 moratorium and rezone six acres to allow the conversion of a vacant 1880's warehouse.
 The hotel was approved over the objections of Jacquelyn Brechtel Clarkson, the councilwoman who represents the Quarter, and despite intense lobbying by the Greater New Orleans Hotel and Lodging Association. It has made David Ducote, one of the hotel's developers, so unpopular in the neighborhood that another man with the same name told the city's main newspaper, The Times-Picayune, that his French Quarter tour business was suffering.
 On July 24, Mayor C. Ray Nagin vetoed the project, but only after agreeing that he would consider approving a modified version.
 The 1969 moratorium, designed to stop willy-nilly demolition in the Quarter, was considered successful because it pushed new hotel construction to the otherwise sleepy Central Business District, just across Canal Street from the Quarter.
 It was also evidence that even back then, officials embraced the notion that residential character lent the neighborhood much of its authenticity. Today, Ms. Reed said, many tourists do not even realize that the French Quarter is residential, partly because the old-style houses are organized around central courtyards hidden from the public eye. 
 ''There are people in Louisiana who don't know people live in the French Quarter,'' she said.
 One reason residents bristle so much over what they say is lax enforcement of building limits, sign regulations and other rules is that their own homes are strictly governed by the Vieux Carre Commission, a historic preservation group that must approve every exterior change down to the color of the paint. Repairs to problems like roof damage and cracks caused by the rattling of trucks and buses must use historically appropriate materials. 
 ''The French Quarter is a wonderful place,'' Ms. Reed said, ''but she's tough love, I tell you. You've got to withstand quite a bit of frustration.''
 Stuart Smith, a lawyer who lives on St. Philips Street, said that even if existing rules were enforced, there would still be plenty of the laissez-faire attitude that makes New Orleans the Big Easy. ''You can still walk down Bourbon Street with a drink in your hand,'' Mr. Smith said. ''You can't do that anywhere else.''
 But residents have received little sympathy; the general attitude is that they knew what they were getting into when they chose the neighborhood. 
 Tensions in the area are so great that when Mr. Smith represented a neighbor with a noise complaint, his car was torched and his house firebombed. A French Quarter bar owner and the arsonist he hired pleaded guilty to conspiracy in the case in 1999.
 Some say that the hotel proposal is not the right fight for opponents because it is on the periphery of the Quarter, in a sea of parking lots on Iberville Street near the river. Even some longtime residents, like Rene J.L. Fransen, a landscape architect, say the area is ideal for development. 
 At one hearing, the developers argued that because that tract of land did not exist until the Mississippi River deposited it in the 1800's, it should not be bound to the historic standards of the rest of the area.
 Mr. Ducote, the hotel developer, said that before the rezoning, that sliver of the Quarter was approved for industrial purposes like breweries and sewage pumps, a fact that has been ignored. ''I don't think they should have new hotels all over the Quarter,'' he said, ''but I do believe that certain areas of the technically defined French Quarter should be reviewed.'' 
 Opponents, though, fear that any hotel will set a dangerous precedent, bringing a flood of other proposals. And some residents say that Mayor Nagin, whose press secretary did not respond to a request for comment, has not done much to gain trust in the French Quarter: in addition to installing the parking meters without a public hearing, his administration transferred a popular police captain from the area. 
 Residents say his administration has also tried to transform mixed-use areas into entertainment districts. And a few months ago, the city put trash cans covered with advertisements alongside the Quarter's existing cans with their understated fleur-de-lis logos.
 Mr. Smith, the lawyer, pointed to one as he walked home after work last week to illustrate his opinion of the neighborhood. ''It's going to hell, it's going to hell,'' he said. 
 Mr. Smith is also suing the city over the new parking meters. He dislikes them not only for aesthetic reasons, he says, but also because they allow drivers to park anywhere on a block, including in front of his driveway. 
 ''They told the newspaper my driveway was illegal,'' Mr. Smith said. ''I said, 'It wasn't illegal in 1820, when it was built.'''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Modern additions to the French Quarter, like solar-powered parking meters, have vexed some local preservationists. (Photographs by Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times)
 Tour buses were banned by the City Council, but they continue to usher in tourist dollars.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); TOURISM (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); CITIES (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (52%); SOLAR ENERGY (51%); CENSUS (50%) Travel and Vacations; Historic Buildings and Sites

ORGANIZATION: SWEET ADELINES INTERNATIONAL (58%)

PERSON: Shaila Dewan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



605 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: On Farthest U.S. Shores, Iraq Is a Way to a Dream

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: SAIPAN, Northern Mariana Islands 

 BODY:
By jogging at sunset on the white sands of a palm-fringed beach here, 17-year-old Audrey O. Bricia is doing more than toning up for her next try in this island's Miss Philippines contest. She is getting in shape for United States Army boot camp.
 To gain an edge on the competition for enlistment, she reserved a seat two days in advance to take Army's aptitude test on a recent Saturday morning here. Safely ensconced in her seat, she watched an Army recruiter turn away 10 latecomers, all new high school graduates. 
''I am scared about Iraq, but I am going to have to give something in return for those benefits I want,'' said Ms. Bricia, a daughter of Filipino immigrants whose ambition is to attend nursing school in California.
 From Pago Pago in American Samoa to Yap in Micronesia, 4,000 miles to the west, Army recruiters are scouring the Pacific, looking for high school graduates to enlist at a time when the Iraq war is turning off many candidates in the States. 
 The Army has found fertile ground in the poverty pockets of the Pacific. The per capita income is $8,000 in American Samoa, $12,500 in the Northern Marianas and $21,000 in Guam, all United States territories. In the Marshalls and Micronesia, former trust territories, per capita incomes are about $2,000.
 The Army minimum signing bonus is $5,000. Starting pay for a private first class is $17,472. Education benefits can be as much as $70,000.
 ''You can't beat recruiting here in the Marianas, in Micronesia,'' said First Sgt. Olympio Magofna, who grew up on Saipan and oversees Pacific recruiting for the Army from his base in Guam. ''In the states, they are really hurting,'' he said. ''But over here, I can afford go play golf every other day.''
 Here, where ''America starts its day,'' the Army recruiting station in Guam has 4 of the Army's top 12 ''producers.'' While small in real terms, enlistments from Guam, Saipan, and American Samoa are the nation's highest per capita. Saipan, with a population of about 60,000 American citizens and green card holders, has 245 soldiers in Iraq. 
 [American Samoa, population of 67,000, has lost six soldiers in Iraq, most recently Staff Sgt. Frank F. Tiai of Pago Pago on July 17. Guam has lost three. Saipan has lost one.] 
 ''I see yellow ribbons everywhere,'' Staff Sgt. Levi Suiaunoa said by telephone from the Army recruiting station in Pago Pago, capital of the territory. '''Come home safely' signs almost litter the streets.''
 Despite the casualties, poverty and patriotism fuel enlistments.
 ''I buried at least one myself, but it hasn't stopped the number of recruits going in,'' said the Rev. J. Quinn Weitzel, bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Samoa-Pago Pago. ''They still feel like they want to do something special for the United States.''
 In Guam and Saipan, the letters U.S.A. are emblazoned on license plates, as if to educate tourists that these territories are American. 
 ''There is a very strong sense of patriotism throughout the U.S. territories,'' David B. Cohen, deputy assistant secretary of the Interior for Insular Affairs, said. ''How else can you explain someone like Ray Yumul, a sitting Northern Marianas congressman who has spent a year serving in Iraq? He's certainly not someone who needed the military as a ticket out.'' 
 In the Marianas, the tradition of American military service stretches back three generations, starting with the defeat of Japanese rule here in the summer of 1944.
 ''We support our Liberation Days, our Memorial Days, our Flag Days,'' said Ruth A. Coleman, military and veterans affairs director for the Northern Marianas. A retired Air Force officer, she said: ''Look at me: my father, husband and I were in the service. My youngest son is an M.P. His wife is an M.P. commander. My middle son is in the Air Force.''
 The tie between military service and economic advancement is clear to many young people here.
 ''It's the benefits,'' said Arnold Balisalisa, who took the aptitude test here in late June. Taking a break from his $3.25-an-hour job at a McDonald's, he said: ''It is better than staying on this island. There's nothing going on here. I'm 19, and I have never even been to Guam.''
 His friend Ms. Bricia spent a year at a high school in California, and she can see the difference.
 ''People in the states have the higher pay, the residency,'' she said, referring to residency requirements to attend a state university at lower rates. ''A lot of people in Saipan are joining the Army for the higher pay, the benefits.''
 Clouding Saipan's economic future, Japan Airlines, the carrier for one-quarter of Saipan's tourists, is to suspend service here in October. The garment industry, the island's largest source of employment, laid off thousands of workers after the recent liberalization of American import rules for clothing made in China.
 To a tourist, Saipan may look like a paradise. For a restless teenager, it may look like a dead end. On the eastern flank of Mount Tapochao, Ross Delarosa, 18, looked beyond the cows and chickens near his front yard and seethed with ambition.
 ''There's hardly any life this island,'' Mr. Delarosa said. The son of Filipino immigrants, he confronts a society where land ownership and government jobs are largely the preserves of the indigenous Chamorro and Carolinean groups. A self-taught mechanic, he said: ''Here it is not what you know, but who you know.''
 For teenagers who think they are invincible, the brakes often come from their mothers. Ms. Bricia's mother, Mira, kept her arms crossed during most of her daughter's interview.
 ''I heard about that Jessica Lynch, and I thought, 'My daughter? No way!''' she said, recalling the American private who was briefly captured early in the war. In the end, she signed the Army authorization papers for her daughter, a minor.
 Potential recruits say that Iraq weighs heavily in their decision.
 ''The scary part is, what if you go to Iraq, and someone shoots you?'' Mr. Balisalisa during his break at work. But soon he was worrying about how he fared on the Army's aptitude test. Turning to Audrey Bricia, he said: ''He's called you. Why hasn't he called me?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Audrey O. Bricia, 17, on a Northern Marianas beach, sees the Army as a way to nursing school.
 Ross Delarosa, left, was among those waiting to take an aptitude test at the Army Reserve Center on Saipan, in the Northern Mariana Islands. (Photographs by Everett Kennedy Brown/European Pressphoto Agency, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (94%); MILITARY RECRUITING (90%); US TERRITORIES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); MILITARY TRAINING (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); IRAQ WAR (69%); IMMIGRATION (68%); NURSES & NURSING (68%); GOLF (62%); TERRORISM (59%) United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; United States International Relations; Draft and Recruitment (Military)

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: PAGO PAGO, AMERICAN SAMOA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); GUAM (94%); IRAQ (94%); MICRONESIA, FEDERATED STATES OF (93%); PHILIPPINES (93%); AMERICAN SAMOA (92%) Marianas Islands; Guam; Saipan Island; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



606 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: In Race Toward First Stem Cell Research Institute, New Jersey Stalls

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

 BODY:
In New Jersey, which bills itself as the medicine cabinet of the nation, the potentially lucrative stem cell research race has gone off with both a bang and a whimper. 
 Just 14 months ago, James E. McGreevey, then the governor, signed a bill to establish the nation's first state-supported stem research institute, proclaiming, over the objections of Roman Catholic bishops, that the frontiers of medical science should not be hemmed in by politics. Earlier in the year, New Jersey had become the second state in the nation, after California, to pass a law specifically legalizing embryonic stem cell research
.
 Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey continued the efforts with enthusiasm, proposing that the state dedicate almost $400 million for stem cell science. But progress has been fitful at best, partly because of garden variety Garden State inertia and partly because of growing fears of a conservative backlash. 
 And so the groundbreaking for the New Jersey Stem Cell Research Institute, which was scheduled for tomorrow, has been postponed. The land at Rutgers University where the institute was supposed to rise remains a parking lot. The money to build the center is not yet available; the State Assembly failed to pass a bill in June to provide the $150 million for the institute, and the Legislature is not likely to revisit the issue until the end of the year, at the earliest. 
 Likewise, a $230 million bond issue for stem cell research that voters were supposed to consider this November has been held up for at least a year, in part because legislators would not vote to put it on the ballot for fear that it would be the only measure of its kind in the country. That could make it a target for conservative groups opposed to the research and draw out more conservative voters in November, when the largely Democratic Assembly is up for re-election.
 ''The thought was that you would get a lot of money coming in from Washington and the conservatives around the country that would offset any sort of money the advocates could raise to get it to pass,'' said a member of the Codey administration who specializes in stem cell issues.
 The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of disrupting future negotiations, said some legislators were wary of asking the public to support more bond issues, while some feared opposition from Roman Catholic bishops in the state, two of whom had criticized Mr. McGreevey for his position on the research. Other legislators wanted to see even more money devoted to the cause.
 Some supporters of the institute said they were worried that the disagreements and delays would affect the state's ability to attract top researchers, especially with so many other states viewing stem cell research as the path to a new kind of Silicon Valley that could create jobs and help their economies grow.
 ''I am frankly disappointed that we haven't marshaled the political capital and will to push further in providing the resources that will allow us to move off of conversations and talk, to actual research,'' said United States Senator Jon S. Corzine, a Democrat who is running for governor. He added, ''I think time lost here can have a major impact on our ability to get the best talent.''
 His opponent, Douglas R. Forrester, does not support state financing for stem cell research, because of New Jersey's precarious financial condition, said his campaign director, Sherry Sylvester.
 Assemblyman Neil M. Cohen, a Democrat from Union County who is the deputy majority leader, said he had held up the $150 million for the institute, not because of fear of conservative opposition but because he disagreed with how the money was to be spent. He said he strongly favored focusing on research instead of construction.
 Mr. Cohen has helped found the New Jersey Stem Cell Research and Education Foundation, a nonprofit organization that is a collaboration of the New Jersey Institute of Technology, the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey and other groups. It has already raised an undisclosed amount of research money privately.
 ''We can start tomorrow at N.J.I.T.,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''Harvard is putting all their money into getting researchers, not into stained glass windows, carpets, oriental rugs and chandeliers,'' he said, referring to his understanding of the proposed plans.
 He also worries that the cost of the institute could easily rise. ''Anybody who is familiar with New Jersey construction rules knows that a $150 million building is really a $400 million building,'' he said.
 Scientists believe that stem cells, from which all other types of cells can grow, will help cure Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, diabetes, spinal injuries, congestive heart failure and other maladies. 
 Religious conservatives and abortion foes have opposed embryonic stem cell research because it uses cells from embryos that have been discarded by fertility clinics, a practice that they criticize because it destroys embryos. Advocates of the research contend that using such cells for research is the most ethical use for them, rather than discarding them. 
 President Bush banned federal financing for research on embryonic stem cells except for a few colonies of cells available in 2001, when he issued his order.
 Dr. Ira Black, a renowned New Jersey neuroscientist and stem cell researcher who was named founding director of the Stem Cell Institute of New Jersey in May 2004, was in the process of recruiting an executive director and a team of scientists for the institute when the groundbreaking was canceled. 
 He expressed impatience with delays in research on both the state and federal levels.
 ''We hope we'll get patients out of bed and out of wheelchairs, and that's one of the reasons it's particularly frustrating to have a federal stance that inhibits this progress,'' Dr. Black said. He added that scientists in South Korea, China, Japan, Singapore, Sweden and Britain were further along in their research than American scientists were. ''The United States, as you well know, has compiled an extraordinary record in biomedicine since World War II,'' he said. ''It's a tragedy for many of us to see that being lost.''
 Governor Codey believes money for the Stem Cell Research Institute will be authorized before he leaves office in the middle of January, said Eric Shuffler, counselor to the governor. ''Stem cell research is something he fought for in the Legislature, and while governor, he wants to make sure he does everything he can to move the issue forward,'' Mr. Shuffler said.
 Assemblyman Cohen has indicated that a compromise can be reached that could lead him to drop his opposition to the financing. He said he wanted more money designated for research and various research facilities. 
 Many decisions about the state's role in the research will fall to the next governor. Senator Corzine says that if he is elected, he will take Mr. Codey's plans further, in part by creating a fund of state money to invest in new technology. 
 Governor Codey has said that stem cell research ''cannot be put on hold until New Jersey's financial stars align.''
 Richard Schmidt, a New Jersey coordinator for the Parkinson Action Network, a national nonprofit group, noted that the Legislature passed its law permitting embryonic stem cell research a year and a half ago. ''It needs to be jump-started,'' he said of the research. ''We've gone this long without any real resolve on the part of the pharmaceutical industry or the government. We need a shot in the arm.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Ira Black, director of the Stem Cell Institute of New Jersey. (Photo by Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEM CELL RESEARCH (95%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (94%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); BONDS (87%); BOND ISSUES (86%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); BUDGETS (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); RELIGION (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); REFERENDUMS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); JOB CREATION (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (52%) Medicine and Health; Stem Cells; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Law and Legislation; Election Issues; Research; Referendums; Government Bonds; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (82%) New Jersey Stem Cell Research Institute; Rutgers University

PERSON: Ira (Dr) Black; Jon S (Sen) Corzine; Douglas R Forrester; Neil (Assemblyman) Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (57%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



607 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; DANCE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: Dancing as Fast, And as Tightly, As She Can

BYLINE: By TOBI TOBIAS

DATELINE: Montclair, N.J. 

 BODY:
SUSAN MARSHALL is putting the finishing touches on her new work, five brief dances sheltering under the umbrella title ''Cloudless,'' to have its premiere this week at Jacob's Pillow. At least the rehearsal schedule called for finishing touches. It sometimes looks as if she is reinventing the dances from scratch, like a God with second thoughts.
 We're at the Alexander Kasser Theater, an intimate state-of-the-art house on the Montclair State University campus. Its executive director, Jedediah Wheeler, one of the commissioners of Ms. Marshall's current work -- the others are Jacob's Pillow and Dance Theater Workshop, the venerable showcase for ground-breaking dance in Manhattan -- has offered the choreographer theater time. This means she can move her work in progress out of the studio and develop it, with full production values, in a performance space, something she could not afford to do on her own. Mr. Wheeler, it would seem, agrees with the MacArthur Foundation, which made Ms. Marshall a fellow in 2000, that the people we regard as geniuses should not starve to death. 
 She has also received a Guggenheim fellowship; testimonials from the likes of Philip Glass, with whom she has collaborated; and positive reviews galore. The Chicago Tribune, for example, called her work ''as profound as the art of dance can get.'' 
 Still, she can't pay the rent. Her Web site, susanmarshallandcompany.org, says so up top and straight out. The plea for funds essential to her company's projected 20th-anniversary season at Dance Theater Workshop next spring tells prospective supporters exactly what their contribution will buy, while it reveals the high cost of making dances: $100 pays for a single day's use of a studio; $1,000 puts a half-dozen dancers into the studio for a day; $10,000 commissions a new (short) dance. Poetic richness coupled with economic poverty -- this is the state of dance in America. Ms. Marshall seems to take the situation in her stride: ''I look at it,'' she said in a tone that precludes further discussion, ''as a challenge to be embraced.''
 The financial straits, which clearly dictate working ''smaller, tighter, faster,'' as Ms. Marshall puts it, support her present artistic impulses. ''At midcareer,'' she said, ''I began wondering what ideas and structures were central to my work. Looking backward and pushing deeper seemed to be the best way to go forward.''
 She started with two early winners that are modest in means, stunning in effect. ''Arms,'' from 1984, is a stationary duet in which the dancers stand side by side, faces impassive, as their upper limbs, flailing, reaching, striking and twining, speak for the whole body and the soul as well. The 1979 ''Kiss,'' which will appear on the Pillow program, has its two performers suspended in rope harnesses as they swirl deliriously into each other's embrace, then pull back into a more isolated association, over and over again. Both pieces seem to predict and sum up Ms. Marshall's later work, in which pedestrian gestures, distilled to near abstraction, symbolize human desire and its inevitable partner, human conflict.
 ''Cloudless'' is true to the small and tight stipulation Ms. Marshall has dictated to herself. The pieces for the Pillow are for one to five people; their duration is roughly 4 1/2 to 6 minutes. For the Dance Theater Workshop engagement next March, where an expanded version of ''Cloudless'' will constitute the entire program, Ms. Marshall will double the number of pieces and let some run as long as 11 minutes. Throughout Ms. Marshall's career, both tiny, terse creations for a nearly bare stage and big works with lavish production values have conveyed the same message: We are always of two minds about what we want. Defining, then articulating, our own state of mind is tough enough, but understanding that of others is well-nigh impossible. Inevitably, Ms. Marshall's work tends to be dark.
 Reluctantly, she agreed: ''If you're working with complexity and you're working with the body, some of those overtones and undertones are going to be dark. I like to think, though, that they're always counterbalanced by upward movement -- and tenderness.''
 Untrammeled joy, a rare quality in Ms. Marshall's spectrum, actually prevails in the ''Cloudless'' solo for Petra van Noort. In perpetual motion, eyes gazing skyward, hands whirling and fluttering like a flock of butterflies, the dancer embodies a child's ecstasy in merely being alive. When, toward the end, the dance slows down, it suggests that the ardent child has matured into a woman who keeps her early intimations of delight unextinguished inside. 
 Today's rehearsal, with Ms. Marshall still adjusting the Pillow pieces -- sometimes substantially -- and grappling with early drafts of the Dance Theater Workshop material as well, offers a panoramic view of the choreographer's idiosyncratic working method. Unlike Mark Morris and Twyla Tharp, Ms. Marshall does not follow the conventional route of choosing musical accompaniment at the outset, then inventing movement with her own body and transferring it to the dancers largely by physical demonstration. The sound score for ''Cloudless'' is being created in tandem with the choreography by Jane Shaw, and Ms. Marshall draws the movement out of her dancers, beginning with long sessions in directed improvisation. Throughout the process, she operates almost entirely via words.
 ''All the actual movement in my work is generated by the dancers,'' Ms. Marshall explained. ''I start by setting them in motion with instructions about space, timing and the nature of the activity. I give them physical goals -- the more abstract, the better. The dramatic or psychological subtexts evolve as the dance develops, through our group discussions about where the work wants to go. I like to create through the back door, you see, because that's where the discoveries -- and the surprises -- are.''
 If Ms. Marshall's style of choreographing is meditative and communal, her method of accomplishing a day's work in the theater is a marvel of efficiency. Ms. Marshall runs the dances that are almost performance-ready, still allowing for ''enormous changes at the last minute,'' all the while engaging her performers in the process. Primary work on new pieces is deftly sandwiched into the schedule. The fairly raw material is allowed to be fitful and awkward.
 Whenever there's a moment's break in the activity, Ms. Marshall addresses the sound, light and props, along with mini-conferences about where a dance is going and what it means. Not once does she project the frantic urgency that her packed agenda and impending deadlines might well provoke. Ms. Marshall seems particularly concerned about the transitions from one dance to the next. ''Because it's in the moments between events that some of the most meaningful and magical things happen,'' she said. ''You've put your energy into making what you think are the meaty, central parts of your dance. As is only natural, things haven't turned out as you expected. Each part has taken on a life of its own. And now you have to connect them.'' 

Cloudless
Susan Marshall
Jacob's Pillow, Thursday through Sunday.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Susan Marshall and Company dance in 2004 in ''Kiss,'' which will be performed at Jacob's Pillow with ''Cloudless,'' below, scheduled for its premiere this week. (Photo by Paul B. Goode)
 (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (91%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); DANCERS (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (75%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%); STARVATION (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Dancing; Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival; Scholarships and Fellowships

ORGANIZATION: DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP (56%); JOHN D & CATHERINE T MACARTHUR FOUNDATION (55%)

PERSON: Tobi Tobias; Susan Marshall

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



608 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Our Towns; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Amid Jeers, Seeking Pride In a Day's Work

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. 

 BODY:
''ALL right, girls. Feet together. We have a huge smile on our face. Here we go!''
 And, yup, there they went, kicking, cheering and gyrating to the thump-thump-thump of beloved arena classics and then squealing in delight and hopping up and down. You didn't need to shake a spirit stick to get the campers going in their Riverhead, Plainedge and Pelham shorts and T-shirts at the cheerleader camp at Hofstra University last week. 
And in a meeting room inside, there they went, too, Antonio Bernabe, from Los Angeles, and Alberto Vidalon, from Morristown, N.J., and people from the Union Latina de Chicago and the Central Texas Immigrant Workers Rights Center, in T-shirts that read ''No Human Being Is Illegal.'' Same campus. Different planet.
 Like a slide show in which someone had mixed different boxes of slides together, different realities kept drifting in and out last week at the national assembly of day laborers sponsored by the National Day Laborer Organizing Network. 
 So one moment you were in consumer Eden, college division, with students in designer sunglasses and cellphones seemingly surgically grafted to their ears drifting from the Mongolian Chop-Chop to the Cereal Box at the student center's food court. 
 And the next moment the most visible invisible people in American life, the anonymous Hispanic men who gather on street corners in Morristown and Freehold, Mount Kisco and Danbury, Farmingdale and Farmingville, are suddenly there in real life, with stories to tell, strategies to devise and struggles to share.
 ''One thing that happens here is that workers stand tall, they look at people face to face as equals, not seeking their permission, not as oppressed people or men begging for jobs but as persons with pride,'' said Pablo Alvarado, the national coordinator of the organizing network, which was started in 1999. ''Because you can't intimidate people who have pride. You think what these people do is easy? I don't think so. People treat you like dirt. They throw rotten eggs, ice cream, tortillas with excrement inside. They yell racial epithets at you. So we tell people what they do is honorable. They should take pride in it.''
 So Mr. Vidalon, a 44-year-old worker from Peru with a wife and a 12-year-old son at home, soaked up the sessions like a junior manager at a networking seminar, trading stories about life on the corner and what can be done to improve it.
 He's been working on Main Street in Morristown for only two and a half years, and has a wry outsider's take on life on the corner. Edilberto Banegas, of Freeport, on Long Island, a Honduran who has done it for 14 years, is less distanced, more weary.
 ''I've gotten used to this country, like it's my country,'' he said. ''But you come here seeking better opportunity, but you feel like it doesn't come back to you. Without papers, we can desire many things, but we don't ever get there.''
 ON Friday most of the people from the conference packed onto a school bus for the more sedate environs of Sarah Lawrence College in Westchester. They arrived to another set of contrasts, this time the refined hush of a campus art center with its various sorts of edgy art and graphic design. (''Men and Women Are Different. Shouldn't Our Toilet Paper Be?'')
 Only this time, just as Julio Castillo, a 39-year-old laborer from Yonkers, was delivering a talk on his difficulty in getting treatment for a workplace injury, another form of reality intruded. A man in the audience, Joshua Askew of Mount Vernon, jumped up and started shouting, so angry, speaking so fast he almost couldn't be understood, that the men were illegal, that immigration laws should be enforced. Some people with him joined in, while others shouted back.
 Ushered outside, he shouted some more. ''My parents came over here in slave ships. They worked hard, according to the law. We got the legal system to free us. We didn't break the law. The jobs we used to have, they're taking now.''
 Afterward, Mr. Alvarado was asked what he thought. He said that he understood the man's concerns but that the laborers were filling an economic need and were coming to give their children a better life, just as immigrants have always done, and would come whatever the laws were.
 ''If you are going to criminalize me for wanting a better life for my children, for wanting a roof over my head and food on the table, then go ahead and criminalize me,'' he said. ''We believe in the American dream more than most people who've been here their whole life.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); FOREIGN LABOR (74%); MEN (71%); ICE CREAM (71%); REFUGEES (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Labor

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (83%); LATIN UNION (57%) National Day Laborer Organizing Network; Hofstra University

PERSON: Peter Applebome

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (69%) Mexico; Latin America

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



609 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 5; Automobiles; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: Unmet Expectations 

BYLINE: By JAMES G. COBB

 BODY:
Advertisements trumpet the RX400h as a hybrid with Lexus luxury and V-8 performance, and indeed the wagon accelerates briskly. But the conventional RX330 is no slouch either, and it costs thousands less. 
 The hybrid premium would be easier to take if the mileage were terrific, but I managed only 23.7 m.p.g. over 300 miles of urban plodding, high-speed cruising and rural driving in upstate New York. This was not much better than the 22 m.p.g. I recorded, mostly over the same roads, in a large nonhybrid sedan, the 2005 Toyota Avalon.
(If you wonder how a more mileage-focused hybrid stacks up, I managed 42 m.p.g. on that route in a Toyota Prius.)
 Perhaps my expectations were too high, but Lexus did initially promise a hybrid S.U.V. with the fuel economy of a compact sedan. Some actual owners seem disappointed, too, based on their Internet postings; a few say that while they love their RX400h's, the mileage could be better.
 To some extent, these latest hybrids seem driven less by engineering goals than by marketing needs, building on Toyota's green reputation to sell premium-price cars. ''For the typical hybrid buyers, it's an ideological choice more than than a financial choice,'' Gabriel Shenhar, senior auto test engineer for Consumer Reports, said last week. He suggested that if Toyota had truly wanted to make a fuel-efficient seven-passenger wagon, it could have developed a hybrid from the four-cylinder Highlander that could have obtained real-world mileage of 30 m.p.g. JAMES G. COBB

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEDANS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (70%) Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks ; Electric Vehicles; Fuel Efficiency

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Lexus Division of Toyota Motor Sales Usa

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: James G Cobb

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



610 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 5; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: More Thirsty Than You'd Think

BYLINE: By BOB KNOLL

 BODY:
THE all-wheel-drive version of the Toyota Highlander Hybrid uses a powertrain almost identical to the one in the Lexus RX400h, and both vehicles carry fuel economy ratings of 31 miles per gallon in town and 27 on the highway. But try as I might, and I did try hard, I could not budge the Highlander Hybrid above 25 m.p.g. on a recent road test in eastern Connecticut. 
 I have a reputation as an economy driver -- four decades ago, I drove in the Mobil Economy Runs, on teams that competed to use the least gasoline -- and I usually get better mileage in any car than anyone I know. I calculated my mileage in the Highlander Hybrid as 23 m.p.g. (although the car's computer said it was 25).
I sought to stay in the fuel-conserving electric mode and tried not to take advantage of the car's quick acceleration. But the algorithm that switches the gas engine on and off seemed to resist driving techniques intended to use the least fuel; for instance, even slight pressure on the accelerator brings the gasoline engine online, driving down the mileage. While the power delivery was very smooth, the onset of the V-6 engine results in a quiver and some rather un-Toyotalike vibrations.
 Compared with my own Subaru Outback, it is hard to see advantages to the Highlander Hybrid. My Outback is a PZEV, or partial-zero-emission vehicle, with only negligible tailpipe emissions. (Classifications for the RX and Highlander hybrids vary by state, but none are as clean as PZEV's.) And in my experience, the Outback's mileage is at least as good as the Highlander Hybrid's. BOB KNOLL


GRAPHIC: Photos: Highlander Hybrid's computer tells all after a Los Angeles-Phoenix round trip. (Photo by Jerry Garrett for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 The all-wheel-drive version of the Toyota Highlander Hybrid shares its powertrain with the Lexus RX400h. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (68%) Automobiles; Electric Vehicles; Fuel Efficiency

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp

PERSON: Bob Knoll

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



611 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4439 words

HEADLINE: St.-Tropez A Go-Go

BYLINE: By SETH SHERWOOD. 
SETH SHERWOOD, a frequent contributor to the Travel section, last wrote about Dubai.

 BODY:
JUNE had barely begun, but the legendary French Riviera celebrity bastion of St.-Tropez already had its first scandale of the summer. All across the seaside village, fresh piles of the June 10 issue of La Tribune de St.-Tropez declared the breaking news. From socialites shopping in the Rodeo Drive-like stores along Rue Francois Sibilli to the jet-setting playboys and billionaires trawling the coconut-oil-scented fleshpots along Mediterranean beaches, the summer crowd that arrives early suddenly found a disturbing front-page discovery that would once have been unthinkable.
 ''This just in,'' the article announced, accompanied by snapshots of Mary-Kate Olsen, Naomi Campbell and Bono disguised in an array of hats and sunglasses at various St.-Tropez locations. ''Stars are now coming to St.-Tropez simply to vacation, and are opting to go out incognito.'' 
 For an instant, everything St.-Tropez stood for seemed to be called into question. But before the consummate see-and-be-seen party haven could fully contemplate the inconceivable dimming of its wattage, hope sprang a few days later from the sea. As incognito as a monster truck arriving at the White House, the 160-foot power yacht Passion cruised into St.-Tropez's old port, navigated its bulk past the rustic ocher buildings lining the harbor and settled directly before the busy dockside cafes. Tanned, jewelry-bedecked women stared from behind Chanel sunglasses while tourists snapped pictures of an American hip-hop titan and his girlfriend, an immediately recognizable R&B singer in shorts and high heels, descending the gangway. As the pair got into a waiting minivan, the man flashed the victory sign to bedazzled onlookers.
 ''Excuse me,'' said a balding middle-aged traveler with an Australian accent and Bermuda shorts as he tapped a fellow gawker. ''But was that Jay-Z and Beyonce?''
 This just in: Don't look for St.-Tropez in the obituaries anytime soon.
 Summer after summer, year after year, the former Roman colony whose name has become a byword for sun-soaked shores and Champagne-soaked revelry swells with the pleasure seekers, the rich, the superrich and the flesh-and-blood incarnations of characters usually seen on magazine covers and shareholder reports.
 The ritual is as regular and irrepressible as the Cote d'Azur tides themselves: the yachts barrel in, the Ferraris roll up, the paparazzi take up position, the vacationers gape and wave. Between the Rolex Cup sailing races in June and the Porsche parade in fall, St.-Tropez, a provincial maritime village of about 5,500, expands tenfold, becoming a traffic-choked pageant where one finds, to quote the French daily newspaper Figaro, ''the greatest number of famous faces per square meter.'' For V.I.P.'s, would-be V.I.P.'s and regular weekenders alike, the attractions are the same: charming old streets, a Dionysian beach scene and perhaps the most decadent nightclubs in the world. 
 ''It's always beautiful, it's always solid, and yachts always need somewhere to go,'' says Lee Harrington, a New York writer who has visited the resort several times and will summer there again this August. ''As people get richer, as the world turns, the place just seems to get more 'St.-Tropez.'''
 ''Non, non, non, non, non,'' says Bernard Kerob, a longtime provider of helicopter shuttle service to St.-Tropez-- whose clients have ranged from splurging families to Julia Roberts -- when asked if he has ever witnessed a decline in the popularity of his town among the high-season masses. ''Never.'' Sitting Buddhalike behind his desk, arms folded over his middle-age paunch, Mr. Kerob offers a nugget to explain St.-Tropez's apparently unflagging appeal to all income brackets: ''It's mythic,'' he says, as though expressing a universally accepted axiom. ''St.-Tropez is mythic.''
 Fittingly, that myth began with a celebrity on a ship. When in the 1880's the writer Guy de Maupassant tacked his sailboat Bel-Ami into a largely isolated fishing community, he found a charming hamlet that he described in his 1888 memoir ''Sur l'Eau'' (''On the Water'') as looking ''like a seashell wet by the salt water and nourished by fish and the sea air.'' 
 Soon, the masses followed. The neo-Impressionist painter Paul Signac sailed into port in 1892 aboard his yacht Olympia and invited Henri Matisse and other painters to capture the rapturous Mediterranean color and light. The end of World War II brought Parisian writers -- Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir, Jacques Prevert -- who created a summertime Left Bank at the portside Senequier and Gorille cafes.
 But it was the body of the young Brigitte Bardot -- she's still a resident of the town, though rarely seen -- rolling in the St.-Tropez surf in the 1956 film ''And God Created Woman'' that, almost by fiat, gave birth to the sultry playground of the emerging jet-set age. By the time Mick and Bianca Jagger tied the knot at the Chapel of St.-Anne in 1971, the place's notorious indulgences had cemented its reputation as St. Trop: St. Too Much, in French. Today, Maupassant's Tropezien village, his ''simple daughter of the sea,'' is a bikini babe with a 24-hour partying streak and an entourage that routinely includes Naomi Campbell, Bruce Willis, Ivana Trump, Denise Rich, P.Diddy, Rupert Everett and scores of other boldface names. 
 On a sweltering afternoon in mid-June, three Eastern European daughters of the sea -- well, the sea of short skirts and forbiddingly large, black sunglasses -- are carrying the St.-Trop flag. Looking like the unlikely offspring of Zsa Zsa Gabor and Darth Vader, the trio grinds to club music next to a crowded outdoor pool by the beach. All around are UV-soaked men and topless women, their skin as oily and brown as freshly unwrapped Slim Jims, who lie sprawled like lotus eaters on billowing white canopy beds and mattresses. White-clad waiters rush about with water-beaded buckets of Champagne as a blonde in a white bikini begins to do acrobatic contortions, much to onlookers' delight.
 It's business as usual at Nikki Beach, one of the 30-odd beaches on the Bay of Pampelonne, a three-mile stretch of sand that forms the mythic epicenter of the Riviera. In a land where each beach has its own vibe and clientele -- Liberty is for nudists, Coco is popular with gays, ritzy Club 55 feels like a Beverly Hills country club -- Nikki Beach (which also has clubs in Marbella, Miami, St. Bart's and elsewhere) styles itself as a nightclub in broad daylight. The gimmick seems to be working. Extravagant partyers, self-styled big-shots, scantily clad sirens and various entertainment stars (real and imagined) seem only too happy to kick off their round-the-clock bacchanal under the noonday sun.
 Like a Roman emperor in his harem, a sandy-haired Dutch-born casino operator named Arno Van Dorst sits barefoot in jeans and a pink Izod shirt on a huge white floor cushion, basking in the afternoon rays with a chilled bottle of Moet & Chandon. About 10 feet away, a magazine photographer slowly circles a trio of lithe, dark-haired beauties lying seductively intertwined. Mr. Van Dorst has been on the Riviera since driving his Porsche Cayenne down from his base in Warsaw a few weeks earlier, but it's his first time at Nikki Beach.
 ''It's fantastic, it's wonderful,'' he says, as the three divas -- his wife, sister-in-law and niece -- giggle and pose. He hands a glass of Champagne to his friend, Jeroen, a swarthy Dutchman who charters his 1930's sailboat for $22,000 a week (at $1.23 to the euro) from his home in Cannes.
 For hedonism, Nikki Beach's only serious competitor is La Voile Rouge, a beach club famed for Champagne-spraying free-for-alls that make most World Series celebrations look like a kiddie party at Chuck E. Cheese's. Anecdotes are legion about rich industrialists buying bottles and bottles of Dom Perignon ($1,350) that ultimately wind up in the hair of near-naked young women and other beachgoers. To judge from the menu, which is covered in photos of the club's late owner, Paul Tomaselli, madly firing bottles of bubbly, as well as pictures of celebrity clients like Sly Stallone -- one could wring out the mops at day's end and produce enough sparkling wine to inebriate a battleship full of promgoers.
 But on this particular afternoon, to the chagrin of some, there is no booze bath. In spite of loud music, a ''fashion show'' -- a parade of robust girls in skimpy beachwear -- and a steady stream of well-heeled internationals arriving on tenders from huge ships bobbing offshore, the scene never quite reaches its fabled boiling point. No matter. As dark helicopters deliver V.I.P.'s to oceanside landing pads, clients and staff members sit at umbrella tables and offer tales of abandon either lived or witnessed.
 ''Last summer I got knocked out,'' says the D.J., a New York transplant called M.C. Spade, explaining that the volley of corks requires that employees don football helmets and firemen's hats when the blasting begins. ''A guy opened a bottle and BOOM! I was bleeding.''
 A German businessman chatting with him is not surprised. ''One afternoon I was here and some guys spent 150,000 euros on Champagne,'' says Tilo Kuhnke, who runs a ''bungee trampoline'' company, shaking his head in disbelief. ''I was there when the bill arrived. There were bathtubs full of huge bottles. It was incredible.'' His date is eager for the action to kick in. ''I had heard this place was crazy, with lots of Champagne and girls,'' says the disappointed white-blonde woman (''Barbie, like the doll'') as she drinks a Coke at the outdoor bar. She nods disapprovingly at the bartenders who are women. ''Everyone here has silicone.''
 As the third weekend in June arrives, the town is awash in its mythology, past and present. At the 17th-century citadel overlooking the town a soiree pays tribute to Francoise Sagan, author of ''Bonjour Tristesse'' and a former habitue of St.-Tropez who died last year. On the opposite flank of the harbor, the Annonciade museum is opening its 50th season with ''Eclats du Fauvism,'' a retrospective of works by Matisse, Dufy, Andre Derain and other painters who found in St.-Tropez the inspiration for their electric, groundbreaking experiments in color. Between the two, the ubiquitous tooth-white yacht of Jay-Z and Beyonce sits moored against the quay, nestled between equally gargantuan cruisers with names like One More Toy.
 Night descends in a flaming pink sunset, and the sounds of boat horns and sea gulls mix with the chainsaw buzz of dolled-up girls on scooters zipping off to cocktail lounges and parties. Somehow they can flawlessly navigate in high heels, tight dresses and bulbous safety helmets over manes of hair. Fresh from postbeach showers, Italian families, German couples and loads of St.-Tropez summer residents clad in white linen crowd the harborside tables at Cafe Senequier. Together they participate in a twilight summer ritual: sipping rose or pastis while scoping the moored ships to see who might step off.
 For diners interested in seafood, the hot table is the new portside restaurant L'Escale, one of the few places you can still see Ms. Bardot (in the form of huge photos from the 1960's). For those interested in eye candy, there's the even hotter Villa Romana, a sort of Playboy Mansion with risotto. It's the type of place whose print ads trumpet the names of stars who eat there -- Swedish royalty, George Clooney, Vin Diesel -- without one word about the cuisine.
 In an overdecorated bachelor-pad environment of leopard-print cushions and gilt columns, I watch as crowds of aspiring Hugh Hefners and their female entourages ogle a procession of suspiciously buxom models in skin-tight outfits -- another St.-Tropez ''fashion show'' -- who strut around to pop and techno music. The D.J. selects ''You're Sixteen (You're Beautiful and You're Mine)'' while an M.C. in pirate regalia works the excited crowd of preclubbers, chatting up some faux-blond ladies and outfitting them with huge hats saying things like ''Bad Girl.''
 My waiter informs me that tonight is, well, ''kind of slow.''
 Where partying is concerned, St.-Tropez has set the bar in the stratosphere. A week earlier, the week that produced the staggering pronouncements of La Tribune de St.-Tropez, the mythic night life scene was ''tranquil,'' as one club manager told me. In other words, the clubs were completely crazy with Champagne and dancing until 5 a.m., but no top-flight stars joined the fray. At Papagayo, a portside dance club where Bruce Willis, Bono and P. Diddy like to stop in, the void of boldface names had been quickly filled by three gilded youths who commandeered the V.I.P. area and began drinking Cristal through straws as they and their dates danced around a stripper's pole.
 ''This was me last night,'' said a floppy-haired German business student named Kaspar, proudly showing a cellphone photo of himself comatose under empty Cristal bottles. He estimated the evening would cost his trio a thousand euros, well down from the 3,000 they were spending nightly in 2004. ''Global economic downturn,'' he explained.
 On this Saturday night, however, macroeconomic concerns wind up doing little to dampen the head-spinning outlays at Les Caves du Roy, St.-Tropez's premier den of iniquity for conspicuous consumers on eight-figure salaries.
 ''Ladies and gentlemen. White Gold!'' shouts the D.J., a balding, 40-ish mountain of a man named Jack E., whose booth beams with photos of him mugging with Magic Johnson, Jack Nicholson and Donatella Versace. The dense crowd of what the French call ''les beautiful people'' erupts in cheers at the much-hoped-for moment.
 Under the flash of electric palm trees and giant mirror balls that have graced the Las Vegas casinolike club since its inception in the 1970's, a waiter crosses the carpet with a silver ice bucket shooting off sparks. As it's delivered to an unseen client in the overcrowded V.I.P. area, an ocean of bodies with D&G belt buckles and hockey-puck-size watches pauses to behold the breathtaking event: Someone has decided not to let some petty economic downturn stop him from shelling out nearly $15,000 on a limited-edition bottle of 1995 Dom Perignon, which indeed comes clad in white-gold wrapping.
 The crowd hoists $30 bottles of Corona beer and modest $320 bottles of Veuve Clicquot in boisterous salute. On the dance floor, a tiny gyrating woman sports a white T-shirt with a message that could be St.-Tropez's motto: Luxe Is Not Dead.
 Then, in the mayhem, a much-photographed British tabloid duo plants itself behind a center table. The woman, a sexy brunette from a once-mighty pop group, grabs a fat cigar from the mouth of her husband, a soccer god, and begins to gyrate ostentatiously and swing her fist to AC/DC's ''Highway to Hell'' as she puffs the orange-glowing log. Stoli and Coke are brought to the table. Throngs of admirers press together for a glimpse.
 ''Good evening, Mr. and Mrs. Beckham,'' Jack E. says cheekily into his microphone, ending any charade of their remaining incognito as gapers and glad-handers surround the pair.
 ''And good morning, St.-Tropez!''

No Cover at the Clubs, and Very Little on Much of the Clientele

GETTING THERE
 Nice (about 60 miles away) has the nearest international airport to St.-Tropez. In mid-July Delta Airlines had nonstop flights to Nice in mid-August from Kennedy International Airport in New York from $1,029. Delta one-stop flights (with a change in Paris) started at $949, and numerous other airlines offered flights from New York with a change of plane. 
 Getting from Nice to St.-Tropez, however, can be a chore, as there is no train service, no direct bus and nightmarish summer traffic that can turn the trip into a four-hour crawl by car. The quickest, and priciest, route between Nice and St.-Tropez is by helicopter. Heli Air Monaco, (377) 92.050.050, www.heliairmonaco.com, does the 20-minute flight from the Nice airport for up to five people for $924; prices at $1.23 to the euro. The slowest, and cheapest, option is to take Beltrame bus line, (33-4) 94.95.95.16, www.sva-beltrame.com, to San Rafael ($20), and then catch a Sodetrav bus, (33-8) 25.00.06.50, www.sodetrav.fr, to St.-Tropez ($11). A taxi from Nice to St.-Tropez runs about $320. Try Centrale Taxi Riviera, (33-4) 93.13.78.78.

GETTING AROUND
 The village of St.-Tropez is small, concentrated and pedestrian-friendly, so summer travelers should avoid adding yet another car to the vehicle-packed streets. If you forgo an automobile, you can use a motor scooter to reach the beaches on the Bay of Pampelonne and other spots outside St.-Tropez proper. Holiday Bikes, (33-4) 94-97-09-39, www.holiday-bikes.com, rents basic scooters for two people (along with helmets) from $271 a week. 

WHERE TO STAY
 Room rates are for high season and are based on double occupancy.
 Hotel Sube, 15, quai de Suffren; (33-4) 94.97.30.04; www.hotel-sube.com. St.-Tropez's oldest hotel is in the heart of the port and contains a popular nautical-themed bar with excellent harbor views. Rooms from $172.
 Hotel des Lices, Avenue Grangeon, (33-4) 94.97.28.28; www.hoteldeslices.com. Steps from St.-Tropez's central square, the Place des Lices, the hotel has a lovely pool and a pleasant, underused bar. From $176.
 La Maison Blanche, Places des Lices; (33-4) 94.97.52.66; www.hotellamaisonblanche.com. An intimate boutique hotel with stylish modern design (lots of right angles and white surfaces, as per the name) and popular preclubbing patio bar. From $272.
 Hotel Byblos, Avenue Paul Signac; (33-4) 94.56.68.00; www.byblos.com. The most famous hotel in town, the hillside Byblos is decorated to resemble a Provencal village, complete with yellow and pink rustic-looking buildings and flowery fabrics in the rooms. The Spoon restaurant and Caves du Roy nightclub, both hot spots, are on the premises. From $615.

WHERE TO EAT
 Villa Romana, Chemin des Conquettes; (33-4) 94.97.15.50; www.villa-romana.com. The Italian cooking is just above average, but the gaudy Playboy Mansion vibe and ''fashion show'' of scantily clad women draws celebrities, tycoons and would-be tycoons by the yachtful. Two can have a three-course meal, without wine, for around $150.
 L'Escale, 9, quai Jean Jaures; (33-4) 94.97.00.63. A stylish, newly opened seafood restaurant that's already one of the hottest tables in town. The sand floor and Brigitte Bardot photos pay homage to St.-Tropez's big draws, and the huge grilled Mediterranean prawns eat like beefsteaks of the sea. Dinner for two, without wine, runs about $185.
 Spoon Byblos, Avenue du Marechal Foch; (33-4) 94.56.68.20. Operated by the international celebrity chef Alain Ducasse, this slick indoor-outdoor restaurant does a clever pastiche of international dishes, from ceviche to shrimp ravioli to Moroccan tagines. Two people can eat three courses for around $160, without wine.
 Cafe des Arts, 1, place Carnot, (33-4) 94.97.02.25. With a zinc bar, chalkboard menu and view of the locals playing boules, this institution offers a classic French bistro feel. Marinated anchovies ($11) followed by grilled entrecote with fries ($23) make an affordable and authentic French meal.
 La Tarte Tropezienne, Place des Lices; (33-4) 94.97.04.69. A good, low-cost breakfast and lunch option selling chocolate croissants ($1.20), pizzalike fougasse ($4.50) and assorted sandwiches ($5; $6 to go).

WHERE TO SUNBATHE
 While the peninsula on which St.-Tropez is located holds numerous free, public stretches of sand, it's the 30-plus private beach clubs along the Bay of Pampelonne (a few miles outside St.-Tropez proper, in Ramatuelle) that radiate from most postcards and supermarket gossip sheets. For an admission fee (generally $12 to $24), visitors get a long, cushioned chair on the crowded sand. Most clubs have a bar, restaurant and other amenities. Each has a distinct personality and clientele.
 Nikki Beach, Route de l'Epi; (33-4) 94.79.82.04. Youthful Champagne-fueled decadence on white canopy beds around a swimming pool. 
 La Voile Rouge, Route des Tamaris; (33-4) 94.79.84.34. More of the same, though without the pool, for a slightly older and even more moneyed set. 
 Millesim, Route de Tahiti; (33-4) 94.97.20.99. Buddha statues, Tiki bar and ayurvedic massage make this a nice, Far-Eastern-style antidote to the more hedonistic beaches.
 Club 55, Boulevard Patch; (33-4) 94.55.55.55. refined, sedate country-club-like St.-Tropez institution with plenty of celebrity patrons and moneyed families, as well as regular folks. 
 Key West, Boulevard Patch; (33-4) 94.79.86.58. A local favorite for its relaxed vibe and family-friendly environment, complete with backgammon tables. 
 Plage de Bouillabaisse is a free, public beach on the west side of the village of St.-Tropez.

WHERE TO DANCE
 There's no cover at most St.-Tropez clubs, but that doesn't mean getting in is easy: long lines and selective door policies (i.e., be a woman or have some with you) mean it's best to arrive early. And once you're in, drink prices are stratospheric. Clubs are generally open from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m.
 Les Caves du Roy, Hotel Byblos, entrance on Avenue du Marechal Foch; (33-4) 94.56.68.20.
 VIP Room, Residence du Nouveau Port; (33-4) 94.97.14.70.
 Papagayo, Residence du Nouveau Port; (33-4) 94.97.07.56.

WHERE TO SHOP
 Is there a St.-Tropez look? ''Make sure you have some cool sunglasses and one good handbag and one great pair of shoes,'' offers Lee Harrington, a frequent visitor. ''And some cleavage.'' At least three of those things can be purchased along the premier luxury shopping streets in St.-Tropez, Rue Gambetta (Dior, Kenzo) and Rue Francois Sibilli (Roberto Cavalli, Dolce & Gabbana, Louis Vuitton). To go incognito, score a man's or woman's Panama hat from Veritable Panama, 5, place des Ramparts, and grab some designer shades at Solaris, 10, rue du General Allard.

SIGHTSEEING
 Citadel, Montee de la Citadelle; (33-4) 94.97.59.43. Built under Henri IV in the early 1600's, this four-towered, high-walled fortress offers a commanding view of the region. Its naval museum is closed until 2007. Admission $6. 
 Musee de l'Annonciade, Place Grammont, Vieux Port; (33-4) 94.17.84.10. The museum celebrates its 50th anniversary with ''Eclats du Fauvism'' (through Oct. 17), a retrospective of Matisse, Braque, Dufy, Derain and other painters who pioneered the colorful Fauvist movement. Admission $6.75. 
 Le Brigantin, Quai Suffren in the Vieux Port; (33-6) 07.09.21.27. This sightseeing boat offers multiple daily trips along the lovely St.-Tropez coast with commentary in French and English. SETH SHERWOOD

A Fishing Village After All
 Seated in a director's chair in the Place des Lices, cooled by an overhead wind machine, a 50-something man in white pants, a white shirt and a white sweater around his neck is giving orders. In front of him is a group of old Frenchmen who are playing the traditional game of petanque. The thud of steel balls landing in dusty earth mixes with the wind rustling the leaves of the tree-shaded park.
 Anywhere else a gaggle of fans would be crowding around, trying to get the autograph of the important-looking man in the chair. Tonight only the waiter seems interested in the man's signature, and for good reason: He is simply a German tourist at an outdoor cafe, and his orders involve getting some cold drinks for his family.
 Champagne showers and showy boats notwithstanding, one of the most enduring -- and false -- legends about St.-Tropez is that it is a gated Olympus where mortals rarely tread. While it does have its share of Big Names, C.E.O.'s and playboys with heavy accents as well as surgically enhanced gold-diggers (all piercingly satirized in the French comic book ''Staying Normal in St.-Tropez''), a second St.-Tropez lurks among the sports cars and screen stars, hidden in plain sight.
 ''St.-Tropez is of course very mythic for the wealthy who come here to party,'' says Tonya Kinzinger, the 30-something American star of the ''Melrose Place''-like French television series ''Sous le Soleil,'' which chronicles the only-on-TV fortunes of three women living in the town. ''But it's also an old fisherman's town and very authentic. You have a relationship with the people where you buy your bread.''
 At the Place des Lices on Tuesday and Saturday mornings, the Tropezien masses buy bread and much more at the provincial market, where all people of social strata mingle and shop. On long tables and from the backs of small trucks bursts a cornucopia of eggplants, tomatoes, green olives, skinned rabbits and sharp-smelling discs of goat cheese laid out on straw. Chefs at makeshift food stands dole out steaming piles of marinated mussels to hungry passers-by as middle-aged women in short skirts, high heels and dark glasses poke among the goods and catch up on gossip. Merchants wish them and the other regular fixtures hearty inquiries of ''Ca va?'' and smile at the children who chase one another through the crowd.
 To glimpse the most scenic panorama of Old World St.-Tropez, grab your easel and mount the winding, cobbled Rue de la Citadelle; pass the sherbet-hued buildings draped in green ivy and purple bougainvillea; climb the footpath lined with eucalyptus trees; and pause among the 400-year-old battlements of the hexagon-shaped fortress overlooking the rugged coastal landscape. Below extends the same swelling Mediterranean that two millenniums ago bore Roman triremes. On shore, the rose-colored dome and dandelion-yellow bell tower of Notre Dame de l'Assomption rise over the mosaic of orange tile roofs. The warm colors glow like paints squeezed straight from the tube.
 Back down in the streets, the gritty and glamorous sides of St.-Tropez casually rub shoulders on every corner. The unshaven locals who blow half their savings on off-track betting in the Bistrot du Port can walk 15 paces to the Hermes store, plunk down the other half for a leather saddle and ostrich-skin whip ($5,600), and take matters into their own hands. Likewise, the old women purchasing glistening sardines and ivory-white scallops from the traditional fishmongers in the pungent Marche des Poissons could easily exit into the ritzy Rue Gambetta and slip them into a $1,300 Dior handbag.
 When I ask one of the rubber-boot-clad fish merchants whether it feels odd to be plying a rather unglamorous trade amid so much glitter, he peers over his dripping ice table as if I'm the one who's nuts.
 ''So one shop sells shoes, one sells nice clothes and one sells fish?'' he says with a shrug. ''It's nice to have a mix.'' SETH SHERWOOD


GRAPHIC: Photos: Yes, that's the Mediterranean back there, but the action at the Voile Rouge beach club, one of 30 such clubs near St.-Tropez and known for its Champagne-spraying free-for-alls, is the tabletop ''fashion show.'' (Photo by Ed Alcock for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
La Voile Rouge beach club, known for hedonism. Small boats in the port show that St.-Tropez's roots in a simpler life still exists despite the well-heeled summer residents. Papagayo, where P. Diddy and Bruce Willis stop in. A crew member leaves a rented luxury boat. Cafe Senequier once drew Parisian thinkers.
For an admission fee, Nikki Beach also offers a pool and restaurant.
 The traditional game of petanque on the Place des Lices. (Photographs by Ed Alcock for The New York Times)(pgs. 8,9)Map of France highlighting St.-Tropez. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (83%); BEACHES (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (77%); PARADES & MARCHES (75%); LEISURE TRAVEL (73%); JAZZ & BLUES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); HIP HOP CULTURE (69%); RAP MUSIC (69%); SAILING (66%); BOAT RACING (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (58%); JAY-Z (58%); BEYONCE KNOWLES (58%); MARY-KATE OLSEN (54%); BRUCE WILLIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (73%) MEDITERRANEAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



612 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Uzbeks Order U.S. From Base In Refugee Rift

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN and THOM SHANKER; Eric Schmitt contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30 

 BODY:
Uzbekistan formally ordered the United States to leave an air base that has been a hub for operations in Afghanistan in protest over a predawn United Nations operation on Friday to spirit out refugees who had fled an uprising in Uzbekistan in May, senior State Department officials said Saturday.
 The officials said Uzbekistan had given the United States 180 days to close the base, which has played a central role in rooting out fighters of the Taliban and Al Qaeda and in carrying out relief operations.
 For several months, the Uzbek government said it wanted the United States to leave the base, the Karshi-Khanabad Air Base, called K-2. But no specific timetable was set, and there was hope that the matter could be negotiated. 
 A top diplomat, R. Nicholas Burns, under secretary of state for political affairs, had planned to go to Uzbekistan to discuss that issue and a United States demand that Uzbekistan permit an international investigation into the violent suppression of a prison riot and public demonstration in Andijon in May. The Uzbek government estimated that 187 people had been killed in the crackdown, but the United Nations estimated that 200 to 700 people had been killed. Now, however, Mr. Burns said he probably would not go to the region for several weeks to let feelings cool. 
 ''When we got notice of the Uzbek action Friday morning, we decided it would be inappropriate for me to go at this time,'' he said in an interview. ''We were going to have a conversation about human rights, Andijon and the fact that the Uzbek government's failure to reform has put it in international isolation.''
 Mr. Burns said the United States had been ''profoundly concerned'' about the status of the Uzbek refuges in Kyrgyzstan who fled after the Andijon incident. ''We have energetically supported the efforts to bring them to safety in Romania,'' he said, ''because we feared they would be persecuted if they were sent back to Uzbekistan.''
 ''We are not willing to overlook these very important human right concerns,'' he added.
 Another State Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity because of department ground rules, said, ''Obviously we don't want to lose K-2.'' But he added that loss of the base was preferable to backing away from demanding that Uzbekistan start political and economic reforms and agree to an international investigation of the Andijon killings. 
 He said that position had been endorsed by top officials at the Pentagon, where Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld has said that the base, while important, could be substituted if necessary.
 The State Department official said that 450 refugees had fled to Kyrgyzstan after the uprising in May but that the Uzbek government had wanted them back.
 The Kyrgyz government has picked up 29 refugees for detention because some were charged with crimes. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has been working to get them to safety, the official said, and early Friday most were taken to an airport to be airlifted to Romania. 
 The official said that only 15 had been left behind, all but four of them designated as refugees and the others charged with crimes. ''Our position is that they all have to come out,'' the official said. He said Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice was on the phone on Thursday and Friday with Kyrgyz leaders to arrange for the flight out.
 After the mission, the official said, Uzbekistan sent a note to the American Embassy in Tashkent formally ordering the eviction of the United States from the air base.
 The eviction order was first reported by The Washington Post on Saturday. 
 The Uzbek government opened the base to American forces shortly after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and it quickly became home for Green Berets of the Fifth Special Forces Group, light infantry soldiers of the 10th Mountain Division from Fort Drum, N.Y., and pilots and crews of AC-130 gunships and attack helicopters.
 American money and construction teams quickly transformed the decaying, Soviet-era air base into a bustling hub for military and relief operations. One of the first tasks was eradicating thousands of poisonous snakes that had taken up residence in abandoned hangars.
 The eviction note came at the end of a week in which Mr. Rumsfeld toured the region for discussions on alternatives in case United States lost access to the base.
 Mr. Rumsfeld received assurances from Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan that the American military could continue to use bases in those Central Asian nations to support relief and counterterrorism operations in Afghanistan.
 ''We feel we've had a good arrangement and good relationships in a number of those countries in the region,'' Mr. Rumsfeld said during his travels. ''And obviously from time to time things may be adjusted one way or another.''
 The issue has been a test of the Bush administration as it has tried to balance two of its most prized foreign policy goals: democratization and counterterrorism.
 Pentagon and military officials pointed out that it remained unclear whether the eviction from the Uzbek base would halt all bilateral relations with a nation on the rim of one of the most unstable regions in the world.
 Those in the United States government and the military who argue for carefully managed engagement, even with dictatorial governments, note that without any formalized Western influence in places like Uzbekistan, there would most likely be influence from less-democratic sponsors, like Russia or China.


GRAPHIC: Map of Uzbekistan highlighting Karshi-Khanabad Air Base: Karshi-Khanabad Air Base was a hub for actions in Afghanistan. (pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); AL-QAEDA (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); POLITICS (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TRENDS (60%); RIOTS (52%) Military Bases and Installations; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Immigration and Refugees; Foreign Aid; Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%); UNITED NATIONS (93%) United Nations; Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group); Taliban (Afghan Group); State Department

PERSON: Steven R Weisman; Thom Shanker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); UZBEKISTAN (98%); KYRGYZSTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); ROMANIA (79%) Uzbekistan; Kyrgyzstan; Afghanistan; Andijon (Uzbekistan); Uzbekistan

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



613 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1506 words

HEADLINE: What Do Peacocks Say? ACK

BYLINE: By WARREN ST. JOHN and ALEXANDRA WOLFE

 BODY:
YOU might think it would be enough for someone who vacations in one of the elite communities of the Northeast to slip away quietly on weekends, to recuperate and laze in peace without heckling the less fortunate. 
 But certain vacationers, apparently, cannot fully enjoy themselves unless they lord their summer plans over those left to swelter in less idyllic realms. Look around on the Long Island Expressway on any Friday evening in summer, and you'll see Range Rovers by the dozens ghosting by, bearing small oval European-style bumper stickers that announce in clipped code the drivers' destinations: EH for East Hampton, SGH for Sag Harbor, BH for Bridgehampton. Stroll the Upper East Side, and you'll see the hot item this summer is a canvas tote bag by Steven Stolman, embroidered with the numbers 11968. Don't know what that means? Why it's the ZIP code for Southampton, you poor soul.
 There was a time when what people did on their summer vacations was no one else's business. Summer getaways were family time, and there was no need to fetishize or advertise one's preferred burg for unwinding. 
 But befitting an age in which social status is telegraphed through handbags and logoed luxury goods, summer has become simply another platform to say something about yourself, lest others get the wrong idea about what you're doing when you're doing nothing.
 Few, though, are willing to fess up. Jane Holzer, the socialite, who owns two ZIP code bags -- for Palm Beach and Southampton -- said she used them simply because she needed a tote.
 ''I liked the bag itself, the shape, the happy colors,'' Ms. Holzer said. What's the appeal of having the ZIP code on it? Ms. Holzer was asked by telephone. ''There's nothing there,'' she said. ''Thank you, bye-bye!'' 
 Click. 
 Others claim ignorance. Paul Maurer, a 52-year-old photographer with long graying brown hair, has a bumper sticker for Flying Point, a beach near Southampton. The other day he was also wearing a Block Island T-shirt. 
 ''They're just things I picked up,'' he said, ''I don't know why. Some people's say, 'I love my dog.'''
 Social scientists say that on a basic level, putting an EH bumper sticker on the car or carrying a tote bag embroidered with an elite ZIP code is a way of signaling membership in a particular tribe, since only those in the know get the references. But such gestures, said Richard Smith, a social psychologist at the University of Kentucky, carry the additional implication of superiority.
 ''People don't put stickers on their bumpers to make themselves look worse,'' he said.
 The compulsion to express vacation superiority is hardly limited to the wealthy. Among other things, superiority may come from the conviction that one's politics and lifestyle are more virtuous than that of the economically elite. A surfer with a ''Montauk: The End'' sticker on his old Volvo, for example, may be going out of his way to signal that the Hamptons can eat his dust: he will be driving past them on the way to a more laid-back stretch of beach.
 ''Some people are snobbish about not being snobbish,'' Mr. Smith said.
 Even so, the wealthy seem to pursue vacation snobbishness with a special zeal. Drive down Meadow Lane in Southampton, and you'll pass a mansion with a yard sign that bears the name ''Aspen East,'' just so there's no misunderstanding about where the owners winter. Down the street at a shop called the Printery customers can have photographs of their vacation houses converted into art for special stationery, which can be used to thank people for a wonderful weekend while simultaneously pointing out to them that the note's author has one hell of a summer home.
 As pointless as it may seem to signal perceived superiority to anonymous drivers on the expressway, scientists say such behavior is probably rooted deeply in our pasts and may actually be a byproduct of the leisure time that forms the basis of summer vacation. 
 Robert Sapolsky, a professor of neuroscience at Stanford University who has studied primate behavior, said bumper sticker one-upmanship is similar to behavior he has witnessed in baboons. Baboons spend only about three hours of the day foraging for food; the remaining 21 hours of free time, he said, are a kind of behavioral vacuum -- not unlike three days in the Hamptons -- which baboons pass by annoying and harassing one another to no particular end, creating what scientists call psychosocial stress.
 ''If you're a baboon on the Serengeti, and you're miserable,'' Mr. Sapolsky said, ''it's almost certainly because some other baboon has had the free time and energy to devote to making you miserable.''
 Among humans, Mr. Sapolsky said, such pestering once may have occurred when a man with five goats made a point of grazing his flock in sight of a man from the next village over who had only four goats.
 ''In the global village, now we can feel bad because the person in the car in front you has a bumper sticker boasting of what town they're going to,'' he said.
 But for Robert H. Frank, an economist at the Johnson School of Management at Cornell University and the author of the book ''Luxury Fever,'' those oval bumper stickers stand out as the ultimate in gratuitous boasting, in a class apart even from peacocking around town covered in luxury brand logos. 
 ''You can't even invent an excuse that wouldn't be embarrassing to repeat in public,'' he said. ''It invites the 'get a life' response.''
 When it comes to showboating, the more obscure the reference, it seems, the better. Just as the cachet of the once ubiquitous Black Dog T-shirt came from the assumption that only travelers to Martha's Vineyard understood its origin, surely only a few could possibly be aware that the letters ACK on a T-shirt, hat or bumper sticker refer to the code for the airport on Nantucket. But over time, as word gets out and the masses come to understand the references, they lose their power and can acquire a patina of gaucheness or cluelessness.
 ''The Black Dog T-shirt is so beyond over,'' said Alexandra Styron, a writer and longtime summer resident of the Vineyard. ''It's something you wouldn't be caught dead in if you actually live here.'' (The new cool Vineyard T-shirt these days, old island hands say, is from Aboveground Records and features the letter A and an asterisk, but you probably knew that.)
 Some vacation insignia acquire more cachet when recognized out of context by someone else in the know. Others are better appreciated in their natural habitat. Annual beach passes, for example, establish their bearers as residents in a particular community as opposed to lowly visitors. But if you remove or stack them, how will people know that you have been around for a while? One trick is to place beach stickers from successive years in a conspicuously long row across a bumper or windshield.
 Teri Snyder, a 47-year-old summer resident of Shelter Island, has five Shelter Island stickers on her white Toyota Camry. Three, she says, are village permits she's left on from various years, and two are beach stickers on the bumper from 1994 and 1995. ''It gives us resident status,'' she said.
 Perhaps the most arcane version of this game, played among the old-money residents of East Hampton and Southampton -- and by those who want to be perceived as old-money residents -- is the battle to obtain prestigious telephone exchanges for summer homes. Certain exchanges -- 283 in Southampton and 324 in East Hampton -- have been around for decades, while exchanges like 259, 204 and 907 were created more recently. Eighty percent of the numbers in the Blue Book, the social directory for established Southampton residents, are 283 or 324. 
 Andrea Ackerman, the manager of the Southampton and Sag Harbor offices of Brown Harris Stevens, the real estate brokerage, said that it is common for buyers of old Hamptons homes to ask sellers to include the older telephone numbers. And for some newer residents, getting stuck with a new-money exchange is a gnawing source of shame.
 ''I hate to say it, but I'm a 204 guy,'' said Jason Binn, the chief executive of Niche Media, which owns the Hamptons and Gotham magazines, and a relatively new Hamptons homeowner. ''It was something I had to face up to.''
 If all the summer vacation posturing becomes overwhelming, you can always do what baboons do: flip things around and create some psychosocial stress for the other guy. Theodore Enders, a 36-year-old who works in finance, bought a purple minivan for his mother, who promptly slapped one of those cryptic ACK stickers on the bumper. His brother-in-law thought it was obnoxious, and added an adhesive T and Y to the ACK. Mr. Enders's mother drove around Nantucket all of last summer unaware that her bumper said TACKY.
 Mr. Enders now has the minivan in Montauk, which he said was much cooler than Nantucket anyway. He said he was thinking of putting a ''Montauk: The End'' sticker on his bumper.
 ''We're looking,'' he said. ''It's a code that people in the know know about.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: BILLBOARD -- The once ubiquitous Black Dog T-shirt of Martha's Vineyard now screams tourist. Old island hands have moved on.
 IF YOU CAN READ THIS -- Why make a tailgater guess? Bumper sticker shorthand advertises the driver's prestigious destination. (Photo by Lisa Adams)(pg. 6)Drawing (Drawing by Lisa Adams)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (60%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (50%) Travel and Vacations; Customs, Etiquette and Manners; Apparel

PERSON: Warren St John; Alexandra Wolfe

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



614 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: A Number That's Meant to Be Second-Guessed

BYLINE: By ANNA BERNASEK

 BODY:
IT'S an axiom of business that first impressions count. Opinions formed in the initial moments of a new encounter are notoriously hard to shake. But first impressions are often wrong. After all, can anyone really size up complex issues in just a glance?
 That can be a problem in understanding the economy, too. When the second-quarter growth figure for the gross domestic product was released on Friday, there was no shortage of economists drawing instant conclusions. But even the most experienced of them are not immune from making hasty judgments that turn out to be wrong. 
That's all the more common when preliminary numbers, like the G.D.P. figure released on Friday, are involved. It's worth remembering that Friday's figure -- 3.4 percent -- amounts to little more than a guess at what happened in the quarter. Revisions will be made for months, maybe years. So how much can we rely on this early number? 
 Recent history provides a clue. Remember the economy's so-called soft patch? That's a term that Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, used earlier this year to describe unexpected weakness in the economy. In March, the United States added a mere 110,000 nonfarm jobs, and orders for durable goods dropped for the second month in a row. So when the preliminary G.D.P. numbers released at the end of April were disappointing, soft patch became a favorite phrase for commentators describing the economy. 
 At that time, the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis reported that the economy grew in the first quarter at an annual rate of 3.1 percent, much lower than many economists had forecast. But two months later, the G.D.P. number was revised substantially higher. It was recalculated to be 3.8 percent, annualized, greater than the growth rate in the previous quarter and 22 percent higher than initially thought. 
 So the evidence that the economy was in a soft patch has pretty much disappeared. In fact, Mr. Greenspan made it clear in Congressional testimony this month that he no longer described the economy in those terms.
 It's hardly the first time that initial impressions of the economy have turned out to be wrong. Remember the 2001 recession? There's now a dispute about whether it even happened. Officially, the National Bureau of Economic Research, which dates the business cycle, still maintains that a recession occurred, but according to the classic definition of a recession -- two consecutive quarters of decline -- it never did. At the time, the data indicated three consecutive quarters of negative growth. But two years later, after painstaking revisions by the Bureau of Economic Analysis, the middle quarter turned out to be positive, so the economy contracted only in two nonconsecutive quarters of 2001. 
 Still, these revisions are minor compared with those that occur routinely elsewhere in the world. A 2000 study by three economists at the Federal Reserve Board, Jon Faust, John H. Rogers and Jonathan H. Wright, found that revisions for G.D.P. were smaller in the United States than they were in what was then the Group of Seven countries. 
 The problem isn't that the data is shifting; it's that it is often treated as solid fact. At best, the preliminary G.D.P. numbers are a helpful but incomplete aid to perceiving changes in the economy. As J. Steven Landefeld, the director of the Bureau of Economic Analysis, put it: ''Our job is to get the general snapshot of the economy about right. We want to tell you whether growth accelerated in a quarter. Or if the economy slows, to capture that.''
 Look again at that first-quarter revision, to 3.8 percent from 3.1 percent. If it seems a small difference, consider this: If sustained over a long period, the difference between 3.1 percent growth and 3.8 percent growth is roughly the difference between the economy of the Carter administration and that of the Clinton years. That's a big deal to investors, business executives and policymakers.
 ACCORDING to Mr. Landefeld, the size of the first-quarter revision was well within the normal range. In fact, it could have been larger and still been unexceptional. He maintains that, on average, the revision for quarterly G.D.P. is typically of the magnitude of one percentage point, up or down. In other words, if G.D.P. is first reported as 3.1 percent, it probably will turn out to be somewhere in the band from 2.1 percent to 4.1 percent. 
 The main reason for revisions is that much final data for a reliable G.D.P. report simply isn't available when the advance report is released. That means that the bureau makes hundreds of extrapolations to come up with the initial figure. Just how much of the figure released on Friday is fact and how much is a best guess? 
 Mr. Landefeld says that one-third of the 1,500 or so data points used to construct the quarterly advance number are estimates -- in essence, place holders -- that will have to do until the actual numbers come in, sometimes months or years later. 
 That explains a series of historical G.D.P. revisions also released on Friday. The average annual growth rate from 2001 to 2004 was revised down to 2.8 percent from 3.1 percent. Why? Data for investment in information technology during much of that time are now available. 
 There are other important reasons for revisions. The remaining two-thirds of the preliminary data, Mr. Landefeld said, are based on early monthly surveys and other numbers that can also be subject to large revisions. Then there are seasonal adjustments -- numbers massaged to account for fluctuations linked to the calendar's changes. These seasonal computations actually tend to transform data over the long term, as every passing year alters the typical factors used in the shift. And because the United States economy is continuously changing, previous ways of calculating the G.D.P. simply do not capture the structural changes taking place. One current quandary for the bureau involves just how to calculate investment in computer software, which has become a much bigger part of the economy in recent years.
 So you may want to take a closer look at those G.D.P. numbers for the second quarter. It may not be time to celebrate. At least not yet.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''It Adds Up to G.D.P.''The components and sources of the data for the gross domestic product.2004 Total $11.73 trillion70% -- Personal consumption $8expenditures.21 trillionGOODSMonthly retail sales survey
mixture of trade sources.SERVICESExtrapolation for housing and financial services
several sectors based on earnings and hours in Bureau of Labor Statistics data
various trade sources.19% -- Government consumption expenditures and gross $2investment.22 trillionFEDERALMilitary employment from the Defense Department, civilian employment from the B.L.S., retirement outlays from the Monthly Treasury Statement.STATE AND LOCALB.L.S. monthly employment data, Census monthly construction survey.16% -- Fixed $1investment.93 trillionNONRESIDENTIALCensus monthly surveys of construction and manufacturers' shipments, and reports on industry and exports and imports
company reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission
business software trade sources.RESIDENTIALCensus monthly construction survey
 extrapolations.CHANGE IN PRIVATE INVENTORIESCensus monthly surveys: manufacturers', wholesale and retail.5% -- Net $624exports billionGOODSCensus monthly export and import data.SERVICESBureau of Economic Analysis estimates of monthly international trade in services.(Source by Bureau of Economic Analysis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); STATISTICS (73%); DURABLE GOODS (71%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); TESTIMONY (66%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (60%) United States Economy; Gross Domestic Product

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%) Anna Bernasek

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



615 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2695 words

HEADLINE: Homes Taken, Lives Rebuilt

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: PORT CHESTER 

 BODY:
IN 1996, when Gregg Wasser, a developer from Long Island, first scouted the blighted waterfront along the Byram River here, the scene consisted of shabby wood frame homes, run-down commercial buildings and alleyways littered with crack vials. In his imagination, though, Mr. Wasser saw a bustling retail complex drawing throngs of shoppers from throughout Westchester County and southern Connecticut. 
 Three years later, Mr. Wasser's $100 million plan for the neighborhood began to take shape, and the first of several hundred people learned from the Village of Port Chester that they would have to relinquish their properties to make room for new development.
Among them were a retiree whose sole investments were in land that his father, an Italian immigrant, had bought 100 years before; a Peruvian restaurateur with a strong clientele of local South Americans; a businessman who stored his inventory in a warehouse on the waterfront; a real estate investor who owned two buildings and a vacant lot near the river; a baker, and an elderly couple who rented an apartment in a multifamily house. 
 The letters explained that the village was taking the properties by eminent domain for a complex that would include discount retailers, a multiplex movie theater, a park, restaurants and entertainment. 
 Today, the Waterfront at Port Chester, as Mr. Wasser's retail complex near the Long Island Sound is called, includes a Costco and a Marshalls department store; in the next few months, it will become home to a Super Stop&Shop, Michaels, Designer Shoe Warehouse, Bed Bath&Beyond and a Loews 14-screen multiplex cinema. The project was delayed twice by state and federal court stays granted to individuals opposed to the eminent domain proceedings.
 The term ''eminent domain,'' which has been in the forefront of the collective consciousness in Port Chester for the last decade, has become more familiar on the national stage this summer, with the Supreme Court decision on the case of Susette Kelo, et al. v. City of New London, et al, in which the justices ruled that local governments may condemn privately owned real property for uses that are primarily commercial, so long as such projects serve a demonstrated ''public use.'' 
 New York state law already specifies that blighted property may be taken for such commercial uses. New York is one of six states, including Connecticut, where state laws and court rulings broadly interpret the Constitution's phrase ''public use'' allowing governments to readily condemn private property for economic development. The other four states are Kansas, Maryland, North Dakota and Minnesota.
 The economic redevelopment of Port Chester's run-down waterfront is intended to help this long-struggling village of 28,000 people get back on track. Mayor Gerald L. Logan of Port Chester predicted the 300,000-square-foot retail development would generate $2.5 million in sales tax revenues for the Town of Rye, county and state, and create more than 800 jobs.
 ''It will put Port Chester on the map again,'' the mayor has said.
 But not everyone sees the project through the eyes of Mr. Wasser or the mayor.
 For a handful of small businesses, the proceedings have spelled disaster, said Michael Rikon, a New York City-based lawyer specializing in eminent domain.
 ''The village has sold its soul to the developer and completely disregarded its hard-working citizens,'' Mr. Rikon said. ''Those citizens are the salt of the earth. They are Port Chester's hardest-working residents.''
 Some who worked or lived along the waterfront have suffered. Others, though, said they profited after the eminent domain proceedings began. One property owner said he gladly took the money the village paid him -- which he considered to be a fair amount -- and moved on to better things.

A Good Experience
 Feinsod's Hardware on Main Street has been part of the local landscape since 1947, when Samuel Feinsod first opened for business. As a boy, Mr. Feinsod's son, Jay, oiled the store's hardwood floors and otherwise learned how to run a business. Seventeen years later, the younger man bought the store from his father, eventually changing its name to Feinsod True Value Hardware.
 In the last three decades, Jay Feinsod has expanded the business to include two other hardware stores and Smith Party Rentals, which included an 8,000-square-foot warehouse on the waterfront, where the Super Stop&Shop is opening.
 When Jay Feinsod was informed of the village's plans to take the warehouse by eminent domain, he decided to meet personally with Mr. Wasser, a principal with G&S Developers of Bethpage, to forge an agreement.
 ''Right from the start, we had a good relationship,'' Mr. Feinsod said.
 He would not divulge details of the agreement, except to say that there was a $70,000 disparity between what he and the developer thought was a reasonable price for the warehouse. 
 ''Eventually we agreed to split the difference, and we both walked away happy with a handshake agreement,'' he said. 
 A week later, Mr. Feinsod received the check. Sixty days later, he vacated the warehouse and moved to another that was twice the size. He has since sold Smith Party Rentals, but not for reasons related to the eminent domain proceedings, he said.
 ''All in all, it was a good experience for me,'' he said, ''although I hear horror stories out there.''

A New Bakery, an Uncertain Move
 With another two years remaining on his lease, Robinson Plasencia at first balked at having to leave the bakery storefront he rented near the waterfront. But in the end, he had little choice.
 After two years of legal wrangling, and lawyer's bills of $50,000, Mr. Plasencia said he decided to concede defeat and accept the village's offer of $160,000 to cover his moving expenses. Netting $110,000, he said, was better than having nothing at all.
 He said he was given two weeks to leave; for each day that he remained after the deadline, he would be heavily fined. So he scrambled to find a new home for his business, Nino International Bakery, and begin the laborious task of taking apart and reassembling the huge oven that he fires up each morning to bake his pastries and breads.
 But Mr. Plasencia, 57, is used to picking up and moving on under duress. He fled to this country from Peru almost two decades ago when vandals destroyed his family's business there. He moved first to Queens, and then to Port Chester, which has been home to waves of different immigrant groups over the years.
 Still, he regrets moving in haste. Business was brisk in his location near the main business area of town, but at 73 Poningo Street, a small retail and residential area, there are fewer walk-in customers. Parking on the mostly residential street is limited. ''Sometimes I think that the only reason people come to this neighborhood is to buy drugs,'' Mr. Plasencia said one Saturday morning, pointing to a street corner where a man had collapsed recently from a drug overdose. ''How can anyone run a business here?''
 But for now, Mr. Plasencia said that rather than moving again, he would stay put and work to build up a wholesale bakery business that is not dependent on its location.

Downscaling Retirement Hopes
 Eighty years ago, Lou DiLeo, one of eight children of Italian immigrant parents, was baptized in Our Lady of the Rosary Church, which has ministered to successive generations of immigrants in the village since it was founded a century ago. The DiLeo family was part of an Italian community that drew its living from the factories along the river. Other immigrants were Polish and Irish.
 Mr. DiLeo returned to Port Chester after service in the Pacific for the United States Air Force, and he inherited property that his father, Michael, had acquired as a stake in the new country. Over the years, he has managed the land and buildings, leasing it to a number of different enterprises, and the earnings have constituted a main portion of his livelihood. The land was also his investment for retirement.
 When Mr. DiLeo was told that the property was to be taken, his first reaction was to hire a lawyer and fight back.
 ''Then the developer stopped came by, and we went to dinner a few times,'' Mr. DiLeo recalled. ''He was friendly enough, but I realized I wasn't going to be able to fight city hall. I decided the best thing was to take what I could get, even though it was less than I hoped for.''
 Mr. DiLeo, who works as a volunteer bartender for the American Legion Post 93 in Port Chester, would not say how much he settled for -- only that ''I guess it will be enough to get by on, although I won't have anything to pass on to my children.''
 ''It's a shame that you work hard and pay your taxes and not give anybody any trouble, and then they come and take your property for private development,'' he said. ''It's one thing if the land is going to be used for a public good, but it's another thing when it's for the gain of private developer.''
 ''Think about it,'' he added. ''Property is in your family for 100 years, and then all of a sudden it isn't. That's not fair.''

'Bueno y Malo'
 At El Chalon, a seafood restaurant on Midland Avenue, Aurora Gonzalez, 57, has just returned from buying wholesale vegetables and meat for the weekend's customers. Fatigued, she sits down at one of the tables, which are laid out with red and white plaid tablecloths, and talks about life since moving out of her busy former restaurant location.
 ''When I received the letter from the village telling me I would have to move, I was very frightened,'' Ms. Gonzalez, a Peruvian immigrant who moved to the United States in 1981, said in a mix of English and Spanish. ''I had a lot of regular customers in the old location, which I owned, and it had two rental apartments.''
 Ms. Gonzalez received $180,000 for her building and was given six months to make alternative arrangements. But she and her lawyer, Mr. Rikon, are still haggling with the developer and the village over the amount she is to be paid for moving costs.
 ''The move has been bad and good,'' she said. ''Not all of my customers followed me when I moved, so business is slower.'' Her restaurant is in a commercial and retail neighborhood with a number of storefronts along a main road.
 ''But the good thing is that now I have a liquor license and a bar,'' she said. ''So that is better. It's bueno y malo.'' 

Still Fighting Back
 Bart Didden, the owner since 1982 of U.S.A. Central Station, an alarm and monitoring business in Port Chester, was one of the owners of two buildings and a 17,000-square-foot vacant lot near the waterfront that have been taken by the village.
 Angry and affluent enough to fight back, Mr. Didden, and Domenick Bologna, a real estate partner, are pursuing two legal actions related to the eminent domain proceedings. One is a claim filed in New York State Supreme Court challenging the takings and seeking just compensation for the property. 
 Mr. Didden and Mr. Bologna contend that the village's offer of $250,000 for the lot and buildings is far too low. Mr. Didden and Mr. Bologna are also appealing a ruling handed down in Federal Court for the Southern District of New York, in White Plains, by Judge Colleen McMahon. 
 They sued the Village of Port Chester, members of its Board of Trustees, G&S Developers and Mr. Wasser for violating their civil rights and trying to extort money from them. Judge McMahon dismissed the case as without merit. Mr. Wasser last week called the claims of extortion outrageous. He said the two parties were simply trying to reach an equitable agreement. 
 The appeal of Judge McMahon's ruling was heard in the spring by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan. A decision is expected shortly. Meanwhile, Mr. Didden has vowed to fight on. He accused the village of allowing the developer to call all the shots.

Too Many Moves
 Bertufo and Manuela Mercado, who met and married in Guayaquil, Ecuador, were factory workers for 40 years on the block where the Marshalls recently opened, and they lived in a rented apartment where Costco now stands. They were among the first waterfront residents to be relocated by the village three and a half years ago.
 Many in that initial group of residents have since moved out of the village, said Cesar Ruiz, 38, the owner of a coffee truck and catering service who was hired by the village to help with the relocation effort. Some renters, though, have used the settlement money as part of a down payment on a house, he said.
 The Mercados -- he is 80 and she is 69 -- used the relocation money to move to a one-bedroom rental unit in a senior housing development, where up until recently they were entitled to Section 8 government subsidies, known as Mitchell Lama. Now, however, many of those housing arrangements are expiring, and the landlord of the unit that the Mercados have rented for the last three years will no longer accept government vouchers, Mr. Ruiz said.
 Again they are packing their belongings, this time to move to below-market-rate rental housing elsewhere in Port Chester. ''We're old and worried, and very tired of moving,'' Mr. Mercado said.

For Whose Benefit? Ruling Sets Off a Debate
 THE United States Supreme Court ruling in June that expanded local governments' power to take private property has set off a storm of debate on the merits of the decision. In its 5-4 ruling, the court said a municipality can take property for shopping malls or other private development if the development would benefit the locality economically. 
 Furious with the ruling, and worried about the rights of private property owners, state Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky of Greenburgh has proposed a bill to change New York's eminent domain law.
 Mr. Brodsky contends that local economic development agencies that have seized property have done more for private companies than for the public good. Under the assemblyman's proposal, the time that property owners have to appeal condemnation decisions would be increased to 90 days from 30 days. Displaced residents would be paid at least 150 percent of the market value of their homes. The measure would also require that eminent domain be used for economic development purposes only to forward a comprehensive plan developed in public meetings and approved by local legislators.
 ''When you're taking someone's private property and transferring it to another private owner, we need to be extremely careful and protective,'' Mr. Brodsky said earlier this month when announcing his proposal.
 Michael Rikon, a New York City lawyer specializing in eminent domain, who is representing some people affected by the eminent domain proceedings in Port Chester, called Mr. Brodsky's proposal ''fantastic.''
 ''There should be an effort made to reform the statutes and make sure people receive just compensation,'' Mr. Rikon said. 
 But Liane Watkins, an associate in the law office of John E. Watkins Jr. and a special counsel to the Village of Port Chester in its recent eminent domain proceedings, challenged Mr. Brodsky's proposal to increase the amount paid to property owners. She said the costs would be borne by the taxpayers.
 Also, two county legislators, James Maisano of New Rochelle and Thomas J. Abinanti of Greenburgh, are drafting a bill to keep the county from contributing taxpayers' money to any development project in which eminent domain is used to condemn private property for the benefit of big-business interests. The legislation also would prevent the county from exercising its power to seize property except for public works like roads, bridges or sewage-treatment plants. Mr. Maisano has said that eminent domain is equivalent to government-sponsored theft when it involves seizing citizens' property and transferring it to developers.
 In Westchester, two new possible eminent domain cases are brewing. The Millwood Fire District wants to build a new firehouse, which could involve the taking of property. And in New Rochelle, Louis Cappelli may ask the city to institute eminent domain proceedings for a new development project, but no official steps have been taken yet.
 ELSA BRENNER


GRAPHIC: Photos: Now on Port Chester's waterfront: Ebb Tide restaurant. Cesar Ruiz, above left, at the Stop&Shop site. Aurora Gonzalez, and Jay Feinsod have different reactions to the move. (Photographs by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Bertufo and Manuela Mercado, top, at their current home, lived in an apartment where Costco now stands. Bart Didden, top right, is pursuing legal action over property taken by eminent domain. Robinson Plasencia, above, at the building near the waterfront that was taken by eminent domain. Now, he has relocated but has fewer customers. (Photographs by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)
 (Photo by George M. Gutierrez)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY LAW (89%); EMINENT DOMAIN (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); MAYORS (75%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); SALES TAX (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); MOVIE THEATERS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); APPEALS (62%) Retail Stores and Trade; Eminent Domain; Motion Pictures; Theaters (Buildings); Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: BED BATH & BEYOND INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Costco; Marshalls Inc

TICKER: BBBY (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (54%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (54%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%)

PERSON: Elsa Brenner; Gregg Wasser; Jay Feinsod; Robinson Plascencia; Lou Dileo; Aurora Gonzalez; Bart Didden; Domenick Bologna; Manuela Mercado; Bertufo Mercado

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%) Port Chester (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



616 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Bohemian Rhapsody

BYLINE: By Richard Florida and Elizabeth Currid. 
Richard Florida, a public policy professor at George Mason University, is the author of ''The Flight of the Creative Class: The New Global Competition for Talent.'' Elizabeth Currid is a doctoral student in urban planning at Columbia University.

 BODY:
NEW YORKERS already know that their city is a global center for everything from finance and business to arts and culture. But even the most self-assured resident would likely be astounded by the extraordinary magnitude of the greater New York regional economy.
 The metropolitan area alone is the 16th-largest economy in the world; its annual economic output of nearly $500 billion puts it ahead of Russia and nearly on par with Brazil. The region as a whole -- including Nassau and Suffolk Counties, Westchester and parts of New Jersey and Connecticut -- has an output of nearly $900 billion annually, making it the seventh-largest economy in the world, behind China and bigger than Canada or India. 
For the better part of the last century, New York has been the location of choice for the talented, innovative and entrepreneurial members of what we call a global ''creative class'' -- those who use their minds and creativity in their daily working lives. With almost three million creative-sector employees, about a third of its work force, the metropolitan region boasts the greatest number of creative-class workers in the world. 
 New York City's economy is increasingly powered by these creative industries. Today, it has an even greater competitive advantage in fields like fashion design, art and music than it does in financial services and banking. The city's economy is 16 times more concentrated in fashion designers, five times more concentrated in fine artists and four to six times more concentrated in musical occupations, film and video editors and producers and directors compared with all other United States metropolitan economies as a whole. Without a healthy New York City, the suburbs of Westchester and Long Island might well falter too. 
 But recent trends indicate that New York's position at the forefront of the creative economy may face considerable challenge. For starters, foreign cities are stepping up their competition for talented and creative people. Cities like London, Shanghai, Sydney and Vancouver, British Columbia, are increasing their arts and cultural spending, research and development activities and university investments. These places are generating the economic opportunities and creating the quality of life needed to attract members of the creative class. Famous as New York may be for its arts and culture, it ranks 11th in the world, behind Amsterdam, London and Vancouver, British Columbia, on our global Bohemian Index, which measures the proportion of artistically creative people, like working musicians, dancers, writers and designers in a city. 
 New York is also hampered by a series of misguided national policies. The region has always been a beacon for talented and creative immigrants, attracting scientists, intellectuals, artists and musicians from around the world. But today, tough visa requirements and an increasingly anti-immigration culture are stifling the flow of foreign talent. Columbia University, for example, saw an almost 12 percent decline in international engineering students and a nearly 18 percent decline in international medical students from 2003 to 2004. 
 The metropolitan region has long benefited from powerful urban economies -- the dense clusters of talent and economic activity that attract people and bring them into close proximity, which in turn leads to innovation, entrepreneurship and productivity gains. Creative people want -- and need -- to be around other creative people, and that's something the density of New York has long been able to provide. But this clustering has been weakened by the lack of affordable housing in Manhattan and parts of Brooklyn, fueling emigration by creative people. Some of these people are moving within the region to the outer boroughs, New Jersey, Long Island and Westchester. But many are moving out altogether, attracted by burgeoning creative climates and less expensive housing.
 The New York region, which has long paid more in taxes than it receives in federal spending, stands to lose a great deal as the Bush administration slashes the existing meager support for urban programs like work-force development, low-income housing, community development grants and support for arts and culture. These and other federal cutbacks hurt New York's ability to generate affordable housing, upgrade its subway and support its arts and creative environment, putting further pressure on the city and region. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg does little to help things, having spent considerable energy and political capital on big-ticket items like the failed West Side stadium plan and efforts to attract the 2012 Olympics. The city would be far better served with smaller scale neighborhood and community-level efforts to ensure affordable housing and work space for artists, immigrants and entrepreneurs, to upgrade the city's open space in combination with more public art, to improve transportation and to undertake the many small improvements needed to bolster the creative climate in the city and region. 
 To remain a stronghold in the global creative economy, New York must strive to rejuvenate the creative dynamism that has always been at the heart of its artistic, cultural and economic success. It must develop a dynamic regional approach to strengthening the entire metropolitan area and the city core; encourage a tolerant and open environment for immigrants; continue to attract private and public investments in science, technology and creativity broadly; and encourage state and federal interests to do the same. 
 By strengthening the practices that have brought it fortune and growth, New York will continue to be a truly great center of the global creative economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); IMMIGRATION (88%); MUSIC (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); CITIES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); FOREIGN LABOR (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); FASHION & APPAREL (70%); FASHION DESIGN (70%); ENGINEERING (70%); TRENDS (69%); FASHION DESIGNERS (68%); DANCERS (64%); WRITERS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); REFUGEES (60%) Immigration and Refugees; Travel Restrictions; Foreign Labor; Labor; Culture

ORGANIZATION: Currid, Elizabeth

PERSON: Richard (Prof) Florida

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); EAST CHINA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (71%) UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (92%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



617 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; STUDENT LIFE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: Passport Not Required

BYLINE: By Mary C. Bounds. 
Mary C. Bounds is a freelance writer in Chappaqua, N.Y.

 BODY:
IN a way, Catie Powell has come full circle to a place she never fully knew. 
 Ms. Powell grew up in a predominantly white neighborhood in Atlanta and graduated from an elite private high school there three years ago. It was at Scripps College in Claremont, Calif., after racial tensions developed on campus, that Ms. Powell became deeply involved in diversity issues. ''I wanted to define my own education and re-examine the deep-seated racial issues in my own city,'' says Ms. Powell, who is white, explaining how she came to spend last semester at a historically black women's college, Spelman, back in Atlanta. 
 Ms. Powell used an increasingly popular option for college students: spending a semester or two at another college in the United States. ''To feel like I was a truly educated person, I wanted to have a diverse educational experience,'' says Ms. Powell, who has also studied in India, Tibet and Nepal. ''To really understand the United States,'' she adds, ''I had to understand the dynamics of what is going on here.'' 
 At Spelman, Ms. Powell, a religious studies major, took a class on how black women are depicted in the movies, a religious studies course that deals with black women's spirituality and Spelman's well-known ''African Diaspora and the World'' course. But her journey wasn't just about race. It was also about leaving the familiar.
 Spelman's student body cuts across generational and economic lines. It draws students from throughout the world, including Africa and the Caribbean, and Ms. Powell's friends included an international studies student from Ghana and a mother from New York City. Meanwhile, she got a break from the West Coast suburban setting of Scripps. ''It's about understanding myself in a new place and how I can grow and positively exist in a community,'' Ms. Powell says.
 Spelman, which exchanges students with 28 other institutions in the United States, is among a growing number of colleges that offer domestic study opportunities. For instance, if you design a specific course of study and go through Harvard's stringent admissions process, you might be among 30 to 40 non-Harvard students picked to spend up to a year there. Dartmouth's students have access to a large state university like the University of California, San Diego, and through a second program that Dartmouth participates in, 11 other liberal arts colleges in the Northeast. Or if your college is a member of the National Student Exchange, a consortium of 177 colleges and universities, you can leave the chilly University of Maine behind, head for the University of Hawaii, Manoa, and pay less tuition than you would in Maine.
 ''The country is so diverse,'' says Bette Worley, president of the consortium, ''and students can have a variety of academic, cultural and personal experiences right here in their home country.''
 Since 1968, when administrators at three colleges swapped seven students, more than 80,000 students have participated in the National Student Exchange, the nation's largest organization of its kind. Yearly enrollment has doubled in the last 15 years, with 4,443 students participating in the 2003-4 school year. Other exchange programs are starting all the time. Some colleges like them because they fill spots left empty by record numbers of students studying abroad. But domestic off-campus study is more popular at some places than others. At Amherst, where more than a third of the junior class studies overseas, interest in domestic programs has waned in recent years.
 ''The greater awareness of and emphasis on internationalism and globalization within higher education, coupled with the greater availability of study abroad programs, has made domestic exchange a relatively less appealing prospect,'' says Frances E. Tuleja, Amherst's associate dean of students.
 The same is true at Harvard, where a committee studying the undergraduate curriculum last year encouraged students to study abroad. ''Students say that this is such an absorbing life, both intellectually and socially,'' says Jane Edwards, director of Harvard's international programs office. ''They sometimes ask, 'How could I give up one of my semesters here?' If students are going to make that trade-off, then they are more likely to choose to spend that time abroad.'' 
 So why would anyone want to leave his campus to study elsewhere in the United States?
 Sometimes students, or more often their parents, are uneasy about traveling abroad or fear there might be language problems. The decision might be financially driven, especially with the weak dollar and costly travel expenses. Or students might be chasing an appealing academic opportunity. Fashion design and technology majors at Buffalo State College can study the textile industry at North Carolina State University, or a marine biology student at the University of Rhode Island can experience the Pacific Ocean at the Hatfield Marine Science Center of Oregon State University. 
 Sometimes students hope one day to work in the exchange city or to do graduate study at the exchange campus (the programs discourage students from transferring to the host college). 
 Juliana Montgomery, a student at Spelman, wanted to ''see what New York City really feels like -- New York is definitely one place that I'll be looking at for graduate studies.'' Ms. Montgomery, an independent studies major with an emphasis on film, studied film from an American perspective at Barnard last semester after studying in Prague in the fall. Along the way, she spent afternoons at the Museum of Modern Art and got to know Greenwich Village.
 Craig Libman, a junior at Vassar, in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., spent his spring semester at Amherst -- only about 100 miles away -- simply for fresh surroundings. ''If you're at a big school with 40,000 students and you need a change of pace, it's pretty easy to find a new world there,'' he says. ''I love Vassar so much, but at a small school, after a while it can become too routine, and you need to shake it up a bit.'' The adjustment has been easy, Mr. Libman says, partly because he made friends the first week at two dinners that Amherst organized for exchange and transfer students. ''Amherst is very different from Vassar,'' he says. ''It has a different social culture.''
 Even though many colleges have coordinators to help, domestic off-campus study can be lonely for some students. Study-abroad participants are usually surrounded by other students looking for new friends. They know they have to fit into another culture. An American student at an American campus can go unnoticed. 
 ''At a bigger school it probably would be more difficult unless someone had a specific niche,'' Mr. Libman says.
 For Elizabeth Burr, a Buffalo State College elementary-education major who spent a semester at the University of Texas at San Antonio, the experience was so rewarding that she is thinking about going back there to teach after graduate school.
 Before Ms. Burr went to Texas two years ago, she had been away from home only a few times, and while in Texas she experienced a culture far different from Buffalo's. She took part in Fiesta San Antonio, a 10-day extravaganza that celebrates the city's history and culture; she sampled authentic Southwestern food; she line danced at the strawberry festival in tiny Poteet. 
 ''It boosted my self-confidence,'' she said after returning from a visit there to see friends. ''I learned how to go to a place where no one knew me and have people like me for who I am.'' 

Trading Places
 Are you an East Coast college student who wants to spend a semester out West, 
 or a student in the rural heartland who yearns to try a big city? Many campuses now sponsor 
 domestic exchange programs. Here's how they typically work.WHO GOESMostly juniors, though some domestic exchange programs accept sophomores and seniors.
 CREDITS -- Coursework usually transfers back to the home school for full credit. Before signing up, work with an academic adviser to determine which courses will fit into your degree program. Many exchange programs require students to get a written agreement.
 COSTS -- Students usually pay their travel expenses and room and board to the host campus. And because tuition at private universities is higher than at public ones, more often than not domestic exchange students at private colleges go to other private colleges, and students enrolled in public universities go to other public universities. Participants in the mostly public National Student Exchange pay tuition either at their home campus or the host campus at state residency rates. Students usually get to choose where to pay tuition. (The exchange's Web site, www.nse.org, provides details about programs and majors offered by the 177 colleges and universities that participate.)
 FINANCIAL AID -- Federal aid tends to travel with the student, but policies concerning other loans and scholarships vary. Check with your financial aid office to see if you can use them at another college. MARY C. BOUNDS


GRAPHIC: Photo: IN ANOTHER PLACE -- Catie Powell, far left, a student at Scripps College in California, spent last semester at Spelman College in Atlanta as part of an exchange program. She made friends with fellow students like Sarah Thompson, center, and Qrescent Mason. (Photo by Tami Chappell for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (77%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (77%); SUBURBS (73%); TUITION FEES (72%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (71%); RELIGION (71%) Colleges and Universities

PERSON: Mary C Bounds

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MAINE, USA (90%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); TIBET (79%); GHANA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (68%); CHINA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



618 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; TEACHING THE TEACHERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 5331 words

HEADLINE: Who Needs Education Schools?

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS. 
Anemona Hartocollis is a Times reporter and the author of ''Seven Days of Possibilities: One Teacher, 24 Kids and the Music That Changed Their Lives Forever.'' The teachers' stories on these pages were told to Cecilia Capuzzi Simon.

 BODY:
THE whistle-stop town of Emporia, Kan. (population 27,000), has two claims to fame: William Allen White, the Pulitzer Prize-winning newspaper editor and confidant of Theodore Roosevelt, and turning out teachers. 
 Emporia State University was established as a ''normal'' school -- dedicated solely to the training of teachers -- in 1863, two years after Kansas became a state. The esteem in which teaching is held there can be seen in the one-room schoolhouse maintained as a kind of shrine at the edge of campus. The National Teachers Hall of Fame is in Emporia, and tourists come to see the dollhouse models of classrooms from the early 17th century onward and to read the plaques of inductees -- 70, so far.
 ''Teacher education on this campus is one of the more rigorous majors,'' says Teresa Mehring, dean of the teachers' college, pulling out the ACT scores of entering students to prove a point that most education deans would be hard-pressed to make and defend. 
 A visit to classes suggests that raw material is not the only difference. The Emporia State curriculum is heavy on traditional courses like ''Using Children's Literature in the Elementary Classroom'' and ''Reading for the Elementary Teacher.'' The college's plain-spoken mission statement: ''To develop the professional: critical thinker, creative planner and effective practitioner.'' 
 If Emporia State is a throwback to an earlier time, when preparing teachers for the classroom was a high calling, it is also a reminder of how many teachers' colleges have strayed from the central mission of the normal school. For decades, education schools have gravitated from the practical side of teaching, seduced by large ideas like ''building a caring learning community and culture'' and ''advocating for social justice,'' to borrow from the literature of the Hunter College School of Education, part of the City University of New York. With the ambition of producing educators rather than technicians, in the words of Hunter's acting dean, Shirley Cohen, schools have embraced a theoretical approach. But critics say that ill prepares teachers to function effectively in the classroom. 
 Attrition statistics tell the dismal story: 14 percent of teachers leave the classroom in the first year, nearly half by the fifth year.
 Today, education schools face pressure to improve from all directions. A flurry of new studies challenges their ideological bias and low admissions standards. Critics now question their very existence, with competition from fast-track routes to certification threatening their long-held monopoly on training teachers. The soul-searching has accelerated with the federal No Child Left Behind Act, which demands a ''highly qualified'' teacher -- state certified, with a bachelor's degree and proven knowledge of subject -- in every classroom by the end of this coming school year. 
 In fact, No Child Left Behind, with its emphasis on standards and hard data, has placed national policy in direct conflict with the prevailing approach of many colleges, where the John Dewey tradition of progressive education holds sway, marked by a deep antipathy toward testing.
 Some analysts are now calling for teachers' colleges to follow the Emporia State model -- ''to give them a lot of practical experience so they're not shocked when they come into the classroom,'' says Diane Ravitch, the education historian, who is working on a book entitled ''Forgotten Heroes of American Education: The Great Tradition of Teaching Teachers.'' She adds: ''There is a disconnect of professors of education just not being capable of equipping future teachers with the practicalities to be successful. And if teachers are not successful, they will not be retained; they will either move to a different district that is not as difficult or leave teaching altogether.'' The idea of ''preparing excellent teachers who are excellent in their subject,'' she says, has been overtaken by other concerns -- ''professors wanting to be respected in the university, and teachers' colleges wanting to become places where research is done and to be agents of transformational change.''
 ''At the end of the day, what would principals and parents value most?''
 Just what do education schools teach? in a report published last year that put many educators on the defensive, researchers found that top education schools were not equipping their students to deal with the standards movement -- nor giving them an understanding, going back to classical sources like Plato and Aristotle, of what constitutes an educated person.
 David M. Steiner, co-author of the report, is director of arts education at the National Endowment for the Arts and on leave as department chairman in educational administration, training and policy studies at Boston University. With his associate Susan D. Rozen, he reviewed the curriculums of 16 teachers' colleges, 14 of them among the nation's best, as ranked by U.S. News & World Report. 
 Since there is little data on which educational approach translates into effective teaching, they looked for a balance in material. Instead, they found little effort to present opposing schools of thought. The general posture of education schools, they concluded, was countercultural, instilling mistrust of the system that teachers work in. Among the texts most often assigned were Jonathan Kozol's ''Savage Inequalities,'' an indictment of schooling in poor urban neighborhoods, and writings by Paulo Freire, who advocates education to achieve political liberation. Theories of how children learn, like the multiple learning styles advocated by Howard Gardner of Harvard, were more likely to be taught than what children should learn, like the Core Knowledge curriculum advanced by E.D. Hirsch, a professor emeritus at the University of Virginia.
 Finally, Dr. Steiner wrote, prospective teachers were not being taught methods that would help their students do well on standardized tests. Most texts used to teach reading had been written by proponents of whole language methods, and there was only fleeting exposure to the kinds of scripted, phonics-based curriculums, like Open Court, that are increasingly being adopted in the nation's schools.
 ''There is a vision here,'' Dr. Steiner said in an interview, ''and it's all just one vision. It is a synthesis of what we call the progressivist vision and the constructivist vision'' -- that is, the theory that it is better for children to construct knowledge than to receive it. But, he added, ''The counterview has an equal and much longer tradition -- the responsibility to engage the student, but to engage the student as the authority.'' To suggestions that his report was in itself ideological, and conservative, Dr. Steiner says he's actually an old-fashioned liberal. 
 On Aug. 15, Dr. Steiner will step directly into the fray, as new dean of education at Hunter College. At Hunter, he says, he hopes to prepare teachers who ''are scholars of their craft,'' both proficient in methods and curriculum and able to think in a sophisticated way.
 Given all the sound and fury, there is surprisingly little disagreement there. 
 ''One of the biggest dangers we face is preparing teachers who know theory and know nothing about practice,'' acknowledges Arthur Levine, president of Teachers College at Columbia, one of the leading avatars of progressive education. Historians note that Dewey himself had such concerns in the 1920's. But, Dr. Levine says, that is not what happens at strong -- and philosophically diverse -- education schools like Stanford, the University of Virginia, Alverno College in Milwaukee and Emporia State. 
 ''They have a clarity of mission,'' says Dr. Levine, who is conducting a two-year study on the quality of education schools that will be published in November. ''They know what they're trying to do. Their definition of success is tied to student learning in classes taught by those teachers.''
 It used to be that if you wanted to become a teacher, you went to an education school. Now a growing movement holds that these schools have become irrelevant, especially in urban areas.
 Alternative programs to certification are now offered in 47 states and the District of Columbia. Organizations like Teach for America, a Peace Corps model that puts new college graduates in troubled schools for two-year stints, and the New York City Teaching Fellows, which promotes teaching as a second career, are taking it upon themselves to train teachers. Recruits with no experience are given a quick and dirty version of education school -- a few weeks of classroom management, learning theory, literacy (the teaching of reading and writing), diversity training -- then placed in the classroom, with coaching from mentors. People who enter through such routes are not exempt from state requirements, like a master's degree in education in New York; the advantage is they can teach and study for the degree at the same time. 
 Commercial organizations are also getting into the act. Harold O. Levy, the former New York City schools chancellor who helped found the Teaching Fellows, has developed an online teaching college for Kaplan Inc., the test-prep company. Similarly, David Levin, co-founder and superintendent of the KIPP schools, a network of 38 charter schools from Houston to the South Bronx, is working on a teacher-training program meant to produce the kind of teachers he needs in his schools.
 ''That would be our dream, to credential our own teachers,'' says Mr. Levin, who adds that he has found ''a sizable gap between what people are learning in schools of education and what they need in public schools.'' Where education schools fall short, he argues, is in conveying the skills you might learn in business school: how to manage time, how to build motivation and evaluation into every lesson. ''You need whatever the theory is, and you need to put it into practice,'' he says. ''There needs to be immediate feedback on that practice.''
 There is consensus that apprenticeship along the lines of medical school -- students learn the science of medicine in the classroom, then practice it in a hospital, supervised by faculty doctors -- is a better model than traditional student teaching, which is often done for a semester or less and is loosely supervised, if at all, by university faculty. 
 At Emporia State, undergraduates spend their entire senior year in surrounding school districts, including Olathe, Topeka and Kansas City. They are assigned to observe or teach classes during regular school hours. They take college classes after hours in the districts they are assigned to, not on campus. By the second semester, they are expected to function as head teachers. Supervising professors know the curriculum of those districts as well as any district employee. ''I know Olathe's program inside out,'' says Tara Azwell, a professor who until recently supervised students there. ''I could step into any classroom and teach it.''
 Ms. Azwell says medical training is a good analogy for what Emporia State interns go through. ''They get no sleep,'' she says. ''They're working 24 hours a day. There are those who have no money because they can't work a job, so they're not eating. They're in a classroom 8 to 4 every day. They really think they're going to die.''
 Education schools are expected to do some things ''that it's absurd to expect them to do,'' says Dr. Levine. One is to send teachers into the world ''as a fully formed product,'' as if they needed no further mentoring, he says, and another is ''to change the population of people applying to become teachers.'' 
 The most prestigious programs -- Bank Street College of Education, Columbia, Harvard -- attract the best students, but most teachers do not come from these.
 For at least a decade, students who intend to major in education have had among the lowest SAT scores of all college-bound seniors -- in 2004, they ranked 19th of 22 intended majors, two points in combined verbal and math scores below those who planned to major in agriculture. Even ''undecided'' ranked higher. And according to the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, those who leave the profession during their first few years have higher scores than those who stay. An institute report also shows that the weaker the undergraduate college, the more likely its students will end up teaching as a career.
 Over the last six years, prodded by federal requirements to publish test results, teachers' colleges have begun screening students before or soon after admission for the ability to pass state certification exams. These exams are notoriously easy, says Kati Haycock, director of the Education Trust, a policy institute; as a result, many education schools now have passing rates near 100 percent. But those rates say little about the quality of their programs. Hunter, for instance, has a 98 percent passing rate on the state's required Liberal Arts and Sciences Test, but students must register for the test their first semester and are not allowed to continue if they fail it.
 The City University of New York, which produces a third of the city's teachers, hopes to attract a higher caliber of student by starting a Teacher Academy modeled after its successful Honors College, which uses free tuition and other perks to try to lure students who might go to Ivy League universities. The academy will open in fall 2006 with 300 freshmen majoring in mathematics and science, subjects that are short of teachers. Students will take education courses and spend 1,000 hours over four years -- as opposed to the usual 250 or less -- in public school classrooms learning methods, observing and teaching.
 The academy is an experiment in ''reforming'' the education of teachers at CUNY, says Selma Botman, executive vice chancellor for academic affairs. ''What we thought about is why teachers are leaving teaching, why the retention rate is not as strong as we would like it, and given the fact that CUNY educates so many teachers, how can we educate and train teachers so they stay in teaching?''
 Among the historically intractable problems in retaining teachers are low status and low pay, says Anthony Carnevale, a senior fellow at the National Center on Education and the Economy. Because the public sector will never pay as much as the private, he says, and because unions have resisted extra pay for high-demand skills like math teaching, the gap in ability between teachers and other white-collar professionals will become bigger, not smaller.
 In Mr. Carnevale's bleak picture, learning will no longer be an act of discovery but a process of drilling in predetermined principles of success. Teachers will become part of a docile force of assembly-line workers, trained to execute someone else's plans, with little room for serendipity. Some teachers complain that this is already happening in urban systems, including New York's.
 In this model, education schools will have to compensate for a meager talent pool by idiot-proofing teacher training. ''You tie their teaching methods to standards so that in a very aggressive way they learn to teach to the results of those tests, like a soldier,'' Mr. Carnevale says. ''The voluntary military didn't always get the best of human capital. But what you did was make the training so rigorous it didn't matter.''
 To Mr. Carnevale, Emporia State is an aberration. People choose to teach in states like Kansas, Maine or North Dakota because they have fewer economic opportunities than do people who live in New York or Chicago, he says. ''You've got an economic development problem in Kansas,'' he says, ''so you have these vestiges of talent in states that have no jobs for college graduates.'' This recalls an earlier era in the profession, when talented women and minorities became teachers because they had few other options.
 Emporia State officials confirm the demographic forces. Most students, says Dean Mehring, are women who are the first generation in their families to get a college education. Most come from small agricultural towns in western Kansas, where job opportunities are limited. They are women like Jan Alexander, who grew up in Ulysses. Her brother, Brian, lives in Ulysses and works at County Feeders, which boasts that it is the biggest feedlot in the world. Ms. Alexander, a top student at Emporia State, has been to New York several times and dreams of moving there to teach some day. If she does leave Kansas, she will be the exception. About 80 percent of students remain close to home. 
 Emporia State classes strive to balance the theoretical with the practical. Professors not only talk about the theories behind reading, writing and literature, but also demonstrate in painstaking detail how to teach specific lessons. 
 In an introductory reading class last spring, Professor Azwell urged her students to listen to the language of children's literature. Her enthusiasm for the books she had selected, and was passing out to her students, was contagious. Of ''The Ghost-Eye Tree,'' she said, ''It's a great scary story for little kids.'' Of ''Flossie and the Fox,'' she said, ''I love this one because it uses wonderful dialect. One character speaks Southern dialect, and the other one speaks very literary language, so the contrast is great.''
 She tells her students what a professor once told her: that a teacher should know at least 300 children's books intimately and be able to pick the right book for the right child at the right moment.
 Ms. Azwell says she believes in whole language, the system of teaching children to read by exposure to literature, but she does not reject phonics. The politics of teaching reading, she says, has turned whole language into a caricature of how she learned to teach reading. ''To me, phonics was never not part of whole language,'' she said. ''I was taught all the language cuing systems: graphophonics, sound-symbol relationships; semantic, the meaning system; syntactic, the language structure system. So phonics is an integral part of that.'' 
 How do Kansas schoolchildren fare? Its eighth graders rank above average in reading and math nationally, and fourth graders rank second in the nation in math.
 While Emporia State teaches the children of farmers, Lehman College in the Bronx, part of CUNY, teaches the children of immigrants. A majority of its education students, says the dean, Annette Digby, are part time and already teaching on a temporary or fast-track license, without going through education school. 
 One undergraduate course, ''The Teaching Profession: Birth to Grade Six,'' is described in the catalog as a ''study of the professional lives of teachers and the diverse roles they assume in urban schools.'' A graduate course, ''Ethics and Professionalism in Childhood Teaching,'' is a ''study of the childhood teaching profession, its multiple historical, philosophical and social foundations.'' Even the description of Lehman's basic reading course for undergraduates, ''Understanding and Documenting Young Children's Literacy Development and Concepts of the World Around Them,'' has a theoretical tone. 
 In one of the last sessions of the school year, a mix of graduate and undergraduate students sat in small groups at hexagonal tables, the way they had been taught to seat children in the classroom, for a seminar on how to apply what they had learned and solve the problems that came up during student teaching. In perfect teacher script, Prof. Christy Folsom had written the day's agenda on the chalkboard: ''1. Quiet write. 2. Share. 3. Go over portfolio. Questions.'' Dr. Folsom is a popular faculty member known for a down-to-earth manner and skill at teaching lesson plans. The mood was relaxed and trusting. She asked her students to write and then talk about their best and worst experiences in the class, and in education school.
 Sharon Gallagher, a 33-year-old Irish immigrant, was working as a waitress and bartender while attending Lehman for a bachelor's degree in history with an education minor. As one of her best experiences, she described how she had learned the psychological differences between third and first graders. She had been taught a system of behavior management, using color-coded warning cards, in a third-grade class and had tried to apply the same system to first graders. But when she gave warning cards to the first graders, they started to cry. She realized that positive reinforcement worked better at that age than punishment.
 When it came to discussing the weaknesses of education school, Ms. Gallagher and her tablemates, Melissa Noble and Carmen Pucillo, fellow seniors who also planned careers as teachers, were unanimous. ''I didn't feel I learned a lot about literacy,'' Ms. Gallagher said. 
 ''Especially balanced literacy,'' Ms. Noble interjected, referring to the latest curriculum shift in the New York City school system. ''I was like, 'O.K., what do I do?'''
 Ms. Pucillo was baffled by pedagogical questions like when children should stop inventing spelling and spell by the rules. ''I just didn't get the answer,'' she said.
 ''I actually bought a book and started reading on my own,'' Ms. Gallagher said. Ms. Noble said she, too, had bought a book, ''Guided Reading,'' by Irene C. Fountas and Gay Su Pinnell, which had been recommended by the ''cooperating teacher'' she worked with as a student teacher. 
 At Lehman, the primary course in teaching reading is integrated with teaching social studies. ''We got more focused on social studies than we did literacy,'' Ms. Noble said. Dr. Folsom acknowledged that reading and writing instruction was a weakness at Lehman and said that beginning in the fall, social studies and literacy will be offered as separate courses. 
 While Dr. Folsom's class was focused on practical skills, ''Ethics and Professionalism in Childhood Teaching'' exemplified the research-and-theory wing of education. 
 On this day, teams of students were presenting their final projects, a 45-minute report on ''an issue or dilemma facing the teaching profession.'' They had been asked to conduct what the professor called ''in-depth research,'' using at least two Internet sources and two journals.
 One team of three students had chosen the topic of violence in schools, including a widely publicized incident in which police officers were called to a class in St. Petersburg, Fla., because a 5-year-old girl was having a temper tantrum. The group screened a news videotape of the girl being put in handcuffs and of her mother defending her behavior. They then talked about it.
 As an African-American sensitive to discrimination, one student, Tarsheen Jackson, said, ''I thought it was a bit much for all those officers to come in.'' On the other hand, she continued: ''I don't think children will learn a lesson if their parents are talking up for them.'' 
 Another student in the audience, Sarah Perone, spoke up: ''I think if I saw my 5-year-old getting arrested by four police officers, I might be a little bit defensive also.''
 Aliex Ross, the professor, skirted the issue of handcuffing a child. ''Look at the power and control the child gained by throwing a tantrum,'' Dr. Ross said instead. ''As professionals, we know there's a lot more to the story.''
 The next presentation was called ''Balanced Curriculum'' -- the coordination of standards and testing with students' abilities and needs. The team began by asking, ''What is a balanced curriculum?'' They invited the audience to make suggestions. (''An equal amount of time distributed between all subjects'' was one.) Then they revealed that they had looked for the answer in the dictionary. ''We decided to look up 'balance' and 'curriculum' because 'balanced curriculum' is not in the dictionary,'' Karen Dhillon, one presenter, told the class. Ms. Dhillon recited the dictionary definitions of both words -- equilibrium and harmony, for the word ''balance''-- then stacked plastic blocks on a toy scale. She tried repeatedly to balance the blocks, without success, as she commented on how hard it was to maintain a balanced curriculum. 
 Both presentations got A's. ''They're all going to be fabulous teachers,'' Dr. Ross said later. ''They're really reflective. That's what really makes a competent educator, is someone who really reflects on their practice.''
 After class, Ms. Dhillon was less upbeat. She had come into teaching through Teach for America, and had been teaching math for two years at Middle School 399 in the Bronx while working toward her master's, and found it demoralizing. Though she did not mention it, only 9 percent of students at M.S. 399 meet city standards in math. She said she had trouble teaching the new math curriculum imposed by the city and had resorted to lying to her superiors, pretending she was using it. 
 She looked embarrassed by this bit of subterfuge. ''But I'm leaving teaching,'' she blurted. ''I just don't love it.''
 In June, not long after that conversation, she earned her master's in education. By then it was already too late. 

Amanda Smith, 21
Social science/education major in fourth year, university of northern iowa, cedar falls
 I come from a small town of 900 people -- Buffalo Center. There were only 200 in my high school. I always wanted to teach because in my community, teachers were such a big part of our lives. Everyone knew them. What they told you mattered. I hope to teach high school in a rural area. The rest of the country scares me. No Child Left Behind scares me. Testing is not the only measure of learning. In my 10 education classes, I've never heard a single education student support N.C.L.B. Here we are taught all these philosophical things -- ideals, theories -- and then N.C.L.B. comes in and contradicts it. 
 I'm afraid that in the real world I will be so overwhelmed with bureaucracy that I won't be able to teach freely. When you teach geography, history, government, you can go off in so many directions. What if I can't go off on a lecture about Kennedy's assassination, or a discussion of parallels between the Iraq and Vietnam wars? I don't want my students to have to worry that they didn't remember the year Napoleon was exiled. I want them to remember what Napoleon was like.

Bill Cornelius, 54
Teaching certificate in technology education, 2000, Eastern Michigan University, ypsilanti
Applied technology teacher, Northville High School, Northville, Mich.
 They say they want more teachers, but they make it hard for older people to switch into teaching. I have a master's in business administration. I was selling manufactured products, but I had to take a manufacturing course. I could have taught it better than the teacher. I had to take a government class -- I got near 100 percent on a national test in college, yet I couldn't test out of it. I did 80-some hours -- two years -- getting my teaching certificate. 
 But I get a lot of satisfaction from the job, especially from leading the robotics team. The first year, we entered a national robot-building competition. The other teachers said, ''Let's just enter and not be embarrassed.'' I said: ''Baloney! If we go, we go to win!'' We won the Midwest region and went to Florida for the national competition. To see these kids -- the geeks! -- so happy. It was emotional. The business world is rewarding, too. But you're not exposed to kids. I feel lucky I've done both. 

Alison Heiss McLaney, 31
Master's in education, 1997, University of Florida, Gainesville
Jewelry consultant for insurance industry
 Our school was the model for a lot of reform movements. We didn't use textbooks. Teachers wrote all their own lessons. It was a hard segue from graduate school. Nothing could have prepared me for my first year there. Usually you have a manual to work from, but I faced all the first-year issues, and I was writing the lessons. Instead of a 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. day, I was at school until 8 every night. 
 When I left teaching, I had nightmares about being in the classroom. When you face 30 children each day and one is slipping through, it's upsetting. You don't have time to give that child special attention. And the paperwork -- you would think the emphasis would be on strategy and what the teacher does in the classroom. But the county, district and state require so much work. And, in all honesty, money was a big issue. I'm sad I am not in teaching. But over all I'm a happier person.

Scott Grobstein, 25
Master of Arts in teaching, 2004, National-Louis University, Wheeling, Ill.
English teacher, Willowbrook High School, Villa Park, Ill.
 My original goal when I graduated from Illinois State was to go into music or broadcasting. I took a job in radio sales. There I was in a dead-end job. Then I had an epiphany one day to teach high school English because of my communications background, to make that difference that other people had made for me. 
 I had to make up English classes and other pre-reqs at N.L.U. It was kind of a grind the first year. 
 But everything about teaching is more than I thought it would be. No day is the same. I think I relate well to kids. Originally I thought about teaching elementary education. I talked to one of my old teachers about it and he said: ''You're a guy. Teach in a high school. You'll make more money, and there will be more opportunities for you.'' Males have a different perspective on things. How can I say this without sounding chauvinistic? Females tend to be more traditional. Men have more fun and energy. Guys can joke more with students. I can call students by their last names; they call me by my last name, too. 
 I'm in this 110 percent now. I've never been happier.

Wanemi Oguara, 45
Master's candidate, American University, Washington
Second-grade teacher, Ideal Academy
Public Charter School, Washington
 My first profession was photography. I started teaching out of necessity 11 years ago. I had no training. Then, about three years ago, our principal gave us information about an American University program, Transitioning Our Provisional Stars. At the time, I was doing distance learning because he told us that with No Child Left Behind, we had to take education courses or jeopardize our positions. 
 The training has opened my eyes: I learned how to really examine a subject and curriculum and to use the instruction manual to benefit the student. Now I look at things more critically. That component of N.C.L.B. -- that teachers have to be highly qualified -- is paramount to me. Now that I've had training, I see some who are teaching and think, ''Oh, my God!''

Richard Carman, 45
Master's in education, 2005, University of Phoenix
Civilian employee, Coast Guard, Kodiak, Alaska
 I'm eligible to retire in seven years: I oversee fitness and recreation on the base. I'm still young enough to be productive and wanted to give myself options. But in Kodiak -- we're floating here in the Gulf of Alaska -- it's very isolated. There was no way I could quit my job and move to the mainland to do a full-time program. 
 A lot of online programs are like buying a diploma. Others give you a book and say, ''Take as much time as you need.'' I wanted a certified and structured organization. I started the University of Phoenix three years ago and just graduated. It wasn't easy. They recommend spending four hours a day on coursework in a six-week course. By the time I logged on, read the bulletin board, did my work, I was up until 1. I student-taught fifth grade, and setting it up was complicated. 
 A disadvantage of online programs is that you can't see your classmates; in e-mail, some phrases don't translate; I haven't had a computer that hasn't broken down, and I'm four hours behind the East Coast. But I communicated with people in Florida, Hawaii, Pennsylvania. If I had taken classes here, I would have one point of view -- the Kodiak school district.


GRAPHIC: Photos: THEORY -- Many colleges emphasize psychology and social issues over practical training. A child development class at Hunter College, right
an education classroom at Lehman, opposite. (Photo by Heidi Schumann for The New York Times)
(Photo by Heidi Schumann for The New York Times)(pgs. 24,25)
PRACTICE -- At Emporia State in Kansas, students like Jan Alexander, left, teach in the day and take classes after hours. They work so hard ''they really think they're going to die,'' says a professor. (Photo by Larry W. Smith for The New York Times)(pg. 26)
 DRAMA -- At Lehman College, Sheldon Maloney acts out violence against teachers in a research project he put together with Jackie Philbert, right, and a third student. (Photographs by Heidi Schumann for The New York Times)(pg. 28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (93%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); CURRICULA (77%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); CHILDREN (77%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (77%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (73%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (72%); EDUCATION LAW (72%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (70%) Colleges and Universities; Education and Schools; Teachers and School Employees; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: ACT (56%) Emporia State University (Kansas)

PERSON: Anemona Hartocollis

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



619 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; STUDENT HEALTH; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: The Adderall Advantage

BYLINE: By Andrew Jacobs. 
Andrew Jacobs is a reporter for The Times.

 BODY:
IT was finals week at Columbia University and Angela needed a miracle. Like many of her classmates, Angela, a bleary-eyed junior, had already pulled a pair of all-nighters to get through a paper on ''Finnegans Wake,'' a French test and an exam for her music humanities class. All that remained was a Latin American literature final, but as midnight approached, her stamina was beginning to fade. ''This week is killing me,'' she said, taking a cigarette break in front of the school library. ''At this point, I could use a little help.''
 Thanks to a friend, the tiny orange pill in her purse would provide the needed miracle. Angela, who asked that her last name not be published for fear of alarming her family and angering university officials, popped a 30-milligram tablet of Adderall into her mouth, washed it down with coffee and headed back to the library for another night of cramming. The next morning, she sailed through the exam confidently and scored an A. ''I don't think I could keep a 3.9 average without this stuff,'' she said afterward. 
 At many colleges across the country, the ingredients for academic success now include a steady flow of analeptics, the class of prescription amphetamines that is used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. 
 Since Ritalin abuse first hit the radar screen several years ago, the reliance on prescription stimulants to enhance performance has risen, becoming almost as commonplace as No-Doz, Red Bull and maybe even caffeine. As many as 20 percent of college students have used Ritalin or Adderall to study, write papers and take exams, according to recent surveys focused on individual campuses. A study released this month by the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia found that the number of teenagers who admit to abusing prescription medications tripled from 1992 to 2003, while in the general population such abuse had doubled. 
 Dr. Robert A. Winfield, director of University Health Service at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, sees a growing number of students who falsely claim to be A.D.H.D. so they can get a prescription. At least once a week, a jittery, frightened, sleep-deprived student who has taken too many tablets for too many days shows up at his office. ''Things have really gotten out of hand in the last four to five years,'' he said. ''Students have become convinced that this will help them achieve academic success.''
 On campus, the drugs are either sold or given away by people with prescriptions, or they are procured by students who have learned to navigate the psychiatric exams offered by campus health centers, which usually provide the drugs at a discount. Unlike Ritalin, two newer members of the family of analeptics -- Adderall and Concerta -- come in time-release forms and can keep a patient medicated an entire day. 
 Much like performance-enhancing drugs in professional sports, the spread of analeptics among college students is raising issues of competitiveness and fairness. But interviews and e-mail exchanges with two dozen Columbia students suggest that the prevailing ethos is that Adderall, the drug of choice these days, is a legitimate and even hip way to get through the rigors of a hectic academic and social life. ''The culture here actually encourages people to use stimulants,'' said Barak Ben-Ezer, a computer science and economics major who prefers Red Bull, a caffeinated beverage, and cigarettes over prescription drugs. But pure recreational use of the drugs, which sometimes includes crushing and snorting a tablet, is generally frowned on, he and others said. 
 Libby, a writing major at Columbia who received a diagnosis of A.D.H.D. in first grade, is a typical drug dealer. She often sells her 10-milligram tablets to strangers for $5 or barters them with friends for meals. The demand during exam week can get intense, said Libby, who, like most people interviewed for this article, asked that her last name be withheld. ''I'm constantly being bombarded with requests,'' she said. ''People can get desperate.'' 
 She said that the attitude toward stimulants has changed drastically since her days in elementary school, when she was forced by her parents to down a daily regimen of Ritalin. ''As a kid, I was made to feel different for taking these drugs,'' she said. ''Now it's almost cool to take them.''
 Many mental health counselors point out that the proliferation of analeptics on college campuses is partly a matter of demographics. The hundreds of thousands of children who were diagnosed with A.D.H.D. and attention deficit disorder in the early 1990's are now entering college, and bringing their drugs with them. Libby, for one, takes them only to pull through the occasional paper. ''It really messes with my head,'' she said, adding that in the past the medication has intensified underlying obsessive-compulsive habits.
 Some experts, while fretting about the use of analeptics without a prescription, see the advent and acceptance of the drugs as a great revolution that has helped a generation of children with learning disabilities achieve academic success. Dr. Robert Herman, a staff psychiatrist at the University of Maryland, College Park, says he regularly sees students whose grade point averages rise markedly after taking the medication. ''Students tell me it's really changed their lives for the better, that they are so much more focused and organized,'' he said. 
 Sorting out those with legitimate diagnoses from the deceivers can be nearly impossible, he said, because ''in psychiatry, there is no blood test.'' He said he always tells patients that it's illegal to share their medicine, but added, ''I can't exactly go into their dorm room and count their pills.''
 Requests for comment by Columbia administrators were referred to Dr. Laurence Greenhill, a clinical psychiatrist at the university, who said that the idea that Adderall is a performance enhancer is a myth. ''It won't increase your intelligence, it just increases your diligence,'' he said. ''Essentially, the drugs delay the onset of sleep so you can stay up all night and cram.'' 
 Designer stimulants like Adderall are far less dangerous than cocaine or methamphetamines. According to the Shire Pharmaceuticals Group, which makes Adderall, medical research has found it has no potential for addiction. But Adderall, like many other medications, can interact with other drugs and create problems, particularly when taken in other-than-prescribed dosages, a spokesman said. The main side effects of analeptics are increased heart rate, agitation and the kind of paranoia and disorientation that results from amphetamine-induced insomnia. In February, the Canadian government suspended sales of Adderall XR, the time-release version of the medication, noting ''20 international reports'' of sudden deaths, heart-related deaths and strokes in children and adults. (The standard Adderall is not sold in Canada.) In Washington, the Food and Drug Administration took note of the Canadian ban but said it would take no action. 
 ''These are very safe medications,'' said Timothy E. Wilens, author of ''Straight Talk About Psychiatric Medications for Kids'' and a child psychiatrist at Harvard Medical School. ''They have been used for 70 years, and we haven't had terrible catastrophes.'' 
 For many college students, the issue about Adderall is not so much health as it is fairness. Among those who refuse to dabble in performance-enhancing substances, the disapproval and bitterness can be fierce. Angelica Gonzales, a civil engineering major at Columbia, said she resented that nearly all her friends have taken Adderall at some point in their academic careers. ''It's cheating, and it really bothers me,'' she said, a bundle of notes in her lap. ''I mean, everyone here is smart. They should be able to get by without the extra help.'' 
 The more popular sentiment about Adderall's role in academic success was explained by John, an economics major who was raised in a conservative Midwestern culture. He said he always believed that if you had trouble in school, you should just study harder. But since coming to Columbia three years ago, his thinking has changed. ''The environment here is incredibly competitive,'' he said. ''If you don't take them, you'll be at a disadvantage to everyone else.'' With that, he swallowed a 20-milligram tablet of Adderall and headed back into the library. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: POWER SURGE -- A Columbia student with a prescription for Adderall shares with a classmate during finals week last semester. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (86%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (75%); ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (73%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); FAMILY (73%); LITERATURE (71%); LIBRARIES (70%); CAFFEINE & HEALTH (70%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%) Colleges and Universities; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Analeptics (Drugs); Amphetamines; Adderall (Drug); Ritalin (Drug); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals) ; Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: Andrew Jacobs

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



620 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 3444 words

HEADLINE: All My Children

BYLINE: By DAVID L. KIRP. 
David L. Kirp, professor of public policy at the University of California, Berkeley, is writing ''Before School,'' a book about the universal preschool movement.

 BODY:
The Lab School, a Gothic pile across the street from the University of Chicago, is a hothouse for the imagination, a place where preschoolers engage with their teachers to construct a universe of knowledge. The school was founded over a century ago by John Dewey, and its guiding philosophy remains Dewey's belief that ''the object and reward of learning is continued capacity for growth.'' 
 Carla Young, principal of the Lab School (or, more formally, the Laboratory Schools), acknowledges that sometimes teachers must take the lead, that ''there's a need to give kids information -- to read to them, to concentrate on the letter of the day.'' But much is left to the children's imagination. ''Families that choose the Lab School like the emphasis on inquiry, social-emotional development, autonomy,'' she says. ''The teaching comes out of the organic life of the classroom.'' 
 This is as good as prekindergarten gets. But most of these children are the offspring of faculty at the University of Chicago, and they live in a world where thinking is as instinctive as breathing. What if children in Middle America -- for that matter, children in the direst straits -- got a Lab School-quality education? 
 That's the dream of a growing number of people who are working to make preschool available to all. 
 From Brookline, Mass., to Beverly Hills, Calif., well-to-do parents spend upward of $15,000 a year to secure a place in creme de la creme preschools, for they have long appreciated the value of nursery schools that pique the curiosity of their offspring. At the opposite end of the social spectrum, for the last 40 years, tens of millions of 3- and 4-year-olds from families with below-poverty-line incomes have attended Head Start, the $6.8 billion federal program that delivers everything from know-your-letters drills and playground etiquette to hot meals and dental checkups. 
 Now middle-class families are insisting on first-rate, publicly supported prekindergartens. From magazines for parents, they have absorbed the findings of neuroscience: the first few years of a child's life offer unmatched opportunities for learning, and prekindergarten is the best investment they can make in their children's future.
 Out of this understanding a movement has emerged. ''I've been in the field my whole adult life,'' says Samuel J. Meisels, president of Chicago's Erikson Institute, a graduate school specializing in child development. ''Suddenly everyone is talking about universal prekindergarten.''
 Still, talk is easy. Will states commit the money needed to guarantee quality or try to do preschool on the cheap? A year of good prekindergarten education costs about as much as a year of primary or secondary school, but that's still much more than most states now spend. Equally important is the kind of education -- Lab School or skill and drill -- that's delivered to 3- and 4-year-olds. 
 A third of a century ago, richard nixon vetoed legislation that would have underwritten preschools nationwide. ''No communal approaches to child rearing,'' Nixon insisted, playing to his constituency, but how times have changed. The Census Bureau estimates that in 2003 nearly 60 percent of all eligible children were enrolled in preschool, more than double the percentage in 1980. A recent survey found that 87 percent of voters support using public money to send every child to a top-notch preschool. By more than 2 to 1, they favor investing in universal prekindergarten before improving K-12 education. 
 The states are getting the message. New York, Florida, Georgia and Oklahoma formally guarantee prekindergarten for all children, and about three dozen other states provide programs for poor children. More than three-quarters of a million youngsters are now in state-financed pre-K classes -- that's nearly as many as are in Head Start -- and their numbers keep growing. This policy change, and the deeper shift in public attitudes, is especially remarkable in an era when the prevailing aspiration is the ''ownership society,'' not the social compact. 
 A generation ago, Bruce Babbitt, then the governor of Arizona, made children's issues the centerpiece of his state-of-the-state address -- and the press ridiculed him for focusing on ''quiche'' instead of ''meat and potatoes'' issues like dams and development. Today, politicians across the red-blue ideological divide are borrowing from the Babbitt playbook because they see the issue as a positive. ''In another generation, preschool for all will likely be a reality,'' says Edward Zigler, Head Start's first director and a professor emeritus of psychology at Yale. 
 Quality requires money. Research shows that well-educated teachers who know how to use research-based approaches rather than winging it can be the make-or-break factor. Classes need to be small, with a teacher and an aide for no more than 20 youngsters, and there has to be vigorous outreach to parents. 
 But in some quarters, the sentiment persists that preschool is just a fancy term for baby-sitting. Consider what's happening in Florida. In 2002, 59 percent of the voters supported a state constitutional amendment requiring that by this fall ''high quality'' preschool be available to every 4-year-old. But not until last December did the Legislature provide any funds, and that delay has schools scrambling to provide for an estimated 150,000 youngsters. 
 The $400 million that the Legislature approved means schools will receive only $2,500 for each youngster they enroll, about a third of what Head Start spends. And while Florida has adopted tough standards for seemingly every aspect of preschool life, including the requirement that 4-year-olds be taught how to floss their teeth, enforcement will be woefully inadequate. Still, David Lawrence Jr., the former publisher of The Miami Herald who led the campaign for the amendment, describes what has transpired thus far as ''an honorable start.'' 
 In other states, too, promises have not been matched by policy. New York passed legislation eight years ago that guarantees preschool for all 4-year-olds by 2002. But with Gov. George E. Pataki notably lacking enthusiasm -- on several occasions he has proposed axing the program -- the money has not kept pace with the mandate. As a consequence, there is space for only about a quarter of the eligible children. California's voters overwhelmingly favor universal preschool -- as long as someone else pays for it, which is why a measure on next year's ballot proposes financing prekindergarten by taxing only the superrich.
 ''Ever since sputnik went up,'' recalls professor Zigler, decision makers have vacillated between emphasizing cognitive skills ''and focusing on the whole child.'' The skill-and-drill mentality fostered by the federal No Child Left Behind Act, which represents the most recent swing of the pendulum, has reached preschool. Many prekindergartens now stress reading readiness. And because there are only so many hours in a preschool day, they devote less time to encouraging creativity or motivating 4-year-olds to work and play well with others. It is in Head Start that this shift -- away from social-emotional development and problem-oriented learning, toward decoding language and numbers -- is most fiercely contested. The stakes are high. The outcome will not only mold Head Start but also affect the nature of states' prekindergarten initiatives. 
 For Wade F. Horn, assistant secretary for children and families in the Department of Health and Human Services, the rationale is simple: from kindergarten on, literacy and numeracy are the essence of what school is about, so it's vital to focus on letters and numbers in preschool. 
 The Bush administration professes to be agnostic about which teaching methods work best: ''I don't believe in scripts for teachers or flash cards or restricting the vocabulary that teachers use in the classroom,'' says Dr. Horn. But program administrators know that the quickest way to teach children how to recognize letters and numbers is what's called direct instruction -- what critics deride as ''drill and kill.'' In direct instruction, children, much like chicks, are fed morsels of information by their teacher. It's an approach reminiscent of Mr. Gradgrind, the schoolmaster in Dickens's ''Hard Times'' -- ''Teach these boy and girls nothing but Facts. Facts alone are wanted in life.'' 
 From John Dewey to Jean Piaget, educators have generally agreed that while didactic teaching has its place, small children learn mainly from interacting and not passive listening, understanding and not memorizing, reading for fun and not simply decoding. ''The good news,'' says Deborah Stipek, dean of the School of Education at Stanford University, ''is that children can be taught basic academic skills -- fundamentals of reading, writing and mathematics -- in a way that uses, rather than destroys, their natural desire to learn. Vocabulary can be taught by conversation, awareness of print developed through reading and talking about books and mathematics learned with games like a pretend restaurant.'' 
 Drill-and-skill is not how middle-class children got their edge, Dean Stipek says, so ''why use a strategy to help poor kids catch up that didn't help middle class kids in the first place?''
 Still, in this age of testing, preschool is no exception. After a 1969 Head Start evaluation seemed to show that achievement gains quickly ''faded out,'' the program emphasized social skills rather than academics. Some centers went so far as to prohibit displaying the letters of the alphabet. But 1998 federal legislation reversed this pattern. It established new academic standards for the program, including the expectation that all Head Start children learn at least 10 letters of the alphabet. 
 In the last year, nearly half a million youngsters in the Head Start program have been tested, at a cost of $30 million. ''Point to B,'' the tester might ask, or ''point to nine.'' The range of tested skills is narrow, with a focus on reading and math readiness.
 In a generally harsh critique published this spring, the Government Accountability Office notes that the Bush administration contemplates -- inappropriately, in its judgment -- using the test results to hold Head Start centers accountable for improving their children's scores. ''While Head Start is trying to hang on to what is developmentally appropriate,'' says Kathy R. Thornburg, former president of the National Association for the Education of Young Children, ''the testing requirements drive teachers' behavior. Kids can regurgitate what you teach them. Can these kids be social beings who want to learn or have we already squelched their creativity?''
 The person at the center of this controversy, Dr. Horn, points out that the scope of the test will eventually be expanded to assess social and emotional development. But he's not troubled that Head Start teachers are emulating Mr. Gradgrind. ''Sometimes teaching to the test is really important,'' he says. ''You have to teach the alphabet by teaching the alphabet.'' 
 But that's dubious science, says Richard Rothstein of the Economic Policy Institute in an American Prospect article. ''There is no evidence that memorizing alphabet letters out of context'' -- instead of being exposed to books -- ''predicts later reading skill.'' 
 Tensions among the key players came to light in June, when the first nationwide study of Head Start's impact was released. The findings were mixed. On the positive side, Head Start sharply cuts the gap between the scores of the disadvantaged and the average national scores on such preschool skills as recognition of letters, numbers and words. Head Start also increases social and emotional skills and improves the children's health. Results are especially positive for children who enter Head Start when they are 3 years old, rather than waiting another year. But a sizable reading gap remains, and the program has no effect on premath skills.
 Dr. Horn's reaction was inoffensive: ''While this program has some benefits for kids, it can still be improved.'' Sarah Greene, president of the National Head Start Association, who has often quarreled with Dr. Horn, says that ''those who have resolved to trash Head Start at every turn will twist this data to their ends.'' 
 Florida has adopted high-stakes testing with a vengeance. Its 2004 legislation requires that all children be tested at the beginning of kindergarten to determine their readiness. Any preschool whose children don't perform well on the exam risks being put into receivership or losing its financing entirely. The law doesn't take into account the prekindergarteners' background, so it ignores crucial differences. By age 4, a landmark study has found, children from poor families will have heard more than 30 million fewer words than their counterparts from professionals' households. Small wonder, then, that they come to preschool well behind. These are the children who can benefit the most from a word-rich environment, but because they may do poorly on the exam, the legislation gives preschools a powerful incentive to skim off the most advantaged, leaving the neediest out in the cold. 
 Preschool advocates find that what's happening in Chicago is much more encouraging. Important state and city officials are ardent supporters of universal preschool. Gov. Rod Blagojevich was recently praised by Pre-K Now, a national advocacy group, as a ''hero'': he has successfully pushed to increase state financing 30 percent in each of the last three years. Mayor Richard M. Daley has made the value of a preschool education a theme of his administration. ''He really gets it,'' says Barbara Bowman, who runs Chicago's preschool program, is a founder of the Erikson Institute and has been working with young children for more than half a century. Still, Chicago has a long way to go before quality prekindergarten is a fact of life for every 3- and 4-year-old.
 At their best, the state-financed preschools, which serve more than 12,000 Chicago children, offer an education that is comparable to the University of Chicago's Lab School. To walk into Laurence Hadjas's preschool classroom in the William H. Ray Elementary School, a few blocks from the Lab School, is to enter a world of wonders. Ms. Hadjas is a master at mixing traditional instruction with adventuring. In one corner, children are building a bridge with Legos. Seeds are beginning to sprout in the plant box. In another nook, a girl leafs through a picture book. Two boys are feeding a bottle to a doll in the doctor's office. There's a folder full of menus from neighborhood restaurants, and the prices for pizza help teach about numbers. Amid this buzzing activity, the room is a picture of order. The children have learned to take turns, to put their things away, not to mix up the pieces from different games. If I were a 3-year-old, this would be heaven.
 Ray is a magnet school that attracts motivated families from miles away, as well as those from the neighborhood. The children constitute a Noah's ark of racial and ethnic diversity. ''This is a developmental program,'' the principal, Cydney Fields, tells parents anxious about how their toddlers will fare in the testing regimen they will soon encounter. ''If you want heavy-duty academics, this isn't the place.'' But, she adds, ''it's the way of the world that kids have to test,'' and so the school has tempered its developmental approach. 
 Test scores of children at Ray Elementary School do not support the contention that children from poor families require direct skill-and-drill teaching to succeed. Certainly children need a scaffolding of language: How else can they overcome that 30-million-word deficit? How else can they expand their vocabulary beyond sad, mad or glad? But interactive teaching is the best way to do this, Professor Bowman says, and she has research on her side. Several major studies show that when preschool children from poor backgrounds are taught in a problem-oriented way, they do as well academically as those who have been taught mainly by skill-and-drill. They are also more motivated to learn, and later, as teenagers, they're less likely to run afoul of the law. 
 The Lorraine Hansberry Child-Parent Center, attached to the Daniel Webster School, is just a few miles but a social light-year from Ray Elementary. Situated in a dicey neighborhood on Chicago's West Side, it has no hope of attracting students from afar. More than 90 percent of the children are black, most come from poor families and many are being raised by a single parent. Elsewhere, these children might already be lost, but here they seem to thrive. 
 For nearly 40 years, the Chicago public school system has been operating Child-Parent Centers like Hansberry in some of the city's poorest neighborhoods. These centers, which over the years have enrolled more than 100,000 youngsters, educate children from preschool through third grade in small classrooms with well-trained teachers. They bring parents, and sometimes grandparents, into the school, provide instruction in everything from cooking to computers -- and enlist them as allies in their children's education. 
 There's considerable variation in pedagogy among the Child-Parent Centers, and Hansberry stresses direct instruction. Its textbooks teach reading by repeating a limited number of words in successive lessons, adding a few new words with each lesson. In Lilian McAfee-Jackson's preschool classroom, the children are singing the alphabet song: ''Now I know my ABC's, I'm as happy as I can be.''
 ''We have a great track record,'' says Sonia Griffin, longtime manager of the early childhood program. ''Our children are succeeding, and not just in school.'' It's essential that children learn to read, of course, and at Hansberry, as elsewhere, the direct instruction technique has improved test scores in the early grades. 
 Yet if children are going to realize their potential, they need freedom to explore. A 2004 study of the Child-Parent Centers, carried out by Arthur Reynolds, a professor of social work, and his colleagues at the University of Wisconsin, reaches that conclusion. While preschoolers whose teachers took a didactic approach did better at the end of kindergarten, the reverse was true later on. Children who were in preschool classrooms that emphasized child-initiated learning had higher eighth-grade reading scores and higher rates of high school graduation. Professor Reynolds's research shows astonishing long-term effects for the program as a whole. Compared with youngsters who attended typical preschools like Head Start, children who went to the Child-Parent Centers in the early 1980's were nearly 30 percent more likely to have graduated from high school and 40 percent less likely to have repeated a grade.
 The latest results, yet to be published, show that they are significantly more likely to have enrolled in a four-year college and significantly less likely to have seen the inside of a jail. 
 What makes these findings especially significant is that this is a large, publicly run program with a long track record. It's a program that could be adopted anywhere. But despite the school district's commitment to preschool, Chicago is having a hard time supporting it. It costs about $8,000 a year for a child to attend a Child-Parent Center. When measured against the results, that's an amazing bargain -- for every dollar invested, there's a $7.10 return to society, according to the Reynolds study. Yet most preschool models are cheaper, and public financing is scarce. 
 ''These centers should be a model for the city,'' Professor Bowman says, ''but when fewer than half of all eligible low-income kids have any program at all, it's a tough call.'' Citing costs, Chicago has closed some of the centers.
 The price tag for partly subsidized, year-round centers for children from birth to age 5 is $50 billion, according to a recent Brookings Institution estimate. If these centers were free for everyone, the cost would nearly triple. Such public generosity seems inconceivable, but it's how things are done in France, where almost every child attends an ecole maternelle and the poorest children get the most support, including the best teachers. Imagine the Lab School changing places with Hansberry.
 Nearly a century ago, John Dewey declared that we ''should want for every child what a good and wise parent wants for his child,'' and ''anything else is unlovely and undermines democracy.'' Surely this is true of preschool. 


CORRECTION-DATE: August 28, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Education Life section on July 31 about universal preschool referred imprecisely to the position of Wade F. Horn, assistant secretary for children and families in the Department of Health and Human Services, on instructional methods in Head Start programs. Mr. Horn indeed said: ''Sometimes teaching to the test is really important. You have to teach the alphabet by teaching the alphabet.'' But he did not mention the schoolmaster Mr. Gradgrind, a Dickens character who believed in rote-only instruction; that reference was the article writer's.

GRAPHIC: Photos: WONDER WORLD -- Instruction and adventure share a preschool classroom at the William H. Ray School in Chicago. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. 21)
 BASIC TRAINING -- Children like Nyah Shannon thrive at the Lorraine Hansberry Child-Parent Center in Chicago, where family members are allies in the education process. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. 22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); FAMILY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Education and Schools; Education (Pre-School); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%)

PERSON: David L Kirp

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (78%); GEORGIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (91%) New York State; Florida; Georgia; Oklahoma

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



621 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; The Suburban Life; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: A Hidden Camp, an Open Shame 

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

DATELINE: HUNTINGTON STATION, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Not far from the Long Island Rail Road tracks in this mixed-up neighborhood of old frame houses and industrial yards, there is an open field bordered on one end by woods. It's less a forest than a dense tangle of towering weeds, with brambles and branches that close overhead to blot out the sun. The underbrush is alive with the rustling of rabbits and birds, which can startle a visitor almost as much as the blare of the Port Jefferson train.
 The woods are crisscrossed with paths, hard-packed through much use and strewn with trash -- six-pack rings, vodka bottles, junk-food wrappers and, oddly, old clothes. Pants, jackets and underwear rot on the ground or hang from branches. A few stuffed animals sit delicately in the trees as well, placed there like ornaments. 
Farther in are makeshift shelters built by some of the people who call this place home: about three dozen Latino day laborers who gather near the train station for work every morning and return to the woods at night.
 The existence of a hidden labor camp a cell phone's throw from where white-collar professionals take the train to Manhattan is as good a reminder as any of how firmly immigrant laborers are rooted in the suburban soil. It has happened not just on Long Island but also in California, Arizona, the Midwest and the South. The thousands of men filling jobs at the bottom of the labor market are a large-scale economic phenomenon, and no amount of wishful thinking will make them disappear.
 This was a central message of a national conference last week at Hofstra University in Hempstead. The event, organized by the National Day Laborer Organizing Network in California, included public forums in Nassau and Westchester Counties and the release of an examination of day laborers by the Center for the Study of Urban Poverty at U.C.L.A. The researchers, who interviewed 2,667 workers in 143 cities, admit that they have only begun to understand their subjects. But their early conclusions confirm what advocates for day laborers have said for years -- that these are generally hard-working family men, drawn here mostly from Central America by the promise of jobs that no one else will do. 
 They have some education, but often not much, and are vulnerable to exploitation from employers who cheat and rob them. They are harassed, intimidated and insulted, and suffer debilitating injuries because of the hard work they do -- construction and demolition mostly -- and their lack of medical care.
 The researchers also found that this ad hoc confluence of labor demand and supply has begun to organize itself. There are now about 80 hiring sites for day laborers in 20 cities, where officials see the wisdom of making this part of the underground economy safer and more accountable. Many are set up by nonprofits, but sometimes even the police get involved.
 Ideally, Long Island could help guide the rest of the country on how to manage the day laborer influx. But while some officials -- notably the Nassau executive, Thomas R. Suozzi -- have sought solutions, Long Islanders farther east are still stuck in passionate but pointless debates about the workers' immigration status. 
 There are, however, pockets of homegrown practicality and compassion. In Huntington Station, the non-profit Family Service League has found a way to shelter the men and women of the woods on the bitterest winter days. Volunteers drive them to local churches, where they are given hot meals and a place to sleep. After breakfast the next day, they get a ride to work or home and a bag lunch.
 This program, led by a staffer named Peggy Boyd, answers a human need without fuss, moralizing or debate. It is the response of people who acknowledge the humanity and dignity of their neighbors, even the anonymous, undocumented ones. That efforts like this are so scarce on wealthy Long island is a sure sign that poverty -- like people -- comes in many different forms. LAWRENCE DOWNES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); MAMMALS (76%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); REFUGEES (67%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (65%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (64%); HOMELESSNESS (62%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Labor; Illegal Immigrants; Immigration and Refugees; Homeless Persons

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%) National Day Laborer Organizing Network; University of California (Los Angeles); family service league (huntington station, NY)

PERSON: Lawrence Downes

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



622 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; TEACHING THE TEACHERS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Those Who Can, and Can't

BYLINE: By CECILIA CAPUZZI SIMON. 
Cecilia Capuzzi Simon is a former managing editor of Teacher Magazine.

 BODY:
IN the last five years, 500,000 new teachers have taken jobs in the nation's elementary and secondary school classrooms. In the next five, a half million more will be needed as the student population swells and aging boomers accelerate their march to retirement. In some ways -- by gender, race, idealism -- today's new teachers resemble their graying counterparts. In others, they are quite different. 
 NEW TEACHERS ARE 
 FEMALE Teachers are still primarily women -- 75 percent in all. But many talented women now look elsewhere for careers. A new study by the University of Maryland shows that the likelihood that a high-performing female student will become a teacher fell to 11 percent in 2000 from 21 percent in 1964. Today's women and minorities have career options that pay better (average public school salary: $46,752), treat them better and are held in higher social esteem. In 1968, 26 percent of college freshmen indicated an intention to go into teaching. Today, that number is 10 percent.
 WHITE Despite a slight uptick, the number of minority teachers is still disproportionately low: 84 percent of all teachers are white, 8 percent black, 6 percent Hispanic and 1.6 percent Asian. At the same time, 40 percent of public school students are minorities.
 ALTRUISTIC Like the retiring population, which was trained during the civil rights and Vietnam War years, teachers with five years' experience or less are motivated by a desire to make a difference in society and to influence children positively, according to a 2000 survey by Public Agenda. Only one in 10 fell into teaching by chance; 96 percent say teaching is something they love to do.
 NOT STICKING WITH THE JOB Fourteen percent of teachers leave the profession in their first year and 46 percent by the fifth year, a 2003 study by the National Commission on Teaching and America's Future found. 
 The problem is partly generational, says Kate Walsh, president of the National Council on Teacher Quality: ''Twenty-somethings are not staying in any profession.'' But also, new teachers often find themselves in the most demanding work environments, ones that teachers with more seniority leave. Unprepared and unrewarded, even highly motivated teachers look elsewhere, says Caroline Hoxby, a professor of economics at Harvard.
 BELOW-AVERAGE STUDENTS Teaching attracts a ''disproportionately high number of candidates from the lower end of the distribution of academic ability,'' says a report last year from the National Council on Teacher Quality. In 2004, the average combined SAT score for college-bound seniors was 1,026; the average for those who intended to major in education was 965. (Only home economics, public affairs and technical and vocational scores were lower.) 
 That measure is controversial: Jane Leibbrand of the National Council for the Accreditation of Teacher Education says it does not take into account students who want to teach secondary education but who major in an academic subject. Those students have among the highest SAT scores. While college-bound seniors going into elementary education -- more than half the teaching force -- typically come from the bottom quartile of their class and have the lowest scores, those who intend to teach and major in language or literature, for example, had an average score of 1,150 last year. And those who have passed licensing tests like the Praxis II, used in 80 percent of states to measure knowledge of the subject area they intend to teach, also scored higher on the SAT -- 1,029 in 1997.
 CAREER CHANGERS Post-baccalaureate and midcareer changers are teaching's biggest trend. Some 200,000 of these teachers have entered the profession since 1985 -- about 70,000 of them in the last two years, according to the National Center for Education Information. Their number is expected to grow, especially to fill shortages in math, science, foreign language and special education. Forty-seven states and the District of Columbia have created 122 alternative routes to teacher certification in recent years. 
 With an average age of 35 and seven to eight years' experience in another profession, this new breed brings marketplace attitudes to teaching and presents a challenge to the status quo, says Susan Moore Johnson, a professor at Harvard Graduate School of Education. Their expectations include a collaborative approach to change, differentiated workplace roles (classroom teacher, curriculum development, outreach duties) and performance-based pay. ''Schools are not organized for this type of individual or for the things they are seeking,'' Ms. Johnson says. 
 C. Emily Feistritzer, president of the National Center for Education Information, calls the shift to an older teaching population historic -- and an antidote to teaching's ''youth problem.'' ''These teachers are mature, see the value of education, intend to stay longer in the job and think all kids can learn,'' she says.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Headcase Design) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); AGING TRENDS (77%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); WOMEN (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (75%); ACCREDITATION (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%); VIETNAM WAR (50%) Education and Schools; Teachers and School Employees; Sat (College Admission Test); Women

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%)

PERSON: Cecilia Capuzzi Simon

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



623 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Day Labor Gets Organized

 BODY:
Not far from the Long Island Rail Road tracks in Huntington Station, N.Y., a neighborhood of old frame houses and industrial yards, there is a field bordered at one end by woods. It's less a forest than a tangle of towering weeds and brambles that blot out the sun but cannot mask the startling blare and rumble of the Port Jefferson train.
 The woods are crisscrossed with paths, hard-packed through much use and strewn with trash -- six-pack rings, junk-food wrappers and rotting old clothes. Farther in are makeshift shelters built by some of the 30 people living there: Latino day laborers who gather near the train station for work every morning and come back to the woods at night. 
The existence of a hidden labor camp a cell-phone's throw away from where white-collar professionals get on the train to Manhattan is a reminder better than any other of how firmly immigrant laborers have rooted themselves in the suburban soil. 
 It happened when we weren't looking, not just on Long Island, but in California, Arizona, the Midwest, the South -- and here in Westchester. The arrival of thousands of men filling jobs at the bottom of the labor market is a large-scale, long-term economic phenomenon, something no amount of wishful thinking is going to make disappear.
 This was a central message of a national conference of day laborers that ended this weekend at Hofstra University and included public forums in Yonkers and on Long Island and a vigil in Farmingville, a central Long Island town that has seen this region's most notorious clashes between Latino newcomers and hostile neighbors.
 The event, organized by the National Day Labor Organizing Network in California, coincided with the release of an examination of the nation's day laborers by the Center for the Study of Urban Poverty at U.C.L.A. The study seeks to understand how this open-air labor market works by interviewing 2,667 laborers in 143 cities. Its authors acknowledge that they have merely scratched the surface, because their subjects are highly mobile and wary of the authorities. But their early conclusions confirm what advocates for day laborers have said for years -- that these are generally hard-working family men, a credit to their countries and ours, drawn here mostly from Central America by the promise of jobs that no one else will do. 
 They have some education, but not much, and are vulnerable to exploitation from employers who cheat and abuse them. They are harassed, intimidated and insulted, and suffer debilitating injuries from the hard work they do -- construction and demolition mostly -- and their lack of medical care.
 The researchers also found that this ad hoc confluence of labor demand and supply has begun to organize itself. There are now about 80 hiring sites for laborers in 20 cities, where officials have realized the wisdom of making this segment of the underground economy safer and more accountable. Many of these sites are set up by nonprofit groups, but sometimes even police departments get involved. 
 New York's suburbs could lead the nation in finding innovative ways to confront the day laborer influx. But we aren't there yet. While some officials have sought practical solutions, others focus only on part of the phenomenon. They remain stuck in passionate but pointless debates about the workers' immigration status, and conduct crackdowns on zoning and quality-of-life offenses that please the law-and-order crowd but miss the far bigger picture. 
 There are, however, pockets of homegrown practicality and good sense. This seemingly anarchic labor market is showing signs of order and maturity. In New Rochelle, for instance, a new coalition of Hispanic companies and business people, the Bellas Artes Business Council, has established a waiting space to get day laborers off the sidewalks and persuaded the city to hire a coordinator to help match workers with contractors. In Huntington Station, the non-profit Family Service League has organized churches to shelter the men of the woods on the bitterest winter days. 
 Programs like these answer a human need without fuss, moralizing or debate. They are the response of people who have come to acknowledge the humanity of their neighbors, even anonymous, undocumented ones. That such efforts are relatively scarce in our wealthy suburbs is a sure sign that poverty, like people, comes in many different forms. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); REFUGEES (68%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (67%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Labor; Illegal Immigrants; Editorials; Immigration and Refugees; Conventions and Conferences

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (54%) National Day Laborer Organizing Network; University of California (Los Angeles)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



624 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Bohemian Rhapsody

BYLINE: By Richard Florida and Elizabeth Currid. 
Richard Florida, a public policy professor at George Mason University, is the author of ''The Flight of the Creative Class: The New Global Competition for Talent.'' Elizabeth Currid is a doctoral student in urban planning at Columbia University.

 BODY:
NEW YORKERS already know that their city is a global center for everything from finance and business to arts and culture. But even the most self-assured resident would likely be astounded by the extraordinary magnitude of the greater New York regional economy.
 The metropolitan area alone is the 16th-largest economy in the world; its annual economic output of nearly $500 billion puts it ahead of Russia and nearly on par with Brazil. The region as a whole -- including Nassau and Suffolk Counties, Westchester and parts of New Jersey and Connecticut -- has an output of nearly $900 billion annually, making it the seventh-largest economy in the world, behind China and bigger than Canada or India. 
For the better part of the last century, New York has been the location of choice for the talented, innovative and entrepreneurial members of what we call a global ''creative class'' -- those who use their minds and creativity in their daily working lives. With almost three million creative-sector employees, about a third of its work force, the metropolitan region boasts the greatest number of creative-class workers in the world. 
 New York City's economy is increasingly powered by these creative industries. Today, it has an even greater competitive advantage in fields like fashion design, art and music than it does in financial services and banking. The city's economy is 16 times more concentrated in fashion designers, five times more concentrated in fine artists and four to six times more concentrated in musical occupations, film and video editors and producers and directors compared with all other United States metropolitan economies as a whole. Without a healthy New York City, the suburbs of Westchester and Long Island might well falter too.
 But recent trends indicate that New York's position at the forefront of the creative economy may face considerable challenge. For starters, foreign cities are stepping up their competition for talented and creative people. Cities like London, Shanghai and Sydney are increasing their arts and cultural spending, research and development activities and university investments. Famous as New York may be for its arts and culture, it ranks 11th in the world, behind Amsterdam and London, on our global Bohemian Index, which measures the proportion of artistically creative people, like working musicians, dancers, writers and designers in a city. 
 New York is also hampered by a series of misguided national policies. Today, tough visa requirements and an increasingly anti-immigration culture are stifling the flow of foreign talent. Columbia University, for example, saw an almost 12 percent decline in international engineering students and a nearly 18 percent decline in international medical students from 2003 to 2004. 
 Creative people want -- and need -- to be around other creative people, and that's something the density of New York has long been able to provide. But this clustering has been weakened by the lack of affordable housing in Manhattan and parts of Brooklyn, fueling emigration by creative people. Some of these people are moving to the outer boroughs, New Jersey, Long Island and Westchester. But many are moving out altogether, attracted by burgeoning creative climates and less expensive housing in other parts of the country.
 The New York region, which has long paid more in taxes than it receives in federal spending, stands to lose a great deal as the Bush administration slashes the existing meager support for urban programs like work-force development, low-income housing, community development grants and support for arts and culture. These and other federal cutbacks hurt New York's ability to generate affordable housing, upgrade its subway and support its arts and creative environment, putting further pressure on the city and region. 
 Mayor Michael Bloomberg does little to help things, having spent considerable energy and political capital on big-ticket items like the failed West Side stadium plan and efforts to attract the 2012 Olympics. The city would be better served with smaller scale neighborhood and community-level efforts to ensure affordable housing and work space for artists, immigrants and entrepreneurs, to upgrade the city's open space in combination with more public art and to improve transportation.
 To remain a stronghold in the global creative economy, New York must strive to rejuvenate the creative dynamism that has always been at the heart of its artistic, cultural and economic success. By strengthening the practices that have brought it fortune and growth, New York will continue to be a truly great center of the global creative economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); CITIES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); FASHION & APPAREL (70%); FASHION DESIGN (70%); MUSIC (70%); ENGINEERING (70%); TRENDS (69%); FASHION DESIGNERS (68%); IMMIGRATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (65%); DANCERS (64%); WRITERS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%) 

PERSON: Elizabeth Currid; Richard (Prof) Florida

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); EAST CHINA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (92%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



625 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; BRIEFS: ECONOMY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: CHILDREN AND POVERTY 

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
With a low high-school dropout rate and healthy babies, New Jersey is the fourth best state in which to grow up, according to a new national report. But the percentage of children in the state living in poverty is growing, according to Kids Count, an annual report on the state of childhood from the Annie E. Casey Foundation. 
The report finds what many demographic studies do: New Jerseyans, on average, are well off. But it's a state with both great wealth and poverty, so the averages do not tell the whole story. ''Essentially, there are two New Jerseys,'' said Nancy Parello, a spokeswoman for the Association for Children of New Jersey. And the poor New Jersey appears to be getting poorer. In a state with the highest household income in the nation, the proportion of poor children rose to 12 percent from 10 percent between 2000 and 2003, according to Kids Count -- below the national child poverty rate of 18 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CHILD POVERTY (90%); POVERTY RATES (88%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%) Children and Youth ; Ratings and Rating Systems

ORGANIZATION: Casey, Annie E, Foundation

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



626 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1783 words

HEADLINE: History Comes Home To Roost

BYLINE: By TERRY GOLWAY

 BODY:
DAVID COWELL is eager to catch his first glimpse of a newly discovered map of New York Harbor, drawn in 1683. The map is part of a collection of documents from Colonial-era New Jersey that the Codey administration bought recently for more than $600,000 at an auction in Manhattan.
 Mr. Cowell, a Caldwell resident who heads a group called Advocates for New Jersey History, said he wanted to see where the 17th-century mapmaker placed the islands now known as Ellis Island and Liberty (or, less commonly, Bedloes) Island.
''Who knows?'' he said. ''Maybe they'll have to turn the Statue of Liberty around so that it faces New Jersey.'' 
 He was kidding, of course. But while the old map certainly will not settle the long-running argument over ownership of the two islands, its very existence has energized New Jersey's historians, preservationists and plain old history buffs. They are the volunteers who staff local county historical societies, who lead efforts to preserve historic buildings and who have educated themselves in arcane subjects like New Jersey's old canal system.
 For them, the chance to buy these documents was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to place in the public's hands pieces of history from the earliest days of New Jersey's settlement by Europeans, including a time when the state was divided into two colonies, East Jersey and West Jersey. Even as late as the American Revolution, the state was often referred to as ''the Jerseys.'' (Who would have guessed that similar language might be employed centuries later to describe the state's north-south divide?)
 When the state's small but influential history community learned that a private collector, Jay T. Snider of Bryn Mawr, Pa., intended to offer the previously unknown documents at an auction at Christie's last month, they feared the worst. ''I was frightened that the documents would go out of state, and would remain in private hands,'' said Lee Ellen Griffith, the director of the Monmouth County Historical Association, based in Freehold. ''That possibility was very scary, because if a private collector bought the documents, they would not be available for research.''
 In addition to the map of New York Harbor from 1683, the trove includes 17th-century maps of the colony of New Jersey and of one of its oldest settlements, Perth Amboy; a collection of manuscripts showing Colonial-era charters and land grants; an early constitution of East Jersey; a list of ''all adventurers'' in West Jersey; the first published history of the colony, printed in 1765; and a collection of laws and court cases from the 18th century. 
 The documents were purchased with money from the Public Records Preservation Account, which is under the jurisdiction of the Department of State. They will be made available for public viewing in September at an undetermined location in the Trenton-Princeton area.
 The historians' fears about what would happen to the documents were based on, well, history. State government, they say, has not made local history and preservation a priority. Two years ago, the state threatened to cut all state financing to historical societies (as well as other cultural groups) and eliminate the New Jersey Historical Commission, a division of the Department of State. The commission serves as an advocate for historic preservation and teaching history in New Jersey, among other duties. 
 Local historians believe that New Jersey's rich history is neither appreciated nor marketed as it should be. While states like Virginia, Massachusetts and Pennsylvania promote their local history as a point of pride, New Jersey treats local history as a mere frill, first to be cut in hard times, last to benefit from the fat years, several historians said.
 ''New Jersey as a state has really missed the boat on promoting history,'' said Brian Morrell, acting president of the Canal Society of New Jersey. ''The focus is on the Jersey Shore and on Atlantic City. Meanwhile, the state is missing out on multiple millions in tourism because it hasn't played up the history that has taken place here.''
 There is no official breakdown for the amount of money and tourism generated by historical attractions, but advocates for the arts estimate that nonprofit arts groups, including museums and historical societies, produce $1.5 billion for the state economy. The state's historic sites, whether administered at the federal, state or local level, range from lighthouses and Revolutionary-era battlefields to the first motion picture studio (in West Orange) and a labor museum (in Haledon).
 Despite the wealth of history made in New Jersey, many residents and tourists seem unaware of it. Or so say many historians. They invariably cite as an example the relative obscurity of Jockey Hollow, site of the Continental Army's winter encampment in 1779-80. Many schoolchildren may know the story of the suffering at Valley Forge during the winter of 1777-78, but few know that conditions at Jockey Hollow were worse. Yet Valley Forge thrives as a symbol of American determination during the Revolution, while Jockey Hollow remains obscure, even in New Jersey.
 Not surprising, those who work to preserve historic sites and educate the public are puzzled and infuriated by what they consider an ignorance of local history in New Jersey. That is why so many were concerned that the Codey administration, caught up in a lean-year budget battle, might pass on the chance to buy a bunch of maps and documents that nobody knew much about before they appeared in the Christie's catalog.
 ''It was great that the state found the money,'' said Karen Morse, director of development at the Historical Society of Princeton. ''So much has happened in New Jersey, and here in Princeton. And if we don't preserve it, who will?''
 To the delight of New Jersey's history community, Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey described the maps and records as ''more than just a part of a collection'' but ''a part of our heritage.''
 Joseph Klett, the chief archivist at the State Archives in Trenton, said: ''This kind of material does not come up for auction very often. In fact, this material was not available in any other form or version.''
 Many of the documents from the 17th century were prepared for a Colonial-era governor, Robert Barclay, who ruled the colony of East Jersey from his native Scotland.
 The documents prepared for Governor Barclay, Mr. Klett said, included a summary of the development of several towns, including Newark, Elizabeth, Woodbridge, Piscataway, Bergen, Shrewsbury and Middletown. ''The documents tell Barclay about each one of these towns, how they were laid out and how they were settled,'' he said.
 The map of Perth Amboy -- or, as it was known at the time, Amboy Point -- is considered significant because ''it is the first known plan for any New Jersey town, and that makes it extremely important in understanding Perth Amboy and the role it played in the development of East Jersey,'' Mr. Klett said.
 That now-revealed part of Perth Amboy's past offers just a glimpse of the state's local history, many advocates and historians say. Because so many New Jersey residents were born elsewhere, either in another country or another state, and because the state is among the nation's centers of suburban sprawl, local history often suffers from neglect, which often leads to destruction.
 ''New Jersey has always had an undeserved reputation of having a lesser identity than New York and Philadelphia because of its location between them,'' said Ronald Becker, director of special collections at the Rutgers libraries. ''Many who move here are unaware of our incredible history and all of the achievements and firsts that occurred here from Colonial times to the present. By saving as much documentation as we can, we learn about New Jersey's great contributions to our heritage and how New Jersey and New Jerseyans participated in all of our nation's events.''
 Documenting local history, said Mr. Cowell of the Advocates for New Jersey History, is not just about saving centuries-old pieces of paper. It's also about recording and preserving stories taking place now, so that historians in the future will know what was going on in New Jersey in the early 21st century.
 That task, he said, can often be no easier than trying to preserve historic sites from the bulldozer and road grader.
 ''We have tremendous ethnic diversity in this state,'' Mr. Cowell said. ''Think of all the contributions people from all over the world have made here. But unless you record these things, you'll lose it.''
 And that, he said, already has happened. ''Look at the history of the Dutch in New Jersey in the 19th century,'' he said. ''They made a powerful contribution to our growth as an industrial state, but nobody kept their records, and now their story is gone.''
 Today, he said, New Jersey's Asian-Americans are realizing that they have a story to tell, and are trying to record it. But the African-American experience in the state has been difficult to reconstruct because of a lack of records and documents.
 Preservation efforts -- smaller versions of what the state achieved through its purchase of the Colonial-era maps and documents -- are under way at the grass-roots level in almost every county, through local historical societies, museums and specialized groups like the 1,000-member Canal Society of New Jersey. Its mandate is to increase public awareness of the role that canals -- particularly the Morris Canal and the Delaware and Raritan Canal -- played in the development of the state's cities and major industries.
 The Canal Society is working with state and local governments to establish a greenway along the Morris Canal's old right of way, a 102-mile swath that runs from Phillipsburg on the Delaware River to Jersey City on the Hudson. The canal, once one of the nation's busiest, was closed and partly dismantled in 1924. But as sprawl threatens to overtake what remains of this once-busy thoroughfare, the Canal Society has been trying to preserve what is left. It has received three state grants, totaling $1.3 million, to buy property along the old right of way for conversion to recreational use.
 ''If you want to be proud of your history, you have to preserve it,'' Mr. Cowell said. ''That's particularly important in New Jersey, because we're divided into a lot of little communities and so many people are not from here.
 ''Our job in the history community is to make people aware of what the civilized life means. Thank God somebody had the foresight to acquire those documents. That's a step in the right direction.''

 (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Back home: Colonial ledger with marriage licenses. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 ''This kind of material does not come up for auction very often,'' said Joseph Klett, the chief archivist at the State Archives. Left, a marriage bond from 1748. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (71%) Maps; Auctions; Collectors and Collections

ORGANIZATION: Christie's

PERSON: Richard J (Gov) Codey; Jay T Snider; Terry Golway

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (78%) New Jersey; New York Harbor; Ellis Island (NYC); Liberty Island

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



627 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
VAN AMBURG, DR. JAMES E.

 BODY:
 Van AMBURG--Dr. James E. A leading educator in independent schools died on Tuesday, July 26, 2005. He was 59 years old. The cause of death was a cerebral hemorrhage, his wife, Penelope Van Amburg, said. Dr. Van Amburg was the Head of Windward School in White Plains, New York since 1999. Windward is a school for students with language-based learning disabilities. As one of the seminal figures in independent school education, Dr. Van Amburg was educated at Dartmouth College where he received a Bachelor of Arts degree in English with honors and was a Choate Scholar. He attended Columbia University earning a Master of Arts degree in Comparative Literature and was recognized as a University Fellow. His Doctorate in Education was received from Stanford University in Palo Alto, California. ''Dr. VA'' as he was widely known, touched the lives of countless children in hiscareer. From 1984 to 1998, Dr. Van Amburg was the Head of Dwight Englewood School in Englewood, New Jersey. Prior to that he was Director of the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools in Chicago, Illinois, and Superintendent of Schools for The Carlisle School District in Massachusetts. He served as President of the Concord Massachusetts Special Education Collaborative. This position ignited an undying dedication to serve children with special needs. Dr. Van Amburg was committed to making independent education accessible to children who could not otherwise afford it. As a founding trustee of New Jersey S.E.E.D.S., (Scholars Educators Excellence Dedication Success), he was instrumental in identifying and placing economically disadvantaged students throughout the state in independent schools. 
He also served as Director of Project Broad Jump, an enrichment program for gifted students from East Harlem and the South Bronx. He served on the National Association of Independent Schools School Heads Advisory Committee helping shape policies and procedures for over 1,200 independent schools across the United States, Europe and Asia. Dr. Van Amburg was a member of the Education Advisory Council of the New York University Child Study Center. Due to Dr. Van Amburg's wide ranging expertise he was sought after as a board member for independent schools, serving at Kent Place School in Summit, New Jersey, Convent of the Sacred Heart in Greenwich, Connecticut, and Creative Montessori Learning Center in East Palo Alto, California. As a cutting edge researcher and powerful speaker, Dr. Van Amburg served as a lecturer in the University of Chicago's Department of Education and as an instructor at Teachers College Columbia University. Jim Van Amburg was a man of unsurpassed integrity with a vibrant personality filled with life and love for his family, friends and colleagues. His devotion for his dear wife Penelope, his son Noah, daughter-in-law Kim, and his son Nicholas and fiance Cornelia Henning, knew no bounds. He was a loving husband, father, son, and brother. He is remembered and cherished by his immediate family--his mother, Mary Catherine Hosack, his sisters, Kate Van Amburg and Christine Juskewycz and her husband Stephen, and his brother David Van Amburg-and his many friends, colleagues, as well as current and former students. The family has requested that memorial contributions be made to Windward School, 5 Windward Avenue, White Plains, New York 10605 (914-949-6968 x 2281) or to the Human Rights Campaign, 1640 Rhode Island Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20036 (202-628-4160). A memorial service will be held at Windward School, 40 West Red Oak Lane, White Plains, NY 10604 on Sunday, September 11, 2005 at 12:00 p.m. 
 Van AMBURG--Dr. James E. We, the Board, faculty and staff, and the entire community of the Dwight-Englewood School, mourn the loss of a visionary educator, outstanding educational leader, and friend. From 1984-1998, Jim's leadership, as the school's headmaster, enhanced the school's reputation and national recognition for its curricular innovations such as the award-winning Senior Focus Program and the Upper School integrated Math/Science/Technology (MST) curriculum. During his tenure, Jim oversaw the merger with the Bede School, resulting in a preschool-12th grade program. His committment to diversity at DwightEnglewood and to the school's support of the New Jersey SEEDS program has changed many lives and strengthened our community. We will miss him, but his legacy lives on. 
 Van AMBURG--James E., Ed.D. The faculty and staff of the NYU Child Study Center deeply mourn the loss of James E. Van Amburg, Ed.D., head of the Windward School, and one of the founding members of our Education Advisory Council. Jim was an inspirational educator, innovative collaborator and beloved colleague who was dedicated to breaking down the barriers faced by children with learning disabilities. We express our deepest sympathy to his wife Penny and sons Nick and Noah, and to the entire Windward School family. Brooke Garber Neidich Chair, Board of Directors Harold S. Koplewicz, M.D., Director NYU Child Study Center 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MONTESSORI SCHOOLS (78%); GIFTED EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); DISABLED PERSONS (76%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (73%); SPEECH & LANGUAGE DISORDERS (71%); LITERATURE (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (70%); ASIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



628 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Sarah Gall, Richard Pelliccio

 BODY:
Dr. Sarah Gall and Richard J. Pelliccio were married yesterday by the Rev. Paul D. Alcorn at Bedford Presbyterian Church in Bedford, N.Y. 
 The bride, 33, is a fellow in pediatric hematology and oncology at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. She graduated from Rutgers and received her medical degree at the Piscataway campus of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. The bride's father, Norman Gall of Sao Paulo, Brazil, is the executive director there of the Fernand Braudel Institute of World Economics, a policy-research organization. Her mother, Susan Gall of Highland Park, N.J., is an administrative assistant in the East Brunswick, N.J., offices of Merck & Company, the pharmaceuticals maker.
 The bridegroom, 36, is an associate specializing in litigation in the New York office of Schnader Harrison Segal & Lewis, a law firm. He graduated magna cum laude from the University of Notre Dame, where he also received his law degree. His mother, Karen Pelliccio of Mount Vernon, N.Y., teaches kindergarten at the Graham School there.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Manjit Kaur) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONCOLOGY (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); PATHOLOGY (88%); CANCER (88%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (87%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (87%); LAW SCHOOLS (87%); LEGAL SERVICES (85%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (85%); DENTISTRY (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LITIGATION (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SCHNADER HARRISON SEGAL & LEWIS LLP (83%); MERCK & CO INC (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (72%)

ORGANIZATION: MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (58%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (56%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (83%); MRK (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (75%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



629 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2199 words

HEADLINE: The Sniffer vs. the Cybercrooks

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

 BODY:
THE investment bank, despite billions in annual revenue and the small squadron of former police, military and security officers on its payroll, was no match for Mark Seiden. 
 ''Tell me the things you most want to keep secret,'' Mr. Seiden challenged a top executive at the bank a few years back. The executive listed two. One involved the true identities of clients negotiating deals so hush-hush that even people inside the bank referred to them by using a code name. The other was the financial details of those mergers and acquisitions.
A week later, Mr. Seiden again sat in this man's office in Manhattan, in possession of both supposedly guarded secrets. As a bonus, he also had in hand a pilfered batch of keys that would give him entry into this company's offices scattered around the globe, photocopies of the floor plans for each office and a suitcase stuffed with backup tapes that would have allowed him to replicate all the files on the bank's computer system. 
 ''Basically, that all came from working nights over a single weekend,'' he said with a canary-eating smile that seemed equal parts mischief and pride.
 Mr. Seiden is what some people inside the security industry call a ''sniffer'': someone who is paid to twist doorknobs for a living, to see which are safely locked and which are left dangerously unsecured. Clients sometimes hire Mr. Seiden, a former computer programmer, to buttress the security systems that protect their computers and other precious corporate assets. But primarily, large corporations turn to him to test the vulnerability of their networks. 
 ''Mark is one of the more respected people out there doing this kind of work,'' said Bruce Schneier, a security expert and the author of ''Beyond Fear: Thinking Sensibly About Security in an Uncertain World.'' Mr. Schneier called him ''one of the good guys.''
 And for Mr. Seiden and others practicing the strange craft of intrusion detection, business has never been better. As data-security breaches at places like ChoicePoint and LexisNexis have made headlines, there has been a ''tremendous surge in vulnerability assessments'' in recent months, said Howard A. Schmidt, a former chief security officer at Microsoft who has also worked inside the White House on cybersecurity issues. 
 Indeed, purloined Social Security and credit card numbers are the new top prizes of the 21st-century cybercriminal. ''In the early days of the Internet, breaking into systems was about bragging rights. It was about technical prowess. It was breaking into systems just to break in,'' said Mr. Schmidt, who is now working as an independent security consultant in Issaquah, Wash. ''Now what we're seeing are economic crimes in a way we've never seen before.'' 
 That is why corporations and other large organizations are increasingly turning to people like Mr. Seiden to assess the soundness of their security systems. No one knows how many people make their living doing what people in the industry call penetration testing, though clearly their numbers are climbing. The most recent Computer Crime and Security Survey -- released earlier this month by the F.B.I. and Computer Security Institute, an information security trade group -- said that more than 87 percent of the organizations they polled conduct regular security audits, up from 82 percent a year earlier. 
 ''Since the beginning of the calendar year we've seen a great increase in the number of calls from enterprises looking for someone to do security vulnerability testing for them,'' said Kelly M. Kavanagh, an analyst who tracks the security industry for Gartner Inc., a technology research group. 
 CORPORATIONS in North America spent more than $2 billion on outside security consultants in 2004, Mr. Kavanagh said. That was up 14 percent from the previous year. 
 As a result of all that spending, a large organization's data center -- whether it holds a company's most precious trade secrets or the credit card numbers of millions of customers -- is generally much better protected than it was just a few years ago. Yet that has meant only that the bad guys, and those in the business of thwarting them, must become more creative.
 ''Most systems are like this Tootsie Roll Pop,'' Mr. Seiden said. ''They have this hard, crunchy outside, but they're very gooey and soft inside. And once you get past that crunchy outside and you're inside, you can do anything.'' Nowadays, cybercriminals are more likely to gain access to a computer system by picking a lock or cleverly bluffing their way inside a building than by outsmarting those who run a company's data center. 
 To keep pace, sniffers must do their best to think like an enterprising thief. Mr. Seiden, who divides his time between residences in Manhattan and Silicon Valley, has a closetful of uniforms he has gathered rummaging through thrift shops and browsing on eBay. The collection includes the distinctive purple and green polo shirts worn by FedEx drivers, shirts from various architectural design firms and the windbreaker worn by the Iron Mountain employees who drive their homely Ford Econoline 350's around America's streets picking up backup files -- and, occasionally, losing those files. (In May, Time Warner, one of Iron Mountain's clients, disclosed that the Social Security numbers of 600,000 of its current and former employees went missing while in Iron Mountain's care.) 
 Mr. Seiden is also apparently quite handy with the tools that criminals use to pick locks, and he is something of a legend inside security circles for figuring out that the easiest way for an intruder to get inside a locked room is sometimes through the ceiling, in the space between the actual ceiling and the tiles dropped down a couple of feet to make room for ventilation equipment.
 ''Mark is known for his more creative solutions to security problems,'' Mr. Schneier said. 
 Mr. Seiden's girlfriend complains that the two of them will visit a museum but that he will barely take time to notice the art because he's too busy assessing the security system. He will visit a new apartment and provide, unbidden, a critique of the building's buzzer system, the relative worthiness of the front door and the cheap hunk of brass that most people would consider a worthy lock. Walking down the street, Mr. Seiden seems almost offended when passing a storefront that has an oversized safe, seemingly impenetrable, sitting in plain sight. 
 ''All I'd have to do is put up a tiny camera here,'' he says, shaking his head, ''and I'd have a recording of the combination when someone unlocks it.'' 
 In Mr. Seiden's presence, it's easy to find yourself feeling suddenly paranoid. Passing an automated teller machine prompts him to recount the time an employee of an A.T.M. manufacturer was arrested, suspected of putting a piece of hacked code inside around 100 machines -- a surreptitious way for a band of thieves to capture people's secret passwords and the data embedded on their swipe cards. And don't even get him started about airports and the security flaws he spots every time he travels.
 Standing 5-foot-7, Mr. Seiden is shaped vaguely like the Buddha. He is 54 years old and friendly in a way that makes it easier for him to talk his way into places. He seems to have a gift for blending in; he says he finds that if he carries a clipboard and looks officious, no one bothers to question his presence. But he is a man with a robust ego who enjoys the limelight. He wears glasses and a thick beard littered with gray and, when not in costume, he tends to dress in classic high geek: sandals and shorts, even when there's a decided chill in the air, and T-shirts that are either tie-died or freebies that promote an obscure technology product. 
 Mr. Seiden seems the computer-world equivalent of the police officer motivated to join the force at least in part by his desire to drive too fast and to carry a gun. His eyes twinkle playfully when sharing his tricks of the trade, like his propensity for lingering around a taco truck while construction workers are on break and then casually walking among them, hard hat under arm, suddenly inside a supposedly secure site. 
 In a sense, Mr. Seiden's career as an accomplished intruder working on the side of good began while he attended Columbia University in the late 1960's. He studied mathematics and linguistics but, as he described it, spent most of his time working at the radio station. He was at Columbia when students commandeered buildings and the police sprayed the protesters with tear gas. To gain access to the story as it was unfolding, he learned the tunnel system that honeycombed the campus and figured out how to pick locks so that he could enter from below the buildings that students were occupying.
 He taught himself computer programming while attending the Bronx High School of Science. His earliest jobs were as a computer scientist inside some of the country's more prestigious research facilities and technology companies, including I.B.M. and Bell Laboratories. His resume from those years also includes stints as a recording engineer and one doing the sound and lighting for a dance troupe. In 1983, feeling burned out after two years at a Silicon Valley start-up, he ventured out on his own, hanging out his shingle as a computer consultant. Seven years later, a friend asked his help in designing a system that allowed people to use a credit card safely over the Internet -- and Mr. Seiden was hooked. From that day, network security became his specialty.
 ''If you're serious about creating a secure system, you need two people to do it,'' he said. ''You need someone who sets it up and one who checks it. Different people see different things; people have different strengths. And people make mistakes.''
 Mr. Seiden may qualify as something of a supergeek, but over time he has found that it's often the nontechnical and mundane that he is best able to exploit. A perfect example is that investment bank whose most precious secrets he was able to learn in only a few days. (Mr. Seiden would talk about the bank, a widely recognized brand, only if its name was not used.) 
 The bank may have had in place some of the best security software that money could buy, but just by having a badge that the bank routinely grants outside consultants, he was able to roam the building as he wanted. That badge didn't grant him access to the computer room, but it didn't matter. He figured out the location of the facilities department and discovered that the schematics for the bank's headquarters, and the master keys, were stored inside a filing cabinet that it took a minute or two for him to pick. 
 While strolling around, he also found the backup tapes to the bank's central computers sitting in suitcases, ''so I walked away with a set of backups,'' he said.
 WITH a master key, he knew that he could get into any office in the bank's main headquarters. Then he used what he fancifully called ''social engineering techniques'' -- meaning that he picked up a phone and, pretending to be a banker inside the company, called the accounting department, and asked: Whom should someone contact to assign a code name to a project? 
 ''The clerk who assigned code words left that stuff in folder in a file cabinet,'' he said. ''It was in a locked area in a locked office -- so why would she have to lock the file cabinet?'' Of course, even if she had locked the file cabinet, Mr. Seiden would have been able to pick the lock. 
 In the end, however, there is only so much that can -- or should -- be done to keep the villainous at bay. ''Given a decent budget, I can break into any network,'' said Mr. Schneier, the author. ''The real question is to what extent is it critical to defend.'' Vulnerability testing is something that any company must do, he said, but security is always a matter of trade-offs. As security experts like Mr. Schneier often say, one could build a more secure house if it had no windows, but no one would want to live there. 
 ''You need to recognize that you're not going to make a system 100 percent safe,'' said Richard Mogull, a Gartner analyst specializing in security. ''But the truth is that 99.9 percent of the people you're protecting against have only rudimentary skills. And as much fun as it is to tell stories how you can get into almost any place, the reality is that you can waste a lot of time finding that one chink in the armor.''
 Mr. Seiden doesn't disagree that the benefits of vulnerability testing are limited. He tells of the six weeks he spent in Asia this year on behalf of a giant Internet company, one of his best clients. There he tested the security of the sites the company uses to house the computers that serve up its Web pages. 
 After Mr. Seiden proved that he could break into those facilities, his client installed video cameras so it could monitor the sites remotely. 
 ''Basically you can't prevent a determined adversary who has unlimited resources from breaching security,'' he said. ''What you want to do is prevent yourself from being taken and not know about it. At least if you know about it, you know what's been compromised and you can fix it up afterward.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A former computer programmer, Mark Seiden says sniffers, or professionals who test a computer network's security, must do their best to think like an enterprising cyberthief. (Photo by Jonathan Player for The New York Times)(pg. 7)
 Mark Seiden tests the vulnerability of corporate computer networks to hackers. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CYBERCRIME (89%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (78%); MERGERS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (78%); DATA SECURITY (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); IDENTITY THEFT (71%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (66%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (55%) Computers and the Internet; Computer Security; Identity Fraud

COMPANY: CHOICEPOINT INC (52%); LEXISNEXIS GROUP (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Choicepoint Inc; Lexis-Nexis Inc

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561499 ALL OTHER BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES (52%); NAICS524298 ALL OTHER INSURANCE RELATED ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (52%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (52%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (52%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: Mark Seiden; Gary Rivlin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



630 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: If Interest Rates Turn Upside Down, Look Out

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
ALAN GREENSPAN, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, is upbeat -- but still worried. Inflation, energy prices and stubbornly low longer-term interest rates top his list of ''significant uncertainties'' about the economic outlook.
 The important question for investors is how these uncertainties will influence the central bank's course, with the federal funds rate, its benchmark short-term interest rate, having already climbed 2.25 points, to 3.25 percent, since June 2004.
Mr. Greenspan said in his recent semiannual testimony before Congress that he was concerned about the upturn in unit labor costs. And, of course, record oil and gasoline prices can also increase overall inflation. If worrisome signs of inflation persist, many analysts would expect the Fed to keep tightening. 
 But high oil and gasoline prices could cut the other way, as Mr. Greenspan noted, and slow economic growth. If slow growth is the problem, the Fed would be more likely to ease its tightening, analysts have said. 
 On the refusal of longer-term interest rates to rise, analysts are less sure of how the Fed would respond. On Friday, the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note was 4.28 percent, well below the 4.69 percent of June 29, 2004, the day before the Fed made the first of nine quarter-point increases in short-term rates. Mr. Greenspan said in his testimony that this stubborn behavior ''is clearly without precedent in our recent experience.''
 Does this abnormally low 10-year yield, which has played a big role in keeping mortgage rates so cheap, mean that the Fed will have to raise short-term rates even higher than might be expected? Is that what it will take to increase mortgage rates and cool the housing boom that is fueling consumer spending? And was this the message that Mr. Greenspan was sending in his carefully worded Congressional testimony?
 A close reading of the prepared text could lead to that conclusion. Mr. Greenspan moved from a discussion of the surprising behavior of longer-term interest rates directly into the froth in the housing market. And, he added, rising real longer-term rates are necessary to restrain the buildup in home equity that finances ''a noticeable share'' of consumer spending. 
 Robert V. DiClemente, chief United States economist at Citigroup, said that Mr. Greenspan ''has come down pretty clearly on the side that these rates are a policy headwind and that you can see that in the housing market.'' Mr. DiClemente added that ''the low bond yields are a factor that is encouraging the Fed to continue with the rate hikes.''
 Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at ITG in Rye Brook, N.Y., disagrees. He argues that the Fed has gotten the economic growth and inflation that it expected when it started raising the federal funds rate in June 2004. ''It is not true that the stimulus from the bond yield has produced an economy they don't want,'' he said of Fed policy makers. ''This does not make the case for a more dramatic tightening.''
 Only Fed policy makers will resolve this issue. But the debate suggests how difficult it must be for them to decide whether they have raised interest rates enough. Some Fed policy makers have acknowledged that it is only after they have finished raising rates that they realize they may have gone further than necessary. 
 James Glassman, senior United States economist at J.P. Morgan, says that there is one thing that will make the Fed leery of going too far. That is the prospect of a so-called inverted yield curve. The yield curve is the gradation of interest rates from short term to long term. It usually slopes upward; that is, longer-term yields are higher than shorter-term yields. It is inverted when short-term yields are higher.
 WITH the yield on the Treasury's three-month bill at 3.40 percent and the yield on the 30-year bond at 4.47 percent, an inversion may not be far away. If the Fed raises its funds rate by a quarter of a point at each of its four remaining meetings this year, the yield on the three-month bill would be 4.40 percent, and it's possible that the 30-year yield would remain stubbornly low.
 Wall Street, which focuses more on the portion of the curve between the Treasury's 2-year and 10-year notes, could find evidence of an inversion much sooner. On Friday, the 2-year yield was 4.01 percent, compared with a 10-year yield of 4.28 percent. A quarter-point increase in the fed funds rate in August could tip the balance.
 That is a concern because many analysts, including those at the Fed, say an inverted yield curve is often a precursor of real trouble. ''Nobody,'' Mr. Glassman said, ''wants to invert the yield curve because you know there is a risk of a recession.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Narrowing Gap''Short- and longer-term interest rates are now only about one percentage point apart.Graph tracks the 10-year Treasury yield and federal funds target rate for 2004 and 2005.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INTEREST RATES (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (85%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); BOND MARKETS (71%) United States Economy; Interest Rates; Credit

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%) Jonathan Fuerbringer; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



631 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: Will Fame and Fortune Change Utility Stocks?

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
IF technology stocks are the market's equivalent of Ferraris in the fast lane, then utilities are Volvos driven down Main Street at two miles an hour below the speed limit. They are bought for safety and stability, not high performance.
 Until lately, that is. Indexes of utility stocks have doubled since their lows of October 2002, far outpacing the rest of the stock market. It has been the sector's sharpest rally since World War II.
The move has also produced high valuations, making some professional investors cautious. Others are unfazed; they acknowledge that the sector is not as cheap as it was, but they also say that it may not be as richly valued as a pessimist may contend. And they assert that the factors that sent prices higher are still in force. 
 One of the skeptics is Edward Yardeni, chief investment strategist at Oak Associates. ''I wish I'd owned them two years ago,'' Mr. Yardeni said. ''They've had a good run, but they're back to being fully valued. It's unlikely they'll keep running like this.''
 Based on its estimates of earnings over the next year, Morgan Stanley reckons that the average price-to-earnings ratio of companies in its utility index is 94 percent of the P/E of the Standard & Poor's 500 index. That is one reason the bank advises keeping less money in the sector than its weight in the S.&P. 500 warrants. Tim O'Brien, who manages two utility funds for Evergreen Investment Management, says that this near-parity in valuations has not occurred since at least the 1950's. He finds this troubling and warns investors not to expect further outsized gains. ''The bulk of the significant outperformance is behind us,'' he said.
 Still, Robert Becker, a manager of utility funds for Cohen & Steers, said the stability of utilities could bring in more buyers. ''We believe we're in a low-return environment,'' Mr. Becker said. ''Companies with predictable earnings and cash-flow growth are attractive, and utilities offer that.''
 They also offer growth potential through mergers, he said. A bill passed by Congress last week allows utilities greater latitude to buy one another. If President Bush signs it, as expected, the sector may lure new investors, in Mr. Becker's opinion.
 Richard Bernstein, a market strategist at Merrill Lynch, is hopeful, too, in part because Mr. Becker's enthusiasm for utilities is not widely shared. The absence of much desire to hop on the bandwagon after the rally, contrary to Wall Street custom, is one reason that Mr. Bernstein describes utilities as ''our favorite sector.''
 Investors are underestimating utilities' earnings growth, he said, while counting on growth from economically sensitive sectors when the country's expansion may be running out of steam. ''The only sector that is supposed to have accelerating earnings in '04 to '06 is utilities,'' he said. ''They're like salmon swimming upstream. They deserve a superior valuation.''
 Giving utilities more credit and factoring in a more modest outlook for other industries ''does take away the egregious overvaluation that people worry about,'' Mr. Bernstein said.
 It was just a few years ago that the sector was egregiously undervalued, with a P/E barely 40 percent of the S.&P. 500's, by Morgan Stanley's calculation. That discount was a byproduct of the taint from ''Enron and the Enron wannabes,'' Mr. O'Brien said.
 The Enron bankruptcy and scandal, and efforts by other companies to expand their business mix beyond power generation and other staid activities considered traditional for utilities, led to a ''reign of terror'' by credit rating agencies, he said.
 Utilities are big borrowers, so they are especially sensitive to the opinions of firms that judge creditworthiness. Those firms advised many utilities that their ratings would be cut if they did not reduce debt on their books, Mr. O'Brien explained.
 Utilities scrambled to sell new shares to pay down the debt, sending their stock prices lower. ''It got pretty ugly,'' Mr. O'Brien said. 
 After ''the debacle of '01, '02,'' he said, life became better for utilities. Rating downgrades abated, and yields on long-term government bonds plunged.
 Bonds and utilities tend to appeal to the same sort of investor: someone interested in safety and income. When bond yields fall, the dividend yields on utilities become more attractive and shares are snapped up. The 2003 tax cut on dividend income provided an additional incentive to buy.
 The lower tax rates had the effect of raising dividend yields in the hands of investors, but Mr. Yardeni says the increase in share prices has more than made up for the gain.
 ''The dividends are worth more after taxes, and that's why P/E's went up,'' he said. ''But they are no bargains now. The stocks are fully valued even after factoring in the lower tax rates.''
 Mr. Becker crunches the numbers differently. The after-tax yield on utilities, compared with Treasury bond yields, remains higher than the historical average, he said.
 Dividends are important to Mr. Becker, who calls himself a traditionalist. He prefers owning utilities that operate in regulated markets, where the stability of earnings allows for high dividend payments.
 Within that segment of the industry, he favors companies that have opportunities to sell excess output elsewhere at whatever price the market will bear. Some examples are the Southern Company and Exelon.
 Another holding is Duke Energy. Apart from the straight-ahead utility, Duke is engaged in a number of businesses -- it processes natural gas and owns pipelines -- that could be spun out into separate entities, enhancing value to shareholders, he said.
 Now that share prices have soared, Mr. O'Brien looks abroad for companies he thinks offer better-than-average growth prospects, but without higher-than-average risk or valuations. His favorites include British water companies like Kelda, United Utilities and Pennon.
 ''They offer really good earnings growth,'' he said, ''and they just went through a five-year regulatory review and got a good deal.'' Earnings growth of 8 to 12 percent a year is ''locked in'' for that period, he said.
 Other European holdings include two German electricity producers, Eon and RWE.
 In the United States, Mr. O'Brien likes Exelon and TXU for their ''above-average earnings growth and above-average sensitivity to energy prices.''
 Unless they operate in states with strong regulatory constraints, utilities adjust the prices they command for electricity, based on the cost of the most expensive source of energy. When oil and gas are expensive, companies that produce much of their power from cheaper sources like nuclear energy and coal can widen their margins.
 That is especially true in the sweltering conditions that much of the country has faced lately, Mr. O'Brien said. Hot weather tends to coincide with higher oil and gas prices, increasing the price discrepancies with other fuel sources.
 Mr. Bernstein rates Cinergy, Constellation Energy and Entergy highly for their ability to benefit from differences in fuel prices. He also likes several high-yielding utilities that are less free to raise customers' rates, including PG&E, Progress Energy, FPL, Dominion and Ameren.
 Utilities can't maintain their high-octane performance forever, but if Mr. Bernstein's and Mr. Becker's assessments are accurate, there may be plenty of mileage left in the stocks.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christophe Vorlet)Chart: ''Better Bets''Stocks of utility companies have outperformed the overall market since their low in October 2002.Graph tracks S.& P. 500 Utilities index and S.& P. 500-stock index, weekly changes since Oct. 9, 2002.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); LEGISLATION (84%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); SPEED LIMITS (78%); CASH FLOW (77%); DIVESTITURES (71%); WORLD WAR II (56%) Stocks and Bonds; Electric Light and Power; Law and Legislation; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); WELLS FARGO & CO (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); COHEN & STEERS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Cohen & Steers Inc; Merrill Lynch & Co Inc

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (56%); MS (NYSE) (55%); CNS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (75%) Robert Becker; George W (Pres) Bush; Richard Bernstein; Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



632 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; For Native Sons, Less Favor at Home; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Like Other Governors, Pataki May Find A Soft Springboard to a Presidential Bid

BYLINE: By PATRICK D. HEALY

 BODY:
When Gov. George E. Pataki disclosed on Wednesday that he would not seek a fourth term in 2006, about the only person who cared enough to have a party was Mr. Pataki. As likable as he might be, his poll numbers suggest that voters are more than ready for him to move on to retirement.
 Yet when Mr. Pataki visited Iowa this month, to gauge whether voters there would support him in the state's 2008 presidential caucuses, a good half-dozen Iowans hailed him as a hero of 9/11. Even more said they remembered and appreciated him for projecting defiance on television, and thought he had the stature of a national leader.
''He showed he could bring New York together after 9/11, and we need someone who can bring the country together like that,'' said Diane Crookham-Johnson, a leading Iowa Republican fund-raiser, who accompanied Mr. Pataki to a county fair. 
 With Mr. Pataki now sending clear signals that he is exploring a presidential bid, New York fell in line with a long national tradition: sizing up its ambitious native sons far differently from the way voters in the other 49 states might.
 If some Empire State households were skeptical of the notion of Mr. Pataki as presidential material, it's worth remembering the disbelief among some Arkansans that Bill Clinton had the right stuff to win the White House. Some Californians doubted that Ronald Reagan, their movie star ex-governor, would ever succeed on the national stage. But it was perhaps a peanut farmer from Georgia who best proved the axiom that native sons get no respect, when an Atlanta newspaper editor wrote a column under the headline ''Jimmy Carter's Running for What?''
 ''Governor Jimmy Carter's timing was just right,'' the column read, according to the 1976 book ''Jimmy Who?'' by Leslie Wheeler. ''The state needed a good belly laugh, and Carter obliged by announcing he would run for president.''
 If some local Republicans were cheering on the governor last week, and others were rolling their eyes at the notion of a President Pataki, many responded with a shrug: Most politicians think they should be president, so why be surprised that the governor of a large state for 10 1/2 years would act any differently? Especially one who has been known to say, half-jokingly, that he benefits from low expectations?
 ''Politicians from small states need favored-son status the most to help them move along, while most governors from New York are on the list for potential presidents: ask Cuomo, Rockefeller, Dewey and maybe Pataki,'' said United States Representative Thomas M. Reynolds, a Republican ally of the governor's. ''But it can be tough going at home. Sometimes the political establishment is toughest on the ones they know best.''
 Average voters, too, gave John Kerry a hard time on the eve of the most important moment in his presidential campaign last summer, when he was met with a scattering of boos at Fenway Park as he threw out the opening pitch just before the Democratic convention began in Boston.
 Massachusetts voters fell in strongly for Mr. Kerry on Election Day, but not without pausing to reflect on whether their junior senator really represented the best of themselves. Surveying voters, one newspaper article summed up their views of Mr. Kerry ''as a perpetually fuzzy figure, tall and craggy-jawed, but hard to define.''
 ''Many residents queried said they couldn't think of much to say about him at all,'' read the article, in The Boston Globe.
 The New York Observer Politicker Web site leveled a similar indictment of Mr. Pataki on Friday: ''The word 'Pataki' doesn't have a meaning in the vocabulary of politics. We know what Clintonite means, what it means to call someone Bush-lite or Giuliani-plus. So who's a Patakiite? What's Patakiism?''
 This sort of home-state navel gazing is of little influence to voters in Iowa, New Hampshire and other states with early presidential primaries and caucuses. But whatever advantage Mr. Pataki has as a blank slate in those states could become a liability by the same reasoning, if his opponents successfully pin an ill-fitting label or two onto his clean political lapel: ''pro-gun control,'' say, or ''pro-gay'' or ''pro-abortion rights.'' All of those apply in varying degrees to Mr. Pataki, but far less to many voters in Republican primaries.
 Defining politicians with a single issue like abortion can happen anywhere, but burdening them with zinging caricatures often starts at home, by people who can view them as prophets without honor.
 Mr. Kerry was lampooned in Massachusetts for skipping votes in the Senate while campaigning for president, and the image of him as caring most about his own interests stuck with some voters. The News & Observer in Raleigh, N.C., ran editorial cartoons that exaggerated the toothy smile and studied folksiness of Senator John Edwards during his national bid in 2004. And for years, Gov. Mario Cuomo put up with the sort of catcalls that The Post-Standard of Syracuse recorded in 1991 during a Draft-Mario presidential poll.
 ''Heavens, no!'' Robert P. Weber of Canastota told the newspaper, adding: ''If he gets elected, 'Money Mad Mario' would ruin this country. As a New York voter we should know better.''
 Mr. Kerry and Mr. Cuomo were still holding office when they felt presidential stirrings, so voters were more attuned to loving or hating them. Mr. Pataki will step down at the end of 2006; whether his adversaries in the Legislature will make mischief for him before that, or voters will feel sentimental about him afterward, could shape the image of Mr. Pataki in the national news media and early primary states.
 Michael S. Dukakis, who was governor of Massachusetts when he was the Democratic presidential nominee in 1988, was influenced by both the boom and bust felt among voters back home: He ran on an economic platform of the so-called Massachusetts Miracle, when indicators like the state unemployment rate were so positive. But he lost -- and if people do not like politicians as a rule, they like losing politicians even less.
 ''I screwed up the general election, and then we got hit by a recession that nobody was forecasting, and there was a terrible psychological reaction,'' Mr. Dukakis recalled. 
 Whether Mr. Pataki would receive a warm send-off to the presidential hustings seems unlikely (though voters can be fickle). A Quinnipiac University poll in May found that 77 percent of New York respondents said they would not like to see Mr. Pataki run for president, and 16 percent said that they would. And according to a February New York Times poll, which put a choice of two candidates to registered voters statewide, 55 percent preferred that former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani run for president, and 16 percent opted for Mr. Pataki. Twenty-three percent said they wanted neither to run.
 Fred Siegel, a Cooper Union professor and the author of ''The Prince of the City,'' a largely flattering biography of Mr. Giuliani, argued that Mr. Pataki might not fully realize the trouble he could face if he went national. Putting aside the governor's moderate-to-liberal views in a party of conservatives for a moment, Mr. Siegel noted that many New Yorkers still felt just as overtaxed as they did when Mr. Cuomo was in office. Yet a centerpiece of Mr. Pataki's sales pitch in Iowa and New Hampshire will be his record cutting taxes and pursuing fiscal conservatism, according to his advisers.
 Discrepancies between home-state perceptions and Mr. Pataki's rose-colored message could lead to skeptical news media coverage of him in places like New Hampshire, which has long opposed adopting an income tax or much higher levies.
 Yet Michael R. Long, chairman of the state Conservative Party, which has backed both tax cuts and Mr. Pataki, said the governor still had 17 months to make a good record even better.
 ''There's a lot of enthusiasm for the governor's stewardship,'' Mr. Long said, ''and he has time to mold even stronger support with his last budget in 2006.''
 If Mr. Pataki were to run in 2008, perhaps the decisive reflection of New Yorkers' judgment would come if he won the state's Republican primary against other rivals, or carried it on Election Day as the Republican nominee.
 ''I would say it depends who his opponents are,'' Mr. Long said, noting that Mr. Giuliani and a certain Democratic senator from New York might also run. ''But George Pataki has won New York three times already. Doesn't that show how people feel about him?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jimmy Carter, a governor whose presidential aspirations initially drew skepticism in Georgia, his home state. One newspaper printed a column headlined ''Jimmy Carter's Running for What?'' There was also skepticism in the home states of the presidential candidates Ronald Reagan, below far left, Michael S. Dukakis, Bill Clinton and John Kerry. (Photo by Associated Press, 1975)
(Photo by Kuni/Associated Press, 1998)
(Photo by Associated Press, 1967)
(Photo by Ken Heinen, 1987)
 (Photo by Jon Lasseigne/Associated Press, 1991)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CELEBRITIES (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); PEANUT FARMING (50%) Presidential Elections (US); Primaries; Presidential Election of 2008; Presidential Elections (US); Public Opinion; Governors (US)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); BILL CLINTON (90%); JIMMY CARTER (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); THOMAS M REYNOLDS (52%) Patrick D Healy; Bill Clinton; Ronald Wilson (1911-2004) Reagan; Jimmy Carter; George E (Gov) Pataki; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (68%) IOWA, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Iowa; New Hampshire; Arkansas; California; Massachusetts; Georgia

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005

 
