

801 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: Kazakh Bank Lost Billions In Western Investments

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
 In the last few years, big banks have found many surprising ways to lose billions of dollars by making loans that turned sour. But few can match the odd tale involving Kazakhstan and a little-known bank that many Western financiers wish had remained so to them.
 From 2003 to 2008, the likes of Credit Suisse, Morgan Stanley, Royal Bank of Scotland, ING and others funneled more than $10 billion in loans into Kazakhstan's largest bank, Bank Turalem, as the large Central Asian country enjoyed a growth boom spurred by its rich deposits of oil and natural gas. 
 So many of these loans are now bust that many foreign banks are facing write-offs of as much as 80 percent of their value, prompting investigations into why the loans went so bad so fast, according to officials at Bank Turalem, which was taken over by the government earlier this year. Hoping to become the dominant bank in the region, BTA, as the bank is known, cast its eye well beyond Kazakhstan and lent billions of dollars to finance vast real estate projects in Russia and Ukraine, as well as offshore companies with vague business plans and no trading histories to speak of, according to executives at BTA who did not want to be identified because of the sensitivity of the matter. The money went to companies with names like Best Catch Trading and Sandown Holding, based in places as diverse as the Seychelles, the British Virgin Islands and England, that offered up little in the way of collateral, according to these executives.
 Among other things, prosecutors in Kazakhstan and a team of international lawyers and accountants hired by Bank Turalem are investigating whether the foreign banks may have unwittingly financed a scheme by BTA's former chairman, Mukhtar Ablyazov, to direct between $8 billion and $12 billion worth of BTA loans -- about half of the bank's loan book -- to companies that he secretly controlled, according to lawyers representing BTA as well as prosecutors in Kazakhstan. 
 Mr. Ablyazov denies the allegations, insisting that the loans were proper and that the investigation is politically inspired because he has been a critic of the government. 
 Mr. Ablyazov is a longtime political opponent of Nursultan Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan's authoritarian president, and he fled Kazakhstan for London just days before the government took over BTA this February, fearing a government crackdown. 
 Whether the investigation reveals the foreign banks to have been careless, naive or hoodwinked about how the loans would be used, the losses point to a recurring problem for supposedly smart and sophisticated international bankers. In past decades, international banks have rushed headlong into hot markets like Mexico and Argentina, and later into Thailand and Russia, only to suffer huge losses. 
 Ignoring or forgetting lessons learned from those debacles, institutions poured billions of dollars to help finance property developments in Ireland, the global expansion of Icelandic banks and subprime mortgages in the United States, only to see much of that money evaporate.
 ''Capital markets have no memories,'' said Richard Portes, a professor of economics at the London Business School. ''Bankers simply charge premium spreads high enough to take defaults and still end up, on average, with profitable lending.''
 Currently embroiled in arduous talks with BTA over restructuring their debt in hopes of trimming their losses, foreign bankers claim they did their homework before making the loans, although none would publicly discuss their relationship with BTA and its controversial chairman. 
 Deloitte, the accounting firm that is advising a steering committee representing the foreign banks, did not respond to a request for comment. In a statement, Credit Suisse, which lent close to $1.1 billion to BTA, the most of any bank, said its current exposure to BTA was immaterial to its financial condition and that ''all transactions with BTA went through established due diligence procedures.'' But, while BTA may have been the flavor of the day for international lenders, questions were being raised about it closer to home.
 ''BTA was one of the least transparent banks here, and there were a whole bunch of transactions prior to the seizure that indicated extremely lax banking,'' said Michael Carter, the chief executive of Visor Capital, an investment bank based in Kazakhstan. ''But Kazakhstan was very sexy at the time, and foreign banks were just shoveling in money, so much so that that banks here had more money than they knew what to do with.''
 Mr. Ablyazov, 46, a small, energetic man who made his first fortune importing cars from Lithuania, maintains that the loans that BTA made were legitimate. He claims that the $9 billion charge against profits that the bank declared after he left -- as well as the government takeover of the bank -- represent the final stage of a plot by President Nazarbayev to wrest BTA from him. 
 ''We have been a profitable and transparent bank, with $538 million in profits in 2007,'' said Mr. Ablyazov in an interview through an interpreter in London. 
 As he sees it, the robust support he garnered from international banks was an endorsement of his plan to remake BTA in the image of HSBC, the hugely successful international bank that grew from its roots as a colonial bank financing trade between China and Britain. He scoffs at the allegation that his ultimate aim was to siphon off profits.
 ''We would do all this just to misdeal money? That would be a strange criminal to make a plan like this,'' he said.
 It may be some time before investigations determine if Mr. Ablyazov did anything illegal at BTA or is just the target of a political witch hunt. 
 But BTA has already filed a civil suit against Mr. Ablyazov on a narrower claim in a British court that he misappropriated $295 million in bank funds last year; a judge ruled this month that the charges were serious enough to support the continued freezing of his assets. 
 What is not in dispute is that, even by the loose standards of the credit boom, few banks lent as aggressively as BTA. Between 2003 and 2007, the amount of its loans outstanding grew by an extraordinary 1,100 percent. Like many other banks in less developed countries, BTA relied heavily on foreign funds, as opposed to customer deposits, to propel its loan growth -- so much so that its ratio of loans to deposits peaked at 3.6 to 1 in 2007, one of the highest anywhere in the world. 
 Mr. Ablyazov maintains that BTA would have paid off its loans had he remained at the helm and that the enormous charge-off was a ploy by Mr. Nazarbayev to seize control of BTA and damage a political rival's reputation.
 Lawyers and BTA executives contend that many of the offshore companies were controlled by Mr. Ablyazov, and BTA lawyers are now trying to determine whether the loans were used to provide billions of dollars to Mr. Ablyazov's own real estate projects -- in particular, a 4,700-acre development outside Moscow in which BTA has a $1.5 billion credit exposure.
 Although his title was chairman, Mr. Ablyazov took a hands-on approach when it came to the bank's lending, even sitting on the regional credit committee that oversaw many of the questionable loans. 
 In its 2008 report on BTA, Ernst & Young, the bank's auditor, highlighted this unusual arrangement, citing it as a conflict of interest that ''potentially contributed to the issuance of loans to offshore companies, which became uncollectible in 2008.'' 
 Mr. Ablyazov disputes this claim, saying that he had headed this committee for three years without complaint from his auditor, and that the bank's credit operationswere transparent.
 Nikolay Varenko, the deputy chairman of BTA and the executive leading the bank's internal investigation into Mr. Ablyazov's activities, disagrees. 
 ''The bank was like an investment fund for his own personal projects,'' he said.
 For Mr. Ablyazov, the question of how he deployed BTA's loan book is just the latest in a series of battles he has been waging with President Nazarbayev.
 And while he may well have his enemies, few question his bravery. 
 In 2001, he and several other reform-minded businessmen founded the Democratic Choice of Kazakhstan Party, the first opposition party to challenge Mr. Nazarbayev on the ground that he and his network of family insiders were monopolizing economic and political power.
 A year later, he was sentenced to six years behind bars on charges related to his time as head of the government electricity company. Mr. Ablyazov claims the charges were politically motivated. He served a little over a year in Kazakhstan prison, where he says he was subjected to numerous beatings and other forms of torture.
 After pressure from international human rights organizations, Mr. Ablyazov was released in 2003. In 2005 he took full control of BTA. 
 These days, he rents a 15,000-square-foot mansion on Bishops Avenue in London, one of London's most exclusive neighborhoods, where security guards stand day and night.
 Unlike other oligarchs here, Mr. Ablyazov keeps a low profile in London. He says that his ultimate aim is to overthrow Mr. Nazarbayev, even though he could be caught up in British courts for years to come.
 ''I am just here temporarily,'' he insisted. ''In the end I will return to Kazakhstan.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mukhtar Ablyazov, BTA's former chairman, is under investigation over the loans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YURI MASHKOV/ITAR-TASS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); LAWYERS (62%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (72%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%); RBS (NYSE) (72%); RBS (LSE) (72%); RBS (AMS) (72%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (56%) KAZAKHSTAN (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ICELAND (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%); THAILAND (72%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (69%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



802 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: Some Indians Find It Tough to Go Home Again

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: NEW DELHI 

 BODY:
When 7-year-old Shiva Ayyadurai left Mumbai with his family nearly 40 years ago, he promised himself he would return to India someday to help his country. 
 In June, Mr. Ayyadurai, now 45, moved from Boston to New Delhi hoping to make good on that promise. An entrepreneur and lecturer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, with a fistful of American degrees, he was the first recruit of an ambitious government program to lure talented scientists of the so-called desi diaspora back to their homeland. 
 ''It seemed perfect,'' he said recently of the job opportunity.
 It wasn't. 
 As Mr. Ayyadurai sees it now, his Western business education met India's notoriously inefficient, opaque government, and things went downhill from there. Within weeks, he and his boss were at loggerheads. Last month, his job offer was withdrawn. Mr. Ayyadurai has moved back to Boston. 
 In recent years, Mother India has welcomed back tens of thousands of former emigrants and their offspring. When he visited the United States this week, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh personally extended an invitation ''to all Indian-Americans and nonresident Indians who wish to return home.'' But, like Mr. Ayyadurai, many Indians who spent most of their lives in North America and Europe are finding they can't go home again. 
 About 100,000 ''returnees'' will move from the United States to India in the next five years, estimates Vivek Wadhwa, a research associate at Harvard University who has studied the topic. These repats, as they are known, are drawn by India's booming economic growth, the chance to wrestle with complex problems and the opportunity to learn more about their heritage. They are joining multinational companies, starting new businesses and even becoming part of India's sleepy government bureaucracy.
 But a study by Mr. Wadhwa and other academics found that 34 percent of repats found it difficult to return to India -- compared to just 13 percent of Indian immigrants who found it difficult to settle in the United States. The repats complained about traffic, lack of infrastructure, bureaucracy and pollution.
 For many returnees the cultural ties and chance to do good that drew them back are overshadowed by workplace cultures that feel unexpectedly foreign, and can be frustrating. Sometimes returnees discover that they share more in their attitudes and perspectives with other Americans or with the British than with other Indians. Some stay just a few months, some return to the West after a few years. 
 Returnees run into trouble when they ''look Indian but think American,'' said Anjali Bansal, managing partner in India for Spencer Stuart, the global executive search firm. People expect them to know the country because of how they look, but they may not be familiar with the way things run, she said. Similarly, when things don't operate the way they do in the United States or Britain, the repats sometimes complain. 
 ''India can seem to have a fairly ambiguous and chaotic way of working, but it works,'' Ms. Bansal said. ''I've heard people say things like 'It is so inefficient or it is so unprofessional.' '' She said it was more constructive to just accept customs as being different. 
 Sometimes, the better fit for a job in India is an expatriate who has experience working in emerging markets, rather than someone born in India who has only worked in the United States, she said.
 While several Indian-origin authors have penned soul-searching tomes about their return to India, and dozens of business books exist for Western expatriates trying to do business here, the guidelines for the returning Indian manager or entrepreneur are still being drawn. 
 ''Some very simple practices that you often take for granted, such as being ethical in day to day situations, or believing in the rule of law in everyday behavior, are surprisingly absent in many situations,'' said Raju Narisetti, who was born in Hyderabad and returned to India in 2006 to found a business newspaper called Mint, which is now the country's second-biggest business paper by readership. 
 He said he left earlier than he expected because of a ''troubling nexus'' of business, politics and publishing that he called ''draining on body and soul.'' He returned to the United States this year to join The Washington Post. 
 There are no shortcuts to spending lots of time working in the country, returnees say. ''There are so many things that are tricky about doing business in India that it takes years to figure it out,'' said Sanjay Kamlani, the co-chief executive of Pangea3, a legal outsourcing firm with offices in New York and Mumbai. Mr. Kamlani was born in Miami, where his parents emigrated from Mumbai, but he has started two businesses with Indian operations. 
 When Mr. Kamlani started hiring in India, he met with a completely unexpected phenomena: some new recruits would not show up for work on their first day. Then, their mothers would call and say they were sick for days in a row. They never intended to come at all, he realized, but ''there's a cultural desire to avoid confrontation,'' he said. 
 The case of Mr. Ayyadurai, the M.I.T. lecturer, illustrates just how frustrating the experience can be for someone schooled in more direct, American-style management. After a long meeting with a top bureaucrat, who gave him a handwritten job offer, Mr. Ayyadurai signed on to the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, or C.S.I.R., a government-financed agency that reports to the ministry of science. 
 The agency is responsible for creating a new company, called C.S.I.R.-Tech, to spin off profitable businesses from India's dozens of public laboratories. Currently, the agency, which oversees 4,500 scientists, generates just $80 million in cash flow a year, even though its annual budget is the equivalent of half a billion dollars. 
 Mr. Ayyadurai said he spent weeks trying to get answers and responses to e-mail messages, particularly from the person who hired him, the C.S.I.R. director general, Samir K. Brahmachari. After several months of trying to set up a business plan for the new company with no input from his boss, he said, he distributed a draft plan to C.S.I.R.'s scientists asking for feedback, and criticizing the agency's management. 
 Four days later, Mr. Ayyadurai was forbidden from communicating with other scientists. Later, he received an official letter saying his job offer was withdrawn. 
 The complaints in Mr. Ayyadurai's paper could be an outline for what many inside and outside India say could be improved in some workplaces here: disorganization, intimidation, a culture where top directors' decisions are rarely challenged and a lack of respect for promptness that means meetings start hours late and sometimes go on for hours with no clear agenda. 
 But going public with such accusations is highly unusual. Mr. Ayyadurai circulated his paper not just to the agency's scientists but to journalists, and wrote about his situation to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. India is ''sitting on a huge opportunity'' to create new businesses and tap into thousands of science and technology experts, Mr. Ayyadurai said, but a ''feudal culture'' is holding the country back. 
 Mr. Brahmachari said in an interview that Mr. Ayyadurai had misunderstood nearly everything -- from his handwritten job offer, which he said was only meant to suggest what Mr. Ayyadurai could receive were he to be hired, to the way Mr. Ayyadurai asked scientists for their feedback on what the C.S.I.R. spinoff should look like. 
 To prove his point, Mr. Brahmachari, who was two hours late for an interview scheduled byhis office, read from a government guide about decision-making in the organization. Mr. Ayyadurai didn't follow protocol, he said. ''As long as your language is positive for the organization I have no problem,'' he added. 
 As the interview was closing, Mr. Brahmachari questioned why anyone would be interested in the situation, and then said he would complain to a reporter's bosses in New York if she continued to pursue the story. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shiva Ayyadurai returned to Boston after clashing with Indian government bureaucracy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CANDACE FEIT FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (89%); CORPORATE CULTURE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (63%); IMMIGRATION (61%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (93%); MUMBAI, INDIA (88%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



803 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: In a Home to Free Speech, a Paper Is Accused of Anti-Semitism

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif. 

 BODY:
For the last six years, The Berkeley Daily Planet has published a freewheeling assortment of submissions from readers, who offer sharp-elbowed views on everything from raucous college parties (generally bad) to the war in Iraq (ditto).
 But since March, that running commentary has been under attack by a small but vociferous group of critics who accuse the paper's editor, Becky O'Malley, of publishing too many letters and other commentary pieces critical of Israel. Those accusations are the basis of a campaign to drive away the paper's advertisers and a Web site that strongly suggests The Planet and its editor are anti-Semitic. 
 ''We think that Ms. O'Malley is addicted to anti-Israel expression just as an alcoholic is to drinking,'' Jim Sinkinson, who has led the campaign to discourage advertisers, wrote in an e-mail message. He is the publisher of Infocom Group, a media relations company. ''If she wants to serve and please the East Bay Jewish community, she would be safer avoiding the subject entirely.'' 
 Ms. O'Malley denies any personal or editorial bias, and bristles at the suggestion that she should not publish letters about Israel in a city like Berkeley, which has a sizable Jewish community and a populace -- and City Council -- that often weigh in on Middle East and international affairs. 
 ''Frankly, the term that crossed my mind was 'protection racket,' '' Ms. O'Malley said. ''I think that is unusual to say the least that anybody would think that they could dictate a whole area of the world that is simply off limits for discussion.''
 Whether right or wrong, Mr. Sinkinson's campaign has left The Planet -- a weekly already hammered by the recession -- gasping for breath. Advertising sales revenue is down some 60 percent from last year, Ms. O'Malley says. In October, the paper trimmed its skeleton crew of full-time reporters to one from three, and has begun a fund-raising drive to keep publishing. 
 Still, she says she has no intention of stopping the publication of submitted letters, citing a commitment to free speech that is a legacy of the city where the Free Speech Movement was born in the 1960s.
 ''I have the old-fashioned basic liberal thing of believing that the remedy for speech you don't like is more speech,'' said Ms. O'Malley, 69, a veteran local journalist who bought the paper in 2002 as a retirement project with her husband, Michael, now 72. ''If somebody says something you don't like, say what you think. And I felt it a privilege here in my middle age to be in a position to make that happen.''
 The paper has published unpopular opinions on other subjects, including a commentary from a local activist arguing that the murder of four Oakland police officers -- none of whom were black -- by an African-American parolee in March was ''karmic justice'' for past police killings of civilians. But such pieces are in a section of the paper that clearly states they ''do not necessarily reflect the views of the Daily Planet.'' 
 Mr. O'Malley, the paper's publisher, said he thought The Planet's critics were confusing letters from unaffiliated writers -- the paper says it prints anything that is not libelous or obscene, with a preference for local writers -- with official editorial positions. 
 ''We publish things from people that we can barely stand to be in the same room with,'' he said. 
 In addition to the letter-writing campaign, the paper has faced online criticism from dpwatchdog.com, a site that contains pages of what it calls anti-Semitic writings published in The Planet. The site's editor, John Gertz, says his goal is not to close the paper, but ''reform'' it.
 ''The object is not to attack the press,'' said Mr. Gertz, the president and chief executive of Zorro Productions, which owns the trademark and copyrights on the Zorro franchise. ''The object is to turn the press into something responsible.''
 Mr. Gertz complains that The Planet does not fact-check reader submissions, something Ms. O'Malley says is well beyond its resources. 
 ''We make a serious effort to get most words spelled right in the headlines, which we don't always achieve,'' Ms. O'Malley said. ''And we of course never knowingly print something that we know to be untrue. But, frankly, there are things we don't know.''
 Mr. Sinkinson, whose company publishes The Bulldog Reporter, a media guide, first took aim at The Planet in March, in a letter to advertisers likening the paper to a ''publication that praises the Nazis or the Ku Klux Klan.'' 
 ''In these tough economic times, is it really a good investment to continue advertising in a paper, one of whose main purposes seems to be the defamation of Jews and the state of Israel,'' stated the letter, which included a cancellation notice advertisers could send to the paper as well as reader submissions published in The Planet that Mr. Sinkinson described as ''hate-speech.'' Among those was a letter printed in 2006 from an Iranian student then living in India, Kurosh Arianpour, who suggested that the Jews had brought historical persecution -- including that by the Nazis -- on themselves. 
 Mr. Arianpour's letter brought a sharp rebuke from local civic and Jewish leaders, and two weeks later, a published explanation from Ms. O'Malley, who wrote that the letter's content was ''very nasty'' and amounted ''to untrue racist generalizations of the worst sort.''
 But, she wrote, ''I still don't think that keeping sentiments like this out of The Daily Planet will make him or people like him go away.'' 
 The fight has gotten personal on occasion, with one of Mr. Gertz's earliest complaints centering on a 2005 letter responding to a letter he had written to The Planet. In that response, a Planet reader said Mr. Gertz wore the ''funniest-looking'' yarmulke. 
 On his Web site and in a written report he has assembled, Mr. Gertz has called Ms. O'Malley ''brutish,'' ''a second-rate intellect'' and ''ungifted'' and suggested she may have learned what he calls anti-Semitic views while growing up in a largely non-Jewish community in Pasadena, Calif. 
 ''It never occurred to me, frankly, till somebody submitted the research to us about her background, to begin to ask the question of, well, 'Maybe she learned this stuff on her daddy's knee,' '' Mr. Gertz said. He also attacked a regular Planet contributor as a Stalinist and called The Planet's readership ''aging radicals'' who would be ''of only marginal interest to most would-be advertisers.''
 Wars of words are not uncommon in Berkeley, particularly regarding the Middle East, a contentious topic that the City Council occasionally addresses though it has no sway over foreign policy.
 Councilman Kriss Worthington, who condemned the Arianpour letter but was still singled out by Mr. Gertz as a ''gullible politician,'' said he tried about a decade ago to devise a moderate council policy toward Israel. He failed. 
 ''It was the only council item I ever wrote that got no support from either side,'' Mr. Worthington said. 
 Local Jewish leaders, meanwhile, seem wary of getting involved in the campaign against The Planet. The Anti-Defamation League's regional director in San Francisco, Jonathan Bernstein, said that while the paper had published some ''divisive and hateful'' material, Mr. Sinkinson's and Mr. Gertz's efforts were their own. 
 ''I don't think anyone in the organized Jewish community is involved in this inany way,'' Mr. Bernstein said.
 Both sides met recently to discuss possible resolutions to their dispute, but it was unclear if progress had been made. 
 Ms. O'Malley said the paper would abide by its mission to publish diverse opinions, trusting what she called ''the self-correcting process'' of open debate. 
 She also offered a possible two-entity solution to the conflict, saying of her critics, ''They could start their own paper.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Becky O'Malley, front, is the editor of The Berkeley Daily Planet, a California weekly that critics accuse of publishing too many letters and other commentary critical of Israel. Ms. O'Malley, 69, denies any personal or editorial bias. ''I have the old-fashioned basic liberal thing of believing that the remedy for speech you don't like is more speech,'' she said. The campaign against the paper has taken a financial toll.
 John Gertz, editor of dpwatchdog.com, a site containing what it calls anti-Semitic writings published in The Planet. He says his goal is not to close the paper. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); WRITERS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); JOURNALISM (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (75%); MEDIA BIAS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); CITIES (65%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); EXTORTION (64%); RECESSION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (90%); MIDDLE EAST (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



804 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: The Department of Lucrative Athletics

BYLINE: By GILBERT M. GAUL. 
Gilbert M. Gaul, a former reporter for The Philadelphia Inquirer and The Washington Post, is writing a book about disabled athletes.

DATELINE: Cherry Hill, N.J. 

 BODY:
 EVERY few years, college presidents feel a need to go public with their concerns over the commercialization of intercollegiate athletics. The report last month by the Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics, which warned that an arms race in spending on coaches at top programs is unsustainable, was the latest opportunity. 
 To be sure, costs are soaring, with athletic spending at big-time athletic programs outpacing classroom spending by a factor of three to four, according to William E. Kirwan, the chancellor of Maryland's university system. At the football powerhouses Florida, Alabama and Louisiana State, the head coaches all get more than $3.7 million a year in salary and other income. By my reckoning, that's more than the combined value of all the scholarships awarded to their players. 
 College presidents contend that their hands are tied by confounding economic forces. To pay for non-revenue sports like volleyball and track, they depend on their football and basketball programs. But this Faustian line of logic obscures some important points. 
 The rise of College Sports Inc. didn't happen by accident. Administrators at many universities have allowed athletic departments to operate independently, like stand-alone entertainment divisions. They have separate budgets, negotiate their own TV deals and, in some cases, employ hundreds of coaches and staff. And as long as they continue to collect ever-larger sums from ticket sales, boosters and television, who is going to tell them to spend less? 
 Another key element fueling the arms race is the increasingly indefensible tax treatment of sports revenues. Decades ago -- before the lucrative television contracts, Internet marketing, Nike sponsorships and luxury boxes -- Congress essentially exempted colleges from paying taxes on their sports income. The legislators' reasoning now appears shockingly quaint: that participation in college sports builds character and is an important component of the larger college experience.
 Many booster clubs are recognized as charities under the federal tax code. At Florida and Georgia, to name just two universities, the athletic departments are set up as charities. Universities also have access to tax-exempt financing when building ever-larger stadiums and arenas. Boosters and donors benefit from generous tax deductions when they buy the best seats or endow an athletic scholarship. That's right: colleges now endow their quarterbacks and linebackers the same way they do a distinguished chair of American literature. 
 If college presidents really wanted to halt the college sports machine, they could try two options. They could insist that athletic departments operate within their university budgets, like the English or biology departments; or they could ask Congress to rescind the tax breaks on the commercial income earned by athletic programs. 
 That has about as much a chance of happening as Florida International did at beating Florida last Saturday. Can you imagine a senator from Texas or Pennsylvania embracing the idea of taxing the Longhorns or Nittany Lions? It would be political suicide. 
 From where I sit, college presidents really don't want to take responsibility for the college sports mess. To do so would require them to offend their powerful athletic departments and alumni. It is a no-win situation. And as we already know, in college sports, winning is everything.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (93%); SPORTS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (89%); SPORTS REVENUES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); INCOME TAX (86%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (74%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); BASKETBALL (72%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); TICKET SALES (68%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (62%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



805 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: This Season, It's Twitter All the Way

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM and KAREN ANN CULLOTTA

 BODY:
Once upon a time, people mailed their holiday wishes to the North Pole and hoped for a reply on Christmas Day. Nowadays they are sending their wishes into cyberspace and are apt to get a reply in minutes.
 America's first Twitter Christmas got under way in earnest on Friday. Across the land, retailers and their customers used the social networking site to talk to one another about bargains, problems, purchases and shopping strategies.
 After buying a new navigation system at 6 a.m. on the most frenzied shopping day of the year, Laura S. Kern of Los Angeles could not figure out why it was not giving her traffic updates. She sent a message to Best Buy's Twitter account and within five minutes not one, but two Best Buy employees responded with fix-it advice. 
 In Bloomington, Minn., Mall of America used its Twitter page to tell consumers two of its parking areas were at capacity and that their best bet was to park near Ikea. 
 Twitter permits public communication via short, to-the-point messages. Many people use it to send mundane updates to their friends, but increasingly, the nation's retailers see it as a business tool.
 It gives customers a practical way to cajole a retailer, complain about something or ask questions. 
 A Twitter post can in theory be seen by millions, and thus packs more punch than an e-mail message or a phone call to a store. The big retailers are all scrambling this Christmas to come up with Twitter plans. They are designating tech-savvy employees to respond to the posts, sometimes by providing up-to-minute inventory information from a sales floor, for example, or by offering help with some balky gadget. 
 ''It's one of the greatest emerging communication channels out there,'' said Greg Ahearn, senior vice president of marketing and e-commerce for Toys ''R'' Us. ''This is a way people can stay connected with the brand in a way they've never been able to before.''
 So far this shopping weekend, special deals have been posted on Twitter from stores as varied as Best Buy, J.C. Penney, Toys ''R'' Us, Staples, Gap, Bloomingdale's, and Barneys. (Links to the retailing Twitter accounts mentioned in this article can be found in the Web version of the story on NYTimes.com.)
 For the uninitiated, Twitter.com is a Web site where each member has a password-protected page. It has a blank box for typing in a message of 140 characters or fewer, an act known as tweeting.
 To see a retailer's messages, Twitter users ''follow'' the retailer, which means that the chain's posts show up on their Twitter home page when they log in. And the system allows users to send messages in the other direction, so that a retailer's employees will see them.
 ''I think in this economy you need to leverage every asset that you have,'' said James Fielding, president of Disney Stores Worldwide, who sends messages under the Twitter name, or handle, DisneyStorePrez. 
 On Friday morning, as consumers flooded Disney Stores around the country, Mr. Fielding messaged: ''We have amazing ONE DAY ONLY deals previewing on our Facebook page -- become a fan today and find out more!''
 Retailers hope that if they send Twitter messages, consumers will come. About 47 percent of retailers said they would increase their use of social media this holiday season, according to a study by Shop.org, part of the National Retail Federation, an industry group. And more than half of retailers said they added or improved their Facebook and Twitter pages. There are advantages for consumers too, like discounts. For instance, those who decided to follow Gap Outlet received an offer for 15 percent off purchases of $75 or more. 
 As shoppers jammed the aisles on Friday at a Best Buy store in Arlington Heights, Ill., an employee, Jerry DeFrancisco, went up to a computer kiosk and used his Twitter account to tell customers about Best Buy's home theater deals. Then he resumed his in-store duties, helping a customer decipher a sales circular. 
 A few months ago, Best Buy began piloting a Twelpforce -- a Twitter-inspired play on ''help force'' -- of some 2,500 employees that answer consumers' questions in real time.
 ''It's 24-hour access to our employees,'' said Brad Smith, director of interactive marketing and emerging media for Best Buy. The Twelpforce had fielded about 25,000 questions even before gearing up for Thanksgiving weekend.
 Ms. Kern in Los Angeles used the service on Friday. After she could not get her new navigation system to work, she tried Best Buy's telephone support line, only to receive a warning that her wait would be an hour. So she posted on Twitter instead, and within minutes, Best Buy employees were sending her useful links and details about her gadget. ''It's amazing,'' she said later in the day. (Her interaction with the employees ultimately helped her realize she would need to go back to the store for help.) 
 Many retailers will be posting to their Twitter pages throughout the weekend and the entire holiday season. Some chains have an official Twitter account. Others have many, like one for each store, or one for each employee who wants to post messages. There are Twitter pages for designers, like Nicole Miller and Diane von Furstenberg.
 Retailers also use Facebook to interact with their customers. But Facebook, with its photo albums and various applications, does not have the same no-frills immediacy as Twitter -- which is why Twitter is ideal for instantaneously announcing sales. 
 In addition to bargains, stores are also using Facebook and Twitter to promote contests and games that they hope will keep consumers engaged and coming back. Best Buy has an interactive Secret Santa application on its Facebook page. Gap is using Twitter to inform New York City residents and visitors where its ''Gap Cheer'' bus (filled with dancers and drummers) will be parked and giving away sweaters and jeans.
 Of course, sometimes retailers simply use their Twitter posts to capture the spirit of the season. At 3:30 Thursday morning, an employee posted seven words on the Macy's Twitter page, about a marching band that was practicing hours before the chain's Thanksgiving day parade. 
 It said: ''Is he really running with a tuba?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jerry DeFrancisco at Best Buy posts on Twitter, a new retail tool to attract shoppers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS JAVIER ORTIZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Shoppers arrived in Macy's on Friday. People use Twitter to talk about bargains and purchases. They also use it to discuss any product problems with the retailer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Shoppers at the Toys ''R'' Us in Times Square Friday. One Toys ''R'' Us executive called Twitter ''one of the greatest emerging communication channels.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



806 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 BAGHDAD GARDEN BECOMES GRAVEYARD, FULL OF GRIEVING
 The Martyrs of Adhamiya cemetery, behind the Abu Hanifa mosque, is so packed with graves that it is difficult to walk between the capstones. Six months ago, officials counted 9,000 graves, but many more have been added since. Nearly all are victims of Iraqi-on-Iraqi violence. PAGE A4 
 CAMBODIAN SEEKS RELEASE 
 Testimony in the trial of Kaing Guek Eav, 67, a former prison chief for the Communist Khmer Rouge, ended when he unexpectedly asked to be set free despite his repeated admissions of guilt. PAGE A4 
 ISRAEL SAYS IT FOILED ATTACK
 The Israeli military said it attacked militants in Gaza as they were about to fire rockets at Israel. Last week, the Hamas rulers of Gaza said other groups had agreed to halt rocket fire. PAGE A5 
 SCIENTISTS CALL FOR REFORM
 Some prominent climate scientists called for more transparency in climate research, saying the uproar over e-mail messages from a British climate center that surfaced online had damaged confidence in evidence of global warming. PAGE A8 
 GERMAN MINISTER QUITS
 Franz Josef Jung, a former defense minister who became labor minister, said he accepted ''political responsibility'' for accusations that the military withheld information about a September air strike in Afghanistan that killed civilians. PAGE A9 
 SWINE FLU MUTATIONS
 The World Health Organization tried this week to ease fears about mutations seen in the swine flu virus in several countries, noting that the mutations had been found in very few people. PAGE A9 
 Warship Talk Unnerves Baltics A8 
 Iran Defends Action on Nobelist A9 
 Obituaries
 JAN LEIGHTON, 87
 As an actor, he played George Washington, William Shakespeare and Christopher Columbus in so many TV and print advertisements and industrial films that he was both ubiquitous and anonymous. PAGE B8 
 National
 JUSTICE DEPT. ADVISES PAYING ACORN FOR EXISTING CONTRACTS
 The Justice Department advised the Obama administration that it should pay the community group Acorn for services provided under contracts signed before Congress banned the government from providing funds to the group. PAGE A11 
 PAPER FUELS A WAR OF WORDS
 The Berkeley Daily Planet is under attack by a small but vociferous group of critics who say the paper publishes too many letters and other commentary critical of Israel. The group is trying to drive advertisers away from the paper. PAGE A10 
 SHIFT BY YOUNG EVANGELICALS
 Many young evangelicals have taken up issues previously left to secular and religious liberals -- climate change, AIDS prevention, Third World poverty. On Religion by Samuel G. Freedman. PAGE A10 
 GUNMAN SOUGHT IN FLORIDA
 Law enforcement officials fanned out across South Florida in search of Paul Michael Merhige, 35, who they said killed two sisters, an aunt and a 6-year-old cousin at a Thanksgiving gathering. PAGE A12 
 SHUTTLE ENDS 11-DAY MISSION
 The shuttle Atlantis glided to a flawless landing at the Kennedy Space Center, ending a space station delivery mission and bringing a flight engineer, Nicole P. Stott, back to Earth after 91 days in space. PAGE A12 
 New York
 FOR JUDGES, THE QUESTION IS: WHO WILL GET 9/11 CASE?
 Sometime soon, a judge's life will change. The judge who is eventually picked to oversee the trial of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed and four others accused in the Sept. 11 terror attacks will most likely be assigned security around the clock -- for his or her lifetime. PAGE A15 
 A HAND THAT MOVES MASSES
 Trying to cross certain streets in the city is no picnic. Enter the folks with the bright green vests and the whistles: The ''pedestrian managers,'' as they prefer to be called. Big City by Susan Dominus. PAGE A14
 A Rare Parking Holiday A15
 Business
 THE SCENIC ROUTE ONLINE CAN BRING HOLIDAY SAVINGS
 Shoppers that enter a retailer's Web site via special sites, like FatWallet.com or Ebates.com, can earn credit card rewards, a discount or free shipping. And many participating retailers are offering more savings for the holidays. Your Money by Tara Siegel Bernard. PAGE B1 
 TWEETING ALL THE WAY
 Retailers are all scrambling this holiday season to come up with Twitter plans. They are designating tech-savvy employees to respond to posts, and already, a number of stores have posted special deals on the social networking Web site. PAGE B1 
 GOING HOME TO INDIA
 India wants its emigrants and their offspring to return home. But many say the business climate in India is frustrating, and the workplace culture makes them feel unexpectedly foreign. PAGE B2
 RUSSIA AND FRANCE SIGN DEALS
 Moscow signed several deals in autos and energy with French companies at a meeting described by Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia as a breakthrough in economic ties between the countries. PAGE B3 
 EUROPE RESETS RANKS
 The biggest European countries scooped up the most sought-after leadership positions in a new commission that is expected to press for more regulation in areas like financial services. PAGE B3 
 WANTED: LOW-PAID INTERNS
 With the economy still in the doldrums, companies are opting for unpaid or low-paid internships to get the extra work done. PAGE B5 
 Sports
 BASKETBALL'S OTHER SIDE IN THE LAND OF 'HOOSIERS'
 Marty Young, the 23-year-old coach of Medora High School's basketball team, is searching for moral victories. The team went 0-22 last year in an Indiana town where poverty rates are high and social problems widespread. PAGE B9
 Alabama Holds Off Auburn B11
 Arts
 A SALSA STAR IS REBORN AFTER A BREAK FOR POLITICS
 After suspending his music and film career for five years to serve as a cabinet minister in Panama, his homeland, Ruben Blades is back on the road with a new album. His tour is aptly named ''Todos Vuelven,'' or ''Everybody Returns.'' PAGE C1
 SLAYING ZOMBIES, WITH PALS
 Left 4 Dead 2 is not a video game for character development. It does, however, let you mow down thousands of ravenous zombies. A review by Seth Schiesel. PAGE C1 
 THE EPHEMERA OF PROTESTS
 Fliers, photographs and other items generated by the environmental group Times Up over more than 20 years of activism are being donated to the Tamiment Library. PAGE C3 
 Op-ed
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A17 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); CEMETERIES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); RELIGION (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); PRINT ADVERTISING (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); GENOCIDE (76%); HAMAS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); TESTIMONY (71%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (71%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); VIRUSES (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); AIDS & HIV (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (65%); INFLUENZA (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); SPACE SHUTTLE (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (56%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: FRANZ JOSEF JUNG (51%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



807 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: Site-Hopping for Holiday Savings

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
Remember the old game show where contestants could choose which door was hiding the best prize? A variation of that is happening online this holiday shopping season.
 Say you are looking for a digital camera. Instead of going straight to the Web site of a retailer like Best Buy or B&H, online shoppers may do better by choosing another entrance to the retailer's site. That can be a site like FatWallet.com or Ebates.com, or even a credit card issuer's online shopping portal. 
 By taking the indirect route, you may be able to get cash back or earn extra rewards on your credit card -- and get a discount or free shipping on the camera. 
 ''If you can figure out a way to double your bang for your buck, consumers can have some fun at this,'' said Curtis Arnold, the founder of CardRatings.com. ''It will be helpful, more than ever before, in this economy to help our dollar go further.'' 
 While several of these sites have been up and running for a while and are available year-round, others were introduced in the last few months. Many of the retailers participating in these programs are increasing the savings for the holidays. 
 At Ebates, for instance, Sephora is offering a cash rebate of 8 percent, up from 4 percent, while Old Navy is also offering 10 percent. Those who have Freedom, Sapphire or Ink credit cards from Chase and shop through the issuer's Ultimate Rewards shopping portal on Monday will earn 12 points per dollar at Barnes & Noble.
 How much you actually save depends on how much you spend, what programs you use and how vigilantly you watch the sites for the best deals, some of which change daily. If you spend $682, the average expected holiday budget, and earn an average of 7 percent cash back, that's nearly $50. And if you book your airline tickets through one of these programs, or buy big-ticket items in the electronics department, the savings can add up to much more. Using these programs year-round -- for shopping you were going to do anyway -- is the best way to accumulate real savings. 
 But you still need to shop around, particularly if you are looking for a specific item that's available at multiple retailers. Otherwise, you may get the most lucrative cash-back offer or the most points but end up spending more than necessary. 
 You also have to use a credit card to take advantage of some of these offers. So if you carry a balance or are late paying your bill, interest and fees can easily wipe out any savings -- and then some.
 Half the battle is remembering that these online shopping portals exist -- and clicking your mouse a few extra times to get there. And in some cases, you may need to remember to redeem your earnings months after you've taken down the holiday decorations. 
 We tested some of the shopping portals from the big card issuers, as well as several other savings-related Web sites, and here's what we found. 
 BANK OF AMERICA Both credit and debit card holders can enroll in the ''Add it Up'' program, introduced in March, where you can earn unlimited cash back on purchases made through the nearly 400 retailers in its shopping portal; this is on top of any rewards your cards normally offer. The beauty of this program is its convenience -- the cash savings are automatically swept into your checking account or credited back to your card. When I logged in, there were some attractive offers: Apple is offering 4 percent cash back through the holidays, which could yield about $60 on a MacBook Pro purchase. Not bad, especially since Apple was offering free shipping.
 CHASE Freedom, Sapphire and Ink cardholders can access Chase's shopping portal within its Ultimate Rewards Web site, introduced in May. By clicking on the ''Get Points Faster'' tab, consumer can shop at 400 merchants and earn up to 10 points per dollar by visiting specific retailers, who may also offer things like free shipping or gift cards. One of the more lucrative deals I found was at Macy's, where you can earn 10 points per dollar (on top of the usual 1 point per dollar). Gap was paying an extra three points per dollar spent, and there was a coupon code for an extra 25 percent off. That's a nice deal, though the coupon was easily found on the Web. 
 Points don't expire, and there are no limits on the number of rewards you can accumulate or redeem per year, said Rob Rosenblatt, general manager of customer loyalty for Chase's card business. Alternatively, rewards can be cashed in at a penny per point. 
 CITI There are three separate shopping portals, depending on which card you have. Rewards cardholders can use the ThankYou Bonus Center, which allows you to earn extra points for each dollar spent, while its 400 retailers may also offer certain discounts and free shipping. It also offers a limited number of ''Daily Deals,'' which I'd be wary of. When I visited, it offered a 10-inch MSI Wind Netbook for $599.99, which would earn 20,339 points. But the same computer was offered elsewhere for at least $240 less. 
 Several other card issuers, including American Express, Discover and Capital One, have shopping portals running holiday promotions. Holders of American Express charge cards, as well as those who have Blue from American Express cards, are eligible for five and six Membership Reward points for each dollar spent at 25 retailers in its Bonus Points Mall. And through Monday, charge cardholders will receive three points per dollar spent on Amazon.com (up to 15,000 points). Discover cardholders, meanwhile, can receive up to 20 percent cash back (or two miles per every dollar spent) by shopping at retailers through its ShopDiscover Web site (and 2 percent cash back on all online purchases up to $1,000 for the holidays).
 UPROMISE There are several ways at Upromise to direct a portion of your shopping dollars toward higher education costs, including shopping through its portal with 650 merchants. Family members and friends can be enlisted; their earnings will be deposited into your account. Anywhere from 1 to 25 percent of your purchase's value (but typically 3 to 4 percent, on average) can be directed to finance certain 529 savings plans or pay off Sallie Mae student loans. Or you can request a check. Upromise World Mastercard holders earn an extra 1 percent. 
 Upromise is running several holiday promotions, including a ''Daily Double,'' where merchants offer twice as much cash back as they normally do. The portal also lists additional coupons and free shipping offers. And if you download the so-called TurboSaver tool, every time you shop through a search engine like Google, a small Upromise icon will appear on the participating retailers in your search results. 
 FATWALLET Another alternative is FatWallet.com. It offers cash back and coupons from nearly 2,500 retailers, along with a social forum that's ''like going bargain hunting with 100,000 of your closest friends,'' said Tim Storm, FatWallet's founder. ''As a consumer, you can't be everywhere at once, so you might as well rely on the knowledge of others.'' 
 The site recently added a ''Hot Deals'' section, which lists deeply discounted items located by its editors. But you must usually wait about 90 days to receive your rebate, which can be requested via check for amounts exceeding $10 (there is no minimum if it's credited to a PayPal account).
 EBATESThis site is similar to FatWallet, minus the forum, and offers cash back at nearly 1,200 retailers, including airlines and travel sites. Its coupons actually work, said Kevin H. Johnson, the Ebates chief executive. ''They are not ones that we've scraped or other people have posted.''
 Five percent cash back is typical, he said, but you can expect to earn closer to 8 to 10 percent during the holidays. And on Monday, 300 stores will be doubling their cash-back offers. New users can expect to receive their money (via check or PayPal) within a month, but it can take as long as three months for regular users since payments are made quarterly. Unlike FatWallet, you don't need to request your cash -- it comes automatically.
 BING Microsoft's Bing search engine, introduced in June, also offers a cash-back program. You can search for products through Bing's main page. Eligible items are emblazoned with a gold coin (these tend to show up in sponsored links; after all, Bing is getting paid a percentage for sending you to the retailer). It's most efficient to search through its ''shopping'' tab and compare products by price and rebates, then click on the deal you want. Just be sure to register for the program first. 
 Rebates should appear in your Bing account after 60 days or so. Once your balance exceeds $5, you can request the money via check or direct deposit. You can also direct it to your PayPal or Amazon.com accounts. Through Wednesday, some of Bing's 1,000 retailers are increasing their cash back or offering some type of promotion like free shipping, a Microsoft spokesman said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 10, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Your Money column on Nov. 28, about online shopping Web sites that are alternatives to retailers' own sites, misstated the difference in price between a package for the 10-inch MSI Wind Netbook offered to some Citigroup cardholders and the price offered by other sites. It is $50 to $150 less, not $240 less. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Takara Crawford checked out in a Wal-Mart in Texas. About 47 percent of retailers said they would increase their use of social media this holiday season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Credit card companies like American Express have created special Internet shopping portals running holiday promotions. (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (91%); RETAILERS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (89%); SALES REBATES (89%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (77%); BOOKSTORES (77%); BUDGETS (75%); WEB SITES (72%); TRAVEL TICKETS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



808 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ART; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: The Daily Grind

BYLINE: By DEIRDRE DOLAN and JENNIFER DANIEL. 
Deirdre Dolan is the author of ''Curb Your Enthusiasm: The Book'' and the co-author of ''The Complete Organic Pregnancy.'' Jennifer Daniel is a graphic designer and illustrator.

 BODY:
IN New York City, where the unemployment rate remains at 10.3 percent, the jobless have started leaning hard on coffee shops and bookstores to get out of their tiny one-bedrooms and away from their annoying roommates. In these harsh, career-vanishing times, the members of this laptop brigade do everything they can to re-create the office environment they no longer have to complain about.
 How welcome they are varies. Some small coffeehouses have unplugged the wireless, nailed covers over electrical outlets and posted signs requesting no computer use during lunch. But the New York Public Library has kindly extended its hours at many branches, and behemoths like Starbucks and Barnes & Noble can afford to be more accommodating. At an overcrowded Midtown coffee shop, a barista recently made a woman a cup of coffee, then watched her set up a keyboard, put on headphones and start practicing piano. She's not the only one working in public. Here are portraits of four other New Yorkers trying to get back to the comfort of their offices: 
 One of the last in and first out at a Midtown design firm, Jill Checker was forced to move in somewhat prematurely with her boyfriend. They broke up two months later but without a job she can't get another apartment. So on ''bad relationship days,'' she takes her dog and computer and sits for hours at various Chelsea coffee shops, where over the past year she's noticed a marked shift from students hanging out to ''everyone on their computer fighting for a chance.'' 
 ''People are usually updating their resumes, or if there's conversation it's someone coaching someone on how losing their job is really an opportunity to change their career -- cut a new reel or make a voiceover demo,'' says Ms. Checker. In this year of cafe-going, Ms. Checker says she's been asked out on dates, made some friends, even gotten some job offers. ''There are definitely opportunities for life-changing opportunities,'' she says. ''But I haven't taken them because I'm in a coffee shop and I don't believe them.''
 When Bohb Jadhav's architecture firm reduced its staff by 30 percent a year ago, he turned a cozy Park Slope coffee shop, with its sitcom-style mismatched furniture and a rotating gallery of local art on the walls, into his new work space. For six hours each day, Mr. Jadhav takes up residence in one of the comfy, oversized chairs, works on his future plans, and indulges in occasional, workday-like breaks for coffee, cigarettes, lunch and general kibbitzing. 
 Mr. Jadhav says the stimulating environment, the hum of ceiling fans, music and conversation, was a crucial bulwark against the feelings of desperation that followed the loss of his job.''This place is critical to my sanity,'' he says. ''If I was at home I'd be more easily distracted. And it's nice to have the company of others. It's like working with the TV on.''
 Hattie Elliot quit her job as a business development consultant last May to start a matchmaking service, which she now runs almost entirely out of a roomy, Nora Ephron-ish coffee shop in the West Village. At first, Ms. Elliot paid rent for a SoHo office in which to interview potential clients, but when she realized it was easier to get people talking in a cafe she transferred her entire operation to this back table. 
 ''If I was starting this business three years ago I'd obviously go get a sexy space in the meatpacking district, but I had to build this business smart and lean,'' says Ms. Elliot, whose monthly tab at the coffee shop runs $500 to $750. The shop ''saves me thousands of dollars a month, helps my clients feel more comfortable and I help out by buying lots of coffee.''
 Ruthie McCombs, who lost her job at a top-tier investment bank last year, keeps precisely the same schedule at a Park Slope coffee chain as she did at her office: five days a week, eight hours a day, a vanilla soy latte for breakfast, a packed lunch from home at her ''desk,'' and an afternoon cup of tea. She works hard, too, putting together business plans, brainstorming ideas, applying to graduate school and writing two blogs, one about running and health after losing her mother to cancer, the other about losing her job.
 She prefers a seat along the front wall, where the sun streams through a huge window, even if enjoying that view means enduring a crush of toddlers and nannies twice a day. ''I used to think people who hung out in coffee shops were flaky,'' says Ms. McCombs. ''But I've met some accomplished people in here. I wish my office was more like this.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY JENNIFER DANIEL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (77%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (77%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (73%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); LIBRARIES (70%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



809 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Dubai Debt Woes Suggest Wider Crisis

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
Of the many countries that gorged on debt in the boom years, Dubai stood out. In the space of a few years the emirate's investment arm, Dubai World, racked up $59 billion in debt, borrowing to build lavish developments like a giant island shaped like a palm tree to entice celebrities like Brad Pitt, and to invest in glittery properties like the MGM Grand Casino in Las Vegas.
 Now that the boom has gone bust, both in Dubai and in the United States, Dubai is stuck with a glut of real estate that no one wants to buy or rent. Creditors and markets had always assumed that when push came to shove, its oil-rich neighbor Abu Dhabi would bail out Dubai. But that assumption was called into question this week, and the resulting fear that Dubai might not be able to pay its bills sent a wave of uncertainty rippling through markets just as investors thought the worst of the global financial instability was over. 
 The anxiety reached Wall Street on Friday, sending the Dow Jones industrial average down more than 150 points, as investors worried about hidden debt bombs in other countries and institutions -- heavily indebted nations like Greece and even Britain, high-flying emerging markets and even European and American banks that had lent Dubai money. 
 In a worst-case contagion, Bank of America analysts wrote Friday, ''One cannot rule out -- as a tail-risk -- a case where this would escalate into a major sovereign default problem, which would then resonate across global emerging markets in the same way that Argentina did in the early 2000s or Russia in the late 1990s.'' 
 And not just emerging markets. ''Dubai shows us that what we are now facing is a solvency issue, not a liquidity issue,'' said Jonathan Tepper, a partner at Variant Perception, a research house in London that has been outspoken on the debt problems facing European economies.
 On Wednesday, Dubai requested that Dubai World be allowed to skip six months of interest payments on its debt. Before then, Dubai World, the corporate face of the emirate, had commissioned the city state's flashiest buildings, managed ports around the world and reached far overseas to invest in properties like Barneys in New York. 
 Now, just as Bear Stearns was a harbinger of a string of failures of overly leveraged investment banks, the concern is that Dubai could be the canary in the coal mine for heavily indebted countries. The debts of everyone, including Japan and the United States, not to mention emerging markets, have risen greatly as the countries have fought the ravages of the global recession. 
 ''Whether you are Dubai, Greece, Spain, Ireland or the U.K., you can print as much money as you want, but at the end of the day you have to pay the interest on your debt,'' Mr. Tepper said.
 Dubai is one of the few member states of the United Arab Emirates that has little oil wealth of its own. It acts as the trading, tourist and financial hub of the emirates. But it was assumed that the U.A.E.'s richest oil state, Abu Dhabi, would always bail out its free-spending neighbor.
 Dubai's announcement on Wednesday reversed that presumption -- even as investors fretted that Dubai risked a sovereign default that would ripple to developing nations.
 And while Abu Dhabi may well want to make its more exuberant neighbor and its bankers suffer a bit for their profligate ways before it rides to the rescue, that gives little comfort to investors already wary of the region's growing debt.
 ''This came as a big shock,'' said Fahd Iqbal, an analyst at EFG-Hermes, an investment bank focused on the Middle East. Although Mr. Iqbal said he held to the view that Dubai in the end would avoid default, he acknowledged that the measure had severely rattled confidence in Dubai. ''One of the main issues now is of credibility and the potential impact on future fund-raising, which could have knock-on effects on building and infrastructure plans for Dubai and the United Arab Emirates,'' he said.
 By the numbers, a tremor in Dubai should not necessarily shake the world banking community. According to data from the Bank for International Settlements, foreign banks have $130 billion of exposure to the United Arab Emirates, with Britain having the largest exposure, $51 billion. Banks in the United States have debts of $13 billion.
 That is a negligible 0.4 percent of foreign banks' total cross-border exposure, said Stephen Jen, an analyst at the hedge fund Blue Gold capital management. 
 In fact, Dubai World's largest creditors are domestic banks in Dubai and Abu Dhabi.
 Still, one concern is that some British banks with large credit exposure to the United Arab Emirates are already troubled. Royal Bank of Scotland, majority-controlled by the British government, was one of the largest lenders to Dubai World, having secured $2.3 billion worth of loans to it since early 2007, according to a report by J.P. Morgan. Standard Chartered and Barclays were also large lenders to the region, with more than $10 billion between them, analysts said. HSBC has $17 billion exposure to the United Arab Emirates.
 But while a Dubai default may not provoke a banking crisis, it could well spur a broader crisis of investor confidence in overly leveraged economies.
 World markets did not take long to reflect this insecurity. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 154.48 points, to 10,309.92 Friday, as markets in Europe and Asia closed slightly higher after opening sharply down for the third consecutive day. Crude oil prices fell to a six-week low; gold fell as investors sought havens. 
 The cost of insuring the debt of economies like Greece and Lithuania spiked 16 percent and 6 percent, respectively, this week. The cost of insuring Dubai's debt shot up by 67 percent and the British pound weakened against the dollar for the week. 
 Greece and Britain have historically high budget deficits that exceed 12 percent of gross domestic product, with Spain not far behind and Ireland struggling with the consequences of a devastating real estate collapse. 
 While no one is expecting an outright default as long as global interest rates remain low -- largely due to aggressive government bond purchases by central banks -- concerns have been building for months that once these easing measures end, interest rates will spike and investors will become less willing to trust the word of heavily indebted governments.
 For now, most of the pain from Dubai is being felt by the holders of the Islamic bonds of Nakheel, the developer owned by Dubai World that is known for the palm-themed islands it built.
 On Dec. 14, $3.52 billion in Nakheel bonds come due. One of the largest Islamic group of bonds issued, the deal was snapped up by Western and regional investors. In a reflection of how sure investors were that Dubai would meet these payments, the bonds were trading at a 10 percent premium to face value earlier this week. They are now trading at around half of face value.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Emirates Towers in Dubai, which has accumulated $59 billion in debt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS JACKSON/GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
Golfers in the shadow of Jumairah Island Towers on Friday in Dubai. Fears that the emirate cannot pay its debt sent the Dow down more than 150 points. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAMRAN JEBREILI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) CHART: Lending to the United Arab Emirates: Western banks have lent billions for real estate, construction and other investments that have helped fuel the rapid development of Dubai and the six other emirates of the United Arab Emirates.
FOREIGN FINANCIAL EXPOSURE TO THE UNITED ARAB EMIRATES At the end of March 2009
LOANS BY BANK, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES At the end of December 2008 (Sources: Bank for International Settlements (country exposure)
 Emirates Banks Association (bank loans) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); DEBTOR NATIONS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (72%); STOCK INDEXES (67%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (59%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: BRAD PITT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); NEVADA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GREECE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



810 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Seeing the Glass as Mostly Empty

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE American economy is in its worst shape in a quarter-century.
 At least that appears to be the belief of the consumers questioned by the Conference Board for its consumer confidence survey, for which preliminary November results were announced this week. 
 Over all, the index shows that confidence is significantly better than it was early this year, when stock markets had crumbled and the credit crisis was at its worst.
 That increase comes from a rise in consumer expectations. 
 But as can be seen in the accompanying charts, the present-conditions index fell in November to 20, the lowest level for that index since early 1983. The index is based on a scale in which the average opinions of 1985 are equal to 100. 
 Why the glum opinion, at a time when many economists say they think the recession that began in December 2007 ended sometime last summer or fall?
 The primary reason is unemployment. 
 The index of present conditions is based on answers to two questions, one on jobs and one on business conditions. 
 Business conditions are considered poor; only 8.1 percent of respondents deemed them good and 45.7 percent said they were bad. The rest said business conditions were normal. But those figures are not quite as bad as they were last winter.
 On jobs, however, the relentless rise in the unemployment rate, to 10.2 percent in October, has left nearly half the population, 49.8 percent, saying jobs are hard to get, while only 3.2 percent say they think jobs are plentiful. Not since late 1982 have people been that negative on jobs.
 The history of the present-conditions index indicates that public perceptions often trail reality. When recessions begin, people generally think current conditions are good. After recent recessions, the current-conditions index continued to decline for a number of months after the recession ended, and the economy began to improve, at least according to the later conclusions of the National Bureau of Economic Research.
 By contrast, expectations about the future have a good record of beginning to rise before the recession is over, as has happened this year. The proportion of Americans who expect there to be fewer jobs in six months has fallen from 47 percent in February to 23.1 percent now. Similarly, just 15.1 percent now think business conditions will worsen, compared with 40.7 percent in February.
 In sum, the consumer confidence indexes indicate that there is a little more optimism than there was last winter, but that Americans are not persuaded things have gotten better so far.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Consumer confidence index, present conditions(Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); RECESSION (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



811 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: At Odds Over Land, Money And Gas

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

DATELINE: CHENANGO, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Chris and Robert Lacey own 80 acres of idyllic upstate New York countryside, a place where they can fish for bass in their own pond, hike through white pines and chase deer away.
 But the Laceys hope that, if all goes well, a natural gas wellhead will soon occupy this bucolic landscape.
Like many landowners in Broome County, which includes the town of Chenango, the Laceys could potentially earn millions of dollars from the natural gas under their feet. They live above the Marcellus Shale, a subterranean layer of rock stretching from New York to Tennessee that is believed to be one of the biggest natural gas fields in the world. 
 As New York environmental officials draft regulations to allow drilling in the shale as early as next year, thousands of residents like the Laceys in upstate counties have banded together in coalitions to sign leases with gas companies for drilling on their land -- for $5,000 to $6,000 an acre for a term of five years, and royalties of up to 20 percent on whatever gas is found. 
 ''When I heard about drilling, what came to mind was 'Thank you,' '' said Mrs. Lacey, 58, who has lived on her property here for 27 years with her husband, Robert, 68, a commercial insurance agent. ''Finally our community can recover, and our children don't have to leave the state to find jobs.''
 In New York City, natural gas exploration is largely seen as a threat to the drinking water the city gets from watersheds to the north in the Catskills. But in the rural communities above the shale, the reaction has been far more mixed -- and far more contentious.
 Some residents welcome the drilling as a modern-day gold rush and salvation from the economic doldrums that they say have chased jobs and young people away from their area. Others express concerns about the environment and quality-of-life issues like noise and heavy-truck traffic.
 In some cases, the issue has pitted neighbor against neighbor or spouse against spouse.
 Exploring the shale involves a drilling method called hydraulic fracturing that requires pumping huge volumes of water laced with benzene and other chemicals into the rock to break it and extract gas. The process raises issues about the use and disposal of wastewater, and the danger of leaks, spills and other contamination. It has been linked to contamination of water wells in Pennsylvania and Wyoming and to the death of livestock in Louisiana.
 Mark Dunau, an organic vegetable farmer with 50 acres in the town of Hancock in Delaware County, says he is passing up any potential rewards from drilling because of worries about the pollution of water and air and the cumulative impact of thousands of wells. ''That water is my resource,'' he said. 
 Mr. Dunau, 57, and his wife, Lisa Wujnovich, 55, said that they were holdouts not only among their neighbors but also among their friends, and that the character of their community was already changing. Mr. Dunau said he knew people who said they would take the money and move away, families who were fighting over whether to sign gas leases, and neighbors who regretted signing too early for too little money. 
 ''It's a nightmare,'' he said. 
 One of Mr. Dunau's neighbors, Grace K. Kinzer, signed a lease with Chesapeake Energy two years ago when a representative of the company knocked on her door with an offer of $25 an acre and royalties of 12.5 percent, she said. Ms. Kinzer, 83, said she needed money to pay her taxes so she signed, getting about $2,750 for 110 acres that would now fetch more than half a million dollars. 
 Ms. Kinzer said she felt as if ''I got taken for a ride.'' 
 But Brad Gill, executive director of the Independent Oil and Gas Association of New York, said that two years ago, gas companies could not justify high leasing costs. Prices have steadily climbed with the success of drilling the Marcellus Shale in states like Pennsylvania, he said. 
 ''I understand the frustration, but I'd also be fair-minded,'' he said.
 Sometimes rifts over drilling are found under the same roof. 
 Myron and Shirley Ernst, who own two acres in the Broome County town of Vestal, were recently invited by a neighbor to join a landowners' coalition that is negotiating with gas companies as a group. The Ernsts, teachers who ran a Montessori preschool on the property until their retirement five years ago, are at a standoff.
 Mr. Ernst, 72, favors drilling as a matter of survival. ''We're prostrate, and dependent on oil from enemy countries,'' he said.
 His wife, 74, said she was too worried about possible accidents and chemical spills. 
 ''My main concern is the aquifer,'' she said. ''We have our own well. I don't want to have to buy bottled drinking water.'' 
 She refuses to sign a lease, and, after 46 years of marriage, Mr. Ernst said, he knows better than to think he can persuade her. ''That's like asking how do I plan to fly to Pluto,'' he said.
 But the holdouts cannot stop the transformation of their surroundings, both good and bad, once drilling is allowed. The area of the shale in New York that is expected to be the most productive spans about 3.4 million acres in 10 counties, but lies mostly in Broome, Delaware, Sullivan, Chenango and Tioga, said officials from the Independent Oil and Gas Association of New York. 
 Further fostering bad feelings within communities, under a concept known as ''compulsory integration'' gas companies can drill under land without the owner's consent if they have leases in most of the surrounding area. Those owners without leases would get royalties of 12.5 percent on gas from their property, the minimum allowed under state law, but many worry more about exposing their water to pollution. 
 ''They could be drilling directly under your well and threatening your groundwater,'' said Wes Gillingham, the program director for the environmental group Catskill Mountainkeeper. He owns 100 acres in Sullivan County and said he was trying to keep it off-limits to drilling. 
 The regulations proposed by New York's Department of Environmental Conservation are under fire as inadequate from environmentalists around the state. Another concern shared by both the pro- and anti-drilling sides is whether the environmental agency, which has suffered financial and staff cuts, will have the resources to monitor the drilling.
 But the financial benefits beckon strongly in the communities that stand to benefit from a gas boom at a time when they are suffering economically. Broome County, which has lost jobs and population over the last decade, would stand to gain $3.72 billion a year in wages and tax and retail revenue from up to 4,000 gas wells, a study commissioned by local officials estimated. (However, a report by Columbia University researchers this year noted that any prediction of economic results was ''entirely speculative'' because of unknowns like the potential cost of cleaning up contamination.)
 Broome County officials themselves are seeking to lease the rights beneath the county landfill and airport. 
 ''We cannot afford to chase this industry away,'' Patrick J. Brennan, deputy county executive, told state environmental officials this month at a hearing on the proposed rules governing drilling that drew about 800 people to a school auditorium in the county.
 Both to poor residents with small parcels of land and wealthy landowners with vast estates, drilling represents an economic opportunity tantamount to winning the lottery. Jim Ward, who heads a landowners' coalition with 138 members whose properties range in size from 650 acres to half an acre, said the sentiment in his group is: ''I should have a right to prosper from my land.''
 Mrs. Lacey, who also belongs to a landowners' coalition with her husband, said she was satisfied that the proposed state drilling regulations offered ''reasonable protection.'' She said her group's lawyers were drawing up contracts that added even more restrictions.
 Common provisions in the leases require gas companies to restore the land to its original state after drilling ceases and to assume all liability for any water contamination. 
 ''If people are concerned, they should hide in a cave,'' Mrs. Lacey said. ''These are the people who want to put gas in their car and watch TV, but you can't do all these things if there's no energy. We have to take a risk here.''
 The Laceys would make more than $400,000 upfront once they signed their lease. Although they are not struggling financially, Mrs. Lacey said, she and her husband worry about rising property taxes biting into their retirement comfort. They also want their two married daughters to move back to the area with their families, and they long for an economically vibrant community. 
 ''We love it here, and we'd like to stay here after retirement,'' Mrs. Lacey said. ''It'd be easier for us to do that if some of this gas would help us defray our property taxes.''
 She added, ''It just basically means that you sleep better at night.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NOT INTERESTED: Lisa Wujnovich and her husband, Mark Dunau, refuse to sign a lease to allow natural gas drilling on their 50 farmland acres in Hancock, N.Y.
EAGER: Chris Lacey, above, and her husband, Robert, are grateful for the chance to earn drilling money from their 80 acres in Chenango.(A14)
 Grace Kinzer, of Hancock, signed a lease with Chesapeake Energy but now dislikes the terms: ''I got taken for a ride.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NIKO J. KALLIANIOTIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A17) MAP: The Marcellus Shale is a subterranean layer of rock.(A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (78%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (77%); ROYALTIES (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (74%); MOUNTAINS (73%); INSURANCE (69%); WATER POLLUTION (69%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (69%); WATER QUALITY (66%); AROMATICS (65%); BENZENE (65%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (60%); ORGANIC FOODS (60%); AIR POLLUTION (60%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (51%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2009



812 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: At a Yankees Shop, Buzz; At a Mets Store, a Hush

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
It was a tale of two Black Fridays for New York's baseball teams.
 The Yankees Clubhouse on 42nd Street, still basking in the glow of the team's 27th World Series championship, was flooded with customers elbowing through racks of commemorative T-shirts, hats and jackets. Pedestrians stopped to snap photographs of the storefront. 
 Two blocks east, the Mets Clubhouse hosted a handful of passers-by who gazed at the rows of jerseys and sweatshirts, many 50 percent off. The store seemed to be as quiet as Shea Stadium was after Carlos Beltran looked at Adam Wainwright's called third strike to end the 2006 season. 
 The retail foot traffic largely mirrored the team's on-field performances this year. The Yankees added another piece of armor to their gold-plated reputation as winners. The Mets sank in the standings early before fading into comical irrelevance.
 The stores on 42nd Street were yet more evidence that winning sells.
 Aoi Niwa, for instance, breezily spent $203 on a World Series hat, T-shirt and sweatshirt at the Yankees Clubhouse. Her father in Japan is a big fan of Hideki Matsui, she said. During their last phone conversation, he asked Niwa to pick up some items to commemorate the team's championship and Matsui's World Series Most Valuable Player award.
 ''It's a little pricey, but it's worth it,'' said Niwa, who lives in Portland, Ore., and was visiting a friend in New York for Thanksgiving.
 Across the street at Modell's, the front of the store was wall-to-wall Yankees merchandise. Jeter replica jerseys were being sold for $120, Yankee fleece jackets for $60 and sweatshirts for $55. Yankee hats with the World Series logo were $36.
 It is hard to gauge the success of an entire shopping season on one day's foot traffic. But Peter Augustine, the president of New Era Cap, the market leader in baseball caps, said that he expected sales to be unchanged this holiday season compared with last year despite the victory by the Yankees, the No. 1 selling team.
 ''While the Yankees always outsell the Mets, their win did not provide the kind of bump in sales that we would normally expect,'' he said. ''We blame that on the recession.''
 Of course, that has not stopped teams like the Mets and the Yankees from introducing merchandise. The Mets, for instance, unveiled new retro jerseys Friday, ones similar to those worn by the players on the 1969 championship team wore. 
 The home uniform tops, which the players will wear next season, include pinstripes against a light cream background, similar to those the team wore starting in 1962, when the Mets set a modern-day record for losses in a season.
 There were no signs, however, to announce the arrival of the new uniform tops lined up against the wall at the Mets Clubhouse store. The jerseys, which have embroidered lettering and are made with a finer material, cost $266, nearly three times the cost of other replica jerseys.
 The retro jerseys sparked a debate among fans on various Mets-related blogs. Some thought the team should focus more on improving the team and less on marketing. Others thought that the jerseys were an effort to make fans feel good just as they receive their season-ticket renewal notices.
 In any case, $266 was too pricey for Ben Testa, a Mets fan who stopped in the store on his way to work. Testa asked an employee how many of the new jerseys he had sold so far. None, he was told, as of midafternoon Friday.
 Testa said he might have bought a jersey if it were less expensive, but said he was not in the mood to spend a lot on the Mets anyway. He was annoyed by the team's performance the past three seasons and planned to give up his season tickets, which he has had since 1985.
 The jerseys are ''all about marketing,'' he said.
 ''It's no coincidence that they came out on Black Friday,'' Testa said. ''They know they're going to take a hit with ticket renewals.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); ATHLETES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); RETAILERS (76%); SPORTS AWARDS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (70%); THANKSGIVING (69%); SALES PROJECTIONS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK METS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); OREGON, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (88%); JAPAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



813 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: A Growing Disaster

BYLINE: By RUSSELL HARDING. 
Russell Harding, a former director of the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, is an environmental policy analyst with the Mackinac Center for Public Policy.

DATELINE: Midland, Mich. 

 BODY:
 THE ethanol industry, once the darling of corn growers, environmentalists and the auto industry, has fallen on hard times. Producers spent this year caught between falling ethanol prices and rising corn costs, causing many to go bankrupt. In response, they are pushing the Environmental Protection Agency to increase the amount of ethanol they can blend into gasoline to 15 percent, up from the current 10 percent. Allowing this, however, would only double down on a discredited environmental policy without solving the industry's fundamental economic problem. 
 That problem is simple: Ethanol prices trend higher and lower along with the price of gasoline, yet the cost of producing ethanol tends to rise with demand, since higher ethanol production exerts upward pressure on the price of corn. In a free market, corn prices might be expected to eventually fall as the market adjusts to increased demand. But because the government heavily promotes ethanol use through subsidies and regulation, the market is continually strained. 
 The problem is magnified because corn is a water- and fertilizer-intensive crop that requires considerable investment. Worse, since fertilizer is often an oil-based product, the cost of growing corn tends to rise at the very moment ethanol prices, which rise with oil prices, might bring a good return. 
 The ethanol industry has less incentive to control its costs and diversify its market as long as the federal government guarantees it a place at the pump. Yet Congress's solution to the plight of ethanol suppliers has been to mandate more ethanol use in gasoline. The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 mandated that use of renewable transportation fuel rise from nine billion gallons last year to 36 billion gallons in 2022. Although some of this mandate must be met by advanced biofuels from switchgrass and other sources, corn-produced ethanol is the only large-scale alternative fuel currently available to meet Congress's mandate.
 The ethanol industry appears to recognize that without government mandates there can be no sustainable market, hence the push for 15 percent ethanol fuel. But we should be wary on several grounds. First, many researchers are convinced that 15 percent ethanol in gasoline will cause problems in small engines in everything from lawnmowers to portable generators and boats. Some car engines will most likely tolerate the higher blend of ethanol, but others -- especially those in older vehicles -- will require costly repairs, a hardship likely to be borne by lower-income Americans. 
 Second, if ethanol use was really helping the environment, it might be worth putting up with higher costs. But many environmental groups dropped their support for corn-based ethanol after two studies published by the journal Science last February concluded that ethanol production actually increases the amount of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere. The main culprit is large-scale conversion of forest and grassland to corn production. Researchers at Princeton University estimate it would take 167 years of ethanol use in cars to offset the release of carbon from converting lands to agricultural production. 
 Third, a 2008 report prepared for the World Bank concluded that ''the most important factor'' in rising global food prices ''was the large increase in biofuels production in the U.S. and the E.U.'' High food prices may be a hardship for American consumers, but they are downright deadly in poor African nations. 
 Last, Washington already protects American companies with a 54 cent per gallon tariff on sugar cane ethanol from Brazil and other countries that produce it at much lower costs than American farmers can. This tariff not only hits United States motorists in the pocketbook, it also leads to other mischief. An entire industry designed to evade the protectionist tax has cropped up in Trinidad and 23 other Caribbean countries that are exempt from the tariff. Trinidadian companies import sugar cane ethanol from Brazil, dehydrate it to comply with the American tariff exemption on products ''substantially transformed'' in the Caribbean Basin, and then sell it in America.
 Allowing a higher percentage of ethanol in gasoline will not make us less dependent on such foreign energy sources. It will not help the environment. It will not lower consumer prices. And it will result in the poor of the world having less to eat. Instead of raising federal mandates on ethanol, Congress and the Obama administration should end them entirely. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLS (95%); ETHANOL (93%); BIOFUELS (92%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BIOMASS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); CORN MARKETS (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); FERTILIZERS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); FUEL ADDITIVES (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (62%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



814 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Stacking The Deck Against Kids

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
Gail Collins and Charles M. Blow are off today.

 BODY:
Every year at Thanksgiving, parts of the Upper West Side of Manhattan become like a paradise for children. There's the exciting preparation of the balloons and floats for the Thanksgiving Day parade, and then, on Thursday morning, the parade itself.
 The weather isn't always kind. I've seen the kids out there in snow, in freezing rain, in winds that threaten to send the balloons and their handlers soaring to distant venues. It doesn't seem to matter. The children come into the neighborhood in waves, holding the hands of adults or riding atop their shoulders, smiling, laughing, playing hide-and-seek among the police barricades. Finally, inevitably, they end up staring in absolute open-mouthed, wide-eyed awe as the mammoth, colorful helium-filled creations of their favorite characters begin making their majestic way down Central Park West. 
 We have an obligation and an opportunity at this special moment in history to do right by these youngsters, and all the rest of America's kids. It's a special moment because we've seen so clearly the many things that have gone haywire in the society, and while it may not be easy to articulate, we have a sense of what needs to be done.
 The American economy is broken, ruined by the greed and irresponsibility of fabulously wealthy corporate chieftains and their shabby acolytes and enablers in government. While Wall Street is handing out billions in bonuses, American families are struggling with joblessness, home foreclosures and rampant debt. The economic woes are exacting a fierce toll on family life, and children are taking a big hit -- emotionally, psychologically and otherwise.
 One effect of the Great Recession, according to a recent series in The Times, has been a big jump in the number of runaway children, many of them living in dangerous conditions on the street. 
 Family homelessness is also up, and poverty is increasing. More than a third of all black children in America are poor, and that tragic percentage is expanding. The outlook for America's working classes is bleak. A few weeks ago a New York cab driver nearly broke down in tears as he told me he'd had to apply for food stamps to continue feeding his family.
 A sense of urgency may be starting to emerge. With President Obama's jobs summit approaching, representatives from labor and progressive organizations gathered in Washington to warn of the lasting damage being inflicted on the prospects of young Americans by the continuing employment crisis.
 Millions of youngsters like those who were suffused with such delight at the Thanksgiving Day parade are being buffeted by an economy that is eroding their quality of life, curtailing their educational opportunities and undermining their prospects for economic success as adults. That more attention is not being paid to this growing disaster is criminal.
 Groups represented at the meeting in Washington, which was sponsored by the Economic Policy Institute, included the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, the N.A.A.C.P., the National Council of La Raza and the Center for Community Change. Among other things, they urged the administration and Congress to provide substantial additional relief to economically distressed state and local governments, to invest in much more widespread infrastructure improvements, and to engage in some direct government creation of jobs. 
 All of that, in my view, would amount to just a first step. We remain stuck in an economic model that not only permits but encourages the continued existence of financial institutions that are too big to fail, which means that when one or more of them fail -- as will surely happen at some point -- we'll again be rushing to ''save the system'' by bailing them out at taxpayers' expense.
 The system remains grotesquely unfair, with the deck stacked against working people, even as we're desperate to have them sustain the economy with nonstop consumer purchases. Keep in mind that at the start of the recession the collective wealth of the richest 1 percent of Americans was greater than that of the bottom 90 percent combined. The economic and political clout of that bottom 90 percent has only weakened since then. 
 We still have a hideously dysfunctional public education system, one that has mastered the art of manufacturing dropouts and functional illiterates. We have not even begun to turn that around. 
 We still keep fighting tragic, futile, stupid wars, squandering lives and resources and creative energies that could be put to use right here at home, where the need for nation-building is beyond critical.
 The U.S. should be a paradise for young people. We need big changes in this country, approaches that are constructive, creative and fundamentally new, if we're going to give those smiling kids I saw on Thanksgiving Day the kind of society they deserve. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARADES & MARCHES (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); HOMELESSNESS (64%); FORECLOSURE (50%); FOOD STAMPS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



815 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Forget to Move The Car? It Was Your Lucky Day

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK; Jo Craven McGinty and Colin Moynihan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
For many in New York City, the Friday after Thanksgiving is a day to digest turkey, jostle with shopping hordes -- and curse the fresh parking tickets tucked beneath untold thousands of windshield wipers. 
 Every year, a sleeping army of New Yorkers and their out-of-town guests forget that Friday is not a holiday and fail to move their cars for street cleaning. But the city does not forget: Traffic agents give out parking tickets furiously, more than three times the number on a usual day. The post-Thanksgiving bonanza of roughly 20,000 tickets is worth some $900,000 to the city. 
 But not this year. 
 Because of a quirk of the calendar, Friday was a city-recognized holiday after all: Id al-Adha, a Muslim celebration. Alternate-side-of-the-street parking rules were suspended through Saturday, giving New Yorkers one more reason to offer thanks while depriving the city of hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
 The intersection of American tradition, Islam's lunar calendar and the street-cleaning schedule made for a peculiar holiday mash-up that pleased car owners and imams alike. ''On Id day we share the blessings with all New Yorkers,'' said Imam Shamsi Ali of the Islamic Cultural Center in Manhattan. ''The blessing is that they have the opportunity to have free parking.''
 Did drivers lament the money that the city budget lost and what it would mean in these tough economic times? Not exactly.
 Parking in New York is a battle of inches won by perseverance, so much so that Laura Conner, an ultrasound technician, tries to park her car outside her Upper East Side office by 7 a.m. even though she does not go in until around 9. She listens to the radio, sends text messages to her husband, eats bananas. On Friday, she sat in her Jeep Grand Cherokee in a spot where she would normally have gotten a ticket. But, she said smiling, ''I'm not getting one today!''
 Moving parked cars so city trucks can clean the streets is a hallowed, and hated, New York tradition. It can mean double-parking on wider streets, or circling blocks for an hour -- in the same manner, it should and probably has been noted, that one would trace Dante's hellish rings. Like so many other city obsessions, the parking dance has inspired blogs and Web sites.
 Samuel Ramirez, a doorman on East 84th Street, said he watched traffic enforcement agents assemble on his corner each morning, ready to pounce as soon as the clock struck 9. Across the city, traffic agents issue roughly 6,000 alternate-side parking tickets a day out of a total of about 27,000, according to the Department of Finance. With fines of $45 to $65, depending on the borough, drivers' failure to move cars for street cleaning earns the city roughly $270,000 a day, and more than $70 million each year.
 On the Friday after Thanksgiving in 2007, the most recent year for which data is available, the city handed out more than 41,000 parking tickets, the most on any day that year. Roughly half were for alternate-side parking, generating nearly $900,000 for the city, according to an analysis by The New York Times. 
 That means that suspending alternate-side rules on Friday for Id al-Adha cost the city $630,000 more than it would have had the holiday fallen a week later. It floats on the Western calendar and can occur throughout the fall and winter. The last time it fell on the day after Thanksgiving was in 2003.
 The celebration is known as the Festival of Sacrifice, and it commemorates the willingness of Ibrahim, or Abraham, to sacrifice his son to God. 
 The number of parking tickets issued has soared since Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg took office, the Times analysis showed, and they have become a symbol of what critics call City Hall's callous attitude toward New Yorkers' everyday concerns. Last week, the City Council passed a bill that would provide a five-minute grace period to drivers who were late to feed a meter or move their cars on street-cleaning days. Mr. Bloomberg vowed to veto the legislation, saying it would only lead to confusion.
 City officials have long maintained that parking tickets are issued to keep the streets clean and traffic moving, not to fill the city's coffers. But many residents are skeptical. 
 ''It's clearly just an opportunity to raise revenue,'' Andrew Kelman, a mortgage trader, said next to his parked car. Mr. Kelman, who said he had paid his share of parking tickets over the years and was generally cautious, added that before he parked his car Friday, he read the street signs carefully, then read them a second time, then a third, and then checked with the doorman of a nearby building.
 Like many New Yorkers, Mr. Kelman was unaware of the Muslim festival, but, he said, ''I knew it must have been a religious holiday because they wouldn't be so nice as to give you a day off.''
 Carol O'Cleireacain, a former city finance commissioner, said the revenue lost from the suspended parking rules was small enough that ''I don't think the finance commissioner would lose much sleep.''
 But she said she appreciated the unusual confluence of calendars, and said the city was giving New Yorkers ''a holiday they never knew about.''
 ''Aren't they lucky!'' she said. ''People can sleep in and this year they won't get a ticket.''
 All other parking rules were in effect Friday, as Bill Palumbo, 72, found out the hard way. 
 Mr. Palumbo received two tickets in two hours on the Upper West Side, each for $115. He got the first one for driving while using his cellphone; he said he had pulled over first. Two hours later, he received his second ticket, for idling at a fire hydrant. Mr. Palumbo's profession: driving instructor.
 Khalid Latif, the director and chaplain of the Islamic Center at New York University, said he hoped the parking holiday would inspire more New Yorkers to learn about Id al-Adha, perhaps out of a sense of gratitude, if nothing else.
 ''That extra two or three hours of sleep undisturbed is going to be a great gift for a lot of people,'' he said.
 But parking warriors should not get too comfortable. Next year, Id al-Adha falls in mid-November, which means that on the morning after Thanksgiving, the Super Bowl for parking tickets, enforcement agents will be back on the prowl. 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 1, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about the suspension of alternate-side parking rules in New York City on the Friday after Thanksgiving because of Id al-Adha, the Muslim Festival of Sacrifice, referred imprecisely to the holiday. It can occur any time of the year, not just from November to February or in the fall and winter. The article also misidentified the parking holiday that fell on the day after Thanksgiving in 2003. It was for Id al-Fitr, marking the end of Ramadan -- not Id al-Adha.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traffic rules were still in effect on Friday, as Bill Palumbo, 72, learned. Mr. Palumbo, a driving instructor, got two tickets.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING OFFENSES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); RELIGION (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EID AL-ADHA (76%); ISLAMIC HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); BUDGETS (72%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



816 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Dubai's Investment Fund Crisis Unnerves Investors for a Second Day

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ; Vikas Bajaj, Matthew Saltmarsh and Bettina Wassener contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The debt crisis facing the Dubai investment fund rattled investors for a second day on Friday, rekindling doubts about the vitality of emerging economies. Investors, however, said they had anticipated the deterioration of the country's real estate bubble, and they considered Dubai's troubles an isolated case.
 In New York and throughout Asia, stocks endured sharp losses on Friday, responding to reports that Dubai World, the emirate's investment vehicle, was seeking to delay for six months payments on all or part of its $59 billion in debt. European markets, which fell 3.2 percent on Thursday, calmed on Friday and closed higher. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average tumbled 154.48 points, or 1.48 percent, to 10,309.92 on Friday, recovering from a 225-point loss early on. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 19.14 points, or 1.72 percent, to 1,091.49. The Nasdaq slipped 37.61 points, or 1.7 percent, to 2,138.44. 
 The quick evaporation of Dubai's economic standing revived concerns among traders about the vulnerabilities of markets in places like Indonesia, Brazil and China. 
 ''The fact is the equity markets globally have gotten way ahead of themselves,'' said Dan Alpert, managing partner of Westwood Capital. ''The stock markets and the bond markets are in violent disagreement, and at some point, it is going to be resolved by a sell-off in the equity markets.''
 Led by emerging countries, stock markets have climbed at an incredible pace as the global economy has started to recover. Markets in emerging economies have gained 87 percent in the last year, according to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, with investors piling in money in search of higher returns.
 Dubai's request for more time to repay debt sent the cost of insuring government and corporate bonds to levels not seen since July. Japan, Italy and Germany have posted some of the largest gains in risk in recent days, according to an index compiled by CDR Credit Indices.
 Credit swaps rose for a third consecutive day on Friday. It now costs Dubai $647,000 to insure $10 million in debt for five years, up from $541,000 the day before. Indonesia's cost increased by $12,000 and China's by $6,000.
 United States Treasury prices rose, as did the dollar, as investors fled equities for the safety of government-backed debt. The 10-year Treasury note rose 18/32, to 101 14/32, and the yield fell to 3.21 percent, from 3.27 percent late Wednesday.
 Markets in Asia were sharply lower on Friday, with the Hang Seng in Hong Kong falling 4.8 percent. European exchanges finished slightly higher.
 Some analysts said Friday that the declines were overdone, exaggerated by light trading over a holiday. A truer picture of the markets may not come until next week, analysts said, as buyers return and as more details of the Dubai crisis, and the exposure of banks, emerge.
 ''Dubai is really a symptom, a legacy, from the previous boom, rather than symptomatic of a start of a whole new set of issues that are going to create a systemic crisis in emerging markets,'' Kevin Grice, senior international economist at Capital Economics in London, said. ''Markets assume the worst-case scenario.''
 Investors on Friday tried to assess just how much damage Dubai's debt struggle would wreak on the global economy, and a question was how much exposure banks might have. Emerging markets have often seemed more vulnerable because their financial markets are not as deep and sophisticated as those in the West. 
 While that notion was proved wrong during the financial crisis, investors are still skittish about the developing world's ability to handle a crisis. They need look no further than Bangkok, where a seemingly contained financial panic spiraled into a regional crisis more than a decade ago.
 There is a fear that Dubai's problems could rattle emerging market banks and financial institutions that have lent the emirate money. 
 On Friday, corporate officials across Asia started offering assurances that they had limited or no exposure to Dubai World and its subsidiaries. The Bank of Baroda, an Indian bank, said Friday that 5 to 6 percent of its loans were to Dubai entities, adding that those borrowers were current on all of their loans. 
 In Europe, a research note from Credit Suisse estimated that European banks might be the hardest hit if Dubai World could not meet its obligations, with total exposure estimated at 13 billion euros ($19.5 billion). European banks, however, played down their exposure.
 During the boom, Dubai World and other fast-growing companies from the emirate invested heavily in companies and projects across Asia, building ports in India and Pakistan and taking stakes in Chinese banks. There is a fear that those projects and firms could suffer if Dubai authorities are forced to sell some of their holdings or put off investments to raise cash to repay their large debts. 
 David Riedel, founder and president of the Riedel Research Group, said the crisis in Dubai would probably cause some aversion to risk in the short term. However, he said it did not diminish the high hopes for emerging markets. 
 ''It will cause people to think about the strength of the financial markets rally, which in many cases has outpaced the fundamental recovery,'' he said. ''But it doesn't change anything about the emerging markets story, which remains very much intact.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BONDS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (61%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); ASIA (93%); CHINA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



817 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Hiring Is Rising in One Area: Low-Paid Interns

BYLINE: By HILLARY CHURA

 BODY:
On-the-job training has its roots in the Middle Ages. Apprenticeship, it was called then, and it generally was for the young. 
 The new variation, now called an internship, is not the painstaking, multiyear experience it once was, but it still offers the same advantages: a chance for a worker to gain knowledge at little or no cost to the employer. 
 In boom times, companies with too much work for existing employees -- yet not enough work to justify another hire -- may have turned to temporary workers. But with the economy still in the doldrums, companies again are opting for unpaid or low-paid internships to get the extra work done. 
 It is a brilliant, recession-proof way to double your work force, said Drew McLellan, whose McLellan Marketing Group in Des Moines has long hired unpaid interns. ''It's more money to the bottom line for you.'' 
 While there are no definitive numbers on how many internships exist or how many companies offer them, most are probably at smaller companies and nonprofit groups rather than large public companies, according to Internships.com, a placement service with some 13,000 listings. C. Mason Gates, the president and founder of Internships.com, said that with economic uncertainty, smaller businesses would continue to view interns as a source of growth, talent development and project-based work. 
 Internships have never been out of vogue, but the competition for positions is heating up, which is good news if you run a company needing economical, entry-level workers.
 ''The importance of an internship has changed from what parents experienced,'' said Steve Rodems, senior partner at Fast Track Internships, which charges $799 to help an intern find an unpaid job. ''It's no longer a nice-to-have addition to you resume. Upon graduation, more and more companies are looking for graduates who also have some real-world internship experience.'' 
 One employer who recently hired an intern was Suzan French, who, after four years as an independent public relations consultant in Allentown, Pa., needed help but was not prepared to bring on a full-time employee. In May, she hired Kate Mackes, 21, a finance major at nearby Lehigh University. Ms. Mackes runs clients' social media projects while Ms. French offers old-school instruction in the public relations business. 
 ''Kate was raised on it and is active in it, and that is something I'm still learning,'' Ms. French said. ''She is able to come in and use social media for the betterment of a client, and I've been able to teach her some of the more traditional P.R. and marketing practices that you don't learn in the classroom.'' 
 Internships run the gamut from marketing and finance to geology, fashion, architecture and entertainment. While some are part of university programs and carry academic credit, others are less formal with nothing changing hands except an occasional lunch. 
 And internships are no longer just the province of college students. More unemployed professionals are seeking them -- whether to test-drive a new career or simply to keep themselves occupied, according to internship placement services. Mr. Rodems, of Fast Track Internships, said 10 percent of his clients were college graduates changing professions, compared with just 1 percent in 2008. And, he said, internships are increasingly running throughout the year, not just in the summer.
 Michael Sabatino, 38, an equity analyst at Smith Barney in New York until he was laid off in 2008, is one of those professionals who sought an internship. 
 He said that, after caring for his newborn daughter for a year, he approached a small fee-only wealth management firm in New Jersey for a full-time position. None were open, so Mr. Sabatino offered his services free to learn the business. 
 He ended up earning $10 an hour -- far less than his family's living expenses -- and had no job offer at the end of his five-month stint. But he described the position as a turning point, in part, because it exposed him to the daily challenges of running a small business and demonstrated to potential employers his passion for serving clients and developing his technical expertise. 
 ''The internship was a key transitional experience in my career that positioned me for a long-term opportunity in a wealth management organization,'' Mr. Sabatino said. He is interviewing with boutique wealth managers.
 Connie Rivera, 57, also used an internship to change careers after she left her job as chief executive of the American Dietetic Association in Chicago in 2000 to pursue her passion for gardening. 
 She got a job at a local garden center to learn the business. For 18 months she did grunt work -- answering customer telephone calls, watering plants, helping with payroll, she said. In 2003, she opened her own garden and landscape business. She now has 42 employees -- and one intern -- and says she expects to have $4 million in revenue by Dec. 31.
 ''I took a $250,000 pay cut, but it was the kind of research I needed to do to write my business plan,'' Ms. Rivera said. 
 While menial tasks often go with the territory, the best internships interpose photocopying with client meetings, true-life assignments and mentoring. 
 ''A company gets as much from an intern as the intern gets from the company -- if it's a good internship,'' said Lalia Rach, dean of the Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University.
 For employers, setting up an internship program is relatively easy and inexpensive. Veterans of the hiring process say business owners interested in offering internships should develop relationships with local college professors who can choose good intern candidates and seek legal advice to ensure that federal and state labor laws are followed. Business owners should have a clear idea of what they want from an intern and then interview candidates in the same way they do potential regular employees.
 Mr. McLellan, from the Des Moines marketing company, said several of his interns had been hired at or opened marketing shops.
 ''The reward as a business owner is knowing you gave them a little boost,'' he said. ''And it's fun to watch them take it wherever they are going to take it.'' 
 While most interns receive no money -- and others slightly more than the $7.25 hourly minimum wage -- interns are not exactly free. At least initially, it is more efficient for managers to do something themselves than to train someone. Also, while most interns are go-getters, exams and socializing can interfere.
 Consuelo C. Bova, chief executive of ForTheFit.com, an online clothing retailer, brought on her first unpaid intern last February to do marketing and public relations. Ms. Bova said she was so impressed with the intern, a University of Central Florida junior, that she hired her as a part-time assistant after the internship ended in April. In August, Ms. Bova interviewed candidates to fill another intern opening -- this time a paid position.
 ''Those I have interviewed to date have been, at worst, merely qualified and capable of doing the job, and at best, exciting, enthusiastic, experienced and capable of delivering high-quality work for our company,'' Ms. Bova said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Suzan French, left, a public relations consultant in Allentown, Pa., hired Kate Mackes, 21, a finance major at nearby Lehigh University, as an intern. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN COLLERD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (93%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (89%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (79%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (67%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



818 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: A Fresh Look at Patents and Innovation

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Inventing a Better Patent System'' (Op-Ed, Nov. 17):
 Robert C. Pozen stresses the importance of reforming our nation's patent system. He writes that ''Congress shouldn't make the best the enemy of the good.'' We could not agree more. 
 Innovation and intellectual property-dependent industries drive our economy. This makes all the more troubling the recent Newsweek survey finding that only 41 percent of Americans believe that the United States is staying ahead of China on innovation, and only 32 percent of Americans believe that we are staying ahead of Japan. 
 We need to create the legal landscape that allows our innovators to flourish in the new economy, and we need to do it now. 
 Mr. Pozen is correct that Congress should not let the controversial issue of how damages are calculated bog down needed reforms. When the Senate Judiciary Committee approved the Patent Reform Act in April, Senators Dianne Feinstein, Arlen Specter and others helped broker a deal on damages that paved the way for success that will benefit all inventors and innovators. 
 Mr. Pozen specifically recommends changes to current law ''that would improve the processing of patents, reduce lawsuits and speed up the arrival of innovations on the market.'' Working together in a bipartisan fashion, we are finalizing language that will accomplish those objectives.
 The time is now. We will make this happen, and America will invent its way back to prosperity. Patrick Leahy
 Jeff Sessions
 Washington, Nov. 19, 2009
 The writers are the chairman and ranking member, respectively, of the Senate Judiciary Committee.
 To the Editor:
 I would like to suggest a simple change in the rules that would eliminate thousands of worthless applications and patents that clog the current system.
 Applicants should be required to submit proof that the claimed invention has been built and successfully tested. For many inventions this proof could be a video file. For others, the sworn certification of an acknowledged independent expert would be more appropriate.
 In my own field of aerodynamics there are hundreds of patents for aircraft that were never built, and could never fly if they were. Alan Adler
 Los Altos, Calif., Nov. 17, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 As the chief executive of a small publicly held technology innovator in Silicon Valley, I must take issue with Robert C. Pozen. His proposed amendments to patent statutes would do the opposite of what he suggests: they would stifle innovation. The measures favor big companies with fistfuls of cash and armies of lawyers -- not smaller firms like ours that are responsible for most of this country's breakthrough innovations and accompanying job growth. 
 Several of Mr. Pozen's supposed fixes -- a post-grant review process and a shift to ''first to file'' -- would burden small entrepreneurial innovators with costly challenges to their already issued patents. Giant companies that now enjoy huge market advantages don't need additional help from Congress, especially when that help tilts the playing field against the small firms that are the Intels, Ciscos, Microsofts and Apples of tomorrow.
 Let's be careful: a strong patent system spurs innovation, and innovation creates jobs. Henry R. Nothhaft
 San Jose, Calif., Nov. 17, 2009
 The writer is the author of a forthcoming book, ''Great Again! An Entrepreneurial Plan for Restoring America's Innovation Leadership.''
 To the Editor:
 Robert C. Pozen's recommendations for changing the patent system would be as destructive to American innovation as bank deregulation was to American finance. Since the Patent and Trademark Office now takes an average of 32 months to process a patent, for example, the mandatory publication of applications 18 months after filing would put an inventor's most intimate secrets on the Internet almost a year and a half before they had the protection of an American patent -- a pirate's delight.
 Mr. Pozen's proposal for a new post-grant opposition system is akin to the one in Europe, where about 6 percent of issued patents are challenged annually. Japan abandoned this approach in 2004 because it was stimulating too many lawsuits. It would create more, rather than less, litigation here. Pat Choate
 Washington, Va., Nov. 17, 2009
 The writer, an economist who was Ross Perot's running mate in 1996, is director of the Manufacturing Policy Project and author of ''Hot Property: The Stealing of Ideas in an Age of Globalization.''
 To the Editor:
 For three years, from 1947 to 1949, I was one of those ''patent examiners, many of whom are young or lack practical experience.'' Actually, we were only assistant examiners under the patent examiner who was responsible for judging applications in a particular field.
 For the examination of signaling devices handled by our department, the assistant examiner's sufficient qualification was the appropriate engineering degree. But all our work was essentially a draft for the chief, who had much practical patent experience.
 That is not to say that he, or any of us, could truly judge in a day or two an application for a communication system created over a period of years by a team of engineers and scientists, and described in an application of over a hundred pages of text and diagrams. In those cases, as Robert C. Pozen suggests, expert commentary could be helpful. But we must insure that it is free of expert bias. Leo Hellerman
 Rhinebeck, N.Y., Nov. 17, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JON HAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (89%); PATENT LAW (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); WRITERS (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (78%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LAWYERS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); APPROVALS (67%); LITIGATION (65%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

PERSON: ARLEN SPECTER (57%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (57%); JEFF SESSIONS (57%); PATRICK LEAHY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



819 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Shoppers Are Out in Force, but Most Are Sticking to Their Lists

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM and CHRISTOPHER MAAG; Reporting was contributed by John Collins Rudolf in Tucson; Karen Ann Cullotta in Rolling Meadows, Ill.; Javier Hernandez in New York; and Karen Zraick in Valley Stream, N.Y.

 BODY:
A year after an unfolding economic crisis sent consumers into shock, they ventured out Friday and opened their wallets a bit -- still hunting bargains, but no longer quite so afraid to spend.
 On the marathon shopping day known as Black Friday, anecdotal reports across the country suggested an encouraging opening of the holiday shopping season, with larger, more enthusiastic crowds than last year. Across many categories of merchandise, retailers noticed that consumers seemed more willing to spend money on themselves than they had been a year ago.
 And thousands of people explored a new way of interacting with merchants, posting messages on Twitter and getting replies from store employees, often within minutes. 
 Despite the improved mood, frugality has not gone out of style. Many of Friday's shoppers seemed to stick to lists and take advantage of discounts, rather than give in to impulse purchases. 
 ''My feeling is that consumers are just more realistic and more accepting of the economy and where their personal situation is this year,'' said Jim Fielding, president of the Disney Store chain. ''They're coming in with a budget and they're coming in with a list.'' 
 Indeed, veteran retailing executives and analysts said that, while store turnout was improved from a year ago, they had never seen the American consumer shop so strategically. 
 ''If it's at full price, nobody's even looking at the stuff,'' said Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst for the NPD Group, who spent the day surveying malls. 
 Terry J. Lundgren, president and chief executive of Macy's, said some 5,000 people lined up outside Macy's in Midtown Manhattan on Friday morning, slightly more than last year. But he said consumers were still shopping with caution. 
 ''They've got a budget that they've planned to spend and I think most consumers will stick to that,'' he said. ''We expect that this will be a market-share holiday season. We don't need consumers to spend more money. We just need to make them spend more money with us.''
 The National Retail Federation, an industry group, reported that high-definition TVs, laptops, winter coats and Zhu Zhu Pets toy hamsters were among the most sought-after items. 
 How much consumers actually spent on Friday will not become clear for several days. Gerald L. Storch, chairman and chief executive of Toys ''R'' Us, said he thought the day would be a success. ''For the retailers as a whole this might be the biggest Black Friday in history,'' he said.
 It was also a more orderly day, despite some jostling and angry words here and there. Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer, strengthened security in some stores a year after a temporary store worker in Valley Stream, N.Y., died after being trampled by an unruly crowd. The biggest disturbance appeared to be at a Wal-Mart store in Upland, Calif., which closed for a few hours when shoppers began fighting over merchandise
 Black Friday got its name because it was perceived as the day retailers shifted into the black, or became profitable for the year. While it is always a high-volume shopping day, that turnout does not necessarily translate into big profits or determine how consumers will behave in the weeks to come.
 Chains are hoping this season will be better than last, when retailers posted the worst sales figures in decades. Industry sales last year fell 2.2 percent for the shopping season (November and December combined), the biggest decline since at least 1970, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers, an industry group. This year, sales are expected to be about the same as last Christmas, give or take a couple of percentage points. 
 The National Retail Federation, a trade group, predicted sales would decline 1 percent, to $437.6 billion. Some industry groups and professionals say that figure is low. The International Council of Shopping Centers, for instance, estimates holiday sales will rise 1 to 2 percent.
 One bright spot on Friday was a trend of people giving themselves gifts. Many shoppers, after denying themselves for the better part of a year, snapped up discounted merchandise like boots and sweaters. Matthew F. Katz, a managing director in the retailing practice of AlixPartners, a reorganization firm, said the shoe department at Nordstrom was packed with such shoppers. Consumers will wait for better discounts around Christmastime to buy gifts for others, he said. 
 Madeline Hart, 18, a high school senior, arrived at Woodfield Shopping Center in Schaumburg, Ill., at 4:30 a.m. and spent $200 on clothing and accessories at Express and Victoria's Secret. 
 ''I work part time at a car wash, so I bought this with my own money,'' said Ms. Hart, peeking into a pair of shopping bags holding a few shirts, a bra and a shiny red vinyl tote bag, a free extra from Victoria's Secret. 
 While the economy is showing signs of recovery, unemployment is the highest in decades and consumers are still deeply worried, which is likely to affect holiday shopping. The Conference Board said this week that American households were expected to spend an average of $390 on Christmas gifts, down from $418 last year. 
 ''Job losses and uncertainty about the future are making for a very frugal shopper,'' Lynn Franco, the director of the board's consumer research center, said in a statement.
 At Wal-Mart stores around the country, consumers said they were feeling the pain. At a store in Columbus, Ohio, Michelle Perry, 33, a waitress at Waffle House, said she moved this year from a nice rented house in the middle-class suburb of Pataskala to one in a rough neighborhood on the north side of Columbus. 
 ''I can't even let my kids outside without me going with them,'' she said. ''But we had to do something to save money, and I'm saving $300 a month by switching from renting to buying.''
 Still, she feels better about her finances this year than she did last year. After Wal-Mart, she was off to Meijer's to look for an Xbox 360 for her son, and for gifts inspired by the film ''Twilight'' for her 12-year-old daughter. 
 ''She's got to have the Twilight lip gloss,'' Ms. Perry said. ''Every girl at her school has it, so she's got to have it, too.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RJ Cortes lost no time filling his cart at a Wal-Mart in Sugar Land, Tex. More Black Friday shopping photos are at nytimes.com.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
Brian Garcia took a rest after holding the first spot in line for a TV-buying friend at a Wal-Mart store in Sugar Land, Tex.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The Toys ''R'' Us store in Times Square, left, handed out tickets for the supply of popular items like Zhu Zhu Pets, toy hamsters
at the Wal-Mart store in Valley Stream, N.Y., where an employee was fatally trampled last year, barricades were erected.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (60%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (50%)

PERSON: GERALD L STORCH (79%); TERRY J LUNDGREN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



820 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: With Late Rush, Mayor Spent $102 Million on Election

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
To eke out an election victory over the city's low-key comptroller, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg spent $102 million of his own fortune -- or about $174 per vote -- according to data released Friday, making his bid for a third term the most expensive campaign in the city's history. 
 Mr. Bloomberg, the wealthiest man in New York City, shattered his own records: He poured $85 million into his campaign in 2005 (or $112 per vote) and $74 million into his first bid for office in 2001 ($99 per vote). 
 And the $102 million tab is likely to rise, because the mayor has not yet doled out postelection bonuses to campaign workers, which have routinely exceeded $100,000 a person in years past. That spending will not be reported until after his inauguration in January. 
 Mr. Bloomberg has now spent at least $261 million of his own money in the pursuit of public office, more than anyone else in the United States.
 Government watchdog groups criticized the nine-digit price tag for his re-election, saying it undermined a widely admired campaign finance system that Mr. Bloomberg helped install in the city. Mr. Bloomberg did not participate in the system, which rewards candidates who raise small donations with large matching money from taxpayers.
 The downside for the billionaire mayor: It caps spending at $6 million in the general election. 
 ''He has done long-term damage to the system,'' said Gene Russianoff, staff attorney at the New York Public Interest Research Group.
 Throughout the campaign, the mayor's aides sought to project an air of inevitability, but data released on Friday revealed just how anxious they had become in the final weeks. 
 From Oct. 20 to Nov. 26, his campaign burned through $18.6 million, much of it on last-minute television and radio advertising. 
 As the mayor's consultants and pollsters realized that a large bloc of undecided voters either favored Mr. Thompson or planned to stay home on Election Day, the campaign scrambled. 
 A few hours before the polls closed on Nov. 3, the campaign issued a flurry of recorded telephone calls to registered voters, in which Mr. Bloomberg requested that New Yorkers head to the polls and pull the lever for him. 
 At the start of the race, Mr. Bloomberg's aides promised to run a political operation that mirrored the austere times. But that promise quickly evaporated. 
 The mayor's campaign, which leased a 35,000-square-foot headquarters in Midtown Manhattan and paid a disc jockey $300 to perform as volunteers called voters, was widely expected to crush his Democratic opponent, William C. Thompson Jr., the city's chief financial officer. 
 Mr. Thompson, who participated in the campaign finance system, was outspent by 14 to 1, and he struggled to attract experienced staff members and raise money.
 His press releases misspelled his own name; his aides groused about their jobs on Facebook; and his media team was so short on cash that it resorted to running 15-second blink-and-you-miss-it TV commercials. 
 But Mr. Bloomberg's unpopular drive to overturn the city's term limits law, his lavish campaign and a sputtering economy soured thousands of New Yorkers on him, even though most admired his record in office. 
 On Election Day, their frustration erupted into public view: Mr. Bloomberg won by fewer than 5 percentage points, at a cost of about $20 million for each point.
 Turnout was unusually low -- 585,000 New Yorkers cast votes for him, compared with 753,089 in 2005 and 744,757 in 2001, records show.
 ''He didn't seem to get very much for his money,'' Mr. Russianoff said.
 Howard Wolfson, a spokesman for the mayor's campaign, said that a harsh political environment helped oust incumbents in Westchester County and New Jersey.
 ''The reason this anti-incumbent wave stopped at the Hudson's edge,'' Mr. Wolfson said, ''is because the mayor ran an effective campaign based on eight years of success.''
 A free-spending ethos infused the Bloomberg campaign. The latest filing shows that staff members charged Mr. Bloomberg for expensive meals, rides home, even to retrieve a towed car.
 The campaign's union coordinator, Patrick J. Brennan, spent $520 to dine with labor leaders at Smith & Wollensky, the Midtown steakhouse. 
 Mark Botnick, who focused on outreach to Jewish voters, charged the campaign $223 for taxi rides. And a Republican operative, Matthew Mahoney -- whose campaign wages totaled $100,000 -- sought about $5,400 in reimbursements from the campaign, for items big and small. A rental car bill from Hertz exceeded $700. A burger meal at Wendy's cost $8.36.
 Some of the spending seems to have directly benefited taxpayers. A campaign worker named Andres Berry paid $185 to a tow pound in Brooklyn, presumably after he ran afoul of parking rules that, under the Bloomberg administration, are strictly enforced, even if you work for him. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael R. Bloomberg and Diana Taylor this week at the White House.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); HISTORY (76%); EXECUTIVES (50%); RADIO ADVERTISING (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



821 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Russia and France Reach Agreements on Autos and Natural Gas Pipelines

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH and ANDREW E. KRAMER. 
Andrew E. Kramer reported from Moscow, and Matthew Saltmarsh from Paris.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Moscow signed several deals in autos and energy with French companies on Friday at a meeting described by Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia as a breakthrough in economic ties between the countries. 
 There was, however, no decision on the most sensitive topic at the gathering of top government and business representatives at Rambouillet, outside Paris: whether France will sell to Russia a Mistral-class warship, which carries helicopters, troops and can serve as a mobile command center. 
 A possible deal on that was being examined, Prime Minister Francois Fillon of France said on Friday. 
 But in agreements reached on Friday, the French electricity giant EDF will take a 10 percent stake in the Gazpromnatural gas pipeline South Stream, to run under the Black Sea, said the chief executive of Gazprom, Aleksei Miller. Another French utility, GDF Suez, announced progress in taking part in a separate proposed pipeline, Nord Stream, under the Baltic Sea. 
 Both pipelines would compete with Nabucco, a proposed pipeline backed by the United States and the European Union. 
 ''It looks like pretty good time to be positioning yourself to enter Russia,'' said Francois Heisbourg, special adviser of the Foundation for Strategic Research in Paris. ''Gas prices are down, the Russians are desperate for customers and their infrastructure needs are great.'' 
 He said the French involvement in the pipelines would give Paris strategic options in the country's natural gas supply, potentially a wise move in light of Russia's decision to curb exports via Ukraine. 
 Separately, the French carmaker, Renault, confirmed a rescue plan for the Russian factory that makes Lada cars. The deal will pull the plant back from bankruptcy, but puts off until March questions of future ownership. 
 Renault, a Russian state company and a Moscow investment bank each own 25 percent of the Russian factory, known as Avtovaz. Under the agreement, Moscow will contribute 50 billion rubles ($1.7 billion) to pay down debt, and a regional government will pay the salaries of 14,600 laid-off Avtovaz workers shifted to a new subsidiary. 
 Renault had been pressured by the Russians to invest cash, but avoided doing so. Renault said it would provide Avtovaz the equivalent of 240 million euros ($359 million) in contributions via transfers, production machinery and technological expertise. 
 Igor Sechin, a deputy prime minister, said that Moscow would support Renault's owning a controlling share but said that the French company had not yet decided if it wanted control. A decision on swapping debt or the value of technical aid for equity will be made in March, Igor Komarov, the president of Avtovaz, said, according to Interfax. 
 The two countries also have projects in mind for cooperation in the nuclear sector, despite the difficulty of talks on the issue, Reuters quoted Mr. Putin as saying. 
 French officials were taken aback by the announcement this year that Siemens of Germany would build nuclear reactors with Rosatom, the Russian atomic energy agency, rather than the French specialist Areva. Siemens sold its stake in Areva this year. Total, the French oil giant, said on Friday that it was expanding cooperation with the Russian state-owned company Zarubezhneft. 
 Total retains a 25 percent stake in the giant Shtokman field, expected to start production in 2014 to 2015, alongside Gazprom and Statoil. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Vladimir Putin of Russia, left, and Prime Minister Francois Fillon of France exchanged documents on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXEI DRUZHININ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (92%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EURO (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); HELICOPTERS (56%)

COMPANY: GDF SUEZ SA (91%); REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (86%); AVTOVAZ OAO (85%); OAO GAZPROM (69%); SIEMENS AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: GSZ (PAR) (91%); GSZ (BIT) (91%); RNO (PAR) (86%); RNO (BIT) (86%); AVAZ (RTS) (85%); OGZD (LSE) (69%); GAZP (RTS) (69%); SIN (SWX) (57%); SIE (LSE) (57%); SIE (FRA) (57%); SIE (BIT) (57%); SI (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (91%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (91%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (86%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (86%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (85%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (69%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (69%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); FRANCOIS FILLON (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) FRANCE (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPE (79%); UKRAINE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



822 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Uninvited White House Guests Made It All the Way to the Top

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and BRIAN STELTER; David Stout contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama and his wife, Michelle, had a face-to-face encounter with the couple who sneaked into a state dinner at the White House this week, White House officials acknowledged on Friday. The revelation underscored the seriousness of the security breach and prompted an abject apology from the Secret Service.
 A White House spokesman said that the couple, Michaele and Tareq Salahi of Virginia, met and shook hands with the president and the first lady in the receiving line in the Blue Room, as the Obamas greeted each of their 400 invited guests Tuesday night before moving to a tent on the South Lawn for dinner. 
 That disclosure coincided with a statement from the director of the Secret Service, Mark Sullivan, saying that his agency was ''deeply concerned and embarrassed'' by the events. Secret Service officials said the agency wanted to interview everyone connected with the episode, including the Salahis, and had not ruled out criminal charges.
 ''The preliminary findings of our internal investigation have determined established protocols were not followed at an initial checkpoint, verifying that two individuals were on the guest list,'' Mr. Sullivan said. 
 ''Although these individuals went through magnetometers and other levels of screening, they should have been prohibited from entering the event entirely,'' Mr. Sullivan said. ''That failing is ours.''
 On Friday night, the White House released a photograph of the couple in the receiving line, being greeted by Mr. Obama. In the photo, a smiling Mrs. Salahi, wearing a red and gold sari, is clasping Mr. Obama's hand with both of hers, as her husband looks on. The prime minister of India, Manmohan Singh, is standing next to Mr. Obama.
 Mrs. Salahi's Facebook page has photographs of the couple with officials including Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff. It is not known who took the pictures. 
 The couple's lawyer, Paul W. Gardner of Baltimore, asserts that the Salahis had been ''cleared, by the White House,'' to be at the event, and so were not really ''crashing.'' Mr. Gardner declined a request to elaborate on his assertion. 
 But a Secret Service spokesman, James Mackin, said he had no idea how Mr. Gardner could make such a claim. 
 For their part, White House officials took pains to publicly refrain from criticizing the Secret Service.
 ''The men and women of the Secret Service put their lives on the line every day to protect us; they are heroes, and they have the full confidence of the president of United States,'' said Nick Shapiro, a White House spokesman. ''The White House asked the United States Secret Service to do a full review, and they are doing that. The United States Secret Service said they made a mistake, and they are taking action to identify exactly what happened, and they will take the appropriate measures pending the results of their investigation.'' 
 Domestic security experts said that the episode raised serious questions about protection for the president. Ronald Kessler, author of ''In the President's Secret Service: Behind the Scenes With Agents in the Line of Fire and the Presidents They Protect'' said threats against the president had increased 400 percent since Mr. Obama took office. 
 On Friday, agents went to a Virginia winery founded by Mr. Salahi's father in search of the couple, one administration official said. A phone call to the establishment, Oasis Winery in Hume, Va., was not returned. The winery's ownership has been the subject of extensive litigation involving disputes within the family. The Salahis and the winery were saddled with hundreds of thousands of dollars of unpaid bills, according to bankruptcy and legal findings in Virginia.
 Mr. and Mrs. Salahi, who are known in the area to have a taste for polo and fine wine, are aspiring reality-show celebrities. For months, the couple have been trailed by camera crews with the cable channel Bravo, as it prepared for a new show, ''The Real Housewives of D.C.''
 Seemingly distancing itself from the Salahis' actions, Bravo said Friday that it would not comment about ''ongoing investigations.'' Earlier, the channel said that while its cameras were filming the Salahis before the dinner, producers were told by the couple that they had been invited to it.
 The Salahis have not officially been selected for the ''Houswives'' show.
 ''The decision as to who will be included in the series will not be made for several months,'' Bravo said Friday.
 By the sometimes twisted logic of reality TV, it is hard to tell whether the publicity surrounding the state dinner would help or hinder the couple's goals.
 For the breakout stars of the multicity ''Housewives'' franchise, reality television is a full-time -- and lucrative -- job. Between per-episode fees, endorsements and public appearances, ''Housewives'' cast members can net six-figure salaries, said a producer with knowledge of the franchise. 
 In a brutal economy, fortune is an even bigger motivator than fame for many aspiring reality television contestants, producers and researchers say. 
 Financial hardships were clearly a factor for the Heene family of Fort Collins, Colo., who gained nationwide attention last month when they claimed that their child had floated away on a homemade flying saucer. According to a police affidavit, the Heenes were working with a production company to pitch a television series to networks at the time. The parents pleaded guilty in the case this month.
 Both reality television and the Internet have trained people ''to brand themselves, to distribute themselves, to get themselves out there,'' said James Hay, a communications professor at the University of Illinois and a co-author of the book ''Better Living Through Reality TV.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michaele and Tareq Salahi, in the receiving line Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SAMANTHA APPLETON/THE WHITE HOUSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); INTERVIEWS (79%); METAL DETECTORS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); MANMOHAN SINGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009



823 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Entering the Superproject Void

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Generation after generation, giant public works projects have altered the American landscape. The Erie Canal and the transcontinental railroad come to mind. So do massive urban sewer and sanitation systems, the Tennessee Valley Authority, rural electrification, the Hoover Dam, the Interstate System, the subway networks in San Francisco and Washington, the Big Dig in Boston ... and the list abruptly stops.
 For the first time in memory, the nation has no outsize public works project under way. The Big Dig, with its three and a half miles of underground highways channeling traffic beneath downtown Boston, was completed in December 2007, the month the Great Recession began.
So what are we missing, exactly? Huge public works -- or more precisely, their historic absence -- didn't cause the recession any more than their renewal would quickly draw the country out of it. But their effect on the economy is almost always noticeable if not easily measured. Some economists argue that the continual construction of new megaprojects adds a quarter of a percentage point or more, on average, to the gross domestic product over the long term. Again, cause and effect aren't clear, but the strongest periods of economic growth in America have generally coincided with big outlays for new public works and the transformations they bring once completed. 
 If their absence creates a void, particularly in a recession, what can fill it?
 There is the quick-fix approach: stimulus. Giant public works projects take time to plan, cost lots of money and -- the real sore spot for some -- tend to add to taxes and deficits, regardless of how many people they might put to work for generations. Mindful of these political realities,President Obama has earmarked just $80 billion -- a tenth of his stimulus package -- for megaprojects, and put off most of that down payment until next year. His focus instead has been on spending hundreds of billions to quickly and visibly repair existing public works, especially highways, and also levees, dams and locks, particularly in the New Orleans area. That's not a bad thing -- those repairs are certainly needed -- but it doesn't create permanent wealth.
 Another approach is to finance new projects several notches smaller in cost and boldness -- and in contribution to economic growth. Denver and Salt Lake City, for example, are extending light rail and bus lines into the outlying suburbs, at a cost of less than $5 billion apiece. In New York, construction of the Second Avenue subway proceeds unhurriedly. All three projects, once finished, will bring new commercial activity to the communities they serve. Over time, the additional tax revenues from these activities will pay down the debt incurred in the construction. That has been the financial justification for many public works projects since World War II.
 By the standards of the past, however, they are not the spectacular feats of engineering and ingenuity that greatly enhance the economy. The Erie Canal was just such a feat, linking the western frontier with East Coast markets. So was the transcontinental railroad, connecting the West Coast with Omaha and the existing Eastern railroads, spawning towns and commerce along the new Western route. Several generations later, the interstate highways were built by the states, mainly with federal money and federal planning, giving the auto and trucking industries a huge lift.
 ''The public works projects that have the largest effect on economic growth are those that integrate markets in different areas of the country,'' said Francisco Rodriguez, director of research at the Human Development Report Office of the United Nations and author of a recent study on the role of infrastructure investment on economic growth.
 If there is anything in the Obama administration's approach that can be compared to the megaprojects, it would be the giant computer system, now being planned, to make health records available in hospitals and doctors' offices across the country. Some economists argue that computerized records would raise economic output just as the Hoover Dam did 73 years ago. Still, only $19 billion has been set aside; the project is expected to cost nearly $100 billion, and who knows if the funding will materialize.
 ''Last year at this time we were debating whether we should be concentrating our spending on big projects that, in the long run, add to economic growth,'' said John J. Wallis, an economic historian at the University of Maryland. ''That debate never got resolved, and the stimulus bill we enacted in February ended up focused instead on quick spending.''
 Absent a groundswell of public demand, those advocating large-scale projects are not widely heard. Gov.Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, a Democrat, is perhaps the most outspoken.
 ''Just think about a high-speed rail system for the country,'' the governor said, envisioning in particular a system that would link Philadelphia and Pittsburgh. ''Think what it would mean for steel factories, concrete factories, asphalt factories, electrical equipment factories. It would mean a massive amount of orders and a lot of economic growth.''
 Mr. Obama has allocated just $8 billion as a down payment for high-speed rail -- in Mr. Rendell's view not a drop in a $3 trillion bucket, a bucket that seems unlikely fill anytime soon. ''I think we should get private capital involved,'' he said, noting that the private sector has often in the past participated in the financing of big projects that in the long run benefit business.
 Economists in the Obama administration acknowledge that when it comes to giant public works, the president has not yet gone far, but they suggest that he could be seen as having accomplished as much asFranklin Roosevelt did in 1933. Roosevelt, however, took office that year in the depths of the Depression. As a response to the crisis, public spending on megaprojects multiplied, and the effect remains: many of today's post office buildings, for example, were built in that era, speeding up mail delivery; and thousands of miles of dirt roads were paved.
 Mr. Obama's Great Recession, by contrast, has been a milder affair, and a recovery appears to have started, even without the softening effects of megaprojects. If the recovery materializes, government investment in such large-scale efforts is likely to run up against an opposition that has prevailed since the late 1970s, when government came to be seen as inefficient -- a second-string alternative to the private sector. Adding to the skepticism, many economists and policy makers reversed a view they once held -- that rising output would generate enough additional tax revenue to pay down the national debt, including debt connected to megaprojects.
 Now at least some in the administration have come to believe that megaprojects have value.Jared Bernstein, chief economist for Vice PresidentJoseph R. Biden Jr., said, ''We are on the eve of making truly significant and lasting down payments that are going to plant some lasting seeds.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THINKING BIG: The Golden Gate Bridge under construction in 1937, when an era of huge public works projects was under way.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: Public Works Spending: As a percentage of United States G.D.P. (Source: Moody's Economy.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFRASTRUCTURE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



824 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: My Estate Tax, Your Family Business

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Protect the Farm, Tax the Manor,'' by Ray D. Madoff (Op-Ed, Nov. 21), is a clarion call for wage earners and others who don't own a farm or a family business not to save too much or otherwise be too economically successful lest the government take it away from you or your children when you die. 
 Ms. Madoff's estate tax plan has the consequence of enriching the inheritors of farms and small businesses and punishing everyone else. I don't think that's what Thomas Jefferson envisioned in his nation of farmers and family businesses. 
 In fact, Ms. Madoff's plan more closely echoes Karl Marx's ''from each according to his ability, to each according to his need.'' Besides, I earned that money and paid my taxes on it. It is mine and I want to give it to my hard-working kids, not to the government.
 Robert Miller Weston, Conn., Nov. 21, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 Ray D. Madoff rightly urges Congress to settle on estate tax legislation that can give taxpayers more certainty in planning their estates, and I believe that the exemption and tax rate should remain at least at current levels. But I think the emphasis on additional breaks for estates owning small farms or businesses is misguided. 
 The Internal Revenue Code already includes provisions that allow families to specially value farm property and to defer payment of estate taxes owed on businesses over many years, giving the next generation a head start. 
 Beyond that, why is the wealth accumulated by those families more deserving of protection from tax than estates built through savings and investment?
 Melissa P. Walker Atlanta, Nov. 21, 2009
 The writer is a trusts and estates lawyer.
 To the Editor:
 Apparently, tired arguments never die. In this case, the argument in question is Ray D. Madoff's contention that family farms and small businesses need further protection from the estate tax beyond the current $3.5 million exemption. 
 As an initial matter, I disagree with what Ms. Madoff considers ''small.'' The fear of the estate tax among small-business owners, real as it may be, is based on ignorance and political propaganda -- not the empirical data. After practicing estate planning for more than a decade, I can attest that I have yet to see a family farm or a small business go under because of the estate tax. 
 What Ms. Madoff didn't mention is that under the current law, if a family business interest does make up a significant portion of the taxable estate, the heirs have 15 years to pay the estate tax attributable to it. Of course, the family has to hold on to the business to qualify for this deferral (as well as Ms. Madoff's proposed $10 million small-business exemption). And that is the real issue. 
 In my experience, the family business fails upon the death of the patriarch or matriarch because of the family. Spouses from a second marriage do not get along with the children. Children do not get along with one another. And when nobody plans for the inevitable, the business suffers from a lack of unified management and is often split into pieces.
 The irony is that, as a consequence of the rapid increase in the estate tax exemption over the last 15 years, more and more families have come to disregard the need for business succession planning. Increasing the exemption for ''small'' businesses is not only unnecessary, but also would probably worsen the situation.
 Steven Baker Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. Nov. 21, 2009
 The writer is a certified public accountant.
 To the Editor: 
 The federal estate tax is often a form of double taxation. Inherited wealth is not free of income taxes, contrary to the suggestion by Ray D. Madoff. Earned income and already taxed property have been subject to income taxes. Built-in gains on property, on the other hand, have not been subject to tax. 
 Ms. Madoff proposes to tax every ''heiress'' at 55 percent and provide a meager exclusion of $1 million to $2 million. In high-cost states like New York, the frugal employee and the self-employed professional would get slaughtered. What happens after an owner sells the family business: is the family money now in the hands of an ''heiress''? 
 The proposal would also create a perverse incentive to start businesses to take advantage of the larger $10 million exclusion. Ms. Madoff's dichotomy might sound good, but it is a false dichotomy between good and bad wealth. 
 Hani Sarji Michael Hepner Brooklyn, Nov. 22, 2009
 The writers are, respectively, a lawyer who is the author of Future of the Federal Estate Tax Blog, and a benefits professional.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON LOGAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); ESTATE PLANNING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (89%); FAMILY FARMS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); WRITERS (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



825 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''This is another wave of the credit crunch.''
 Christopher Davidson, an expert in Gulf politics at Durham University in Britain, after Dubai asked banks to allow its main investment vehicle, Dubai World, to suspend its debt repayments for six months. 
 ''There is no clear, easy way out for housing.''
 John Silvia, Wells Fargo chief economist. The Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller home price index barely rose in September, and Mr. Silvia predicts a future weakening of the housing market.
 ''What a good country or a good squirrel should be doing is stashing away nuts for the winter.''
 William H. Gross, managing director of the Pimco Group. With the national debt now topping $12 trillion, the government's bill for servicing the debt will exceed an estimated $700 billion a year in 2019. ''The United States is not only not saving nuts, it's eating the ones left over from the last winter,'' Mr. Gross said.
 ''It's not about the prices of books and movies anymore. There is a bigger battle being fought.''
 Fiona Dias, executive vice president at GSI Commerce, on Amazon.com and Wal-Mart, which are waging an online price war.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); PRICE CUTTING (70%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); AMAZON.COM INC (55%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GULF STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



826 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: Prime Numbers

 BODY:
26.9: The total tax revenue of the United States as a percentage of its gross domestic product, according to the Organization for Economic Development and Cooperation. Denmark had the highest tax burden, at 48.3 percent; Mexico, the lowest, at 21.1 percent. The overall tax burden for the 30-member economic-development organization was estimated at 35.2 percent of G.D.P. 
 21: The average miles per gallon for cars and light trucks sold in the United States in 2008, according to the United States Environmental Protection Agency. The number is up by 0.4 miles per gallon from 2007; since 2004, fleet fuel economy is up 1.8 miles per gallon, or 9 percent. Honda had the highest overall fuel economy of the nine largest-selling automakers, at 23.9 miles per gallon. American automakers ranked lowest, in part because they make a lot of trucks: General Motors (19.7), Ford (19.4) and Chrysler (19.3).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (87%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (87%); AUTOMAKERS (87%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (87%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (54%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



827 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Climbing to Success, and Helping Others Along

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

 BODY:
Patrick Alvarez made sure the tables of children were eating their turkey while he directed a group of volunteers to the kitchen, nodded thanks to a mentor and shook hands with a well-wisher grateful for the meal. 
 The blizzard of activity might have overwhelmed most people, but Mr. Alvarez, 19, has spent his life overcoming long odds. He went from living in a homeless shelter with his mother to studying economics at Syracuse University, where he is a sophomore. Along the way, he said, he saw domestic abuse at home, mostly in the Bronx, cold nights on a shelter floor and fierce battles with Brooklyn rats. 
 But all of that seemed a lifetime ago on Tuesday night at the Frederick Douglass Center on the Upper West Side, as Mr. Alvarez watched some 200 people eat Thanksgiving dinners provided by a nonprofit group that he founded. 
 ''I remember the hardest time for me and my mom was not having food, especially on the holidays,'' Mr. Alvarez said. With that in mind, during his senior year at Frederick Douglass Academy, he started the group, called Project Feed Me, to distribute meals to the needy at Thanksgiving. Last year, the group organized its first Thanksgiving dinner in New York, and this year it held dinners in Syracuse and New York.
 On Tuesday, one of the volunteers buzzing between the gymnasium and the kitchen was Isaias Garcia, a high school friend of Mr. Alvarez's and one of the early recruits to Project Feed Me.
 Mr. Garcia and Mr. Alvarez have more in common than a dedication to community service. 
 Mr. Garcia spent about eight months living in homeless shelters, and he said he and his mother also fled abuse. He had also gone from a shelter's hard floor to a classroom in the mornings. Now a sophomore at Hobart and William Smith Colleges in Geneva, N.Y., he was all too familiar with insurmountable odds.
 Mr. Garcia, 19, grew up in the Ralph J. Rangel Houses in Washington Heights, where he said both of his parents were in and out of the hospital with mental problems. During those times, his sister, Adenia, took care of him, but he said the instability and stress made school, and everything else, difficult. He and his mother entered a homeless shelter when he was 16 after his parents' fighting had grown worse. 
 They moved to housing provided by the city in 2007, but the next year, his mother, Ana Cordero, died at 52. ''The only thing my mom would have wanted me to do was graduate,'' Mr. Garcia said. ''School was a priority, because at the end of the day I knew that would be the only way out of my situation.''
 In January, Mr. Garcia joined Children's Aid Society's Hope Leadership Academy, where he quickly established himself as a leader and mentor to younger students. He was asked to give presentations to corporate sponsors, but after paying for college expenses, he had no money left for business attire. 
 With $200 he received from the Children's Aid Society, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, he was able to buy a gray pinstriped suit, a tie and several dress shirts. 
 ''I wouldn't have been the person I am today if it wasn't for my struggles,'' said Mr. Garcia, who lives with a cousin in the Bronx when he is home from college. ''I'm obligated to give back because of the amount of help I've received my whole entire life.''
 Mr. Alvarez speaks of the same sense of responsibility. A natural leader with the poise of a politician, he is aiming toward a career in public service. According to his many fans, it will not likely be spent on the margins. 
 ''He is inspiring, he is committed and he is energetic,'' said Charles J. Ogletree Jr., a professor at Harvard Law School, who met Mr. Alvarez four years ago when the young man sought him out at a conference. Professor Ogletree said Mr. Alvarez reminded him of a young man he once knew at Harvard: Barack Obama.
 ''I see the same kind of promise, vision and commitment in Patrick,'' Professor Ogletree said after stopping by the Project Feed Me dinner in Manhattan. ''I'm putting away my campaign contributions for him until the moment he says he's ready.''
 Despite the lofty expectations, Mr. Alvarez still has everyday challenges to meet. Before he could begin fall classes at Syracuse this year, he had to pay the balance of the previous semester's bill. With $914.92 he received from the Children's Aid Society through the Neediest Cases Fund, he was able to settle his tuition bills and continue with school.
 After he graduates from Syracuse, Mr. Alvarez plans to go to law school. He was an intern in Representative Charles B. Rangel's New York office this past summer, and he wants to go to Washington next summer to continue his political education. 
 ''It gave me a buzz,'' he said. ''And I'm hungry for more.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patrick Alvarez, left, and Isaias Garcia serving up a turkey dinner last week at the Frederick Douglass Center in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All gifts are acknowledged
 special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org at nytimes.com/neediest or nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556- 1979. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. To delay may mean to forget. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); VOLUNTEERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOMELESSNESS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); CHILD WELFARE (73%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (71%)

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); SWITZERLAND (77%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



828 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: At This School, Everyone Majors in Marijuana

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

DATELINE: SOUTHFIELD, Mich. 

 BODY:
At most colleges, marijuana is very much an extracurricular matter. But at Med Grow Cannabis College, marijuana is the curriculum: the history, the horticulture and the legal how-to's of Michigan's new medical marijuana program. 
 ''This state needs jobs, and we think medical marijuana can stimulate the state economy with hundreds of jobs and millions of dollars,'' said Nick Tennant, the 24-year-old founder of the college, which is actually a burgeoning business (no baccalaureates here) operating from a few bare-bones rooms in a Detroit suburb. 
 The six-week, $485 primer on medical marijuana is a cross between an agricultural extension class covering the growing cycle, nutrients and light requirements (''It's harvest time when half the trichomes have turned amber and half are white'') and a gathering of serious potheads, sharing stories of their best highs (''Smoke that and you are ... medicated!'').
 The only required reading: ''Marijuana Horticulture: The Indoor/Outdoor Medical Grower's Bible'' by Jorge Cervantes.
 Even though the business of growing medical marijuana is legal under Michigan's new law, there is enough nervousness about the enterprise that most students at a recent class did not want their names or photographs used. An instructor also asked not to be identified. 
 ''My wife works for the government,'' one student said, ''and I told my mother-in-law I was going to a small-business class.'' 
 While California's medical marijuana program, the country's oldest, is now big business, with hundreds of dispensaries in Los Angeles alone, the Michigan program, which started in April, is more representative of what is happening in other states that have legalized medical marijuana. 
 Under the Michigan law, patients whose doctors certify their medical need for marijuana can grow up to 12 cannabis plants themselves or name a ''caregiver'' who will grow the plants and sell the product. Anyone over 21 with no felony drug convictions can be a caregiver for up to five patients. So far, the Department of Community Health has registered about 5,800 patients and 2,400 caregivers. 
 For Mr. Tennant, who is certified as both a caregiver and a patient -- he said he has stomach problems and anxiety -- Med Grow replaces the auto detailing business he started straight out of high school, only to see it founder when the economy contracted. Med Grow began offering its course in September, with new classes starting every month. 
 On a recent Tuesday, two teachers led a four-hour class, starting with Todd Alton, a botanist who provided no tasting samples as he talked the students through a list of cannabis recipes, including crockpot cannabutter, chocolate canna-ganache and greenies (the cannabis alternative to brownies). 
 The second instructor, who would not give his name, took the class through the growing cycle, the harvest and the curing techniques to increase marijuana's potency.
 Mr. Tennant said he saw the school as the hub of a larger business that will sell supplies to its graduate medical marijuana growers, offer workshops and provide a network for both patient and caregiver referrals. Already, Med Grow is a gathering place for those interested in medical marijuana. The whiteboard in the reception room lists names and numbers of several patients looking for caregivers, and a caregiver looking for patients. 
 The students are a diverse group: white and black, some in their 20s, some much older, some employed, some not. Some keep their class attendance, and their growing plans, close to the chest. 
 ''I've just told a couple of people I can trust,'' said Jeffery Butler, 27. ''It's a business opportunity, but some people are still going to look at you funny. But I'm going to do it anyway.'' 
 Scott Austin, an unemployed 41-year-old student, said he and two partners were planning to go into medical marijuana together. 
 ''I never smoked marijuana in my life,'' he said. ''I heard about this at a business expo a couple of months ago.''
 Because the Michigan program is so new, gray areas in the law have not been tested, creating real concern for some students. For example, it is not legal to start growing marijuana before being officially named a caregiver to a certified patient, but patients who are sick, certified and ready to buy marijuana generally do not want to wait through the months of the growing cycle until a crop is ready. So for the time being, coordinating entry into the business feels to some like a kind of Catch-22. 
 Students say they are getting all kinds of extra help and ideas from going to class. 
 ''I want to learn all the little tricks, everything I can,'' said Sue Maxwell, a student who drives each week from her home four hours north of Detroit. ''It's a big investment, and I want to do it right.'' 
 Ms. Maxwell, who works at a bakery, is already a caregiver -- in the old, nondrug sense of the word -- to a few older people for whom she thinks medical marijuana might be a real boon. 
 ''I fix their meals, and I help with housekeeping,'' Ms. Maxwell said. ''I have an 85-year-old lady who has no appetite. I don't know if she'd have any interest in medical marijuana, but I bet it would help her.'' 
 Ms. Maxwell said her plan to grow marijuana was slow in hatching. 
 ''We were talking at the bakery all summer,'' she said. ''Just joking around, I said: 'I'm going to grow medical marijuana. I'm a gardener, I've always dreamed of having a greenhouse, I think it would be great.' And then I suddenly thought, hey, I really am going to grow medical marijuana.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nick Tennant, 24, the founder of Med Grow Cannabis College, something of a trade school for medical marijuana growers.
 Marijuana plants at Med Grow, in a Detroit suburb. Michigan has registered about 2,400 ''caregivers'' to grow marijuana.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANNABIS (92%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (91%); CURRICULA (90%); HERBAL MEDICINE (90%); HORTICULTURE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (73%); BOTANY (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SERVICES (70%); CAR WASHES (70%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (62%); FELONIES (60%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (50%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



829 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; AT THE TABLE LIFE CAFe; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Easing Into the Day Where Night Life Reigns

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON

 BODY:
When you serve breakfast in a neighborhood known more for late-night prowling than early rising, things start slowly some days. But Life Cafe, which opened in 1982, when Alphabet City was a drug-fueled frontier town all its own, has seen worse than slow mornings. A haven for vegans and baconistas alike, Life Cafe displays work by local artists and maintains an homage to ''Rent'' -- a scene in the musical was set there -- on a side wall. On Tuesday at the crack of 10 a.m., a bustling HBO film crew shot a scene for a planned series across the street, but the first two customers were tourists, followed, more than an hour later, by two locals. 
 IN THE SEATS Amy Martilotto, 31 (''Say I'm 30,'' she asked; sorry), and Bozok Goren, 35, who just wrapped their first month of cohabitation. So far, so good. Both work in night life: He owns the Porch, a bar on Avenue C, and she tends bar at M2 Ultra Lounge, a bottle-service club in Chelsea where the Champagne costs as much as a month and a half of Life Cafe breakfasts.
 ON THE PLATES Mr. Goren went for the Recession Special -- two eggs with potatoes, toast and coffee ($4.29) and a side of bacon ($1.50) -- while Ms. Martilotto chose a house favorite, huevos Merida, a plate of scrambled eggs topped with guacamole, salsa and cheese, and toast ($8.49). She asked for a side of sour cream (off the menu, free), and washed it all down with a large orange juice ($3.50) and coffee ($2.10).
 WHY THEY CAME They live a block away, but aren't regulars. ''We usually make breakfast,'' Ms. Martilotto said. This Tuesday was unique because of the nuptials, in a little over two hours, of her friends in some park in Brooklyn. ''A Hispanic marrying a Russian,'' she said. She was going alone.
 WHAT THEY TALKED ABOUT How in the heck to get to some park in Brooklyn. ''I don't know how to get there,'' Ms. Martilotto said. ''It's easy. I told you,'' Mr. Goren replied. ''I'm going to leave a ridiculous amount early,'' she said. The reception, she predicted, would entail ''a couple of beers'' somewhere. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: EGGS, PLEASE: Bozok Goren and Amy Martilotto at Life Cafe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); MEAT FREE DIETS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (66%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



830 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE COUNT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Volunteering? It's Easy to Avoid the Waiting List

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI

 BODY:
During the holidays, many a warm-hearted person's thoughts turn to volunteering. While most volunteers seek mainly to help others, their work also aids the economy by providing free labor -- so important to organizations suffering from the recession. 
 About a quarter of the American population recently did some type of volunteer work across a wide range of services, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
But this Thanksgiving, some who sought at the last minute to serve food to the less fortunate might have found, to their surprise, that their help was not needed. 
 Joel Berg, executive director of the New York City Coalition Against Hunger, recently told The New York Times that some of the well-known holiday volunteer opportunities, like soup-ladling, could have long waiting lists. It can be better, he said, for volunteers to donate specific abilities, like computer or legal skills.
 It's something to consider when both the holiday and volunteer spirits take hold. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Where the Volunteers Are: Types of volunteers (Sept. '07-Sept. '08) (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOLUNTEERS (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); THANKSGIVING (73%); FOOD CHARITIES (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (71%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



831 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Get Ready For Half A Recovery

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
A ROBUST economic recovery in 2010 is certainly on most investors' wish lists as this year draws to a close. A return to prosperity would not only mean an end to our long financial nightmare, but it would also buttress a rebounding stock market, one of 2009's few bright spots.
 The news out of Dubai late last week, however -- that its investment company is struggling to meet repayments on some of its $59 billion in debt -- reminds us that we are far from finished with a ferocious deleveraging process that began last year. And the weight of debt that still must be worked out is one reason that Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, estimates that growth in the United States' output for 2010 will be no better than 2 percent. 
 Mr. Shepherdson -- whose economic forecasts have been more right than wrong throughout the credit crisis -- says that while cost-cutting has produced enviable productivity figures and rising earnings at large companies, continued growth in corporate output will be much harder to come by. 
 ''Looking further ahead, you can't survive on cost-cutting forever,'' he says. ''We will have to see decent volume growth but we won't see that immediately.''
 Mr. Shepherdson's 2 percent estimate for gross domestic product growth next year is roughly half what he would normally expect for a solid economic recovery. And a crucial reason is the fact that bad assets on personal and institutional balance sheets are the equivalent of a ball and chain strapped to the economy, he says. 
 ''You can pick up that ball and walk with it,'' he says, ''but you have to walk slowly.'' 
 All that debt overhanging consumers and organizations is the pivotal reason we are still seeing a free fall in bank lending. And small businesses, which account for half of all jobs in this country, are taking the brunt of this credit contraction. Smaller banks are especially worried about their own balance sheets and aren't making loans. This puts small businesses -- important engines of growth -- squarely on the brink. 
 INVESTORS may be celebrating data that points to improvements in economic activity -- this month, for example, the Institute for Supply Management said manufacturing had expanded for three months in a row. But Mr. Shepherdson worries about what he sees in monthly figures put out by the National Federation of Independent Business, a trade group representing small businesses. 
 The N.F.I.B. data was far more prescient than that of the I.S.M. in predicting the current recession, which began in December 2007, Mr. Shepherdson says. The N.F.I.B. survey signaled a downturn in the spring of 2007, while I.S.M. studies didn't point to a recession until after Lehman Brothers failed in September 2008. 
 In its survey, the N.F.I.B. asks small businesses how easy it is for them to get loans. The most recent data shows that credit tightness peaked earlier this fall -- the worst levels in 23 years, Mr. Shepherdson says. Although credit continues to remain troublingly hard for small business to come by, that phenomenon is a largely untold story. 
 ''Wall Street focuses on big companies because they are in the Standard & Poor's 500, but small businesses are still in a very grim state,'' he says. ''Small-company activity according to the N.F.I.B. is still at deep recession levels.'' 
 And while small businesses do not make up the big stock indexes, they do contribute significantly to the overall economy. The tens of millions of people who work at small concerns are, after all, customers of those big, high-profile corporations like McDonald's, Wal-Mart and Whirlpool.
 What we all are enduring -- and what small businesses, workers and consumers continue to be pummeled by, even as Wall Street wizards jump back into the bonus pool -- is the dismantling of the great credit boom of the early 2000s. This necessary but grueling deleveraging began last year and is now in full swing. But it is nowhere near over. 
 Bank credit outstanding peaked in October 2008 at $7.3 trillion and is now down to $6.72 trillion. Still, Mr. Shepherdson says he thinks that banking-sector loan and lease assets have to fall by an additional $2 trillion. That could take another two years. 
 ''We are in unknown territory here,'' he said. ''Since the peak in October '08, bank credit has dropped by 8 percent. That is enormous and it is accelerating. The peak-to-trough drop in the early '90s was just 1.3 percent and that was enough to scare the pants off the Fed.''
 This credit cave-in is the driving force behind the Federal Reserve's mortgage purchase program, Mr. Shepherdson says. The last thing the central bank wants to see is a decline in the broad-based money supply, because when that happens it usually means a depression is afoot. Money supply didn't fall in the early 1990s, but it fell by one-quarter during the 1930s.
 The Fed's asset purchase program is therefore not about driving down mortgage rates, Mr. Shepherdson says, but about trying to prevent a collapse in the money supply. When the Fed buys assets it creates deposits, which, in turn, helps offset the credit pullback. If the Fed wasn't buying mortgages with both hands, Mr. Shepherdson estimates, the money supply would be falling 1 percent a month. 
 The message amid this gloom, he says, is that the Fed isn't likely to raise interest rates anytime soon. In fact, he doesn't anticipate an increase in rates until the spring of 2011. 
 ''I WOULD be astonished if they raised rates in the heart of the credit contraction storm,'' Mr. Shepherdson says. ''The credit contraction will last for a couple of years and if the Fed is interested in offsetting it, they will have to buy assets through next year.''
 Deflating an asset bubble is never fun, and this particular specimen is one for the record books. The binge may have been a blast, but the purge, alas, sure is painful. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (68%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



832 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; CONSIDERED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 104 words

HEADLINE: Ciao, Mom

BYLINE: By MARK TODD

 BODY:
For Italians it's old hat, this business of living with your parents until you're, say, double or triple the age of consent. Not coincidentally, Italy has one of the lowest birth rates in the world. But now comes news that more Americans are living with their parents. The recession has sent 10 percent of adults under 35 back home, a Pew survey says. In addition, 15 percent of adults under 35 said they had put off marriage; 14 percent postponed having a baby. Could this lead to the Italian problem? As the British politician David Willetts once observed, ''Living at home with your parents is a very powerful contraception.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARK TODD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (87%); POLLS & SURVEYS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2010



833 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: A Rally That Needs More 'E'

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN the first leg of a bull market, when optimism and euphoria are ascendant, investors are willing to bet that the economy will improve and that corporate profit growth is just around the corner. This faith manifests itself not just in rising share prices, but also in rising price-to-earnings ratios.
 True to form, the P/E ratio for companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has soared 87 percent since this rally began on March 9. 
 But hope can take the market only so far. Earnings -- the ''E'' in the P/E ratio -- must soon recover and become the catalyst for rising prices if this rally is to last. All reports so far, however, show that earnings are still falling.
 ''The early-cycle P/E expansion is most likely behind us,'' said Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial in Boston. From here on, he said, corporate profits will have to be strong enough to propel stock prices higher.
 What makes him think so? For starters, P/E expansion alone has already lifted the market by more than 60 percent since early March, in one of the strongest short-term surges in recent memory.
 But long-term history also offers an important clue. 
 Though conventional wisdom assumes that P/E ratios continue to grow throughout a bull market, that's not always the case. In fact, it's rarely the case.
 On average, the market's P/E tends to peak a little more than a year into a bull market, according to analysis by Ned Davis Research, an investment consulting firm in Venice, Fla. ''And the lion's share of that P/E expansion takes place in the first six months,'' said Ed Clissold, senior global analyst at Ned Davis. 
 Indeed, Ned Davis researchers found that price-to-earnings ratios shot up 28 percent, on average, in the first 15 months of bull markets since 1929. But four-fifths of that expansion took place within the first six months. 
 Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at S.& P., analyzed bull markets back to 1942 and found that in 9 of the last 11, the S.& P. 500's P/E ratio grew within the first year by an average of 29 percent.
 In the second year of those run-ups, though, the market's P/E ratio actually fell -- by 6 percent, on average. What's more, in bull markets that survived into a third year, the P/E continued to slip.
 In many cases, that's because corporate profits expand so fast that their growth outpaces rising share prices. In other words, as the ''E'' in the P/E ratio grows faster than the ''P,'' the multiple contracts even as stocks gain ground.
 As for the current decline in corporate profits, the best that can be said is that the rate of contraction has slowed. At the start of October, Wall Street analysts were bracing for a 24.8 percent decline in S.& P. 500 profits in the third quarter, versus the same period a year ago. Today, the consensus estimate is for a much more modest fall, of 13.7 percent.
 WHEN will the earnings outlook turn around?
 For a while now, analysts have been predicting that corporate profits will start growing in 2010. And, recently, some market strategists have begun raising their forecasts for next year. David Bianco, chief domestic equity strategist at Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch, for example, lifted his target for S.& P. 500 earnings to $73 a share in 2010, from $70.
 Mr. Kleintop of LPL says his target for S.& P. profits stands at around $75 a share for next year, but adds that he would not be surprised if it ended up closer to $77 a share. 
 Still, he says he believes the S.& P. 500 will end 2010 at around 1,200. That would be up 10 percent from the current level and a 7 percent climb from 1,125, which is where Mr. Kleintop thinks the index will end this year.
 Even if this rally survives through 2010 -- and that's a big if -- modest returns may be all that can be expected.
 After all, as investors shift their attention to the fundamentals, the euphoria is likely to die down. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%)

COMPANY: LPL FINANCIAL CORP (69%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



834 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 35B

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: In a Big Beer City, Makers of Spirits on Parallel Paths

BYLINE: By JESSICA REAVES. 
Jessica Reaves has covered arts and culture for The Chicago Tribune and Time.com.

 BODY:
The phrase ''Chicago distilleries'' tends to elicit visions of cinematic gunfights and bullet-pocked Cadillacs -- not hyper-educated Gen Xers surrounded by 60 pounds of raw ginger. Welcome to the new era of boutique spirit making in Chicago. 
 Your local guides are Sonat and Robert Birnecker and Sonja and Derek Kassebaum, the young couples who own and operate the area's only two artisan distilleries, and whose meticulously made spirits have been called ''impeccable'' and ''second to none'' by local tastemakers like Kyle McHugh and Charles Joly. 
 At first glance, the Koval Distillery (owned and run by the Birneckers) and North Shore Distillery (the Kassebaums' outfit) could not be more different. Koval, in Ravenswood, is proudly urban, while North Shore's operations sit well outside the city, in north suburban Lake Bluff. The Birneckers' stars are luscious, intense liqueurs in flavors like rose hip and ginger; the Kassebaums specialize in subtle, sophisticated riffs on old favorites, including vodka, gin and aquavit.
 But take a closer look and you'll find the two companies run along parallel paths: the proprietors are dedicated, with a single-minded fervor that borders on the evangelical, to the promotion of choice local ingredients, to spirits produced in small, fastidiously monitored batches, and, most emphatically, to reintroduce Americans to that oft-forgotten inalienable right: the freedom to get sauced on booze made in your own backyard.
 On a typical working day, Sonat Birnecker, 36, and Sonja Kassebaum, 38, are the public faces of their businesses, while Mr. Birnecker, 27, and Mr. Kassebaum, 40, seem more comfortable poring over production manuals the size of telephone books, or hovering near their stills, carefully measuring proof levels or affixing labels to rows of bottles. They each strike a visitor as naturally meticulous about their work. 
 Not to mention eager to offer the same visitor a series of increasingly stiff drinks. (The visitor -- this reporter -- is, just for the record, incapable of drinking much more than a thimbleful of any of their offerings. She did so in the interest of public service journalism.) 
 Beyond their shared philosophy about making reporters tipsy, the Birneckers and Kassebaums also see eye to eye on supporting local businesses (which they regard as absolutely critical) and using organic ingredients. They're also linked by a kind of measured abandon -- a willingness to toss aside traditional careers to forge something unpredictable. While Mr. Birnecker has family ties to Austria's ancient distilling traditions, none of the four came to their new lives with any formal background in the alcohol business. They all gave up promising careers in traditional professions (law, consulting and academia) to plunge into an uncharted destiny.
 Their naivete, however short-lived, may have spared them some sleepless nights. Opening a boutique distillery in Chicago is neither an obvious idea nor an easy task, thanks to the city's longstanding obsession with beer and a tangle of local, state and federal regulations governing stills and alcohol production. Since the end of Prohibition, which decimated America's longstanding custom of craft distilling, Illinois -- and the Midwest in general -- has proven far more hospitable, culturally and economically, to local breweries than to small-scale distilleries.
 None of this was enough to faze the Kassebaums, who poured their savings (and then some) into a 250-liter copper still and a 5,000-square-foot warehouse work space. Established in 2004, the distillery issued its first products -- the critical darlings Distiller's Gin No. 6, and North Shore Vodka -- in 2005. Follow-ups included absinthe, aquavit, limited-edition flavored vodkas and No. 11, a new twist on their popular gin.
 The Kassebaums occupied a singular place in town until 2008, when the Birneckers arrived with their own hand-hammered still and an intense desire to create a neighborhood-oriented workplace where their very young son could grow and roam. Today, there's no discernible tension or hint of competitiveness between the two companies. That good will may partly derive from the fact that the Koval and North Shore product lines don't intersect. But it may also be tied to the knowledge that they're fighting alongside each other in a battle against Goliaths like Jack Daniel's and Grey Goose, in a broader campaign to return boutique distilling, in the words of Sonat Birnecker, ''a profoundly American tradition,'' to prominence in the country's heartland. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Derek Kassebaum, an owner of North Shore Distillery near Chicago, replaces gin from a still. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISTILLERIES (91%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); BEER & ALE (89%); GENERATION X (78%); RELIGION (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



835 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2561 words

HEADLINE: Do Health Care Savings Start in the Cafeteria?

BYLINE: By MELANIE WARNER

 BODY:
Steven Burd isn't a doctor or a medical specialist. But he sure can talk like one. 
 ''I can take any standard diagnostic procedure and there's typically a five- to tenfold difference in the cost of that identical procedure, whether it's an M.R.I., CT scan, a diagnostic catheterization, a colonoscopy, you name it,'' says Mr. Burd, the chief executive of Safeway. 
 Four years ago, Mr. Burd, whose grocery chain is the nation's third largest, became something of health care expert when his company saw a looming financial crisis. In 2005, Safeway was forking over $1 billion a year to provide health insurance for its workers, and the cost was rising 10 percent a year. It was Mr. Burd's moment of truth: he realized he could no longer stand by as health care costs ballooned. 
 ''We were saying 'Wow, we're paying almost twice in health care costs as what we're making in earnings, and in five years it's going to be another half a billion dollars,' '' he recalls. 
 Similar sticker shock is confronting all kinds of employers, which together provide 160 million Americans with health care coverage. But the cost of delivering that insurance has surged 31 percent over the last five years, representing the fastest-growing single corporate expense, according to Towers Perrin, the management consulting firm. Those costs take a huge bite out of the bottom line and hurt employees, many of whom see their paychecks shrink as employers pass along the extra costs. 
 Shelly Wolff, head of the health and productivity consulting group at Watson Wyatt, says she has seen C.E.O.'s who've dealt adeptly with tough issues like climate change become completely flummoxed by health care. ''It's a board-level deal for most companies,'' she says. ''A lot of companies are saying 'What do you do with health care?' ''
 In home offices around Boston, a shoestring operation of three full-time employees is working on an unusual answer to that question. As the wrangling over trillion-dollar price tags continues on Capitol Hill, a start-up company called the Full Yield is undertaking its own version of health care reform by using a simple, low-tech premise: Eat healthier food and you'll become healthier.
 The idea is to help companies move their employees to better diets that, the logic goes, will ultimately reduce their visits to the doctor's office and the operating room -- thus cutting costs. 
 ''We need to put food back in the heart of health care,'' says Zoe Finch Totten, Full Yield's chief executive. ''It's the cheapest way to deal with health and the simplest, and definitely the most pleasurable.''
 OVER the last six years, Ms. Totten, an associate at the Jefferson School of Population Health at Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia and a nurse midwife by training, has been working to create a 12-month nutritional program different from anything that's been tried in the workplace before. 
 Part one of its two-pronged approach is a line of Full Yield-branded food intended to take the guesswork out of what constitutes a healthy diet, while also reducing the need for cooking, which so many workers say they have no time for. Consisting of fresh items made with natural, whole ingredients, the food will be sold in corporate cafeterias and in the prepared-foods section of local supermarkets. 
 Unlike most corporate nutrition and weight-loss programs, which offer predictable prescriptions about portion size and calorie control, Ms. Totten's plan allows employees surprising amounts of free rein in deciding how much to eat. ''You can eat when you're hungry, as much as you want, as long as you pay attention to when you're full,'' she advises. ''And then you can eat again whenever you feel hungry.'' 
 This may be music to participants' ears, but it's a controversial message that runs counter to the advice of many nutrition and obesity experts.
 F. Xavier Pi-Sunyer, director of the New York Obesity Research Center and chief of the division of endocrinology, diabetes and nutrition at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, says it's an inappropriate message in a nation full of overeaters. ''It just isn't true that people stop when they should,'' says Dr. Pi-Sunyer. ''Americans are overriding their satiety signals. So to say eat until you're satiated is not a helpful health message.'' 
 But Ms. Totten contends that overeating doesn't result from a nationwide failure to count calories, but from the fact that so many people consume a diet of processed, refined foods. ''People overeat Doritos because those foods are designed to trick the body's beautiful ability to be able to self-regulate,'' she said. ''When you eat primarily health-supporting foods you will recover those protective mechanisms.'' 
 Those who make that change and join the program are urged to eat Full Yield's food or their own similarly whole-food-based choices exclusively for at least three months. 
 Part two of the program involves tracking those employees' progress by collecting a variety of data about them and partnering with insurers to analyze it. 
 ''A lot of employers are doing these modest and piecemeal efforts at wellness and they have not worked,'' said Gary Hirshberg, the chief executive of Stonyfield Farm, a yogurt maker, and a member of Full Yield's board. ''This is a comprehensive health management program with food as the base. And it's going to save companies a lot of money.'' 
 Groupe Danone, Stonyfield's parent company, has invested ''seven figures'' in the Full Yield, according to Mr. Hirshberg.
 If Ms. Totten and Mr. Hirshberg are correct, the potential for health care savings is huge. A study in the January-February 2009 issue of the journal Health Affairs concluded that 75 percent of the country's $2.5 trillion in health care spending has to do with four increasingly prevalent chronic diseases: obesity, Type 2 diabetes, heart disease and cancer. Most cases of these diseases, the report stated, are preventable because they are caused by behaviors like poor diets, inadequate exercise and smoking. 
 Obesity alone threatens to overwhelm the system. In a recent study, Kenneth Thorpe, chairman of the department of health policy and management at the Rollins School of Public Health at Emory University, found that if trends continued, annual health care costs related to obesity would total $344 billion by 2018, or more than 20 percent of total health care spending. (It now accounts for 9 percent.)
 Dr. Thorpe also said that if the incidence of obesity fell to its 1987 level, it would free enough money to cover the nation's uninsured population.
 At first blush, the notion of eating our way out of huge public health challenges like obesity, diabetes and heart disease may seem an overly simplistic and idealistic fix for complex, multifaceted problems. But health experts say that, in fact, an apple a day does keep the doctor away, and that many studies prove it.
 Dean Ornish, president of the Preventive Medicine Research Institute in Sausalito, Calif., and a professor of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco, says he has spent the better part of two decades doing research showing that diet and lifestyle changes can undo even severe heart disease. 
 ''Within a month, we've shown improved blood flow and 90 percent reduction in the frequency of angina,'' he says. ''And within a year we've found that severely blocked arteries became measurably less blocked. We know this stuff works.'' 
 More recently, Dr. Ornish says, he has published research showing that some of those same diet and lifestyle changes can actually turn on genes that prevent disease and turn off those that cause heart disease, as well as prostate and breast cancers.
 BUT, of course, persuading people to trade French fries and doughnuts for kale and quinoa is much easier said than done. Market researchers in the food industry have long known that people often say they will eat healthier or exercise more but never get around to it. 
 In spite of the increased incidence of obesity in American society and in the workplace, 40 percent of large companies surveyed by Watson Wyatt for an April report say that less than 5 percent of their employees participated in workplace weight management programs. 
 ''A lot of us have piles in our homes and our offices that we'll get to when we can, and changing how you eat is often a bit like that,'' says Helen Darling, president of the National Business Group on Health, which represents large employers on health care matters. ''I don't think you could possibly overestimate how hard this stuff is.''
 Despite the considerable challenges, there are notable examples of companies that have successfully prodded their workers to become healthier, thus trimming health care costs. 
 I.B.M., for example, says that from 2005 to 2007 it invested $80 million in what are broadly defined as employee wellness programs, and thereby saved $190 million in health care costs. Some $79 million of that was in fewer medical claims; the rest came from reduced absenteeism and ''presenteeism'' -- a measure of lost productivity when employees are sick on the job. ''A relatively small investment can have a big payoff,'' says Joyce Young, I.B.M.'s director of well-being. 
 That was certainly the case for Diane Akin, a product quality manager in I.B.M.'s storage technology division in Tucson. This year, she received $300 in rebates from I.B.M. for completing online programs in physical activity, nutrition and preventive care, courses that inspired her to go on an exercise and nutrition kick. 
 ''I lost 40 pounds and my cholesterol and blood pressure are down,'' says Ms. Akin, who is in her mid-50s. ''I don't think I would have done it otherwise. The incentives, all the online support groups and goal-setting and monitoring really helped.'' 
 Ms. Akin added that she was no longer worried about becoming diabetic, a condition that could have hit I.B.M. with an annual bill of as much as $20,000 in treatment costs. 
 Similar incentive programs at Pitney Bowes have helped it shell out 18 percent less than what the average large employer does in per-capita health care costs, according to Brent Pawlecki, its medical director. 
 In addition to online programs with financial incentives, as well as smoking-cessation and weight-loss plans, the company's wellness programs include eight on-site health clinics for treating common illnesses, as well as reduced co-payments on medications for diabetes, asthma, hypertension and breast cancer.
 Perhaps the biggest corporate success story is Safeway, a rarity among big employers in that it has kept per-capita health care costs from rising. Annual costs at the chain, based in Pleasanton, Calif., are roughly the same as they were in 2005, when Mr. Burd decided to tackle the issue. 
 He says Safeway has achieved this leveling by shifting its plan toward cheaper generic drugs and through the company's voluntary Health Measures plan, in which employees are checked for their weight, blood pressure and cholesterol levels and whether they smoke. For each test that's passed, workers are rewarded with reductions in their payroll contributions to health care coverage. For individual plans, this can add up to almost $800 a year. 
 But analysts say Safeway, I.B.M. and Pitney Bowes are exceptions. Aside from chipping away at employee benefits, most employers have not made much of a dent in their health care bills. Although ''wellness'' and ''lifestyle improvement'' programs are common -- 60 percent of big employers have them -- companies continue to pay more and more in medical costs. This year, costs went up 6 percent, on average, according to Watson Wyatt.
 IT'S a Thursday morning, and Ms. Totten of the Full Yield is lugging a canvas bag full of fruit scones and a cooler stocked with Greek yogurt parfaits along the streets of Boston. She is on her way to a meeting at one of the company's first three customers: John Hancock, the life insurance and financial services company. 
 Ms. Totten usually shows up at these meetings with goody bags of Full Yield food, often containing breakfast, lunch and dinner. Developed by a large food service company and produced at its facility in Connecticut, the choices may include turkey chili, quinoa salads, salmon cakes, chicken tagine, mixed bean wraps and whole-grain peanut butter cookies. 
 Peter Mongeau, vice president of human resources at John Hancock, has sampled the food many times and calls it ''outstanding.'' 
 ''For me, it was like going to a fine restaurant,'' says Mr. Mongeau, among the 300 employees who will be going on the Full Yield program early next year. 
 To encourage the purchase of Full Yield food, which is priced at $6 to $7 a meal, employees will get $100 worth of coupons that can be used in John Hancock's cafeteria and at 18 local Roche Brothers grocery stores. 
 Another Full Yield pilot customer is the City of Boston. Meredith Weenick, associate director in its office of administration and finance, says she was drawn to the plan's more scientific components. Employees who volunteer to participate will have seven or eight biometric measurements taken at least three times in the 12-month program. 
 Some of these measurements -- for cholesterol, blood pressure and body mass index -- are commonly collected by employers with extensive wellness programs. But other measures chart new territory, by looking at triglycerides; blood glucose; waist circumference; C-reactive protein, which tests for inflammation; and hemoglobinA1C, if someone's diabetic. 
 Such data, along with what participants provide in detailed diet diaries and health risk assessments, won't be accessible to employers. Instead, Full Yield researchers, along with Harvard Pilgrim -- which is the insurance company for Hancock and the City of Boston and is a pilot customer itself -- will analyze the data against insurance claims to gauge improvements in health.
 As part of the program, the Full Yield will give employees access to nutrition coaches by phone, as well as personalized online health pages containing the biometric data, exercise and eating tracking tools and information on things like how to cook whole grains and make salad dressing.
 Noting that the pilot programs have yet to start, John Hancock, the City of Boston and Harvard Pilgrim all say they don't want to reveal specific projections about savings. Ms. Weenick says she thinks that ''plenty'' of the city's 750 initial enrollees will lose weight, lower their cholesterol and blood pressure and bolster their overall energy levels. 
 ''We feel certain this will have an effect on our bottom line,'' she says, ''but it will probably take a few years to get there.'' 
 Judith Frampton, vice president for medical management at Harvard Pilgrim, says that when it offers the Full Yield plan to its 1,100 employees in January, she believes it will succeed in attracting and retaining participants where other programs have failed. That's because all those unconventionally cheery messages about food consumption will be a source of inspiration, she says. 
 ''I think weight loss is more than likely to be an outcome, but this isn't really about that,'' she says. ''It's about adding things to your life and feeling better psychologically and physically. It's a hugely important message.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Full Yield, a start-up, aims to help employers cut health care costs via better food choices, from salads to yogurt parfaits. Its board includes Gary Hirshberg, right, C.E.O. of Stonyfield Farm. (PHOTOGRAPHS TOP LEFT BY TIM SLOAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU1)
 Zoe Finch Totten, second from left, C.E.O. of the Full Yield, offered sample portions of its menu offerings to employees of Harvard Pilgrim, an insurance company. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (75%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (73%); ENDOSCOPY (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); STARTUPS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (71%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



836 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; GREENTECH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Which New Hybrid Has 10 Wheels and Flies?

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
IT sounded like a garbage truck and smelled like one, too. Aside from the giant pastoral scene on its side, it even looked like a standard-issue New York City garbage truck.
 But the 36-ton refuse collector that rumbled out of the Department of Sanitation's Central Repair Shop in Queens earlier this month with a reporter on board was equipped with a diesel-electric powertrain, one of just a handful of hybrid garbage trucks being tested around the country. This one was built by Mack Trucks, which is part of the Volvo Group.
 To New Yorkers who saw the big Mack drive by, the truck seemed no different from its all-diesel brethren. But with a 120-kilowatt electric motor supplementing its 6-cylinder diesel engine, the hybrid accelerated with less effort, the driver said. It stopped and idled much like a regular garbage truck; likewise, its hopper was capable of crushing and storing up to 13 tons of trash. 
 Other than a few extra lights on the dashboard, the interior was the same as the department's 2,200 other garbage trucks. This was by design: the department did not want to add any complications to the hectic routines of its 6,000 trash collectors. 
 Under the truck, there are important changes. As in the hybrid systems designed for passenger cars, the truck's electric motor serves as a generator when slowing down. This regenerative braking feature captures some of the energy expended when accelerating and uses it to charge a 500-pound lithium ion battery. In the Mack's hybrid system, the electric motor cannot drive the truck by itself -- its job is to lower the demand on the diesel engine, which improves fuel economy.
 Gas mileage is, of course, what made hybrid cars and utility vehicles popular with drivers, who get the greatest benefit from their efficient operation in city travel. The benefits of a hybrid system are far less worthwhile for owners who cover most of their miles at steady highway speeds. 
 But hybrid drive systems are ideal for garbage trucks, with their start-and-stop routine. Heavy-duty trucks consume about a third of the nation's vehicle fuel, so the potential savings is significant; according to I.B.M., a hybrid 18-wheeler can save more fuel than two dozen hybrid cars. 
 ''Without a doubt, hybrid technology dovetails with trucking,'' said Sanjay Rishi, vice president of I.B.M.'s global automotive group, which provides systems software to hybrid manufacturers. 
 Because the power demand of heavy-duty trucks requires larger, more expensive batteries, the development of affordable hybrid heavy-duty trucks is said to be about 10 years behind that of hybrid passenger cars. That has increased the focus on New York City, which is one of the first cities to test hybrid garbage trucks.
 ''These trucks are unquestionably green,'' said Rocco DiRico, a deputy commissioner in the Sanitation Department. ''There's nothing available in 2009 that's better than ours. We're pioneers.''
 New York City is testing four different hybrid designs. Mack, which makes many of the trash haulers used by the sanitation department, delivered its hybrid in September. Crane Carrier provided the others. 
 The Mack is a parallel hybrid design in which the electric motor and diesel engine can work together. Crane Carrier built two parallel hybrid trucks; they store energy as a hydraulic fluid under pressure rather than as electricity sent to a battery. One has a diesel engine; the other's engine uses compressed natural gas as its fuel. 
 The fourth truck design, also made by Crane Carrier, uses a series hybrid system in which a diesel engine drives only a generator, with no mechanical connection to the wheels. All drive power is provided by an electric motor.
 In about a year, the sanitation department will have a better feel for which model saves the most fuel, is easiest to maintain and handles the best, particularly in winter when garbage trucks double as snowplows. Then the city will choose a winner and start buying 300 a year.
 The new trucks are expected to reduce fuel consumption by about 30 percent, which means potential savings of millions of dollars once the city adds more hybrids to its fleet. Exhaust emissions are expected to be cut by a similar amount. 
 Industry experts say that large orders from New York City will spur the production of other heavy-duty hybrid trucks, which could bring their price down substantially. New York City paid about $500,000 for the Mack hybrid, more than twice the $225,000 that a diesel-only model costs. Government grants covered the difference.
 Sensing a potential flood of orders, truck makers are working to develop heavy-duty hybrids. Companies like Freightliner, Navistar, Mack and Peterbilt are pairing up with two electric motor developers, Azure Dynamics and Eaton. Meanwhile, Hitachi and Johnson Controls, to cite two examples, are developing energy-storage components.
 About 4,850 medium- and heavy-duty hybrid trucks are expected to be on the road by next year, a big jump from just 200 in 2006, according to Calstart, a nonprofit that promotes cleaner vehicles and fuel efficiency. While costs remain high, the economies of scale that would come with large orders, coupled with government rebates and incentives, could help persuade profit-driven trash haulers, utilities and bus companies to buy hybrids.
 ''Hybrid trucks are on the cusp of the market and need a crowbar to push them over the line,'' said Bill Van Amburg, senior vice president of Calstart.New York's test, he said, will ''beat the heck out of these trucks, but we'll really know the fuel use and reliability.''
 Profit-driven companies, which need to justify the higher price of hybrids to shareholders, have started to jump in, too. Kraft Foods North America, for instance, has one hybrid freezer truck, built by Navistar with an Eaton powertrain, and is waiting for another.
 ''This is something we can gravitate to quickly compared to buying trucks that use alternative fuels,'' said Mike Cole, director of transportation for Kraft, who added that the truck used about 30 percent less fuel than a similar nonhybrid truck.
 FedEx has 325 hybrid trucks, a small fraction of its fleet and far from the 30,000 hybrids it predicted would be on the road by about now. But the company has been buying new hybrid trucks by the dozens, including 51 gas-electric hybrids, which weigh 10,000 pounds.
 Those will reside at FedEx's Harlem River truck yard in the Bronx, the first in the company to have a fleet entirely of hybrids. There, Ivan Rivera, who has delivered packages for FedEx for 12 years, picks up his truck. Mr. Rivera prefers the hybrids because they need to be refueled only once every week and a half instead of twice a week.
 ''Most drivers, they don't want to stop at a gas station,'' said Mr. Rivera, who makes about 80 stops a day on a typical 20-mile route. ''I wait around,'' he said, for a hybrid to become available.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NO PRIUS: This diesel-electric refuse collector built by Crane Carrier is one of seven hybrids that will be tested by the New York Department of Sanitation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW YORK DEPARTMENT OF SANITATION) (AU1)
SIPPER: Ivan Rivera, a FedEx driver, says the hybrid trucks need fewer refueling stops. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AU8) CHART: A Menu of Hybrids for the Sanitation Department. (Sources: Calstart
Crane Carrier
 Volvo Group) (AU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); TRUCKING (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%)

COMPANY: AB VOLVO (91%)

TICKER: VOLV.B (STO) (91%); VOLV.A (STO) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



837 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Let's Go To the Tape

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 It is always a pleasure to be reviewed by someone as accomplished as Steven Pinker, even if -- in his comments on ''What the Dog Saw'' (Nov. 15) -- he is unhappy with my spelling (rightly!) and with the fact that I have not joined him on the lonely ice floe of I.Q. fundamentalism. But since football has been on my mind these days, I do want to make one small observation about his comments. 
 In one of my essays, I wrote that the position a quarterback is taken in the college draft is not a reliable indicator of his performance as a professional. That was based on the work of the academic economists David Berri and Rob Simmons, who, in a paper published in The Journal of Productivity Analysis, analyze 40 years of National Football League data. Their conclusion was that the relation between aggregate quarterback performance and draft position was weak. Further, when they looked at per-play performance -- in other words, when they adjusted for the fact that highly drafted quarterbacks are more likely to play more downs -- they found that quarterbacks taken in positions 11 through 90 in the draft actually slightly outplay those more highly paid and lauded players taken in the draft's top 10 positions. I found this analysis fascinating. Pinker did not. This quarterback argument, he wrote, ''is simply not true.''
 I wondered about the basis of Pinker's conclusion, so I e-mailed him, asking if he could tell me where to find the scientific data that would set me straight. He very graciously wrote me back. He had three sources, he said. The first was Steve Sailer. Sailer, for the uninitiated, is a California blogger with a market research background who is perhaps best known for his belief that black people are intellectually inferior to white people. Sailer's ''proof'' of the connection between draft position and performance is, I'm sure Pinker would agree, crude: his key variable is how many times a player has been named to the Pro Bowl. Pinker's second source was a blog post, based on four years of data, written by someone who runs a pre-employment testing company, who also failed to appreciate -- as far as I can tell (the key part of the blog post is only a paragraph long) -- the distinction between aggregate and per-play performance. Pinker's third source was an article in The Columbia Journalism Review, prompted by my essay, that made an argument partly based on a link to a blog called Niners Nation.
 I have enormous respect for Pinker, and his description of me as a ''minor genius'' made even my mother blush. But maybe on the question of subjects like quarterbacks, we should agree that our differences owe less to what can be found in the scientific literature than they do to what can be found on Google.
 MALCOLM GLADWELL New York
 Steven Pinker replies:
 What Malcolm Gladwell calls a ''lonely ice floe'' is what psychologists call ''the mainstream.'' In a 1997 editorial in the journal Intelligence, 52 signatories wrote, ''I.Q. is strongly related, probably more so than any other single measurable human trait, to many important educational, occupational, economic and social outcomes.'' Similar conclusions were affirmed in a unanimous blue-ribbon report by the American Psychological Association, and in recent studies (some focusing on outliers) by Dean Simonton, David Lubinski and others.
 Gladwell is right, of course, to privilege peer-reviewed articles over blogs. But sports is a topic in which any academic must answer to an army of statistics-savvy amateurs, and in this instance, I judged, the bloggers were correct. They noted, among other things, that Berri and Simmons weakened their ''weak correlation'' (Gladwell described it in the New Yorker essay reprinted in ''What the Dog Saw'' as ''no connection'') by omitting the lower-drafted quarterbacks who, unsurprisingly, turned out not to merit many plays. In any case, the relevance to teacher selection (the focus of the essay) remains tenuous.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (88%); BOOK REVIEWS (79%); JOURNALISM (78%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (76%); RELIGION (71%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); MARKET RESEARCH (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



838 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Protecting the Forests, And Hoping for Payback

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: SISTERS, Ore. 

 BODY:
A patch of ponderosa pines here in the Deschutes National Forest has been carefully pruned over the last few years to demonstrate the United States Forest Service's priorities in the changing West: improving forest health and protecting against devastating wildfire while still supporting the timber economy. 
 Yet occasionally, when tour groups come through, someone will ask what role the trees might play as the nation addresses global warming. After all, forests soak up carbon dioxide as they grow. 
 ''We've always said that's outside the scope of this project,'' said Michael Keown, the environmental coordinator for the Sisters Ranger District, which includes more than 300,000 acres in the Deschutes forest in central Oregon. ''But those days have come and gone.''
 The giant evergreens of the West have long been proclaimed essential, whether the cause was saving salmon and spotted owls or small towns and their sawmills. Now, with evidence showing that American forests store 15 percent or more of the carbon gases produced in the nation, expectations are growing for them to do even more. 
 Over the next 50 years or so, experts say, some forests could be cultivated to grow bigger, more resilient trees, potentially increasing their carbon storage by 50 percent and providing an important ''bridge'' to a time when the nation will theoretically have shifted away from greenhouse-gas producing fossil fuels. 
 But even as some private forests are already being marketed as ''carbon sinks,'' or storehouses, that could play a role in a future carbon cap-and-trade program, government agencies and academics are struggling to understand and measure how carbon is stored and released. After decades of controversy surrounding the management of forests, debate persists over how they can best be used to fight global warming while also being protected from their threats, including more and bigger wildfires.
 ''While healthy, functioning forests may serve as a means to sequester carbon, under current practices, many of our Western forests are at risk of turning from a carbon sink to a carbon source,'' Tom Tidwell, the head of the Forest Service, told a Senate subcommittee on Nov. 18 in a hearing on forest management and climate change. 
 ''Projections indicate that while these forests continue to sequester more carbon in the short-term,'' Mr. Tidwell said, ''in 30 to 50 years, disturbances such as fire and insects and disease could dramatically change the role of forests, thereby emitting more carbon than currently sequestering.''
 The challenges and benefits range by region. Studies show that the potential carbon capacity of the predominantly fir forests on the wet west side of the Cascade Range in the Pacific Northwest is at least three times as high as that of the drier regions over the mountains and to the southwest. 
 Many drier forests, including here east of the Cascades, have grown unnaturally dense after logging and efforts to save them from wildfires. Experts say measures taken to stop fires can end up causing more devastating ones by allowing the growth of small trees and underbrush, ''ladder fuels'' that ignite bigger trees.
 On federal lands, the Forest Service has recently emphasized removing ladder fuels, including in the demonstration project here in the Metolius Basin.
 ''The suite of things we're doing benefits the carbon sequestration,'' said Brian Tandy, who helps oversee forest growth in the Deschutes. ''We weren't doing it to address some of that specifically, but the way we're moving is sort of in line with that.''
 Still, after years of fights over logging practices, including lawsuits to reduce clear cutting on federal land, distrust of the Forest Service's motives remains. Mr. Tandy made a point of saying that one reason he does what he does is to help meet ''society's needs for wood products.''
 Beverly Law, a professor of global change forest science at Oregon State University, pointed to the Deschutes project as an example of the Forest Service protecting against climate change while potentially improving carbon storage. Yet Ms. Law also said fire officials should not presume that what might keep a forest from burning will enhance it as a carbon asset.
 ''There's this opinion out there that when people see smoke from fire, they think it's all going up in smoke -- well, no, it's not,'' Ms. Law said, referring to forests that experience relatively low-intensity fires, a common dynamic in dry areas like central and eastern Oregon and parts of California. ''Only 5 percent of the total ecosystem carbon is going up in smoke. When you talk about trying to prevent that, it's not as big a carbon pulse to the atmosphere as people think.''
 Ms. Law, along with Mark E. Harmon, a professor of forest ecology at Oregon State, and others say that forest policy should be tailored to individual forests and that the risk of carbon released in a wildfire should be weighed against the carbon costs of trying to prevent fire.
 ''They say they have to do thinning all over the place because they say fire might happen here,'' Ms. Law said, ''but it might not happen for decades.'' 
 The math only gets more complicated. Newer, ostensibly environmentally friendly efforts to use cleared brush and small trees as biofuel could potentially release more carbon through transportation and processing than if the material were simply burned in the woods. By the same token, removing a completely burned forest can end up releasing more carbon than if the dead trees are left alone. 
 Others counter that thinning and fire prevention efforts now under way will have long term benefits, even if they release some carbon initially.
 ''You can regain that emitted carbon and actually put on even more carbon by redirecting the growth in the forest to the large trees that you leave in the forest -- and you avoid the substantial emission of carbon you'd have in a wildfire,'' said Malcolm North, a research ecologist at the Forest Service's Pacific Southwest Research Station and an associate professor of forest ecology at the University of California, Davis.
 In his comments to the Senate subcommittee, Mr. Tidwell pointed out that while the Forest Service manages vast tracts of the West, private landowners control the majority of forest land in the United States. Still, said Andrea Tuttle, the former director of the California Department of Forestry and Fire Prevention, the government has a different obligation than private owners.
 ''The Forest Service as a public agency should be managing the forest for the people,'' Ms. Tuttle said. ''Part of that is to make them resilient to climate change and at the same time find opportunities where appropriate to use the forest as a carbon sink.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Logs cut to thin the Deschutes National Forest in Oregon, an effort to promote sustainability. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTS & WOODLANDS (91%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); FOREST FIRES (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (78%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FIRES (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); SAW MILLS (72%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



839 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Governing Party Is Poised for Victory in Namibia Election

BYLINE: By BARRY BEARAK; John Grobler contributed reporting from Windhoek, Namibia.

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG 

 BODY:
Voters in Namibia went to the polls on Saturday for the second and final day of national elections, a balloting most likely to lead to another landslide victory for the South-West African People's Organization, or Swapo, the party that has governed since independence in 1990. 
 In the last elections, in 2004, Swapo won 75 percent of the vote, but this time a breakaway group -- campaigning against government corruption -- may prove a more effective challenge. The Rally for Democracy and Progress, or R.D.P., is led by Hidipo Hamutenya, a former foreign minister.
 There has been plenty of suspicion about corruption for him to rail against, some of it linked to China, an ever larger player across the African continent.
 In Namibia, Swapo officials have been charged with accepting kickbacks to pave the way for a $55 million deal for cargo scanners manufactured by a state-run Chinese company. Beijing also secretly awarded scholarships to the children of some of Namibia's top leaders, including the daughter of President Hifikepunye Pohamba, who is running for a second term. 
 ''Swapo will win comfortably, but the R.D.P. has picked up momentum with the corruption scandals,'' said Graham Hopwood, director of the Institute for Public Policy Research in Windhoek, the capital. ''The question is: How concerned are people about corruption? People in rural areas worry more about getting a new clinic or having a road that has been tarred.''
 Namibia, a former German colony, sits near Africa's southern tip. It is about twice the size of California but populated with only 2.2 million people.
 Much of the land is arid but even in the dry season the game parks are a spectacle of wildlife, with elephants, giraffes, zebras and antelopes gathering side-by-side around undersize water holes. The economy is relatively robust, though worldwide recession has dampened the demand for diamonds, a principal export.
 Democracy has firmly settled into place in Namibia, and yet, as with its neighbors South Africa and Botswana, each election has been dominated by a single party. Voters remain loyal to those who led the way to liberation, and the power of incumbency keeps rivals at the margins. Opposition usually forms within political elites rather than at the grass roots.
 Mr. Pohamba is the successor to Namibia's first president, Sam Nujoma, who served three terms. Thirteen political parties are up against Swapo, but only the R.D.P. is expected to finish in double digits.
 The opposition's hope is to find more support within the country's urban and youth populations. The so-called born-frees, Namibian voters too young to remember the independence struggle, are less devoted to Swapo. Leticia Sakaria, 19, a student in Windhoek, said she was especially angry about the scholarships doled out to insiders. ''There are others who needed those much more,'' she said.
 For the first time, votes will be counted at polling stations with the results posted outside in an effort to restrain finagling with the ultimate count. An official tally may not be announced for a week but unofficial returns from some individual polling stations may become public on Sunday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); SCANDALS (71%); WILDLIFE (68%); RECESSION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); DIAMOND MARKETS (61%); MAMMALS (54%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%) NAMIBIA (97%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); CHINA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



840 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: When Trees Fall Next Door, Neighbors Make the Noise

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

DATELINE: YORKTOWN HEIGHTS, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 JENNIE SUNSHINE doesn't need horror movies. She has witnessed numerous chain-saw massacres right on Ravencrest Road, her sleepy suburban block in this upper Westchester town.
 ''It seems like every time someone moves onto the block, they begin cutting down trees,'' said Ms. Sunshine, 38, a stay-at-home mother of a 2-year-old girl. Three neighbors have deforested parts of their yards in the past two years, she said.
 ''I'm not a nosy neighbor, but every time I hear the saws, I'm like, 'Oh, my God, there it is again,' '' she said. ''These trees were not sick or a safety hazard; these people just wanted to rearrange the landscape. I thought, 'If this continues, what's Yorktown going to look like in 30 years, the Lower East Side?' ''
 Ms. Sunshine never confronted her neighbors, but she joined a group of like-minded residents who are pushing for a town ordinance requiring property owners to get approval before removing certain trees on their property. 
 Protecting trees on public land and parkland, and on property under development, is standard in municipalities in the New York area. But more local governments -- Larchmont and Rye in Westchester County, and Chatham, Madison and Rutherford in New Jersey, to name a few -- have considered or are debating more controversial restrictions on what homeowners can do with the trees on their own property.
 Protecting the tree canopy and preventing soil erosion and flooding -- as well as preserving a town's character -- are among the aims of the rules.
 In many places, these ordinances were a backlash to the building boom that preceded the recession, when developers were clear-cutting many lots for housing.
 As a result of the new regulation of private trees, homeowners in many municipalities who assume they can chop impulsively and ask questions later may have to rethink their plans. Or they may have to at least familiarize themselves with the intricacies of their town codes to prove that a candidate for cutting is not a specimen that merits government protection. The criteria include the age and species of the tree, as well as arboreal intricacies like D.B.H. (diameter at breast height). 
 Fines and penalties for failing to obtain a tree removal permit can be stiff. In Yorktown Heights, for example, the proposed fines for violators are laid out in detail: up to $250 a tree, plus $25 for each inch of tree diameter up to 18 inches, measured at the stump. The fine rate would be increased for bigger trees, and multiple offenders could face a $1,500 civil penalty, doubled fines or, in some cases, jail.
 Not surprisingly, the proposal has raised hackles. Opponents call the members of Ms. Sunshine's group, the Yorktown Tree Conservation Advisory Commission, tree huggers and deride their mission as a threat to private property rights.
 A local weekly newspaper, North County News, recently called the proposal a ''barking up the wrong tree ordinance,'' one that messed with private property, ''the heart and soul'' of the American dream. ''Prison time for people who cut down trees on their own property?'' the paper asked. ''We don't think so.''
 Nick DiTomaso, 79, a Yorktown resident, agrees with North County News. ''If a person wants to own property, why shouldn't he be able to do what he wants with his trees?'' Mr. DiTomaso asked. ''Before you know it, you have no rights.''
 In Madison, N.J., Mr. DiTomaso's point of view has prevailed. A tree preservation group's proposal for regulating tree removal on private property, similar to an ordinance passed in 2004 in adjacent Chatham, was decisively rebuked.
 ''It really caused a revolution,'' said Mary-Anna Holden, the mayor of Madison. ''Each time it came up, it was resoundingly defeated. A lot of people basically said, 'If you want to pay my taxes, then you can touch my trees,' and quite frankly, I'm one of those people.''
 ''Just considering the issue caused us to lose more trees because of the hysteria,'' Ms. Holden added. ''People said, 'I'm going to take these trees down now,' because they feared having to pay fees or being denied permits if an ordinance was passed. You saw tree companies all over town.''
 In other cases, town officials have faced court challenges. In May, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled against a builders' association that sued to stop Jackson Township from passing an ordinance relating to trees on private land. The township passed the ordinance shortly thereafter. 
 In Rutherford, N.J., Steven Savitsky, a homeowner who notes that nearby towns like Paramus, Maywood, Cliffside Park and Fair Lawn have enacted tree-cutting ordinances, is seeking an ordinance that would, among other things, assign certain trees -- like American elms and magnolias -- landmark status on private land. The Rutherford proposal also outlines a ''tree replacement formula,'' which offers guidelines for replacing trees whenever they are removed. Violators of the proposed regulations could face $500 to $5,000 fines. 
 ''A red flag goes up whenever you tell people they can't do something on their own property,'' Mr. Savitsky acknowledged. ''But we just need to preserve trees here. The tree canopy is going down the tubes, and what you do on your private property affects the public.''
 These tree ordinances are enacted at the town and village level, and the resulting large number and variety of rules can cause confusion.
 ''You have more than 40 different towns in Westchester, and each one has a different tree ordinance,'' said Kenneth G. Almstead, whose family owns Almstead Tree and Shrub Care in New Rochelle. He ran down a short list.
 ''Let's see: In Larchmont, you need a $250 bond, and have to plant a replacement tree,'' Mr. Almstead said. ''In New Rochelle, you get more leeway if you have more than an acre of land. In Rye, you need to specify the tree's distance from the road. In Pelham, there are no real regulations.''
 Mr. Almstead called such ordinances necessary in many cases, but they do add to delays and paperwork for tree companies, which can be fined along with homeowners for violating the rules.
 In Yorktown Heights, the big issues have always been ''ticks and taxes,'' said Ron Buehl, a member of the tree commission. But now, the debate over trees on private land has joined them.
 ''We'd bring up the need for an ordinance, and some people called it socialism,'' Mr. Buehl recalled about earlier town meetings. ''They said, 'My home is my castle, and you can't tell me I can't cut down a 150-year-old oak on my property.' ''
 On Ravencrest Road, Ms. Sunshine pointed out the stumps in a neighbor's yard where tall trees once provided privacy. She held ''before'' pictures -- printouts of satellite photos she found online -- that showed the live trees several years ago.
 ''If people had to get a permit, it might encourage them to educate themselves and rethink the decision,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CONCERNED: Jennie Sunshine of Yorktown Heights, N.Y., is part of a group pushing the town to require residents to get permits to chop down certain trees. (MB1)
 CUT DOWN: Jennie Sunshine, left, next to a crab apple tree in her yard in Yorktown Heights, N.Y., says that three neighbors have deforested parts of their yards in the past two years, leaving telltale stumps like the one above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORDINANCES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (88%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PLANT CONSERVATION (77%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); HORROR FILMS (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); DEFORESTATION (71%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); EROSION (66%); CRIMINAL FINES (64%); EROSION CONTROL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



841 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Winning Lower Payments Takes Patience, and Luck

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
On the day in June when her mortgage company finally agreed to lower her monthly payments, Yolanda Thomas felt a twinge of hope that she would hold on to her Queens apartment, the first home she had ever owned. The loan modification extended by Chase Home Finance was technically a trial, not a permanent alteration, but this fact seemed of lesser significance. 
 ''I felt they were working with me,'' Ms. Thomas said. ''I felt very positive and hopeful, like I had a chance to keep my house.'' 
 But five months later, Ms. Thomas, 35, is back at the beginning. She has made her reduced payments on time. She has submitted the proper paperwork, she says, while enduring a bewildering array of conflicting instructions from her bank. But last month, Chase rejected her application for a permanent loan modification and invited her to start over and send in a new application, for another trial.
 ''At this point, I don't know what is going on,'' she said. 
 Ms. Thomas's experience shows the confusing and frustrating ways of the Obama administration program aimed at keeping millions of troubled American borrowers in their homes.
 Four years ago, she bought her apartment -- a three-bedroom condominium in Ozone Park -- for $530,000, putting down about 10 percent and borrowing the rest through an interest-only loan from Washington Mutual. Given her $130,000 salary at a marketing job, she had no difficulty making the $2,700 monthly payments. Indeed, she continued to add to her savings, which grew to about $80,000, while paying college tuition for two younger brothers.
 But in April 2008, amid the recession, Ms. Thomas was laid off. She continued to make her mortgage payments by tapping her savings. By that fall, with her savings nearly exhausted and credit-card debt mounting, she turned to a housing counselor at the Ridgewood Bushwick Senior Citizens Council, a nonprofit group based in Brooklyn. The counselor began seeking a loan modification from Washington Mutual, which had been purchased in distress by JPMorgan Chase.
 This March -- after several rounds of mislaid paperwork and resubmitted forms -- Chase extended a so-called forbearance arrangement, allowing her to make no payments for two months while she continued to look for a job. 
 Ms. Thomas soon found a new marketing job that paid roughly half as much as her previous position. In June, on the basis of that income, Chase approved her for a trial loan modification, which reduced her payments to $1,174.30 a month.
 The trial loan modification documents that Ms. Thomas signed promised that the new payments would become permanent, provided she made her three trial payments on time and then submitted required documents confirming her financial situation.
 According to notes kept by Ms. Thomas, Chase promised not to report her to credit agencies as delinquent while she made her lowered payments. But by early July, Chase collection agents were calling regularly, threatening to foreclose. Chase reported her to credit agencies as delinquent, which increased the interest on her credit card debt and her car insurance rates. When Ms. Thomas began calling Chase to try to reverse this, she got nowhere.
 ''Once, I was told this happens all the time,'' she said. ''Then I was told that this never happens and there was nothing that could be done. It was just bad information all the time.''
 In a letter this month, Chase told Ms. Thomas that it had asked major credit rating agencies to ''remove any negative payment history'' from her credit profile. But this admission that the bank had made a mistake was itself made in error, Tom Kelly, a Chase spokesman, said. 
 ''We actually should not have sent her the letter,'' Mr. Kelly said, maintaining that Ms. Thomas should indeed have been reported to the credit agencies. ''We're not always perfect.''
 As her trial period ended at the beginning of October, Ms. Thomas still had no word about a permanent loan modification, so she sent in a fourth month's payment. 
 In late October, Chase told her that she had been turned down for a permanent loan modification because her income was insufficient. She insists that her income remained the same, though Chase produced a pay stub showing that she had in fact worked full-time in May and only part-time in September, earning less.
 Two days later, Ms. Thomas received a letter from Chase saying that her application was still being considered, but missing a required tax document. Then, by phone, Chase told her that, never mind, she should start over.
 Despite the mishaps, the Chase spokesman says, Ms. Thomas's case amounts to a success story. 
 ''She's ahead of where she would have been without this program,'' Mr. Kelly said.
 Where she is now is in limbo, awaiting word on another trial modification, this time based on her new salary of about $100,000, courtesy of a new job.
 ''I've been working my whole life and paying my bills,'' she said. ''I just want to pay my mortgage.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); TUITION FEES (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (61%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



842 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE SAFETY NET; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2743 words

HEADLINE: Food Stamp Use Soars Across U.S., and Stigma Fades

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE and ROBERT GEBELOFF; Matthew Ericson and Janet Roberts contributed reporting.

DATELINE: MARTINSVILLE, Ohio 

 BODY:
With food stamp use at record highs and climbing every month, a program once scorned as a failed welfare scheme now helps feed one in eight Americans and one in four children.
 It has grown so rapidly in places so diverse that it is becoming nearly as ordinary as the groceries it buys. More than 36 million people use inconspicuous plastic cards for staples like milk, bread and cheese, swiping them at counters in blighted cities and in suburbs pocked with foreclosure signs.
 Virtually all have incomes near or below the federal poverty line, but their eclectic ranks testify to the range of people struggling with basic needs. They include single mothers and married couples, the newly jobless and the chronically poor, longtime recipients of welfare checks and workers whose reduced hours or slender wages leave pantries bare.
 While the numbers have soared during the recession, the path was cleared in better times when the Bush administration led a campaign to erase the program's stigma, calling food stamps ''nutritional aid'' instead of welfare, and made it easier to apply. That bipartisan effort capped an extraordinary reversal from the 1990s, when some conservatives tried to abolish the program, Congress enacted large cuts and bureaucratic hurdles chased many needy people away. 
 From the ailing resorts of the Florida Keys to Alaskan villages along the Bering Sea, the program is now expanding at a pace of about 20,000 people a day. 
 There are 239 counties in the United States where at least a quarter of the population receives food stamps, according to an analysis of local data collected by The New York Times. 
 The counties are as big as the Bronx and Philadelphia and as small as Owsley County in Kentucky, a patch of Appalachian distress where half of the 4,600 residents receive food stamps.
 In more than 750 counties, the program helps feed one in three blacks. In more than 800 counties, it helps feed one in three children. In the Mississippi River cities of St. Louis, Memphis and New Orleans, half of the children or more receive food stamps. Even in Peoria, Ill. -- Everytown, U.S.A. -- nearly 40 percent of children receive aid.
 While use is greatest where poverty runs deep, the growth has been especially swift in once-prosperous places hit by the housing bust. There are about 50 small counties and a dozen sizable ones where the rolls have doubled in the last two years. In another 205 counties, they have risen by at least two-thirds. These places with soaring rolls include populous Riverside County, Calif., most of greater Phoenix and Las Vegas, a ring of affluent Atlanta suburbs, and a 150-mile stretch of southwest Florida from Bradenton to the Everglades. 
 Although the program is growing at a record rate, the federal official who oversees it would like it to grow even faster. 
 ''I think the response of the program has been tremendous,'' said Kevin Concannon, an under secretary of agriculture, ''but we're mindful that there are another 15, 16 million who could benefit.'' 
 Nationwide, food stamps reach about two-thirds of those eligible, with rates ranging from an estimated 50 percent in California to 98 percent in Missouri. Mr. Concannon urged lagging states to do more to enroll the needy, citing a recent government report that found a sharp rise in Americans with inconsistent access to adequate food.
 ''This is the most urgent time for our feeding programs in our lifetime, with the exception of the Depression,'' he said. ''It's time for us to face up to the fact that in this country of plenty, there are hungry people.''
 The program's growing reach can be seen in a corner of southwestern Ohio where red state politics reign and blue-collar workers have often called food stamps a sign of laziness. But unemployment has soared, and food stamp use in a six-county area outside Cincinnati has risen more than 50 percent.
 With most of his co-workers laid off, Greg Dawson, a third-generation electrician in rural Martinsville, considers himself lucky to still have a job. He works the night shift for a contracting firm, installing freezer lights in a chain of grocery stores. But when his overtime income vanished and his expenses went up, Mr. Dawson started skimping on meals to feed his wife and five children.
 He tried to fill up on cereal and eggs. He ate a lot of Spam. Then he went to work with a grumbling stomach to shine lights on food he could not afford. When an outreach worker appeared at his son's Head Start program, Mr. Dawson gave in.
 ''It's embarrassing,'' said Mr. Dawson, 29, a taciturn man with a wispy goatee who is so uneasy about the monthly benefit of $300 that he has not told his parents. ''I always thought it was people trying to milk the system. But we just felt like we really needed the help right now.''
 The outreach worker is a telltale sign. Like many states, Ohio has campaigned hard to raise the share of eligible people collecting benefits, which are financed entirely by the federal government and brought the state about $2.2 billion last year. 
 By contrast, in the federal cash welfare program, states until recently bore the entire cost of caseload growth, and nationally the rolls have stayed virtually flat. Unemployment insurance, despite rapid growth, reaches about only half the jobless (and replaces about half their income), making food stamps the only aid many people can get -- the safety net's safety net.
 Support for the food stamp program reached a nadir in the mid-1990s when critics, likening the benefit to cash welfare, won significant restrictions and sought even more. But after use plunged for several years, President Bill Clinton began promoting the program, in part as a way to help the working poor. President George W. Bush expanded that effort, a strategy Mr. Obama has embraced. 
 The revival was crowned last year with an upbeat change of name. What most people still call food stamps is technically the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP.
 By the time the recession began, in December 2007, ''the whole message around this program had changed,'' said Stacy Dean of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington group that has supported food stamp expansions. ''The general pitch was, 'This program is here to help you.' ''
 Now nearly 12 percent of Americans receive aid -- 28 percent of blacks, 15 percent of Latinos and 8 percent of whites. Benefits average about $130 a month for each person in the household, but vary with shelter and child care costs.
 In the promotion of the program, critics see a sleight of hand.
 ''Some people like to camouflage this by calling it a nutrition program, but it's really not different from cash welfare,'' said Robert Rector of the Heritage Foundation, whose views have a following among conservatives on Capitol Hill. ''Food stamps is quasi money.''
 Arguing that aid discourages work and marriage, Mr. Rector said food stamps should contain work requirements as strict as those placed on cash assistance. ''The food stamp program is a fossil that repeats all the errors of the war on poverty,'' he said.
 Suburbs Are Hit Hard
 Across the country, the food stamp rolls can be read like a scan of a sick economy. The counties of northwest Ohio, where car parts are made, take sick when Detroit falls ill. Food stamp use is up by about 60 percent in Erie County (vibration controls), 77 percent in Wood County (floor mats) and 84 percent in hard-hit Van Wert (shifting components and cooling fans). 
 Just west, in Indiana, Elkhart County makes the majority of the nation's recreational vehicles. Sales have fallen more than half during the recession, and nearly 30 percent of the county's children are receiving food stamps.
 The pox in southwest Florida is the housing bust, with foreclosure rates in Fort Myers often leading the nation in the last two years. Across six contiguous counties from Manatee to Monroe, the food stamp rolls have more than doubled. 
 In sheer numbers, growth has come about equally from places where food stamp use was common and places where it was rare. Since 2007, the 600 counties with the highest percentage of people on the rolls added 1.3 million new recipients. So did the 600 counties where use was lowest.
 The richest counties are often where aid is growing fastest, although from a small base. In 2007, Forsyth County, outside Atlanta, had the highest household income in the South. (One author dubbed it ''Whitopia.'') Food stamp use there has more than doubled.
 This is the first recession in which a majority of the poor in metropolitan areas live in the suburbs, giving food stamps new prominence there. Use has grown by half or more in dozens of suburban counties from Boston to Seattle, including such bulwarks of modern conservatism as California's Orange County, where the rolls are up more than 50 percent.
 While food stamp use is still the exception in places like Orange County (where 4 percent of the population get food aid), the program reaches deep in places of chronic poverty. It feeds half the people in stretches of white Appalachia, in a Yupik-speaking region of Alaska and on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota. 
 Across the 10 core counties of the Mississippi Delta, 45 percent of black residents receive aid. In a city as big as St. Louis, the share is 60 percent. 
 Use among children is especially high. A third of the children in Louisiana, Missouri and Tennessee receive food aid. In the Bronx, the rate is 46 percent. In East Carroll Parish, La., three-quarters of the children receive food stamps.
 A recent study by Mark R. Rank, a professor at Washington University in St. Louis, startled some policy makers in finding that half of Americans receive food stamps, at least briefly, by the time they turn 20. Among black children, the figure was 90 percent. 
 Need Overcomes Scorn
 Across the small towns and rolling farmland outside Cincinnati, old disdain for the program has collided with new needs. Warren County, the second-richest in Ohio, is so averse to government aid that it turned down a federal stimulus grant. But the market for its high-end suburban homes has sagged, people who build them are idle and food stamp use has doubled.
 Next door, in Clinton County, the blow has been worse. DHL, the international package carrier, has closed most of its giant airfield, costing the county its biggest employer and about 7,500 jobs. The county unemployment rate nearly tripled, to more than 14 percent.
 ''We're seeing people getting food stamps who never thought they'd get them,'' said Tina Osso, the director of the Shared Harvest Food Bank in Fairfield, which runs an outreach program in five area counties.
 While Mr. Dawson, the electrician, has kept his job, the drive to distant work sites has doubled his gas bill, food prices rose sharply last year and his health insurance premiums have soared. His monthly expenses have risen by about $400, and the elimination of overtime has cost him $200 a month. Food stamps help fill the gap.
 Like many new beneficiaries here, Mr. Dawson argues that people often abuse the program and is quick to say he is different. While some people ''choose not to get married, just so they can apply for benefits,'' he is a married, churchgoing man who works and owns his home. While ''some people put piles of steaks in their carts,'' he will not use the government's money for luxuries like coffee or soda. ''To me, that's just morally wrong,'' he said.
 He has noticed crowds of midnight shoppers once a month when benefits get renewed. While policy analysts, spotting similar crowds nationwide, have called them a sign of increased hunger, he sees idleness. ''Generally, if you're up at that hour and not working, what are you into?'' he said. 
 Still, the program has filled the Dawsons' home with fresh fruit, vegetables, bread and meat, and something they had not fully expected -- an enormous sense of relief. ''I know if I run out of milk, I could run down to the gas station,'' said Mr. Dawson's wife, Sheila.
 As others here tell it, that is a benefit not to be overlooked.
 Sarah and Tyrone Mangold started the year on track to make $70,000 -- she was selling health insurance, and he was working on a heating and air conditioning crew. She got laid off in the spring, and he a few months later. Together they had one unemployment check and a blended family of three children, including one with a neurological disorder aggravated by poor nutrition.
 They ate at his mother's house twice a week. They pawned jewelry. She scoured the food pantry. He scrounged for side jobs. Their frustration peaked one night over a can of pinto beans. Each blamed the other when that was all they had to eat.
 ''We were being really snippy, having anxiety attacks,'' Ms. Mangold said. ''People get irritable when they're hungry.''
 Food stamps now fortify the family income by $623 a month, and Mr. Mangold, who is still patching together odd jobs, no longer objects.
 ''I always thought people on public assistance were lazy,'' he said, ''but it helps me know I can feed my kids.'' 
 Shifting Views
 So far, few elected officials have objected to the program's growth. Almost 90 percent of beneficiaries nationwide live below the poverty line (about $22,000 a year for a family of four). But a minor tempest hit Ohio's Warren County after a woman drove to the food stamp office in a Mercedes-Benz and word spread that she owned a $300,000 home loan-free. Since Ohio ignores the value of houses and cars, she qualified. 
 ''I'm a hard-core conservative Republican guy -- I found that appalling,'' said Dave Young, a member of the county board of commissioners, which briefly threatened to withdraw from the federal program. 
 ''As soon as people figure out they can vote representatives in to give them benefits, that's the end of democracy,'' Mr. Young said. ''More and more people will be taking, and fewer will be producing.''
 At the same time, the recession left Sandi Bernstein more sympathetic to the needy. After years of success in the insurance business, Ms. Bernstein, 66, had just settled into what she had expected to be a comfortable retirement when the financial crisis last year sent her brokerage accounts plummeting. Feeling newly vulnerable herself, she volunteered with an outreach program run by AARP and the Ohio Association of Second Harvest Food Banks.
 Having assumed that poor people clamored for aid, she was surprised to find that some needed convincing to apply.''I come here and I see people who are knowledgeable, normal, well-spoken, well-dressed,'' she said. ''These are people I could be having lunch with.''
 That could describe Franny and Shawn Wardlow, whose house in nearby Oregonia conjures middle-American stability rather than the struggle to meet basic needs. Their three daughters have heads of neat blond hair, pink bedroom curtains and a turtle bought in better times on vacation in Daytona Beach, Fla. One wrote a fourth-grade story about her parents that concluded ''They lived happily ever after.''
 Ms. Wardlow, who worked at a nursing home, lost her job first. Soon after, Mr. Wardlow was laid off from the construction job he had held for nearly nine years. As Ms. Wardlow tells the story of the subsequent fall -- cutoff threats from the power company, the dinners of egg noodles, the soap from the Salvation Army -- she dwells on one unlikely symbol of the security she lost. 
 Pot roast.
 ''I was raised on eating pot roast,'' she said. ''Just a nice decent meal.''
 Mr. Wardlow, 32, is a strapping man with a friendly air. He talked his way into a job at an envelope factory although his boss said he was overqualified. But it pays less than what he made muscling a jackhammer, and with Ms. Wardlow still jobless, they are two months behind on the rent. A monthly food stamp benefit of $429 fills the shelves and puts an occasional roast on the Sunday table.
 It reminds Ms. Wardlow of what she has lost, and what she hopes to regain.
 ''I would consider us middle class at one time,'' she said. ''I like to have a nice decent meal for dinner.''
 The Safety Net: With millions of jobs lost and major industries on the ropes, America's array of government aid -- including unemployment insurance, food stamps and cash welfare -- is being tested as never before. This series examines how the safety net is holding up under the worst economic crisis in decades. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A GROWING NEED FOR A PROGRAM ONCE SCORNED: Greg Dawson and his wife, Sheila, of Martinsville, Ohio, help feed their family of seven with a $300 monthly food stamp benefit. Center and right, the food pantry in Lebanon, Ohio, where residents can also enroll in what is formally called the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A26) CHARTS: The number of people who receive food stamps has increased nearly a third over the past two years, resulting in a program that feeds more than 36 million.(Sources: state social service agencies)(CHART BY JASON DePARLE, MATTHEW ERICSON AND ROBERT GEBELOFF/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
A Program That Reaches 1 in 8: The number of food stamp recipients has climbed by about 9 million since the recesssion began in December 2007, resulting in a program that now feeds 1 in 8 Americans and nearly 1 in 4 children. Counties with larger increases in their unemployment rate typically saw the biggest jumps in use (chart at far right).(Sources: state agencies
U.S. Department of Agriculture
 Census Bureau)(A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD STAMPS (93%); CHILDREN (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); CHEESE (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); SUBURBS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MARRIAGE (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (55%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (77%); BERING SEA (54%); PACIFIC OCEAN (54%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



843 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1914 words

HEADLINE: Wines, With Notes of M.B.A.

BYLINE: By KATHRYN JONES

DATELINE: Rutherford, Calif. 

 BODY:
 KATHRYN HALL, a former ambassador to Austria, and her husband, Craig, an entrepreneur and real estate developer, sit on the balcony of their namesake winery, Hall Wines, sipping a red and admiring the mountain-fringed backdrop of Napa Valley. It's early October, and purple clusters of ripening cabernet sauvignon grapes hang from rows of trellised vines, waiting for the harvest. 
 The Halls are a long way from Dallas, where Mr. Hall made -- and lost much of -- a fortune in real estate and investments in the 1980s. Mrs. Hall learned a thing or two about the wine business while growing up around her family's vineyard in Mendocino County. But her husband didn't know a cabernet from a chardonnay when they met almost 20 years ago, she says with a laugh.
 He does now. The Halls bought their first vineyard in Napa in 1995 and, after setbacks that included a fire that destroyed their first vintage, have bought four more vineyards since 2002. They also built the winery here in Rutherford, and commissioned the redesign of a second by the architect Frank Gehry in St. Helena. 
 Farmers -- the kind of people who have ''their feet in the soil,'' as described by Margrit Mondavi, the 84-year-old matriarch of the Robert Mondavi Winery in Napa Valley -- once dominated grape-growing and winemaking. But the Halls are part of a recent wave of M.B.A.'s, bankers, architects, engineers and others who are taking over or starting wineries and infusing small boutique labels with a level of business expertise usually found only at big brands. 
 ''It's a very common second career,'' says Bill Nelson, president of WineAmerica, a national trade association with more than 800 member wineries. ''Often, people get the financial wherewithal from the first career to get started and transition into wine.''
 It's happening not only in California, but also in New York, Washington, Oregon, Texas and North Carolina. Jim Trezise, president of the New York Wine and Grape Foundation, says that 58 wineries have opened in the state in the last three years and that ''virtually all new winery owners come from other walks of life.'' 
 Back in 1982, when he got started in the business, the people entering the wine industry in New York were grape farmers whose other markets were disappearing, Mr. Trezise recalls. They decided to jump in after New York passed the Farm Winery Act of 1976, which allowed wineries to sell directly to consumers rather than through distributors or wholesalers, making it more economically viable to own a small winery.
 ''That spurt of growth in wineries was failure-driven,'' says Mr. Trezise. ''Today it's success-driven: people seeing other people succeeding and wanting to give it a try.''
 Winery owners who have changed careers or added one often find that their varied backgrounds work well in an industry that involves agriculture, chemistry, design, construction and technology. And they are grafting skills they mastered in their previous careers onto the business of turning grapes into wine. That's showing up in winery technology and designs, techniques used to grow grapes, locations that break with tradition and, most of all, a greater emphasis on business plans, spreadsheets and new marketing approaches.
 While large wineries with national or international distribution have the resources to hire financial and marketing experts, smaller wineries often have tiny staffs, or owners who do almost everything themselves. In the past, they often turned to state wine and grape councils for help, and a large number still do. But many of the people now taking over boutique operations already have financial, business and legal skills that allow for more sophisticated approaches to the business. 
 ''Especially in a down economy, the pricing and packaging of wine has to be just right. It's all about differentiating the product,'' says Jon Fredrikson of Gomberg, Fredrikson & Associates, a wine industry consulting firm. ''That's where businesspeople have an advantage, especially those with a marketing or selling background.''
 They also have capital, which gives them the wherewithal to experiment with new, greener technologies. When the Halls revamped the Rutherford refinery, for instance, they installed systems that used solar energy and radiant heat.
 The newcomers with business resumes are helping the wine industry flourish by daring to be different, and taking other risks, says Adam Strum, editor and publisher of Wine Enthusiast magazine. 'It's just like America -- diversity is a strength,'' he says. 
 There have been some failures, of course. People with business backgrounds ''certainly have an advantage and a different perspective,'' says Mr. Fredrikson, but ''just bringing capital doesn't make it.'' 
 ''You can't buy your way into the wine business and build a palace,'' he adds, ''and expect that to sell your wines.'' 
 While data on failures is hard to come by, analysts say the wine business is always a high-risk venture, especially when the economy is as weak as it is now. Even a seasoned entrepreneur like Mr. Hall describes winemaking as a challenging, long-term commitment. 
 ''My joke is that it's a business for the great-grandchildren,'' he says. ''If you break through and create a brand, you can make it. But you have to be a serious player.''
 NAPA VALLEY has attracted waves of newcomers throughout its history, from fur traders and gold miners who started the earliest wineries in the 1880s, like Inglenook and Far Niente, to a wave of immigrant farmers from Italy who founded wineries like Martini, a family-owned concern that has passed down through three generations.
 Some veteran vintners complain about what they see as an assumption among some newcomers that sheer dollars and business savvy will buy success. Margrit Mondavi says she embraces people like the Halls who are committed to making it in the wine business and adding to the local culture, but not those who come to Napa ''because it's become a very fashionable place.''
 Winemaking has expanded in locales other than Northern California. Despite the recession, the number of wineries in the United States grew to almost 5,600 in 2008, from more than 4,700 in 2007, according to data from WineAmerica, a trade group representing wineries nationwide.
 Ken and Jenise Maxwell, owners of the Torre di Pietra winery between Austin and Fredericksburg in the Texas Hill Country, shifted their careers from microchips to grapevines. They met while working for Intel in Albuquerque, and in 1988 moved to Austin, where Mr. Maxwell continued to work as an executive for several semiconductor businesses and Mrs. Maxwell worked as a software developer.
 After growing tired of the corporate grind, the Maxwells planted their first grapes in 2000 with a focus on European varietals and Mediterranean grapes that do well in the warm Texas climate. 
 But they haven't left technology behind. Torre di Pietra put in a bottling line, for example, that handles both screw caps and corks. Screw caps, once considered sacrilege in the industry and a sign of cheap wine, are becoming more accepted because bottling technology has improved and corks can degrade.
 The Maxwells put their business plan and other important information -- like yield data and where to plant certain grapes -- on a spreadsheet. ''It helped us think through all the issues upfront,'' says Mr. Maxwell. ''It took three months, but we put it in Excel.'' 
 Mrs. Maxwell handles finances and the tasting room, while Mr. Maxwell is the winemaker and marketer. He developed the concept for one of Torre di Pietra's most popular wines, Red Flirt.
 Despite the economic retrenchment and a late spring freeze that hurt their yield this year, they had their first profit. ''We're finally past the start-up phase where you have all this investment in equipment,'' Mrs. Maxwell said.
 ONE of the most unusual marriages of wine and business is at Chatham Hill Winery in Cary, N.C., between Raleigh and Durham, where Marek Wojciechowski is the winemaker and a co-owner, with his wife, Jill Winkler. 
 Mr. Wojciechowski, an electrochemist with a Ph.D., was teaching at the University of Maryland before he moved to the Research Triangle area to help found a biotech company, Alderon Biosciences. He served as director of research and development, and developed sensing technologies and diagnostic devices, including a hand-held device to detect Pierce's disease, a bacterial infection that can wipe out vineyards. Ms. Winkler's background is in health care. 
 Together, they shared a passion for wine, which Mr. Wojciechowski had made at home. Now he's using his background in analytical chemistry to devise faster ways to test wine for its stability in the heat and cold. 
 When the couple decided to start their winery in 1999, Mr. Wojciechowski's partners in the biotech business were looking to diversify and put up some of the initial capital.
 An important decision involved where to place the winery and tasting room. After considering a historic building in one of the downtown areas, they took advantage of the region's base of highly educated workers. They opened the winery in a low-rise business park near Research Triangle Park, one of the nation's largest concentrations of technology companies. 
 The winery doesn't own its own vineyard yet, so it buys grapes from growers in the Yadkin Valley, the state's largest appellation, and produces and sells a variety of wines. It was profitable until 2007, when the economy slid. Mr. Wojciechowski said he expects it to break even this year, and be profitable next year if the economy doesn't dive again.
 Farther north, in the Finger Lakes region of New York, a mix of skills helped Nancy Irelan and her husband, Mike Schnelle, open the Red Tail Ridge Winery. Ms. Irelan worked for DuPont as a chemist while in college and received a Ph.D. in genetics. She ended up working at Gallo in Modesto, Calif., on enology research and development programs. She spent 12 years there and rose to become vice president for viticulture.
 Mr. Schnelle had a background in the financial side of the heavy equipment and construction industries and earned an M.B.A. from California State University, Sacramento. They, too, wanted their own business and set out looking for the right place to start a winery.
 They looked all over the country and found land they liked on Seneca Lake, near Penn Yan, N.Y., and planted mostly pinot noir, chardonnay and riesling. The 2008 vintage was about 5,000 cases. 
 Mr. Schnelle used his construction experience to plant the vineyard, employing laser technology to make sure the rows of vines lined up straight and were wide enough so that fragile grapes would not be damaged by farm equipment. He also installed an innovative drainage system that helps avoid soil erosion and collects run-off in an irrigation pond.
 The Schnelles' winery is the first in the Finger Lakes region to get a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design certification from the U.S. Green Building Council. LEED buildings are designed to lower operating costs, cut waste, conserve energy and water and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
 While Red Tail Ridge is a sustainable business, it's not a self-sustaining one yet. ''We've been building sales and market share since we opened our doors'' in 2007, Mr. Schnelle said. ''It's definitely a tough market to get into because you're competing against the world.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nancy Irelan and Mike Schnelle, who once had jobs at corporations, are now making wines in upstate New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1)
The wine cave at Hall Wines in Rutherford, Calif., owned by Kathryn and Craig Hall. They commissioned Frank Gehry to redesign a winery in St. Helena. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Kathryn and Craig Hall, left, in one of their vineyards. Ken Maxwell left the tech business to be the winemaker at his own vineyard in the Texas Hill Country. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DaSILVA
 ERICH SCHLEGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAPE VINEYARDS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WINERIES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); WHOLESALERS (75%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (72%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%)

PERSON: RONALD L NELSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (95%); DALLAS, TX, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRIA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



844 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: India's Eternal Crisis

BYLINE: By PANKAJ MISHRA. 
Pankaj Mishra is the author of ''Temptations of the West: How to Be Modern in India, Pakistan, Tibet and Beyond.''

DATELINE: Mashobra, India 

 BODY:
 ON the evening of Sept. 11, 2001, I hurried through a dark apple orchard to the nearest television in this Himalayan village. My landlord opened his door reluctantly, and then appeared unmoved by the news I had just received by phone. I struggled to explain the enormity of what was happening, the significance of New York, the iconic status of the World Trade Center -- to no avail. It was time for his evening prayers; the television could not be turned on. 
 I did not witness the horrific sights of 9/11 until three days later. Since then, cable television and even broadband Internet have arrived in Mashobra and in my own home. Now the world's manifold atrocities are always available for brisk inspection on India's many 24-hour news channels. Indeed, the brutal terrorist assault on Mumbai that killed 163 people a year ago was immediately proclaimed as India's own 9/11 by the country's young TV anchors, who seem to model themselves on Sean Hannity and Bill O'Reilly. Yet, on the first anniversary of ''26/11,'' it seems as remote as 9/11 to the inhabitants of this village. 
 There is no great mystery behind this indifference, which is distinct from callousness. India, where most people still depend on agriculture for a living, has just suffered one of its most serious droughts in decades. The outlook for winter crops is bleak; many farmers have committed suicide in recent months, adding to the epidemic of rural suicides over the last few years. 
 Politically, too, India has lurched from one crisis to another in the last year. Prudent financial regulation saved India from the worst effects of the worldwide economic recession. But the rage of people who feel themselves not only left behind but victimized by corporate-driven and urban-oriented economic growth has erupted into violence; the Indian government has called for an all-out war against the Maoist insurgent groups that now administer large parts of central India. Anti-India insurgencies in Kashmir and the northeast continue to simmer, exacting a little-reported but high daily toll.
 Geopolitically, India's room to maneuver has shrunk since the Mumbai attacks. Last November, middle-class nationalist fury, though initially directed at inept Indian authorities, settled on Pakistan, where the attacks were partly planned and financed. The writer Shashi Tharoor described ''India's leaders and strategic thinkers'' as watching Israel's assault on Gaza last winter with ''empathy,'' and wondering ''why can't we do the same?'' One hopes Mr. Tharoor, who has since become India's junior foreign minister, is today more aware of why India can't do a Gaza or Lebanon on its nuclear-armed neighbor. 
 As Western anxiety about nuclear-armed Pakistan's stability deepens, India can barely afford aggressive rhetoric, let alone military retaliation, against its longtime foe. Pakistan remains vital to Western campaigns against Al Qaeda and the Taliban. Aware of its strategic importance, Pakistan has been in no hurry to accede to India's demands to prosecute those it holds responsible for the Mumbai massacre. (One hopes the charges filed against seven radicals on Wednesday mark a real change.) Islamabad has also upped the rhetorical ante by accusing India of backing the violent secessionist movement in Baluchistan, in western Pakistan. 
 India's seeming impotence enrages those in the new right-wing news media who are eager to commemorate 26/11, and to make that ersatz shorthand signify India's unavenged humiliation and shame. Prabhu Chawla, the editor of India Today, the country's leading newsmagazine, expressed the frustration of many middle-class nationalists: ''India, divided by politics, doesn't know what to do with its enemy or with its much-mauled nationalist soul. We are as clueless as we were on that dreadful November night one year ago.''
 That may be true, but in a country where 400 million live without electricity, it isn't easy to manufacture, or sustain, a national consensus. In any case, things are not as bad as the pundits make out. The lone surviving Mumbai killer is already on trial; his accomplices are being gradually apprehended. There have been no major retaliatory attacks against Muslims. There are stirrings of a civic, even political, consciousness among rich Indians who, until the Mumbai massacre, were largely unaffected by our frequent terrorist bombings.
 India may have been passive after the Mumbai attacks. But India has not launched wars against either abstract nouns or actual countries that it has no hope of winning or even disengaging from. Another major terrorist assault on our large and chaotic cities is very probable, but it is unlikely to have the sort of effect that 9/11 had on America. 
 This is largely because many Indians still live with a sense of permanent crisis, of a world out of joint, where violence can be contained but never fully prevented, and where human action quickly reveals its tragic limits. The fatalism I sense in my village may be the consolation of the weak, of those powerless to shape the world to their ends. But it also provides a built-in check against the arrogance of power -- and the hubris that has made America's response to 9/11 so disastrously counterproductive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (88%); TERRORISM (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); BROADBAND (70%); SUICIDE (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); KASHMIR (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); LEBANON (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



845 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Road Rage at the Kremlin

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- Every society has a breaking point. In Boston it was the tea tax; in France it was Marie Antoinette's wigs. If you're curious where the breaking point may lie in Russia, try slamming the door as you get out of a taxicab -- even the most rickety Soviet-era Lada. What will pass across the driver's face is an expression of such exquisite suffering that you will first apologize and then run. Russians love their cars.
 In the Soviet period, people were so maniacally protective that they locked their cars away from October until April while the roads were covered with salt. Drivers arriving home for the night would take their windshield wipers, spare tires and side mirrors inside with them, and some zealots were said to leave boards spiked with nails on the driver's seat as a prophylactic against theft. 
 To this day, Russians will quietly tolerate hunger and repression, but it's a bad idea to get between them and their cars. And the Kremlin apparently knows it. On Nov. 17, after an outcry from motorists, PresidentDmitri A. Medvedev intervened to block a bill that would have doubled taxes on car owners -- a stinging humiliation for Russia's ruling party, United Russia, which had approved it unanimously the previous Friday. Something almost unheard of had penetrated the membrane of Russian politics: the demands of its citizens.
 ''When motorists gather for a meeting, they don't come out with political slogans,'' said Kirill Formanchuk, 26, a lawyer in the city of Yekaterinburg who launched a local campaign against corrupt traffic police. ''We have no ideology. It's a revolt of people who are not satisfied -- not for political reasons, not because our salaries have not been paid -- but because something sacred has been taken from us, our car.''
 He knows firsthand that Russia's motorists are willing to stick their necks out. A few years ago, Mr. Formanchuk began protesting every time he was asked for a bribe, interrogating officers and filing formal complaints about each incident. In 2007, he went into a police station to register his car and was beaten so badly that he was hospitalized with brain and skull injuries.
 What happened then is the surprise: Motorists' groups held demonstrations in Moscow, St. Petersburg and Yekaterinburg. The protests were so widespread that they were covered by state-controlled television networks; a newscaster called the treatment of Mr. Formanchuk ''outrageous.''
 Another rare outburst occurred in 2005, when a 36-year-old railroad worker, Oleg Shcherbinsky, was hit by the governor of Altai's car as it tried to pass him at high speed while he was making a left turn. The governor was killed, and Mr. Shcherbinsky was sentenced to four years in a labor colony for failing to make way for the official.
 His sentence prompted huge protests, and motorists across Russia flew white ribbons in solidarity. The chorus of condemnation grew so loud that United Russia reversed its position and denounced the verdict. An appeals court released Mr. Shcherbinsky after 48 days in jail.
 It may be, as one Russian commentator has suggested, that motorists are playing the role in Russia's civic development that was expected to fall to entrepreneurs and small businessmen. Yuri Gladysh, writing for the opposition Web site kasparov.ru, said the ''army of car owners'' has enough muscle and organization to alarm Russian officials.
 ''For a car, a Russian will simply bite through the throat of a passer-by,'' he wrote this month. ''I know plenty of shop owners who in their hearts are prepared, if the state takes their business away, to return to some office job, with their Soviet-era diploma. But I don't know a single motorist who would silently agree to the infringement of his rights.''
 Not everyone saw the transport-tax reversal as the result of grass-roots democracy. Though motorists' groups held protests against the proposed tax increase, including a five-minute ''horn of wrath,'' the actions passed virtually unnoticed in the capital.
 Some Kremlin-watchers interpreted the reversal as a purely political move, signaling that Mr. Medvedev seeks to challenge the authority of Prime MinisterVladimir V. Putin, or United Russia, which Mr. Putin heads. Others said both Mr. Putin and Mr. Medvedev were worried that the tax hike would damage their approval ratings -- a touchy subject after October, when criticism of local elections sent their ratings into a brief but steep swoon.
 But it would certainly not be unprecedented if angry motorists rattled the Kremlin. Last December, thousands of motorists and car dealers in the Far East took to the streets to protest tariffs on imported cars, amid concerns that the economic crisis would spark social unrest throughout the country. Officials in Moscow were so nervous that they sent riot police all the way from the capital to Vladivostok, a nine-hour flight, to break up a rally.
 One reason the motorists may worry Moscow is that they are, mostly, young people. Pensioners demonstrate regularly over their meager benefits. But their events have a calcified feel to them: shabby coats and cheap polyester suits, 70-year-old slogans shouted out of a tinny megaphone. The automobile lobby, by contrast, defies ideological labels. It is also growing: Russians now own 34.6 million cars, three to four times more than at the end of Communism in 1991, experts estimate.
 Yuri Geyko, who covers automotive issues for the opposition newspaper Novaya Gazeta, recalls his deepening awe as he watched thousands gathering to protest the Shcherbinsky verdict. He had helped promote the event, but not until that moment did he recognize the audience he was talking to.
 ''My biggest shock was that these people were not poor,'' said Mr. Geyko. ''This was the middle class. These people, they did not go out into the street because they have nothing to eat. They went out into the street because they have a future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RESISTANCE: Car import tariffs brought protests a year ago from Moscow, above, to Vladivostok. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEI KARPUKHIN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); HEAD INJURIES (76%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BRIBERY (69%); POLICE FORCES (69%); APPROVALS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); SENTENCING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



846 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BOOKSHELF LOOKING AT THE CITY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: 63 Windows And What They Show

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
''A HOUSE without books is like a room without windows,'' said Horace Mann, the educator. Matteo Pericoli, the Italian-born architect, illustrator and author, wittily provides both in his delightful paean by 63 famous New Yorkers to the views from their houses and apartments. It's called ''The City Out My Window'' (Simon & Schuster, $21.99). 
 ''What is less in our control than a city view?'' Paul Goldberger asks in his introduction. Mr. Pericoli adds, ''The way you see the city from the window is yours and only yours. And your view describes your city as much as it tells something about yourself.'' 
 The cover of the book is a view from the studio of Saul Steinberg, whose famous New Yorker cover, ''View of the World From Ninth Avenue,'' reaffirmed our insularity and defined it for the rest of the world. Each of the 63 selections includes an elegant drawing by Mr. Pericoli, who moved to New York in 1995, and a mini-essay from the viewer.
 We learn that Gay Talese never washes his windows because he prefers a view that is ''rather opaque and opalescent, like a Monet painting'' and that leaves much to his imagination. The neurologist Oliver Sacks describes the ''interlocking symmetries'' that he finds calming and the ''ever-moving flow'' of people and traffic that are ''counterpoint to my own thinking and writing.'' Mark Morris, the choreographer, who can see neighbors having sex, is one of only a few among the 63 viewers who can discern individuals from their windows. The book, Mr. Goldberger adds, has ''no 'Rear Window' tales.'' 
 Several people declined to participate in the book, but they gave a reason -- ''I am sorry, but I would rather not share a personal aspect of my life'' -- that Mr. Pericoli said made him happier than he would have been had they agreed. ''Which seems to me perfectly understandable and right,'' he writes of their reason for refusal. ''After all, what lies beyond that thin sheet of glass mounted on our window frame belongs to our inner selves, and not to the outside world.''
 ''Breadwinners: Working Women and Economic Independence, 1865-1920'' (University of Illinois Press, $70), by Lara Vapnek, reads almost like a prequel to ''When Everything Changed,'' a history of American women since 1960 by Gail Collins, an Op-Ed columnist for The New York Times. 
 Ms. Vapnek, who teaches history at St. John's University, chronicles the labor movement through capsule biographies of largely forgotten individuals who had a profound impact on the lives of working women. Her account is national in scope, but New York women figure in it prominently. 
 Among them were Helen Campbell, a journalist and poverty researcher, who helped start the consumer movement in the 1880s. She urged educated women like herself to consider the welfare of the women who made their clothing and to become ethical consumers. 
 Another was Leonora O'Reilly, who left school at age 11 to work in a garment factory and support her widowed mother and family. She would emerge as a leader of the 1909 shirtwaist makers' strike and as a suffragist. ''Women, whether you wish it or not, your first step must be to gain equal political rights with men,'' she declared. ''The next step after that must be equal pay for equal work.'' 
 As bad as the Great Recession is, ''New York City in the Great Depression: Sheltering the Homeless'' (Arcadia, $21.99), by Dorothy Laager Miller, is a reminder of how much worse things were back then. The stark black-and-white vintage photographs of municipal shelters and bread lines speak volumes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ONE VIEW: What Wynton Marsalis sees of New York, as Matteo Pericoli draws it in ''The City Out My Window.''
FEEDING THE HOMELESS: From ''New York City in the Great Depression.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTEO PERICOLI
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); WOMEN (68%); PAINTING (68%); WOMEN WORKERS (63%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



847 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 35A

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Despite Economic Hardships, New Buying Power

BYLINE: By RICHARD C. PADDOCK

 BODY:
Paying jobs have been scarce these days for Jeff Horwitz, a building contractor from Campbell, but last weekend he went on a Christmas shopping spree.
 He bought cases of wine, a concrete bench, a wall-mounted fountain, gift certificates and various knickknacks at a gift fair in Santa Clara. ''This is nothing,'' he said as he walked out the door, arms filled with a vase, a mirror and a ceramic knickknack. ''My truck is already full.''
The bill? Nothing, at least not in the usual sense. His haul was the fruit of a barter economy in which he amasses ''trade dollars'' by swapping services with other members of the International Monetary Systems barter network. He spent 2,500 of them at the fair.
 Like others in the Bay Area who have seen paying jobs vanish with the recession, Mr. Horwitz has turned to barter to keep himself employed. 
 Mr. Horwitz, 53, has been bartering his services for a decade. But since the recession hit last year, he estimates, the value of his swaps makes up 30 percent of his business.
 ''Anything is better than nothing,'' he said. ''I take my profit in trade.''
 In a time of hedge funds and derivatives, barter might sound old-fashioned. But thanks to neighborhood swaps, Web sites like Craigslist and groups like International Monetary Systems, it is making a comeback during this economic downturn. And with the Christmas shopping season officially under way, the shadow economy, with its ersatz currency, is a growing force in the Bay Area. 
 Steven Tadelis, a professor who specializes in economic incentives at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, said it is not unusual to find alternative trading on the rise when unemployment is high and cash and credit are tight. ''Because of our lack of income and our inability to get long-term credit at reasonable rates, we can't use the normal market,'' he said. ''By me offering a service that you accept, we are creating value.'' 
 He added, ''You might see people switching to barter because they just can't get money.'' 
 Paul Garrett, the Bay Area manager for the I.M.S. network, said there were about 2,000 regional members, primarily in Silicon Valley and Sonoma County, out of about 18,000 nationally. And while the recession has driven some members out of business, depleting I.M.S. ranks, they have been more than filled by newcomers.
 ''In the Bay Area, our market is up,'' he said. ''Regardless of the recession, our clients still need services, still take vacations and still eat at restaurants. They are still going to celebrate Christmas.''
 I.M.S. charges a 7.5 percent fee on each transaction. Income from barter deals is taxable, and I.M.S. reports all trades to the Internal Revenue Service. Members use an I.M.S. debit card to make purchases and pay sales tax in cash at the fair.
 For small businesses with sluggish sales or for underemployed professionals with time on their hands, barter helps dispose of excess inventory and increases their work hours. ''Trade is all extra,'' Mr. Garrett said. ''Members are able to bill excess hours, sell products that weren't moving and take advantage of everything that's out there.''
 Formal barter clubs, like I.M.S., which are geared toward small businesses, offer a more complex trading system than one-to-one exchanges. Members can use trade dollars for a service offered by anyone in the network.
 ''In a direct trade, you are obviously limited to what the other guy has,'' said Mr. Garrett, who was overseeing the Christmas trade fair. ''If you are part of a barter company, you have access to every other product or service in the club.''
 Mr. Garrett said that I.M.S. seeks to increase a member firm's business by 5 to 10 percent. Beyond that, he said, a company risks not having the cash flow needed to survive.
 Finding ways to spend trade dollars can be a problem for businesses that rely heavily on barter. Some spend their money on items they do not really need.
 ''I've bought a slot machine, an air hockey table and a pinball machine,'' said Mr. Horwitz, the Campbell contractor, who admitted that he would not normally buy the items and only bought them because he had the trade dollars. 
 ''If you get upside-down, it's a problem,'' he added. ''At one point I couldn't do any more trades. I had 64,000 trade dollars. It was hard to get rid of them.''
 But at the Christmas fairs, the trade dollars and the merchandise feel real. In Santa Clara, vendors offered wine, toys, cosmetics, sports memorabilia, furniture, gift baskets, baked goods, herbal heat packs, office copiers and yacht charters, among other items. A clinic offered laser eye surgery. Another offered a doctor's recommendations for medical marijuana.
 Jeannette Blacy, who owns a jewelry store in Los Gatos and had a table at the fair, said, ''I use it as a way to move my excess inventory without having to discount.''
 With trade dollars, she said, she has bought advertising, fixed her computers, hired limousines and added a bathroom to her house. ''It's actually improved my business by 10 percent,'' she said. Another fair is scheduled for Santa Rosa in early December, but most of I.M.S.'s trades are done online.
 The Internet is also the medium for barter on large Web sites like Craigslist. There, about 100 people a day in the Bay Area seek one-for-one swaps. 
 A furniture store owner offered mattresses for wine. A handyman will trade plumbing repairs for tax help. ''My TV for your bicycle,'' proposed another. A college counselor offered guidance to anyone who will trim his trees. One man will trade ammunition for auto repairs. One woman offered her wedding dress -- used only once -- for whatever you have. 
 Susan MacTavish Best, who represents Craigslist, said barter listings have risen 25 percent in the Bay Area over the past two years. ''Users will barter practically anything on the site,'' she said in an e-mail message, ''including old junk and stuff that is collecting dust as well as services such as gardening and painting.''
 Trisha Rorabaugh, who operates a San Jose Web site design business, posted an ad on Craigslist offering services to restaurants in exchange for dining. Contacted by e-mail, she said she started out swapping services with friends and used to joke about wearing a T-shirt reading ''Will work for food.'' Now, she said, trade requests from potential clients have soared.
 ''Lately, most of the barter I have done is for things that I normally couldn't afford otherwise,'' she wrote. ''My regular clients barely cover my monthly expenses, but with barter I can be broke in style.''
 There are other manifestations of the trend, some with a puckish sense of anarchy. Kristan Lawson and Anneli Rufus, husband-and-wife co-authors of ''The Scavengers' Manifesto,'' point to Really Really Free Markets, loosely organized events in public parks that are intended to create an alternative gift economy. People bring their unwanted items, lay them out and take home items others have brought.
 As Ms. Rufus said, ''People ask themselves, 'What do I have that is worth something that I can trade' instead of reaching for their wallet first.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Barterers looked for merchandise at a gift fair held recently in Santa Clara by the International Monetary Systems network.
About 60 member businesses offered items, which shoppers bought with network debit cards stocked with ''trade dollars.'' (A35A)
 Jeff Horwitz of Campbell at the barter network's gift fair. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A35B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEMS LTD (56%); CRAIGSLIST INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



848 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 7948 words

HEADLINE: After Cheney

BYLINE: By JAMES TRAUB. 
James Traub, a contributing writer for the magazine, is the author, most recently, of ''The Freedom Agenda.''

 BODY:
When Vice President Biden travels to Iraq, which he does every two months or so, he flies on Air Force Two to an airbase in southern England and then transfers to a cargo plane, a C-17, retrofitted for vice-presidential comfort with an Airstream trailer bolted on to tracks in the center of the hold. With its porthole and shiny rivets and gleaming chrome, this strange conveyance looks like something out of Jules Verne. Captain Biden holds court in a wood-paneled galley just large enough for his half-dozen or so aides to pile into. Unlike Nemo, he is a gregarious knee-squeezer who has to be ordered by his staff to stop talking so he can get some rest. 
 I had the first of several long conversations with Biden in the Airstream this summer on his return from his first trip to Iraq as vice president. With violence much reduced and some signs of political reconciliation, Iraq had suddenly switched places with Afghanistan to become the war we ignore; but Obama-administration officials feared that Iraq would sink back into fratricide unless Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds made the painful compromises they had avoided so far. President Obama had committed to ending America's combat role in the country by Aug. 31, 2010; though both the American and Iraqi publics demanded the withdrawal, it endangered Iraq's very fragile security and reduced American leverage at a crucial moment of political transition. Early last June, the president asked Biden to take responsibility for Iraq. 
 During the course of a two-day trip to Baghdad, Biden met with Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki and other leading political figures. Officials in both the Bush and Obama administrations had come to view Maliki as a sectarian Shiite bent on marginalizing Iraq's Sunni minority. ''You've never heard me prior to this trip singing the praises of Maliki,'' Biden said. He had changed into his Airstream mufti -- short-sleeve knit shirt and natty dark slacks. He is impressively trim for a 67-year-old, especially one scarcely known for self-discipline. 
 Biden said he had been having second thoughts about Maliki. In March of last year, the prime minister sent troops to suppress the forces of Moktada al-Sadr and the militias that controlled the southern city of Basra -- Shiites in both cases. He had alienated parts of his base and launched an appeal across sectarian lines. ''He's got a real problem,'' Biden said, following this new train of thought, ''and if he wants to stay in power'' -- an election is looming next year -- ''how does he do it?'' He needed to assemble a winning coalition. Would he seek Kurdish support? Sunni support? Both? But how, given that the Kurds and Sunnis were at each other's throats? ''These guys put their pants on one leg at a time,'' Biden said. ''They're still politicians.''
 Here was a Joe Biden guiding principle. Unlike Obama, Biden has spent virtually his entire life in politics. It is his medium: he talks about world leaders the way a grizzled baseball coach talks about the opposing lineup. I once heard him say, ''Foreign policy is like human relations, only people know less about each other.'' One of the chief reasons that Obama has sought Biden's advice on a range of pressing foreign-policy questions -- most notably, in recent months, on policy in Afghanistan -- is that Biden has a deep knowledge of, and an intuitive feel for, people and places still new to the president. He appears to have judged right on Iraq, where the coming elections should constitute a major success both for the Iraqis and for the Obama administration. But that's only if they actually occur. Iraqi leaders may still choose sectarian over national interest no matter the consequences -- and they've shown signs of doing just that. Politics are not, alas, the same all over.
 AS SENATORS, BARACK OBAMA and Joe Biden were far from close. Obama served on the Foreign Relations Committee, which Biden led; and Biden, who felt that he had earned his stars the old-fashioned way, bristled at Obama's status as instant superstar. ''They started out pretty far apart,'' a Biden aide says. They went on to run against each other for the Democratic nomination for the presidency; before Biden dropped out of the race he criticized Obama as a foreign-policy neophyte who was copying his ideas. Brian Katulis, a national-security expert at the Center for American Progress, recalls encountering Biden wandering around the executive-suite floor in the Marriott Hotel in Islamabad late one night in February 2008, looking for someone to talk to. Biden invited Katulis and a visiting former congressman down to the hotel restaurant for a milkshake, and then delivered a 90-minute monologue, the essence of which was: ''I know more about foreign policy than any of the other candidates in the race, and I'm going to devote the next six months to rewriting Democratic foreign policy.''
 Biden said he believed -- and still believes -- that he would make a very good president. He was nervous about accepting Obama's offer of the vice presidency, fearing that he would suffer a loss in status, and in voice, from his role as a Senate baron. According to John Podesta, a former official in the Clinton White House who ran Obama's transition, Biden ''had a fairly clear sense in his own mind, which probably existed even before he was selected by Obama but definitely in the weeks in advance of and right after the election, that he didn't want to be the guy in charge of x portfolio.'' Instead, Biden wanted the role every vice president wants, but which perhaps only his predecessor, Dick Cheney, had enjoyed: to be the last voice in the room. 
 The president and the vice president are very different men both temperamentally and generationally, and they move in different social circles. ''Everyone wants this to be some kind of buddy movie -- 'Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid,' '' as one senior White House official, who asked not to be named so he could speak freely, put it. ''Presidents and vice presidents are never close friends. It's a working relationship; it's more like the C.E.O. and the chairman of the board.'' 
 Yet, on foreign policy, Biden has largely realized his wish to be the president's all-purpose adviser and sage. He attends the president's daily briefing every morning with James L. Jones, the national-security adviser; often Biden will stay behind for a few minutes to raise other issues. He has a weekly lunch with the president and no staff members. He sits in on most of the ''principals' meetings'' of top national-security officials, which occur about once a week; unlike Cheney, a silent presence at these sessions, Biden has plenty to say. Biden attends every important meeting on foreign policy the president holds. ''It's me and him, and the cast of characters changes a little bit,'' Biden told me not long ago during a conversation in his White House office. ''I have the benefit of watching him react, and him watching me react. Very seldom a week goes by that he doesn't call me down to his office, or wander in here and close the door and say, 'Wait a minute, what about this?' ''
 Empire-building is not encouraged in the Obama administration. Biden has five aides who focus on foreign affairs, a large number save in comparison to Cheney, who had more than a dozen. No vice president had ever sought, or gained, the autonomy, or the supremacy over other power centers, that President Bush granted to Cheney. ''He was his own separate branch of government,'' as Ron Klain, Biden's chief of staff, puts it. ''He took the office of the vice president out of the White House phone directory, and out of the White House budget.'' Biden is seeking to ''normalize'' that relationship, Klain says. At the same time, people around Biden point out that he benefits from Cheney's self-aggrandizement: Biden can reduce the scope of the office to something like its historic dimensions and still be the second-most powerful vice president in history. 
 And while Cheney's staff fought for dominance with the White House, Biden's is deeply enmeshed in the policy-making structure. His national-security adviser, Antony J. Blinken, and two other aides are also directors in the National Security Council, while a number of former Biden aides occupy important posts in the N.S.C. Thomas Donilon, deputy national-security adviser and coordinator of policy across agencies, has been a close friend of Biden's since the 1980s; Donilon's brother, Michael, is a senior adviser to Biden, and Donilon's wife, Catherine Russell, was Biden's former administrative assistant and is now chief of staff to Biden's wife, Jill. During the transition, Biden told James Jones that he didn't want his own N.S.C. but wanted to be able to call on the N.S.C. as needed. Jones complied; on the first day in office, he told his staff, ''You work for the president and the vice president.'' National-security aides routinely accompany Biden on his foreign trips. As one policymaker who was not authorized to comment publicly on internal administration issues said to me: ''I don't in my head distinguish between Office of the Vice President people and N.S.C. people. We're all the White House staff.''
 One of Biden's early assignments from Obama was to adjudicate any disputes among the so-called team of rivals. Biden, as he himself points out, knew all of them longer than they did one another (or than the president did). Biden has breakfast with Hillary Clinton every Tuesday, meets with Defense Secretary Robert Gates about once a week and speaks constantly to James Jones. He was called on to mediate a dispute over turf between Leon Panetta, the director of the C.I.A., and Dennis Blair, the director of national intelligence. Otherwise, the outward appearance of intramural harmony seems to correspond to reality. ''I assure you,'' Biden said to me, ''among the principals there is a respect that I haven't seen, because I think everybody, if not all on the same hymnal, they're all on the same book. We don't have one of those San Andreas faults'' -- like the Bush administration had.
 The difference between Biden's role and Cheney's has at least as much to do with the culture of the two administrations as it does with the men themselves. Bush's discomfort with world affairs created a vacuum that Cheney, Donald Rumsfeld and others fought to fill. Moreover, Bush's tendency toward the snap judgment and the gut call undermined the formal policy process in favor of jockeying for position at key moments. By contrast, there is little question where foreign policy is now decided -- in the Oval Office -- and the absence of a San Andreas fault line has as much to do with clarity of authority as it does with personal vibes. What's more, as the agonizingly deliberative debate over policy in Afghanistan has demonstrated, Obama wants to hear a case fully argued out before reaching a conclusion, even at some political risk. This perfectly suits Biden, a gifted expostulator and an indifferent schemer. On a wide range of issues, says James Steinberg, the deputy secretary of state, Obama ''knows that he can turn to Joe and say, 'How are these people going to react, what are they going to say, how are they going to see it, what's going to be in their mind?' ''
 THE INCOMING OBAMA national-security team believed that Iraq had constituted such an ''intellectual-capital suck,'' as one official put it, that other global problems had been allowed to fester. An early review persuaded State Department officials that the Balkans, where terrible wars were fought, and uneasily settled, in the 1990s, was one such problem. ''We needed someone to go over there,'' says one official who was not authorized to speak on the record, ''and say we care, we're interested, at a very high level.'' Steinberg, who worked extensively on the issue in the Clinton era, was an obvious candidate; but Biden enjoyed enormous credibility in Bosnia and Kosovo, where as a senator he advocated military intervention in the face of Serbian aggression. And he was the vice president. Biden traveled to the region in mid-May. Invited to address the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the vice president warned that if growing ethnic tensions weren't reduced, Bosnia would be kept out of the European Union and thus remain locked in poverty and might well ''descend into ethnic chaos that defined your country for the better part of a decade.'' (Steinberg says Biden's rude jolt has ''gotten the parties back talking to each other'' but concedes that ''whether we get them over the hurdles remains to be seen.'')
 Biden, who would later make similar visits to Lebanon, Georgia and Ukraine, was becoming Obama's fire chief and ambassador without portfolio. These trips were one-time-only events. Iraq, however, was different. In its early months, the Obama administration arguably reversed the Bush mistake and started ignoring Iraq in favor of Afghanistan. Iraq had no special envoy and, for a portion of the spring, not even an ambassador. At a national-security meeting in early June, where discussion centered on the potential dangers of the impending drawdown of troops, Obama turned to Biden and said, as Biden recalls, ''Joe, you do Iraq.'' Biden says he was so surprised that at first he thought the president was kidding. In fact, the White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, says it was his idea. ''I've known the vice president for a long time,'' Emanuel told me. ''He has everything -- gravitas, political smarts, the confidence of the players and knowledge of the issues. At the end of the day, this is a political process, and you need a politician to work on the process. And he has the authority of the White House.'' 
 Emanuel also had the bright idea of sending Biden to Iraq for a July 4 photo op with the troops. The optics were everything the White House could have hoped for. Biden traveled to Al Faw Palace, a gigantesque Saddam Hussein-era structure once used for Baath Party functions, in order to administer the oath of American citizenship to 237 soldiers who had joined the military as immigrants. It was quite a sight -- crisp ranks of African and Asian and Latino men and women lined up beneath a giant American flag hanging from the ceiling. Hussein was very fond of chandeliers; and from the lofty, tiled dome of Al Faw hung a mighty crystal chandelier orbited by little chandelier-moons, as perhaps lesser potentates were thought to orbit around Hussein. Except that it was all a fake: a soldier stationed at the palace told me that the chandelier was largely plastic and the gold fixtures were made of brass. The kingdom we had conquered was a stage set; now it was our stage set.
 Biden loves a stage, and he loves all-American hokum. ''As corny as it sounds,'' he said, after Raymond T. Odierno, the commanding general in Iraq, addressed the troops, ''damn, I'm proud to be an American.'' He told a story about being driven to Camp Bondsteel, the home of American peacekeeping troops in Kosovo, and seeing, standing together, ''a female colonel, a black captain, a white sergeant and, literally, a Hispanic private.'' Turning to his Kosovar driver, he said: ''That's America. And until you understand that here, you'll never be free.'' After the Al Faw speech, Biden was taken to the DFAC -- dining facility -- in Baghdad's International Zone (informally known as the Green Zone), where he met with the Delaware National Guard unit with which his son Beau served. Then he entered the cafeteria for a meet and greet. He lit up like a 1,000-watt bulb. Biden shook every hand, and threw his arm around every shoulder -- hundreds and hundreds of them. ''How are you, man?'' he cried, with fresh joy, to each table of soldiers. ''Did you get a picture of me?'' A soldier said politely, ''Look this way, sir,'' and Biden, who has the blinding white teeth of a starlet, whirled around with a huge smile. The vice president never stopped moving, smiling or talking. 
 Biden's goal for this first trip was to reassure Iraq's leaders that Washington had not dropped their country in favor of Afghanistan, and to press them to reach agreement on a wide range of constitutional and political issues that had remained blocked for years -- an agreement on oil revenues and sales, a formula for sharing power and resources between Baghdad and the provinces and the resolution of the border dispute between Arab Iraq and Kurdistan, especially involving the status of the Kirkuk region. Biden was determinedly upbeat, pointing out to the traveling press, jammed into his wood-paneled Airstream, that the phased American withdrawal was not leading to the bloodbath many predicted. ''The Iraqis,'' he said, ''have become invested in their nationhood.'' It was true that recent attacks by Sunni extremists had not provoked sectarian violence, as had been the case in 2006. But tensions between Arabs and Kurds had grown only worse. There was no sign of progress on the status of Kirkuk, which Kurds considered integral to their identity but which large populations of Arabs and Turkmen also claimed as their own. The 8.5 billion barrels of oil reserves estimated to be beneath Kirkuk made it a prize no one was willing to yield. 
 Biden knows a lot about Iraq, but his judgment has scarcely been perfect in the past. He opposed the first gulf war, voted to authorize the 2003 invasion and opposed the surge. ''When was the last time Biden was right about anything?'' the military writer Thomas E. Ricks asked in his blog earlier this fall, apropos of Biden's current views on Afghanistan. Like many senior Democrats, Biden was an uneasy and equivocal supporter of the 2003 war. He now says that, at the time, he didn't think the war was really ''worth the candle.'' In 2002 he convened hearings that focused attention on the enormous challenges that would come after a military victory -- challenges the Bush administration went on to treat with stunning nonchalance. He and Senator Richard Lugar submitted a measure that would have required the Bush administration to either get explicit authorization for war from the U.N. Security Council or to stipulate to Congress that Iraq posed an ''imminent threat'' to U.S. security. When this effort collapsed, Biden voted to give Bush the authority to go to war without such restrictions. When I asked Biden if he felt, in retrospect, that he had made a mistake, he said: ''To the extent that I made a mistake about the war it was, I trusted what I was being told by Bush personally. And I trusted that he in fact was not buying into the neocon argument.'' The president had acted circumspectly in Afghanistan. Biden says he believed Bush when he said he wanted to return weapons inspectors to Iraq. It may also be that, like other liberal Democrats -- especially those who voted against the first gulf war in 1991 -- Biden did not feel that he could afford to fly with the doves. 
 AS A SENATOR, Biden did not give countries the once-over lightly, as most legislators do; he typically traveled with a colleague -- usually Chuck Hagel, in the case of Iraq -- and stayed for four or five days. Very few legislators, if any, could match his knowledge of people and places. On Iraq, Biden argued from the outset that the U.S. needed more troops, more civilians, more focus on politics and the long term. He did not, of course, make much headway.
 But as growing sectarian violence reduced the Bush administration's dream of a democratic Iraq to ashes, Biden began to have second, or third, thoughts. In May 2006, he and Leslie H. Gelb, an old friend who is a former president of the Council on Foreign Relations, co-wrote an Op-Ed in this newspaper arguing that conflict among the major groups would inevitably frustrate designs for a centralized Iraqi state, and suggesting instead a Bosnia-type solution with three ''largely autonomous'' regions and a central government with functions limited to ''border defense, foreign affairs and oil revenues.'' Rather than staying forever or withdrawing precipitately, U.S. forces would leave Iraq by 2008. 
 The idea was unfamiliar and had no constituency. ''I don't know anyone else in politics who would do that,'' Gelb told me. The proposal was flatly rejected by the dominant Shiites, who had no wish to dilute their power; the 2006 Iraq Study Group suggested that the plan could starve the Sunnis of economic resources. Scholars and policymakers asserted that the war in Bosnia, unlike the war in Iraq, ended with the three groups largely sorted into their own regions. The plan got little traction. Some who thought the proposal was flawed nevertheless admired Biden for making it. Michael O'Hanlon, a foreign-policy analyst at the Brookings Institution who has been more hawkish on the war than Biden, says, ''When much of the rest of the country was taking sides -- 'Are you for it or against it?' -- Biden said, 'Neither -- the current strategy isn't working, and here's my alternative.' '' O'Hanlon adds that Biden ''was remarkably and admirably nonpartisan through '04, '05, '06, as we were trying to sort out if we had any hope in Iraq.'' 
 By 2007, however, Biden was running for president, and he sounded more like a highly partisan candidate than a dispassionate statesman. He asserted that Gen. David Petraeus, the author of the surge in Iraq, was ''dead, flat wrong,'' and that only a political solution based on his federalism plan could allow us to leave behind a stable Iraq. (Though Biden won't quite admit it, the success of the surge has made a radical devolution of power unnecessary.) He argued that the greatest danger to America came from Pakistan rather than Iraq. He advocated strong action to prevent further atrocities in Sudan, including the imposition of a no-fly zone. And he argued, in general, that he understood the world better than any of his opponents did. Voters were not sufficiently impressed: Biden ended his campaign after the Iowa caucuses. 
 While Biden was in Baghdad, Prime Minister Maliki's spokesman, Ali al-Dabbagh, pointedly noted that the constitutional concerns Biden hoped to advance are ''internal issues that Iraqis will handle.'' Maliki himself had been similarly standoffish, at least in public. But Iraqi officials were eager to use Biden as a go-between and advocate. Maliki gave his blessing to a proposal that Biden press Massoud Barzani, the president of the Kurdistan Regional Government, to postpone plans to hold a referendum on the Kurdish Constitution, which would have unilaterally absorbed Kirkuk. But a sandstorm, freakish even by Iraqi standards, prevented Biden from traveling to Kurdistan's capital city, Erbil. 
 As soon as he returned to Washington, though, Biden hit the phones. He spoke regularly to Christopher Hill, the U.S. ambassador to Iraq, and to General Odierno, the commander of American-led forces, as well as to Maliki, Barzani and other leadership figures. Biden pressed Maliki to carry through on plans to visit Kurdistan, and he pressed Barzani to postpone the referendum. He asked each man to stop describing the other as an enemy of peace. And those things did happen. A senior White House official says that Biden's influence was crucial both in persuading Maliki to make the trip and in postponing the referendum. The Iraqis, on the other hand, take a more skeptical view of the American role. Sadiq al-Rikabi, Maliki's political adviser, told me that the prime minister was simply responding to an invitation from Iraq's president, while Barzani's chief of staff, Fuad Hussein, ascribed the voting delay to ''technical'' issues. But Qubad Talabani, the representative of the Kurdistan Regional Government to the U.S., says Biden told Barzani it would be ''unhelpful'' if the Kurds held their referendum -- ''and we knew what that meant.'' It meant that Arab outrage at the Kurdish annexation of Kirkuk could increase ethnic violence. Talabani gives Biden significant credit for helping to move the process forward. Biden, says Talabani, ''is keeping us all honest and actually delivering results.''
 iden's role as vice president is not, of course, limited to foreign policy. Though his chief persona in global affairs is He Who Knows All World Leaders, in domestic affairs and the economy -- subjects that never much interested him -- he is regular Joe from working-class Delaware (and Pennsylvania, initially). The campaign often exploited his lunch-bucket cred to balance Obama's lofty Harvard Yard aura on pocketbook issues. One of his jobs as vice president has been to make the public argument for Obama's economic stimulus efforts. Biden is also the administration's senior ambassador to the Senate. He regularly works out at the Senate gym, where he gets in as much schmoozing as exercise. His closest friends include current and former senators like Chuck Hagel and Christopher Dodd. He ended one of our conversations in order to make calls to the Senate on health care reform. Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina Republican, told me Biden lobbied him and other members of the G.O.P. on the Kerry-Lugar bill mandating aid to Pakistan. 
 Biden's former colleagues speak fondly of him, though they acknowledge his reputation as a windbag. ''You can't help but like Joe,'' as Graham puts it. Biden's vanity and his regard for his own gifts seem considerable even by the rarefied standards of the U.S. Senate: in his telling, the room is always falling silent as he confronts his listeners with the killer insight. Unlike his boss, Biden is not a particularly self-conscious person. I once heard him tell a very long anecdote -- a very good anecdote, to be sure -- in exactly the same words as he had told it to exactly the same audience about 36 hours earlier. His audience -- reporters and aides on the C-17 -- struggled to keep an expression of rapt attention on their faces, and to laugh at the places they had laughed the day before. Biden noticed nothing. You have the feeling that he has been spared the normal human allotment of reproach. But neither does he reproach others: Biden is the kind of fundamentally happy person who can be as generous toward others as he is to himself. One of his former aides -- Washington is rife with them -- told me that she had learned an important life lesson from her boss: ''Question people's judgment, not their motives.''
 Biden has, it is true, occasionally provoked the famously disciplined president with his unscheduled rhetorical flights. After Biden ventured that administration policies had a ''30 percent'' chance of failure, Obama said at a press conference, ''You know, I don't remember what Joe was referring to, not surprisingly.'' The White House was even more taken aback when, on his way home from Ukraine and Georgia, Biden told a reporter that Russia, facing historic decline, was ''clinging to something in the past that is not sustainable.'' Obama called Biden and said, ''What was that about?'' Secretary of State Hillary Clinton had to walk that one back on ''Meet the Press.'' Nonetheless, you can see Biden making the very visible effort to bite his tongue in public. And in White House deliberations he is said to have curbed his epic prolixity. ''He's much more disciplined now,'' John Podesta says. ''He speaks less; he waits until the end.'' 
 The president and vice president tend to reach the same conclusions, if by different paths. In Biden's worldview, which seems to be composed equally of temperament, experience and books, principles are very important as beacons, but they are dangerous, and often delusory, as direct guides to action. He shares with Obama a deep skepticism about wished-for outcomes, which makes him wary about conventional liberalism. He ran for the Senate in 1972 as an opponent of the war in Vietnam, but he says, ''I wasn't against the war for moral reasons; I just thought it was a stupid policy.'' 
 Biden consumes policy books and loves nothing more than policy debate, but he is no more a theoretician or an ideologue than most politicians. On domestic policy, Biden has been a moderate liberal, favoring gun control and abortion rights, though also the Patriot Act and a balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution. On global affairs, Les Gelb calls him ''a classic moderate American pragmatist,'' applying broad principle but looking at each situation on its merits. Biden was an outspoken advocate of bombing Serbia to stop ethnic cleansing in Bosnia, but he was at least as concerned about instability spreading toward Central Europe as he was about ending atrocities. And it was doable: ''It was within our wheelhouse,'' as Biden puts it. Ending atrocities in, say, Somalia, was not. Nor was democratizing the Arab world by invading Iraq and replacing Saddam Hussein with a leader of our choosing. Biden's constant criticism of the Bush administration's policies in Iraq was not that they were immoral but that they, like Nixon's in Vietnam, were unrealistic. '' 'The road to peace in the Middle East is through Baghdad' -- we never bought any of that,'' he told me.
 Biden says he used to meet regularly -- ''because we disagreed so much'' -- with Robert Kagan, the neoconservative champion of democracy promotion. Biden mocks the idea that ''you can actually impose democracy'' because ''the yearning masses, yearning to be free and democratic'' will ''just embrace it.'' Experience, he says, argues otherwise. At the same time, Biden refuses to accept the supposed choice between moralism and realism that, he says, dictates that in the face of authoritarian states like Russia or China, ''you either decry the behavior and cut off relations, or you ignore the behavior and enhance your relations.'' The Obama administration, especially in regard to Russia, Biden says, has chosen a third option: ''You make it clear to the country in question, We don't approve of the behavior in question. We can't do anything about it, but don't expect us'' to acquiesce ''if the only way you'll trade with us is if we say it's O.K. you're beating the hell out of those folks in Tiananmen Square.'' 
 As a past supporter of movements for democracy and self-determination in Eastern Europe, the Balkans, Georgia and Kurdistan, Biden does not have to defend his antiauthoritarian credentials; but the Obama administration itself, despite the president's occasional soaring rhetoric, has come in for some heavy weather from liberals for its reluctance to criticize autocratic allies like Egypt, or to condition aid on democratic reform, as the Bush administration did (albeit with little success). One consequence of Biden's view may be that authoritarian states have to endure some fairly gentle admonitions while having their way on major issues. 
 There is a view that Obama's team is divided between what Steve Clemons of the New America Foundation and The Washington Note, a leading foreign-policy blog, calls ''progressive realists'' like James Steinberg and ''Democratic neocons'' -- that is, moralists -- like Susan E. Rice, the ambassador to the U.N. The hard-headed Biden, Clemons says, ''can play in both those games.'' But this classification scheme explains only so much. It may be more useful to say that this president is pulled both toward the grand project -- as in the campaign to eliminate nuclear weapons -- and toward the chastened recalibration, as evident in the reined-in language on democracy promotion. The tension falls between the extreme ambitiousness of the goals and the caution required to achieve them -- a sense of prudence born in no small part of the failure of George W. Bush's transformative schemes. 
 IT IS PRECISELY this tension that has made the debate over Afghanistan so prolonged and difficult. The president called Afghanistan ''a war of necessity'' as recently as August. Iraq was George W. Bush's war of necessity; and for Bush that meant authorizing the war and worrying about the consequences later -- or perhaps closing his eyes to the consequences. But Obama and his circle of advisers have been bedeviled by doubts about whether the ambitious nationwide counterinsurgency program proposed by Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, the commander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan, and David Petraeus, head of Central Command, can actually work. And here Biden's hard-earned skepticism, his knowledge of the region, his zest for verbal combat and the trust that Obama now reposes in him have allowed him to play a major role in recasting the terms of debate.
 Biden was an original believer in the epic project of nation-building in Afghanistan. ''Whatever it takes, we should do it,'' he said soon after the Taliban government in Kabul was toppled in 2001. He subsequently accused the Bush administration of ignoring Afghanistan, the source of the Qaeda threat, in favor of Iraq. He opposed the surge in Iraq in part because he favored one in Afghanistan. But Biden began to have second thoughts about Afghanistan, as he had about Iraq. As Taliban victories grew, heroin production increased and reports of high-level corruption grew ever more baroque, Biden began to lose faith in Hamid Karzai, the Afghan president, and in the nation-building project itself. A trip to Afghanistan in the weeks before the new administration took office persuaded Biden that the U.S. military had no clear plan for victory. In the ensuing internal debate over so-called AfPak policy, Biden argued for a narrow definition of success -- suppressing Al Qaeda -- and no new troops. He lost. Obama added 21,000 new troops; and though he adopted the narrowed goal Biden favored, the new policy asserted that a broad nation-building enterprise would be needed even for this more modest goal. 
 I asked Biden about Afghanistan when we were in his White House office, with its Colonial blue walls and paintings of Jefferson and Adams and its rather truncated view of the Executive Office Building. (His Senate office, he says, was much nicer.) We were seated in armchairs at oblique angles to each other. Biden is a warm man -- an ardent man -- who is always trying to dispose of the space between himself and his audience. He cannot talk without making contact; I noticed once or twice that he made a swoop in the direction of my shoe before making do with my knee.
 Afghanistan required maximal contact, and the vice president, in an athletic gesture, bent all the way over to tap my toe before wheeling around to face me directly. ''When you're talking about a country which has an 85 percent rate of illiteracy, which has virtually no history of modern governance, you should go in with an overwhelming dose of humility,'' he told me. ''And you'd better damn well have as precise a notion as you can of what your objective is.''
 From the outset of his tenure as vice president, Biden had come to view himself as the one who asked the unpleasant and searching question -- who ''upset the apple cart,'' as he put it. In the debate over Afghanistan, he initially faced a near-consensus in favor of the view advanced by the generals. McChrystal offered three options, which boiled down to way more troops than he could get (80,000), enough troops (40,000), and failure (10,000 trainers but no new combat troops). Obama encouraged Biden to push the advocates to defend their arguments and justify their assumptions. Biden proceeded to do just that, especially with the brass; he proposed an alternative plan that focused less on defeating the Taliban and more on eliminating Al Qaeda. Obama reacted to this very different view by asking James Jones to present four options with different strategies, and troop levels appropriate to those strategies. When I asked Rahm Emanuel about Biden's role in the discussions, he said: ''People were thinking about certain things, but hadn't expressed them. The vice president was expressing them.''
 Biden was not willing to discuss on the record the advice he gave the president while the decision remained outstanding, but the outlines of his views may be gleaned from news reports and White House interviews. Biden and those around him do not seem to believe that McChrystal's strategy can work -- not because they question the abilities of the military, but because they think the generals are far too optimistic about the civilian elements upon which the overall plan depends. They are deeply skeptical that the government of President Hamid Karzai can somehow gain legitimacy in the eyes of the Afghan people; that the U.S. can quickly develop the enormous civilian capacity that would accompany a military surge, or can train as many as 400,000 Afghan soldiers, especially with attrition rates now running around 25 percent; that Pakistan will accept a policy designed to bolster Afghanistan's Pashtun-led government; that NATO allies will overcome public resistance to offer major help; or that the U.S. can afford to spend something like $250 billion on Afghanistan at a time when deficits are already running very high. 
 Biden does not view the Taliban as synonymous with Al Qaeda and does not appear to believe that it would be a calamity if the Taliban increased its presence in the Afghan countryside (though he is not prepared to see Kabul or other major urban centers fall). If Al Qaeda can be bottled up on the border with Pakistan through counterterrorism measures involving troops as well as drone attacks, and with the help of an expanded Afghan army, then it is unnecessary to build a secure Afghanistan that can defeat the Taliban. And then you could focus instead on the greater danger -- Pakistan. ''I'm going to ask you a question,'' Biden said. ''If I said to you right now, We can send $30 billion a year to Pakistan, or $30 billion to Afghanistan, which would you pick? Every goddamn person says, 'Pakistan.' So I say, 'O.K., guys, we should be talking about a PakAf policy, not an AfPak policy.' ''
 This is a thoroughly plausible proposition -- if, and only if, ceding much of Afghanistan to the Taliban would not be a calamity. Among those who believe that it would be are Generals Petraeus and McChrystal, most Republican senators and experts like Bruce Riedel, who has said that it is ''a fairy tale'' to think that Al Qaeda will not return to Afghanistan along with a resurgent Taliban. Those who favor a larger military presence in Afghanistan accept the validity of Biden's concerns but do not view them as insurmountable. Biden is very likely to once again lose the debate on troop strength, though he may win on narrowing the objectives. The real test of his success will be whether the new policy tilts toward Pakistan.
 BY THE TIME Biden returned to Iraq, in mid-September, some of the seeds he planted earlier had begun to sprout. Maliki had made his good-will trip to Kurdistan; Barzani was not describing Maliki as the reincarnation of Saddam Hussein quite as regularly as before. With the election approaching, Maliki and other leaders were crossing sectarian lines to assemble winning coalitions. All talk of constitutional reform was delayed until after the election. Biden, recognizing this, backed off on these issues, focusing instead on the need to agree on an election law as soon as possible in order to ensure that the election could take place on time. In his public remarks, he asserted that the country's leaders understood that ''the election coming off on Jan. 16 is critical to Iraq's future.'' But despite all the fine rhetoric, top Iraqi officials could not agree on an election law, just as they could not agree on almost any other difficult question. 
 This time Biden was able to fly from Baghdad to Erbil. Baghdad, even now, is an extremely tense place. As soon as we landed in Erbil, however, an official from the Department of Foreign Relations chattered away about the luxury villas at the ''Dream City'' complex, the new cafes and restaurants, a racetrack and go-kart center. Christians were fleeing Arab Iraq for ecumenical Kurdistan.
 The Kurds are very hard to refuse. Kurdistan is a free-market democracy in a part of the world that has very little of either marketplace or democracy. The Kurds suffered terribly at the hands of Saddam Hussein -- as they are quick to remind the visitor. Biden told me that the Kurds were not yet prepared to make the concessions over Kirkuk that they would have to make, but that he understood why. ''The first thing I remember is when we drove into Erbil to meet with the Kurds,'' he said, referring to a 2002 trip. '' 'Senator, you understand what every Kurdish child learns is: The mountains are our only friend.' This sense of victimization has a historical basis. This is the Poland of the Middle East.''
 And yet Biden understood very well that the Kurds had to be moved off their maximalist position. When Iraqis passed a constitution in 2005, they sidestepped the intractable problem of drawing borders between Kurdistan and the rest of Iraq, and of the status of Kirkuk, by including Article 140, which called for a national census whose chief goal would be to determine the proportion of Kurds, Arabs and Turkmen in the region. The census would be followed by a referendum on Kirkuk, to be held no later than the end of 2007. But because the Kurds would plainly win the referendum -- especially after bringing hundreds of thousands of their countrymen back to the region, in effect reversing Hussein's own demographic engineering -- it had proved impossible to hold the census. Kurdish representatives in Iraq's Parliament, frustrated by the delay, exacted their revenge by holding up virtually every piece of crucial national legislation. And then the Kurdish regional government passed its own constitution laying claim to all of Kirkuk. 
 The Kurds had to be persuaded to accept half a loaf: shared jurisdiction over Kirkuk, the loss of some rural areas now claimed as Kurdish. But the Kurds would have none of it. When I said to Fuad Hussein, President Barzani's chief of staff, that the dispute over Article 140 seemed to have paralyzed Iraq, he shot back, ''It is exactly on the contrary: Iraq is paralyzed because there isn't the will to implement the constitution.'' Biden, it was true, had a lot of credit with the Kurds. In late 2002, as war fever was building in Washington, he and Chuck Hagel were driven through the night from Turkey to the Kurdish capital, Erbil. Biden addressed the Kurdish Parliament and made the Kurds' cause his own. When I asked Barham Salih, the Kurdish prime minister, about Biden, he said, ''We trust him as a friend, and as someone who has been aware of the Kurdish predicament for some time.'' But, he added, ''Biden is not going to convince the Kurds to abandon what are fundamental interests.'' 
 The Kurds were deeply dug in. ''Barzani is mercurial,'' said a foreign diplomat who was not authorized to speak on the record. ''Nobody looks him in the eye and says, 'You guys are heading for disaster.' We need the Americans to tell the Kurds that some of their goals are so maximalist that even their iteration is a problem for us.'' Specifically, Biden needed to persuade the Kurds that a political agreement acceptable to Arabs as well as Kurds had to come first, and only then could a referendum be held. And with violence growing along the ''trigger line'' separating Kurdish and Arab territory, it wasn't clear how long the issue could wait. When I asked the diplomat if the current situation was likely to degenerate into large-scale violence, he said: ''On balance, no. But I wouldn't bet the farm on it.''
 How far would the Kurds go? The United States would not support Barzani if he insisted on a referendum either on Article 140 or on the Kurdish Constitution. And Barzani's leverage may never be greater than it is now, when American troops continue to help police the trigger line, and when Sunni and Shiite political leaders must court the Kurds to achieve an electoral majority. Biden is almost certain to be making these arguments to Barzani. If he has, however, the Kurdish leaders I spoke to seem not to have heard the news. Middle East experts maintain that the problems of borders, and of Kirkuk, constitute the single gravest threat to Iraq's future.
 ONCE AGAIN, MUCH of the key action took place after Biden returned home. The Iraqis remained deadlocked over the electoral law for weeks, with the election itself hanging in the balance. The stumbling block was Kirkuk: Barzani wanted to use the 2009 electoral rolls, reflecting the influx of Kurds. Arab leaders wanted to use data from 2004. The issue finally came to a head earlier this month. Biden was going back and forth on the phone between Maliki and Barzani, conducting what he calls his ''condensed, truncated version of shuttle diplomacy.'' Antony Blinken says Biden and his team ''were in contact in real time.'' Over the course of a very long weekend, Blinken told me wonderingly, ''different groups were caucusing, making quorums, going out of the room, coming up with new positions. It was democracy in action.'' And by Sunday evening, the Arabs and Kurds had reached a compromise. 
 And then, two weeks later, the compact was upended when Vice President Tariq al-Hashemi, a Sunni, surprised Americans and Iraqis alike by vetoing the electoral law over a provision that he felt would suppress Sunni representation in Iraq's Parliament. This was the same Vice President al-Hashemi who told me, during a conversation in his Baghdad office in September, that the Iraqi people were fed up with the politics of sectarian rivalry, and then declared that the coalition he was forming would advance ''a national agenda which is nonsectarian and nonethnic.'' It's not easy to leave behind deeply ingrained habits.
 Iraq is a long way from being a functioning democracy; it's a long way from being a functioning state. The danger of Kurdistan still looms. The country may well vindicate Biden's skepticism about America's ability to shape outcomes abroad. But some Iraqis give him credit for avoiding the mistakes of the past. ''This is exactly what the U.S. needs to be doing today -- helping us reach compromise, not dictating what the compromise should be,'' says Qubad Talabani, the Kurdish regional government's representative. ''It's a model for American engagement in Iraq today.'' Our experience in both Iraq and Afghanistan has offered painful proof that we cannot simply bring refractory states to heel, no matter how much force we bring to bear. We cannot dictate outcomes. We will have to be more patient, more humble and perhaps smarter than we have been. 
 Patient and humble are not words that come to mind when you think of Joe Biden; yet even his limitations may suit him for this new world. Biden is the one who knows many little things but no big thing. As gifted as he is at retail politics, he has none of Barack Obama's talent for the sweeping formulation or inspirational language, which perhaps explains why he has fared so poorly in presidential campaigns. Biden does not project even slightly in the realm of myth. But for this very reason, he is allergic to magical, wish-fulfillment thinking. ''Guys,'' he'll say -- this is how he describes addressing the Joint Chiefs of Staff -- ''what if it doesn't work?'' An administration full of youthful true believers, enraptured with their heroic leader, needs a skeptic and a scold. Obama may need one himself. And yet Biden is also, like Obama, an optimist. As vice presidents go, he has more in common with Hubert Humphrey, the happy warrior, than with dark Dick Cheney. He may well, as Tom Lehrer once sang of Humphrey, dream of staging a coup; but he is likely to remain happy as long as he has apple carts to overturn. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joe Biden at the Capitol Building. (pg.MM34)
THE MEDIATOR: So far, Biden has avoided the White House infighting that marked Cheney's tenure. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANTONIO BOLFO) (pg.MM37)
IN THE FIELD: Biden meeting in Baghdad with Gen. Raymond T. Odierno and Christopher Hill, the U.S. ambassador to Iraq. (pg.MM38)
''JOE, YOU DO IRAQ'': With Prime Minister al-Maliki. Obama has tasked Biden with brokering an agreement among Iraq's sects. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSEPH SYWENKYJ/REDUX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.MM39)
 POLITICAL ATHLETE: Despite the imposing foreign-policy portfolio he has assumed, Biden is at heart an old-time politician. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTONIO BOLFO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.MM41) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (93%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RAY ODIERNO (58%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



849 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke Warns of Risks In Push to Revamp the Fed

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The chairman of the Federal Reserve Board warned bluntly on Saturday that provisions in financial legislation before the House and Senate would ''seriously impair'' the Fed as it struggled to maintain financial and economic stability. 
 In a column published on The Washington Post's Web site and scheduled to appear on the op-ed page on Sunday, the chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, sharply criticized a Senate provision that he said ''would strip the Fed of all its bank regulatory powers'' and a House provision to repeal a 30-year-old law ''to protect monetary policy from short-term political influence.''
 The Federal Reserve's jurisdiction to regulate banks has come under increasing attack in Congress in recent months, reflecting the anger of voters at the huge taxpayer costs of the bailout of Wall Street. 
 Mr. Bernanke repeated, as he has many times before, that while some of the measures in response to the financial crisis were ''distasteful and unfair,'' they were necessary.
 The White House and senior Democratic lawmakers in both the House and the Senate have proposed eliminating the Fed's current role of setting the rules for products like mortgages and credit cards. Instead, officials have proposed a new federal consumer financial protection agency to both set and enforce rules over such products.
 The op-ed article was part of Mr. Bernanke's running campaign to preserve the Fed's powers and independence as the system of financial regulation is overhauled. In the past, it would have been unusual for a Fed chairman to make such pointed remarks in a public forum, but Mr. Bernanke has been more outspoken than most.
 ''Now more than ever, America needs a strong, nonpolitical and independent central bank with the tools to promote financial stability and to help steer our economy to recovery without inflation,'' he said.
 And when it comes to monetary policy, he said, ''independent does not mean unaccountable.'' He said the actions of the Fed were already thoroughly reviewed and needed to be protected from Congressional influence, ''which would undermine the confidence the public and the markets have in the Fed.''
 A House committee has already completed its first draft of the legislation, while a companion measure has been introduced in the Senate but not approved by a committee.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Bernanke, the chief of the Fed, aims to preserve its powers and independence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); APPROVALS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



850 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1726 words

HEADLINE: A Director Who Gives Business The Business

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
EVEN though Jason Reitman's last film, ''Juno,'' was nominated for a best picture Oscar and his forthcoming film, ''Up in the Air,'' is among the most buzzed about this year, you probably wouldn't notice this bearded young man walking by you in an airport. 
 It would be a good place to look, though.
 Mr. Reitman, a 32-year-old prone to hoodies and stocking caps, reeks normalcy in most ways but is something of an obsessive when it comes to airports. Although he has a young family and a home in Los Angeles, his directing career has made him a frequent flier with an exalted airline status. He can speak with impressive specificity about security, amenities and wait times at dozens of airports because he spends so much time living in them. 
 That intimate familiarity with the rhythms and aesthetics of modern air travel informs much of ''Up in the Air,'' which opens Friday in 12 cities in advance of a wide Christmas release. This Paramount film, written by Mr. Reitman and Sheldon Turner and based on the novel by Walter Kirn, tells the story of a man who spends much of his time aloft, toe touching only long enough to fire people on behalf of companies that are too cowardly to take care of their own nasty business. A pampered member of a winged elite, Ryan Bingham (George Clooney) finds everything he needs in his roll-on suitcase. A charming, rootless grim reaper, Ryan has little use for the human connections that complicate life and little in the way of empathy for the people he is relentlessly axing. Along the way he finds a female doppelganger, played by Vera Farmiga, who makes his stays at airport hotels all the more accommodating. 
 But the hermetic pleasantness of his existence is threatened when a young efficiency expert at the home office comes up with a plan to fire people remotely, using video chat. Mr. Clooney's character gradually awakens to the human consequences of his chosen path as professional downsizer. As in ''Juno'' and ''Thank You for Smoking,'' Mr. Reitman's other feature-length films, the dialogue comes rapidly, and the movie delivers plenty of dark humor, but the backdrop of mass layoffs and empty desks gives it a somber resonance as well. 
 In the course of writing and making the film the recession took hold just as Mr. Reitman and his wife began having children, which got him thinking about the homes and families torn apart by layoffs. The film, with its idealized depiction of air travel that leads to brutal consequences, suggests that while we can now go almost anywhere in a heartbeat, where exactly are we headed?
 When it comes time to talk about his movie, we meet quite naturally in an airport. As we walked through Terminal A at Newark Liberty International Airport (not one of his favorites, by the way) Mr. Reitman stopped at a gadget store and made the traveler's feral scan of the shelves in search of power for his iPhone. Although he had been in 15 cities in two weeks, he had nowhere to go on this day but offered to meet at an airport because I had a flight, and he likes airports just fine. Loves them, in fact.
 ''I'm very at home here. Look, I get to see a plane take off over your shoulders every few minutes, which is always exciting for me,'' he said, gesturing to the tarmac as we settle in to a booth at T.G.I. Friday's. ''It would be fine for me to sit down at the bar, approach anyone here and talk to them about stuff and learn about their lives. The rest of the world turns off, no one expects anything of you, and I talk to strangers, I learn about lives I would never otherwise know about.''
 That may sound a bit affected, a postmodern accommodation of a peripatetic existence, but Mr. Reitman looks at home in the booth even though he grew up in and around Los Angeles as the son of the Hollywood director and producer Ivan Reitman, who is a producer on the film and whose company put up half of the $25 million budget. 
 ''All the airports kind of feel and look the same now,'' Mr. Reitman said, grabbing one of the small burgers in the middle of the table. ''Some are more beautiful, some are less beautiful, but for the most part you're going to find a Starbucks in every airport. You're going to get your coffee and the USA Today or New York Times in every airport. All the things that you want are there, so you can land anywhere, and you feel at home. You're given the sense that you're everywhere, but you're nowhere; that you are constantly with your community, yet you have no community. There's kind of a terrific irony to that.''
 It is a short metaphorical walk, Mr. Reitman suggests, from the temporary bonhomie of airports to the social networks proliferating through our wired society.
 ''Technology works the same way. Things like Facebook have made you feel as though you're connected to everybody,'' he said, indicating his iPhone. ''You've got a thousand friends on Facebook, but you don't actually talk to anybody. You're not close to anybody.''
 This lack of attachment, both physical and emotional, frees Mr. Clooney's character and imprisons him at the same time. His chosen path of piling up the miles while missing connections with his fellow humans comes in for scrutiny when his boss in Omaha (played by Jason Bateman, who also starred in ''Juno'') becomes impressed by a fresh-out-of-college innovator inhabited by Anna Kendrick. She officiously argues that it's much more cost effective to ship the outplacement brochures to each location and ruin people's life remotely. She is sent on the road with Mr. Clooney's character to be schooled in the face-to-face process even as she argues for its obsolescence. With his black belt in both travel and dismissals -- her newbie status at both is the source of high jinks -- he teaches her never to check luggage and to tell the freshly disenfranchised, ''Everything you need to know is in the brochure.''
 That last piece of advice is, of course, a lie, something that becomes clear in the reaction shots of the people whose lives are being fundamentally altered. By the time the script was finished and shooting was being set, Mr. Reitman realized that job loss, merely a motif in the script, was something he had to come at more directly. He decided to hold an open casting call for the recently fired in St. Louis and Detroit. Kevin Pilla, a father of four from St. Louis, was cast after he received an untenable relocation offer from his employer, an electronics distribution company.
 ''It gave me a chance to relive the moment and say all of the things that I wanted to say at the time,'' Mr. Pilla said. He did not move and now has a job, but it took 19 brutal months, a kind of rolling agony that is etched into the performances of the nonactors who are part of the film.
 ''The second they heard the language of firing, you could just see it,'' Mr. Reitman said. ''Their eyes would turn, their posture would change, their face would go sallow. One girl broke into hives. It just happened, and they would be in the moment.''
 ''Some people were angry; some people were really sad; some people just had questions, were looking for answers,'' he continued. ''The scariest thing, the saddest thing, it wasn't that they didn't have money. No one complained about that. The harder thing was, people said unanimously, across the board: 'I don't know what I'm supposed to do. I don't know where I'm supposed to go from here. When I leave this interview, I get in my car, I don't know where I need to be.' That for me is a devastating idea, and the closest thing to what George's character was going through.''
 Mr. Reitman originally did not plan to turn Mr. Kirn's novel into a movie; he had urged his father to buy the rights. But after several stalled attempts to develop it, Ivan Reitman turned to his son. 
 ''Jason is always watching all the time and has a gift for dialogue as a writer and a director that is pretty rare,'' the elder Mr. Reitman said. ''And he has a moral compass about how people are treated that worked very well in this film.''
 His son took Mr. Kirn's idea of a man who lived in an airline seat -- ''I'm from here,'' he says cheerfully to a query from a fellow passenger -- and wrote several new story lines, including a romance of equals with Ms. Farmiga's character. In a hotel lobby bar, naturally, they meet cute and begin comparing club cards and membership privileges until they casually hook up, which may be the ultimate amenity of travel. But Mr. Clooney's character finds himself pining for something more from his fellow road warrior and takes her to the wedding of a family member. It looks as if a movie-magic hug is nigh, but that is not how Mr. Reitman works. 
 ''Jason is not somebody who is going to give you the same old tidy ending,'' Ms. Farmiga said. ''And as an actor, it is much more surprising and invigorating to work on a film like this.''
 Mr. Reitman's ability to render imperfect people in watchable ways is not lost on fellow directors. 
 ''This movie is funny and sad, a very personal kind of work that is not very common,'' said Judd Apatow, the director and producer (''Knocked Up,''''Funny People'') who is a friend of Mr. Reitman. ''It's full of people who are not doing the right thing most of the time, and even though they are a mess, we find them human and relatable.''
 In an e-mail message from Italy Mr. Clooney said that Mr. Reitman was one of the best directors he's worked with, on the level of the Coen brothers or Steven Soderbergh. ''And with each film he gets better,'' he wrote. ''He's nice. He's smart. He's accomplished. I hate him.'' 
 Despite his upbringing and his professional accolades, Mr. Reitman has little concern for status. (''Jason is the kind of guy who is happy to meet at the old taco stand around the corner from the fancy restaurant,'' said Eric Steelberg, a high school friend and the director of photography on this film and ''Juno.'')
 Except when it comes to airline travel. He once flew from Los Angeles to Chicago to pick up a pizza and, not so coincidently, to maintain his status on United Airlines. I mention that the flight I'm about to take will earn me a gold card on Continental. 
 ''I'm very proud of you,'' he said, offering a fist bump, but he can't resist a bit of comparison. ''I'm at a level on United that is invite-only. It's called Global Services.''
 Yes, he's from here.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jason Reitman, director of ''Up in the Air'': the frequent flier was on a visit to New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.AR1)
The director Jason Reitman, above, on the set of ''Up in the Air,'' starring, right, Anna Kendrick and George Clooney. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DALE ROBINETTE/PARAMOUNT PICTURES)
The work of Jason Reitman, from left above: Aaron Eckhart in ''Thank You for Smoking,'' Michael Cera and Ellen Page in ''Juno,'' and Vera Farmiga and George Clooney in ''Up in the Air.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DALE ROBINETTE/FOX SEARCHLIGHT PICTURES
DALE ROBINETTE/PARAMOUNT PICTURES
 DOANE GREGORY/FOX SEARCHLIGHT PICTURES) (pg.AR10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); FAMILY (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Up in the Air (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



851 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Stage Right Nov. 22-28

 BODY:
THE NEWS A spokesman for Lou Dobbs, the former cable news host known for his tough-talking immigration politics, said Mr. Dobbs was considering challenging Senator Robert Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat and the chamber's only Hispanic member. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS After Mr. Dobbs abruptly resigned from CNN on Nov. 11 rather than put aside his political views while on the air, rumors began that he would try to capitalize on recent Republican gains with a run for the Senate (or even the White House). But party officials in New Jersey worried that he would be a one-note candidate.
THE NEWS With at least 469,000 copies sold in its first week of release, ''Going Rogue,'' the memoir by Sarah Palin, the former governor of Alaska and John McCain's running mate in 2008, was the nation's best-selling book, according to Nielsen BookScan.
 BEHIND THE NEWSThousands turned out for her book tour, which had many of the trappings of a campaign swing as it took her to parts of the country where she and Senator McCain did well on the ballot last year. The book was also the object of a price war, marked down from its $28.99 list price to $9 or less online in some places. 
 THE NEWS A group of conservative Republicans is proposing a 10-point checklist for candidates to gauge adherence to core principles like opposing government financing for abortion and President Obama's ''socialist agenda.''
 BEHIND THE NEWS The plan calls for withholding campaign money and endorsements from candidates who do not adhere to at least eight of the principles on the checklist. The idea was embraced by Dick Armey, above, the former Republican House majority leader, who has helped organize much of the protest against Mr. Obama's agenda through his group, FreedomWorks.
 THE NEWSGlenn Beck, the popular host on cable news and talk radio, said he would sponsor voter registration drives and seven ''conventions'' around the country to organize his right-wing fans into a political movement.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Mr. Beck, who is promoting a new book and has promised another one in August, said his efforts were meant to help his fans ''sharpen their teeth'' in politics but that he would not endorse candidates for office. ''America, we cannot wait for a leader any more,'' Mr. Beck told his audience on Monday. ''The people must lead, and the leader will follow.''
 THE NEWS Leaders of the Democratic majority in the New Jersey State Legislature failed to schedule a vote for a bill to legalize same-sex marriage that had been widely expected to pass easily. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS Polls show broad support for the bill. But Democrats said they feared riling up the conservatives whose support helped Christopher J. Christie unseat the Democratic governor, Jon S. Corzine, on Nov. 3, especially at a time when economic troubles, not social issues, were uppermost in voters' minds. Mr. Corzine, who backs the bill, leaves office Jan. 19; Mr. Christie has said he would veto it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); BESTSELLERS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); GOVERNORS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); SPONSORSHIP (66%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); MARRIAGE (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%)

PERSON: BOB MENENDEZ (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



852 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Dangers of an Overheated China

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S recent trip to China reflects a symbiotic relationship at the heart of the global economy: China uses American spending power to enlarge its private sector, while America uses Chinese lending power to expand its public sector. Yet this arrangement may unravel in a dangerous way, and if it does, the most likely culprit will be Chinese economic overcapacity.
 Several hundred million Chinese peasants have moved from the countryside to the cities over the last 30 years, in one of the largest, most rapid migrations in history. 
 To help make this work, the Chinese government has subsidized its exporters by pegging the renminbi at an unnaturally low rate to the dollar. This has supported relatively high-paying export jobs; additional subsidies have included direct credit allocation and preferential treatment for coastal enterprises. 
 These aren't the recommended policies you would find in a basic economics text, but it's hard to argue with success. Most important, it has given many more Chinese a stake in the future of their society.
 Those same subsidies, however, have spurred excess capacity and created a dangerous political dynamic in which these investments have to be propped up at all cost.
 China has been building factories and production capacity in virtually every sector of its economy, but it's not clear that the latest round of investments will be profitable anytime soon. Automobiles, steel, semiconductors, cement, aluminum and real estate all show signs of too much capacity. In Shanghai, the central business district appears to have high vacancy rates, yet building continues. 
 Chinese planners now talk of the need to restrict investment in sectors that are overflowing with unsold products. The global market is no longer strong, and domestic demand was never enough in the first place.
 Regional officials have an incentive to prop up local enterprises and production statistics, even if that means supporting projects or accounting practices that are not sustainable. For an individual business, the standard way to get more capital resources is to put forward a plan for growth. Because few sectors are mature, and growth has been so widespread, everyone can promise to be profitable in the future.
 Over all, there is a lack of transparency. China's statistics on its gross domestic product are based more on recorded production activity than on what is actually sold. Chinese fiscal and credit policies are geared toward jobs and political stability, and thus the authorities shy away from revealing which projects are most troubled or should be canceled. 
 Put all of this together and there is a very real possibility of trouble.
 China has had a 30-year run of stellar economic growth. But it's only human nature for such expansion to breed too much optimism, overextending an entire economy. Americans have found this out the hard way in their own financial crisis. 
 History has shown that no major economy has grown into maturity without bubbles, crises and possibly even civil strife or civil wars along the way. Is China exempt from this broader pattern? 
 The notions of excess capacity and malinvestment were common in business-cycle theory of the 19th and early 20th centuries, when growing Western economies had frequent crashes of this kind. Numerous writers, from the Rev. Thomas Malthus to the Austrian economist Friedrich A. von Hayek, warned about the overextension of unprofitable capital deployments and the pain from the inevitable crashes. These writers may well end up being a guide for understanding China today. 
 What will the consequences be for the United States if and when the Chinese economic miracle encounters a major stumble? A lot of Chinese business ventures will stop being profitable, and layoffs and unrest will most likely rise. The Chinese government may crack down further on dissent. The Chinese public may wonder whether its future lies with capitalism after all, and foreign investors in China will become more nervous.
 In economic terms, the prices of Chinese exports will probably fall, as overextended businesses compete to justify their capital investments and recoup their losses. American businesses will find it harder to compete with Chinese companies, and there will be deflationary pressures in both countries. And even if the Chinese are selling more at lower prices, they may be taking in less money over all, so they may have less to lend to the United States government.
 In any case, China may end up using more of its reserve funds to address domestic problems or placate domestic interest groups. The United States will face higher borrowing costs, and its fiscal position may very quickly become unsustainable. 
 That's not so much a prediction as a very possible contingency, and we should be prepared for it. For now, we should avoid two big mistakes. The first would be to assume that just because borrowing costs are now low, we can postpone fiscal responsibility and keep running up the tab -- with the aid of Chinese lending, of course. The history of financial crises shows that turning points can come swiftly and without much warning.
 The second mistake would be to demand too many concessions from the Chinese. What we see in the numbers today are a growing China and a somewhat ailing America. Yet there's a real chance that, soon enough, Chinese economic weakness will be a bigger problem than was Chinese economic strength. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); FINANCING ROUNDS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009



853 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Stressing the Web, 'NewsHour' Begins an Overhaul

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH JENSEN

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va. 

 BODY:
Until recently, the employees who worked on the Web site of ''The NewsHour With Jim Lehrer'' on PBS were based in a building a brisk five-minute walk through city traffic from their on-air colleagues. The Web and television staffs interacted only at Mr. Lehrer's annual holiday party. ''They were all the recognizably young ones,'' said Linda Winslow, the show's executive producer. 
 But in early November, the staffs were merged into a single 20-person bullpen, with four adjacent digital editing bays carved from what had been the correspondent Gwen Ifill's office. 
 Four days after the move, a gunman killed 13 people and wounded 43 others in a rampage at the Fort HoodArmy post in Texas. As word spread, the digital employees were silent, to the bafflement of some of the TV producers, who had jumped for the telephones. 
 It turned out they were exchanging Twitter messages with the Army and a member of Congress. ''We learned so much just having them in the room,'' Ms. Winslow said.
 It has been a tough 19 months for ''NewsHour'' as it has dealt with a severe budget shortfall as well as the prolonged absence of Mr. Lehrer last year, after an emergency aortic valve replacement. But Mr. Lehrer returned reinvigorated. Instead of stepping down, as some had expected, he pushed for what has been the program's biggest overhaul since 1995, when Robert MacNeil retired as the co-anchor. And PBS hopes the changes will attract new audiences, whether on air or online. 
 Beginning Dec. 7, Mr. Lehrer's name will not be on the program, for the first time since 1976. Instead it is being renamed ''PBS NewsHour,'' which prompted a new streamlined logo and graphics. Mr. Lehrer will have a regular co-anchor; on the first program it will be Ms. Ifill, but Judy Woodruff and Jeffrey Brown are in the rotation. A new correspondent, Hari Sreenivasan, formerly of CBS News, will begin reading a news summary each night. 
 A redone Web site will go up Thursday. It will be easier to find Mr. Brown's popular but often hidden Art Beat blog. Ms. Woodruff and Ms. Ifill, along with much of the rest of the staff, will begin contributing to a news analysis blog, as well. Mr. Sreenivasan, once he settles in, will anchor regular video news updates on the site, which will also feature extended interview material not used on the air. 
 All the show's content will be more easily adaptable to various digital outlets, including, eventually, an iPhone app, said Simon Marks, the show's new associate executive producer. 
 The challenge, Mr. Lehrer said in an interview in his office, is ''to find a way to make it all seamless.'' 
 For years, Mr. Lehrer ran the program, which is owned by MacNeil Lehrer Productions (itself partly owned by the Liberty Media Corporation), with a strong hand, or as he calls it, a ''Quaker monarchy system: Try to arrive at a consensus and if you can't, I decide.'' So if the show has been slow to embrace change, the 75-year-old Mr. Lehrer was one reason. But now he has become an adamant proponent of change. 
 Last January, he asked Ms. Winslow and Mr. Marks to recommend changes. For three weeks they plotted at Ms. Winslow's kitchen table and on Jan. 23 came back with a list, including making the opening of the program livelier with the addition of more sound bites and images. Mr. Lehrer liked the idea so much that he insisted it be instituted that very night, Mr. Marks said.
 Already the show has picked up its pace, although by commercial standards it is hardly noticeable; some of the lengthy segments and in-studio interviews have been shaved by a couple of minutes. And now, if a story breaks late, there's more effort to pursue it immediately for use on the air or online ''rather than wait until tomorrow,'' Mr. Lehrer said. 
 The correspondents Margaret Warner and Ray Suarez are now in the field more often. A new partnership with the online start-up GlobalPost is expected to be announced Monday; the site, which has built a staff of freelance contributors worldwide, will produce one piece a week for ''NewsHour,'' and possibly contribute to breaking news. The move is a way to extend the international coverage of ''NewsHour'' at a time of pinched financial resources. 
 With almost no current overlap between the show's Web and TV audiences, ''NewsHour'' executives see significant potential in the reorganization. Whether it is because of the pending changes or an improving economy, the show has recently attracted several million dollars more in corporate financing -- including Bank of America underwriting to be announced Monday -- helping to offset its budget deficit. ''We're not out of the woods yet, but we're in pretty good shape,'' said Rob Flynn, vice president for communications and marketing for the production company.
 The news and public affairs lineup on PBS is undergoing a broader overhaul, as well. 
 ''Nightly Business Report'' will have a new anchor in the new year -- whose name has yet to be announced -- to succeed Paul Kangas, who is retiring. Bill Moyers is ending his weekly Friday show at the end of April, and PBS canceled the companion ''Now on PBS,'' which was having trouble raising production funds.
 Replacement shows are expected to be unveiled in January, and executives have been trying to work out a plan for a digital portal that would bring together a number of PBS programs, ''making it easier for the audience to connect the dots,'' said John Wilson, PBS's chief programming executive. 
 For the moment, Mr. Lehrer, who reluctantly gave up his manual typewriter when the show moved to computers, is drawing the line at one digital update. Asked if he planned to use Twitter, he exclaimed, ''Are you crazy?'' Then he relented, adding, ''I will never say no.'' 
 But for now, ''my emphasis is going to remain on the journalism,'' he said. ''I'm a lot better qualified to make editorial decisions.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An editorial meeting at ''NewsHour.'' From left, Mike Mosettig, Anne Strother, George Griffin, Murrey Jacobson, Michael Melia, Judy Woodruff and Margaret Warner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL TEMCHINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); WEB SITES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (68%); NEWS BRIEFS (61%); BUDGETS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



854 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: As Sales Vanish, Alligator Skins Stay on Gators

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

DATELINE: RACELAND, La. 

 BODY:
After five years, Tommy Fletcher and his alligator farming business are facing irreconcilable differences.
 ''It's like a marriage,'' he said. ''It was a bumpy road, and then all of a sudden it was over.''
 The alligator industry makes for an odd mix of hardy men on the bayou who smoke Camels and drive crumbling pickup trucks, and Paris and New York fashion setters who consider it reasonable to spend $12,000 on an alligator-strap watch. 
 This peculiar relationship worked well enough for decades, but it has soured as of late. Last year Louisiana farmers, who produce most of the world's alligator skins, collected over 500,000 eggs from the wild. This year, for the first time, most farmers did not pick up any.
 The economy is the lead culprit. Since the fall of 2008, even wealthy customers have begun balking at the price of alligator skin products, which can range from the expensive to the wildly expensive. Bumper crops in previous years, people in the industry say, left an oversupply just as the luxury market began to falter.
 But some farmers insist that the newfound frugality of the Gucci set cannot by itself explain the absolute washout of the alligator business. More than a few are beginning to blame the practices of executives in the European fashion business.
 ''How can this industry fall out so quickly?'' Stephen Bonnecarrere asked while tossing live alligators into bins at his father-in-law's farm outside Houma. ''It happened too fast.'' 
 Since the 1980s, the State Department of Wildlife and Fisheries has worked with farmers to maintain the state's alligator population, estimated at one million to two million.
 Alligator farming is hard, messy, costly work, and the lifestyle could not be further from that of the eventual Bergdorf Goodman shopper browsing for a pair of alligator skin loafers. Farmers, often in father-son teams, mark alligator nesting sites from helicopters, then go into the swamps by boat to gather the eggs, fending off mama gators with a pole. (By law, 12 percent of the grown alligators are returned to the wild.)
 The landowners are paid for the eggs, and it is expensive to raise an alligator once hatched. The big ones -- those that could end up as lavender handbags -- tend to bite one another, making the skins worthless. So roughly 9 of 10 alligators reach their demise when they are only about four feet long. 
 Stolid men wade into shallow tanks and pull the alligators out by hand. Biting happens. After the gators are killed with a stab to the brain, they are skinned and sorted: heads and claws for the French Quarter souvenir shops, meat for the Cajun restaurants, guts for turtles, dogs or anything else whose tastes run that way. 
 For decades, the skins would be sold to 10 or 15 independent, often family-owned tanneries around the world that specialized in reptile skin, or so-called exotics. The prices were generally good, even generous. Some farmers, the ones that ran big operations, made millions of dollars.
 The tanneries in turn would sell to the high-end fashion houses like Cartier, Hermes and Gucci, and from there the alligator would end up wrapped around someone's wrist.
 But things changed. In the mid 1990s, Hermes began buying tanneries and, as of a couple of years ago, became the largest player in the exotic tannery business. 
 Hermes bought aggressively from the farmers, and is still buying, though recently at prices far lower than in the past and lower even than the price of raising an alligator. All of this could be attributed to a very bad market. Luxury watch sales, on which the farmers are hugely dependent, are off by as much as 25 percent. But farmers look at the situation and say something does not add up.
 While the tanneries are offering farmers little for their raw product, citing the recession, fashion houses are complaining about the astronomical prices for tanned hides. Many labels are giving up and moving away from alligator altogether, and well-known luxury brands like Manolo Blahnik say it is increasingly difficult to make a profit on such an expensive product.
 ''Every time I go to Neiman Marcus and say every year the price is going up, they fight me tooth and nail,'' said George D. Malkemus III, the president of Manolo Blahnik. ''They say, 'I'm not going to spend $4,000 for an alligator shoe.' ''
 If alligator is still popular but is simply unaffordable, asked Zachary Casey, who until three years ago owned one of the largest farms in the state, why are thousands of the reptiles sitting unwanted in Louisiana? And why have prices for the raw product dropped so low? He says Hermes is hoarding the skins, forcing other fashion houses to pay dearly and leaving the farmers with few other options.
 Caroline Schwartz-Mailhe, a spokeswoman for Hermes, said in an e-mail message that the company bought only about a third of the skins produced in Florida, Georgia and Louisiana, far from a monopoly. Ms. Schwartz-Mailhe added that the continued aggressive buying from farmers was a way ''to support them in these difficult times and to respond to Hermes' increasing development in alligator skins.''
 Recent signs suggest that the luxury market is rebounding, at least somewhat. But some of the smaller farms simply will not make it.
 Mr. Fletcher has been losing $15,000 a month on his little farm off the highway here near Raceland, about 50 miles southwest of New Orleans. He found a python and a loggerhead turtle and is considering opening a roadside zoo for tourists. But the plan of making it big in alligators, which once seemed like a good idea, has left him heavily in debt.
 ''I guess it's like being married to Miss America,'' Mr. Fletcher said. ''You get all the benefits of the hugs and kisses, but she's mighty high maintenance.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alligators are raised and skinned on a farm near Houma, La., soon to be high-end handbags.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (90%); WILDLIFE (89%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (89%); MISC ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (73%); SMOKING (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); RESTAURANTS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%); HELICOPTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



855 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Shoppers Showed Up, But Spent On Bargains

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
More consumers flooded the nation's stores on Thanksgiving weekend in search of bargains. But with retailers dangling rock-bottom prices and consumers only biting at less expensive merchandise like small appliances and winter clothes, the average amount spent by each shopper declined from last year.
 Some 195 million consumers visited stores and Web sites over the weekend, up from 172 million last year, according to the National Retail Federation, the trade group that reported sales results on Sunday afternoon. Average spending over the weekend, however, fell to $343.31 a person, from $372.57 a year ago. Total spending was $41.2 billion -- about the same as last year. 
 ''While retailers are encouraged by the number of Americans who shopped over Black Friday weekend, they know they have their work cut out for them to keep people coming back through Christmas,'' Tracy Mullin, president and chief executive of the federation, said in a statement. ''Shoppers can continue to expect retailers to focus on low prices and bargains through the end of December.''
 One report, from ShopperTrak, a consulting and research firm, showed spending on Friday alone ticked up 0.5 percent compared with last year, to $10.66 billion. A more complete picture of the first half of the Christmas season will not emerge until Thursday, when the nation's chains report their November sales.
 According to a survey to be published this week by the market research firm NPD Group, deeply discounted, limited quantity merchandise -- known as doorbusters -- was essential in luring consumers to stores over the weekend. 
 Most people shopped on Friday because they saw an advertisement for a deal that was too good to pass up or because they feared a chain would run out of an item they wanted, said Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst for the NPD Group, which studied shopping behavior over Thanksgiving weekend. On a quest for value and one-stop shopping, a majority of consumers bought at big discount chains like Wal-Mart, spending $50 to $99.99 each.
 The good news for retailers was that consumers opened their wallets for some discretionary items, albeit cheap ones. Shoppers not only bought gifts, but also took advantage of low prices to replace old household sundries, like irons, toasters and sheets. The NPD Group found that pent-up demand led some 63.8 percent of consumers to shop for themselves over the weekend.
 Consumers began looking for discounts early, with more of them visiting stores this year before dawn. An estimated 31.2 percent of shoppers were at stores by 5 a.m., compared with 23.3 percent who were at stores by that time last year, according to the federation's survey, which was conducted by BIGresearch.
 ''During a more robust economy, people may be inclined to hit the snooze button on Black Friday,'' Phil Rist, executive vice president for strategic initiatives at BIGresearch, said in the federation's statement, ''but high unemployment and a focus on price caused shoppers to visit stores early in anticipation of the best deals.''
 The National Retail Federation said shoppers' destination of choice appeared to be department stores, with almost half of holiday shoppers visiting at least one, a nearly 13 percent increase from last year. Discount retailers were also top choices, attracting some 43.2 percent of shoppers. 
 As for online sales, comScore, the Internet research company, said retail e-commerce spending for the first 27 days of the holiday season, this year Nov. 1 to 27, rose 3 percent, to $10.57 billion, compared with the period last year. Online sales on Friday were $595 million, up 11 percent from last year.
 The most popular purchases of the weekend were clothing and books, according to the federation. And many more consumers bought toys, up nearly 13 percent from last year. More shoppers also bought sporting goods, beauty items and gift cards. The NPD Group said its research showed the three hottest categories to be electronics, clothing and movies.
 Although the Friday after Thanksgiving is typically a busy day, a big turnout does not necessarily translate into significant profits or indicate how consumers will shop for the rest of the year. Last year, retailers posted the worst sales figures in decades. This year, sales are expected to be about the same as last Christmas.
 Retailers forecast more action on Monday, known as Cyber Monday, when they offer alluring deals on their Web sites -- the digital equivalent of Black Friday. The National Retail Federation said the number of consumers who planned to shop online on Monday rose to 96.5 million, up from 85 million last year. Some 87.1 percent of retailers will have a special promotion for the day, up from 83.7 percent last year. And in a change from years past, most consumers say they will shop from home instead of their offices. That is partly because more Americans now have high-speed Internet access at home. But it is also a sign of the times.
 ''While many companies don't mind employees shopping online over their lunch hours,'' Mr. Rist of BIGresearch said, ''high unemployment and concerns over job security may cause more people to shop this Cyber Monday from the comforts of their own home.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Weekend Shopping: Surveys of Thanksgiving weekend shoppers found more people spending less, leaving total sales about the same as last year. Many shoppers said they were concerned about items being sold out. (Sources: NPD Group (reasons for buying)
 National Retail Federation (other data)) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



856 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE ROAD TO COPENHAGEN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1542 words

HEADLINE: Tree Harvester Offers to Save Indonesian Forest

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: TELUK MERANTI, Indonesia 

 BODY:
From the air, the Kampar Peninsula in Indonesia stretches for mile after mile in dense scrub and trees. One of the world's largest peat swamp forests, it is also one of its biggest vaults of carbon dioxide, a source of potentially lucrative currency as world governments struggle to hammer out a global climate treaty. The vault, though, is leaking.
 Canals -- used legally and illegally -- extend from surrounding rivers nearly into the peninsula's impenetrable core. By slowly draining and drying the peat land, they are releasing carbon dioxide, contributing to making Indonesia the world's third biggest emitter of greenhouse gases, after China and the United States.
 The leaks were evident to a family of fishermen from this village, just south of the peninsula, as they paddled up a creek in a dugout canoe. 
 ''I can tell the peat land's leaking because the water here is getting browner and more acidic,'' said Amiruddin, 31, who like many Indonesians uses only one name, as his wife, Delima, 29, scooped up the creek's coffee-colored water to drink.
 Forests like the one on the Kampar Peninsula are at the center of a growing battle over the shape of a new climate treaty and efforts to curb the destruction and degradation of forests. Though countries are expected to reach only a broad agreement at next month's summit meeting in Copenhagen, governments, scientists, businesses and environmentalists are already arguing over what kinds of forests should qualify as carbon reducers and what kinds of projects should be rewarded financially.
 The arguments over the Kampar have become particularly heated, not just because of its ecological importance, but because, so far, the most detailed plan to stop the leaks from the peat land comes from an unlikely source: a giant paper and pulp company that, according to its critics, has been one of the driving forces of deforestation in Indonesia. The company, Asia Pacific Resources International Limited, or April, says it wants to create a ring of industrial tree plantations around the peninsula's core to preserve it.
 What is more, it hopes to receive carbon credits for doing so under a United Nations program to reward nations for conserving forests and reforesting degraded ones. The program, Reducing Emissions From Deforestation and Forest Degradation, or REDD, is expected to be part of a new climate treaty. Unlike the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, a new treaty is expected to tackle deforestation, which alone accounts for 20 percent of the world's greenhouse gas emissions. Halting deforestation in tropical forest nations like Indonesia and Brazil, the world's fourth biggest emitter, is considered crucial to reining in global warming.
 Developing nations that preserve forests would be paid with carbon credits that they could sell to industrialized nations seeking to meet emissions reduction targets. Though the program's specifics will probably take months or years to be worked out, more than a dozen projects of the United Nations program are already under way in Indonesia, backed by such diverse entities as conservation groups, the Australian government and Merrill Lynch, in addition to paper and pulp companies.
 Environmental groups say the paper and pulp companies, after years of despoiling Indonesia, should not be rewarded under the program.
 ''They are the ones that did the damage,'' said Michael Stuewe, an expert on Indonesia at the World Wildlife Fund. ''Now they're saying: 'We were bad boys. Now we're good. So give us the money.' ''
 The companies argue that the United Nations program could provide them with the financial incentives to preserve forests even as they expand their operations, a goal supported by the Indonesian government, which sees the paper and pulp industry as a mainstay of the country's economic development. 
 ''We could perhaps reduce the annual Indonesian emissions by 5 percent with this one project,'' said Jouko Virta, April's president of global fiber supply, referring to the company's plan to ring the peninsula's core. ''It's so significant. One project.''
 Everyone agrees, at least, on the importance of saving the Kampar Peninsula, a nearly one-million-acre peat bog on the equator inhabited by Sumatran tigers, bears, monkeys, crocodiles and other wildlife.
 Most of the peninsula remains free of humans, though small fishing camps can be found up its creeks. More significantly, illegal loggers can be seen operating in bases set up along some canals and creeks. And east of here, near a village called Pulau Muda, more than a dozen houses flank a long canal jutting into the peninsula, in what appears to be the biggest human settlement on the Kampar.
 Made up of decomposed trees and plants, sometimes as deep as 50 feet, the waterlogged land stores billions of tons of carbon dioxide. But once drained or cleared, the peat land releases many times more carbon dioxide than the deforestation of rain forests. Most experts believe that, as with rain forests, the protection of peat swamp forests will be eligible for carbon credits under the United Nations program.
 The Kampar Peninsula is one of the last tracts of green left in central Sumatra, where forests have been cleared to make way for palm oil plantations and industrial tree plantations, especially those belonging to April and its chief rival, Asia Pulp and Paper, both owned by Indonesian conglomerates. According to the World Wildlife Fund, here in Riau, the province where the two companies have their main mills and plantations, two-thirds of the area's forests have disappeared in the past quarter century.
 Illegal loggers have also clear-cut vast chunks of forest. Migrants often slash and burn land for farming, sometimes inside national parks; like people elsewhere in Indonesia, they are often encouraged by local governments seeking to populate areas for economic or political reasons, in defiance of officials from the understaffed Forestry Ministry.
 April, which, with its partners, has government-issued concessions across a third of Kampar, says its ring of acacia plantations around the core will block off any such encroachment, though it says it needs to acquire more land to complete the circle. On plantations already in operation, the company uses a sophisticated network of canals and dams that minimizes leakage from the peat land, environmental groups acknowledge.
 If April acquired control over the core, it could be paid for protecting it. The company says it believes that it can be, at the very least, rewarded for the ring, about half of which would be turned into acacia plantations and half left as natural forests or what it calls ''conservation areas.''
 ''The carbon we are storing in the conservation areas could be financed through REDD,'' Mr. Virta said in an interview at April's 4,300-acre mill, about two hours west of here by car.
 Agus Purnomo, who leads the government's National Council on Climate Change, said it would take months or years of negotiations after next month's climate conference to determine whether April's ring would be entitled to carbon credits.
 Much will depend on whether an agreement includes stipulations against the conversion of natural forests into industrial tree plantations. Indonesia, like other countries with paper and pulp industries, counts industrial tree plantations as forests. 
 Environmental groups caution against any project of the United Nations program involving the conversion of natural forests into industrial tree plantations. Bill Barclay, policy director at the Rainforest Action Network, said the priority in Indonesia should be to ''halt further conversion of natural forests'' and ''further draining of peat lands.''
 But that kind of argument finds little traction in a nation with an economy that is still developing.
 Mr. Purnomo, of the country's climate change council, said government officials were worried that Indonesia's ranking as the world's third biggest emitter of greenhouse gases would increase pressure to reduce emissions.
 ''Are we going to remain underdeveloped because of that?'' he asked.
 Since starting operations on a new concession near here in September, April has brought jobs to Teluk Meranti. As part of its community outreach, it has brought a new generator to increase the supply of electricity and construction material to renovate two mosques. Still, Teluk Meranti had yet to buy April's vision of the future. Villagers remained overwhelmingly opposed to the company's presence here, opponents and supporters of the company said.
 ''We don't know what we'll get,'' said Firdaus, a 39-year-old man operating a makeshift convenience store. ''What rights do we have?''
 He was unaware of April's ring project. But, yes, he had heard of the importance of peat from environmental groups. ''We were told,'' he said, ''to protect the peat for the climate.''
 The Road to Copenhagen: This article is part of a series about issues that will face world leaders when they meet in Copenhagen in December to forge a new global accord on climate change. Other articles will look at developing countries already affected by climate change, the potential costs of an international agreement, the history of global climate accords and other topics. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Amiruddin, a fisherman and local resident, left, suspected that peat land has been leaking because of a change in the water's color.(A1)
Peat land, once it is either drained or cleared, can release large amounts of carbon dioxide.
 The plantations of Asia Pacific Resources International Limited, which has a plan to preserve a forested peninsula's core.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEMAL JUFRI/IMAJI, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A4) MAP: Maps details Teluk Meranti, Indonesia.(A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); DEFORESTATION (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); LAND DEGRADATION (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); REFORESTATION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); RAIN FORESTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); CARBON OFFSETS (77%); CLIMATOLOGY (76%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); PULP MILLS (50%)

COMPANY: ASIA PACIFIC RESOURCES INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LTD (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (95%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



857 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: Arab Emirates Move to Limit Crisis in Dubai

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and GRAHAM BOWLEY; Andrew E. Kramer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Trying to prevent a run on its banks and stem financial turmoil that some fear could spread globally, the United Arab Emirates helped calm markets Monday by pledging to lend money to banks operating in Dubai. But the action comes amid concerns about excessive borrowing around the world.
 The move by the group's central bank was an attempt to head off the kind of crisis of confidence that froze credit markets last year and brought the global economy to the brink of failure, threatening everyone from hedge fund billionaires to retirees who had their savings in supposedly safe investments.
Central bankers and government officials around the world were watching Monday's stock markets closely for signs that fears are spreading or are being contained. Asian markets closed up about 3 percent while European markets were down by less than 1 percent in late-day trading.
 Last week, investors fled the stocks of banks with outstanding loans to the tiny emirate and its investment arm, Dubai World. Now, analysts will be watching to see whether investors desert other highly indebted companies. 
 While Dubai is not big enough to set off financial repercussions outside the Middle East, the main fear is that investors could flee risky markets all at once in search of safer havens for their money. As in September 2008, when the failure of Lehman Brothers heightened worries about all financial institutions, they might pull back, regardless of the markets' strength.
 Those fears were allayed only after the United States announced a huge bank bailout and began guaranteeing a variety of borrowing that slowly helped credit markets begin functioning again. That many of these measures remain in place could help contain any problems from Dubai now.
 But while the United Arab Emirates federation is following a similar strategy, albeit on a smaller scale, analysts expressed concern that the promise of added funds to support Dubai banks might not be enough to keep anxiety from jumping to other countries and institutions.
 Indeed, an analysis from Goldman Sachs on Sunday said that the failure of federation authorities to provide a blanket guarantee for all of Dubai's debt showed that governments worldwide were less willing to bail out overextended companies and their investors. 
 ''This episode represents a timely reminder that emergency public funding support should not be taken for granted,'' wrote Francesco Garzarelli, an analyst based in London for Goldman.
 The extent to which the federation and its wealthiest member-state, Abu Dhabi, which has vast oil reserves, appear to guarantee Dubai's debts could affect how investors view many other companies previously believed to have the implicit backing of their governments. 
 A top Dubai finance official, Abdulrahman al-Saleh, director general of Dubai's Finance Department, made it clear on Monday however that Dubai World itself was not guaranteed by the emirate's government.
 ''There are plenty of people around in world capitals who are tired of bailouts,'' said Simon Johnson, a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund.
 As a result, banks that made big loans to some heavily indebted governments and companies might start to incur more losses. The shares of HSBC and Standard Chartered, which lent heavily to Dubai, have fallen sharply in the last week, and Mr. Johnson said that the cost of insuring against defaults by big Irish banks has surged since the Dubai announcement.
 A fear of contagion from Dubai would further destabilize European banks that were only starting to mend.
 The Dubai crisis began last week, when the emirate said Dubai World would not be able to make on-time payments for some of its $59 billion in debt. The company invested in lavish real estate projects, including artificial islands in the shape of a palm tree and a globe, and spent heavily to acquire stakes in glittering properties like Barneys in New York and the MGM Mirage in Las Vegas. 
 Dubai was far from alone in taking on too much debt as companies and countries around the world did the same. Investors have already been alarmed by problems in countries in Eastern Europe, in Ireland and in Greece.
 Dubai's problems are also a reminder of the lasting effects of the global real estate bubble, which remains a danger in the United States, where several big banks are encumbered by souring commercial real estate loans.
 There is a concern that governments have responded to the financial crisis by taking on unsustainable levels of debt that they may no longer be able to finance. Even in the United States, public debt is forecast to rise to around 80 percent, from about 40 percent, of gross domestic product, the economist Nouriel Roubini said.
 ''Dubai could be the beginning of a series of sovereign debt issues or crises,'' said Mohamed A. El-Erian, chief executive of Pimco, the giant bond-trading firm. ''What Dubai is going to do is make people think more intensely about the lagging implications of last year's crisis. It's going to be a wake-up call to the people who thought that the financial crisis was just a flesh wound.''
 Many analysts expect federation authorities to release further details as soon as Monday on how they plan to restructure the debt of Dubai and Dubai World to keep markets calm.
 Analysts will be watching crucial indicators of stability or alarm. The most apparent will be if money is pulled from other investments to the safe havens. Analysts will be monitoring the amount of interest that investors demand to lend money to emerging market countries. It has already risen sharply since the Dubai crisis erupted on Wednesday. 
 A major worry, investors say, is that the global debt crisis in private debt could metastasize into a debt crisis for governments that are running mounting deficits to pay for bailouts and stimulus packages -- especially in Eastern Europe but also in Britain. 
 In fact, a warning sign has already started flashing: the cost of insuring debt issued by Greece, a member of the euro bloc, is now as much as insuring Turkey's debt, an investment that was once considered much riskier.
 One consequence of the global financial crisis is that Greece has been forced to take on shorter-term external debt. Debt securities due within a year have risen to $24 billion in the second quarter of 2009, from $14.5 billion at the end of 2007, according to figures from international economists. 
 Many countries may face tests in the weeks and months to come as they try to roll over their existing debts. These countries will not be able to raise money easily or cheaply. This could put pressure on stronger members of the European Union to bail out weaker members, or at least help them restructure their debts and nurse them back to health.
 So strung out was Latvia this year that the country barely recovered from a speculative attack on its currency, the lat, though it is a member of the European Union. As it teetered, economists fretted about a coming ''lat bath,'' like the Thai ''baht bath'' devaluation that set off the 1997 Asian crisis.
 The International Monetary Fund, World Bank and European Union stepped in to prop up the weakest countries, however, and fears of true sovereign defaults in Europe's most vulnerable countries receded before last week's turmoil. These institutions' guarantees, however, do not extend to state-backed companies.
 Hungary, Bulgaria and the Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia carry foreign debt that exceeds 100 percent of their gross domestic products, Ivan Tchakarov, chief economist for Russia and the former Soviet states at Nomura bank, said in atelephone interview from London.
 But the problems, if any, are likely to be limited to Europe. The tremors would not immediately spread to the United States, beyond the effects of the strengthening of the dollar, and potentially a weakening of commodity prices as investors bet on a slowdown in emerging markets.
 However, in the long run, a global credit crisis set off by Dubai would make the cost of financing the trillions of dollars in American debt much more expensive, Mr. Roubini said. ''Even the U.S. -- over time -- cannot run forever unsustainable fiscal deficit,'' he said. ''The total financing needs of the U.S. will range in the $1.5 trillion to $1.7 trillion a year for the next decade,'' he said. ''That is a huge amount of public debt to issue and or roll over.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A cricket break at a Dubai construction site in 2007. Dubai World invested heavily in real estate.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS JACKSON/GETTY IMAGES)(A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2010



858 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: In This Recession, Bad Times Do Not Bring More Crime (If They Ever Did)

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

 BODY:
Unemployment has reached 10.3 percent in New York City, higher than it is in the state and nationally. The Bloomberg administration is weighing cuts from every city agency to help close a $4.1 billion deficit next year. Homelessness among families is at a record high, with more than 28,000 men, women and children now in the city's shelter system.
 In 2009, the signs of a bad economy are like blinking neon lights on Broadway. 
 Yet Police Department statistics show that the number of major crimes is continuing to fall this year in nearly every category, upending the common wisdom that hard times bring more crime. 
 ''The idea that everyone has ingrained into them -- that as the economy goes south, crime has to get worse -- is wrong,'' said David M. Kennedy, a professor at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice. ''It was never right to begin with.'' 
 Murder, considered the bellwether crime, is down by nearly 13 percent so far this year, to 413 through Nov. 22, compared with 473 in the same period last year, the statistics show. Rape, robbery, burglary, grand larceny and car theft are also on the decline.
 There has been a decrease in overall crime in all but two of the city's 76 police precincts. Crime in the subways and in public housing complexes is down. The number of shootings citywide has fallen, as has the number of people hurt or killed by gunfire -- despite the recent shootings of two teenagers in the Bronx and Queens who were not the intended targets.
 Even the number of petty larceny complaints -- the theft of items valued at less than $1,000, a crime mostly associated with shoplifting -- has fallen, to 72,971 from 74,631 in the same period a year ago, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said.
 New York has seen a steady drop in crime over the last 16 years, through Wall Street booms and dot-com busts, amid the devastation of the Sept. 11 attack and the revitalization that followed. Mr. Kelly said he was worried not that a floundering economy would turn otherwise law-abiding citizens into criminals, but that there would not be enough city funds to replenish a depleted police force.
 ''People, generally speaking, are not committing crime to address a basic need for food or shelter,'' he said in a recent interview at 1 Police Plaza. ''The economy goes up, the economy goes down -- there's still an element of people who are committing crime not motivated by the economic environment that we all find ourselves in.''
 Peter Vallone Jr., chairman of the City Council's Public Safety Committee, said he thought the commissioner was too modest. ''It's been very clear, since the beginning of time, that when things are bad, crime goes up,'' he said, crediting Mr. Kelly's strategies as the only thing keeping crime from spiking.
 Experts have long studied how shifts in crime might be attributed to economic indicators like consumer confidence, unemployment or a faltering housing market, particularly when it comes to property crime, burglary and robbery. The findings have been ''rather equivocal,'' said Steven F. Messner, a sociology professor at the State University of New York at Albany who has studied homicides in New York City.
 While there is generally thought to be a lag between changing economic conditions and new crime patterns, he said, it is curious that there has been no pronounced jump in street crimes associated with the most recent recession, which took root last year. 
 ''But it could take a while to work its way through the system and into people's psychology,'' he said. ''I would say the jury is still out on the impact of this most recent economic collapse.''
 Jesenia Pizarro, an assistant professor of criminology at Michigan State University, said crime was indirectly linked to the economy. Most crime is committed by the poor and uneducated, she said, and a bad economy can aggravate poverty in ways that are not obvious.
 ''The bad economy leads to social processes that are then more directly related to crime,'' she said, citing ''less services for youth and young people who are less occupied and don't have the guardianship they need'' or cuts in education ''that can lead to crime.''
 Another indirect effect on crime is opportunistic: Scavengers steal copper, appliances and ''anything else they can get their hands on'' from homes foreclosed on or abandoned, said John F. Timoney, a former first deputy commissioner in New York who recently resigned as the Miami police chief. That kind of mini-trend can occur in cities like Miami where overall crime is on the decline, he said.
 But anemic tax receipts have perhaps the most troubling effect on law enforcement agencies, leading to cuts in overtime or delays in hiring, according to a survey of 233 police agencies conducted by the Police Executive Research Forum, a nonprofit group.
 ''The plans to discontinue special units are especially disconcerting,'' Chief Timoney, the group's president, wrote in the report.
 In New York, the Police Department's head count has dropped to 35,200 officers from a peak of about 40,800 officers in 2001, Commissioner Kelly said. And it could go lower, as the city's fiscal problems have forestalled hiring and as the department is trying to find more cuts in a budget eaten up mostly by personnel costs.
 ''My primary concern is resources,'' said the commissioner, who blamed the economic crisis for keeping staffing at what he called undesirable levels. ''And there's an impact -- a very real impact -- on policing.''
 Though during his tenure crime has not risen in bad times, Commissioner Kelly said that increased crime and disorder would erode a city's prosperity. 
 Public safety is ''the foundation of everything else, you name it,'' he said. ''If you don't have a safe environment, nothing is going to flourish, except the drug trade.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CRIME STATISTICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); FAMILY (77%); MURDER (75%); BURGLARY (75%); CRIMINAL LAW (75%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (75%); VIOLENT CRIME (75%); HOMELESSNESS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); ROBBERY (71%); VEHICLE THEFT (70%); MISDEMEANORS (70%); SHOPLIFTING (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



859 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: The Fall And Rise Of Media

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com http://twitter.com/carr2n

 BODY:
Historically, young women and men who sought to thrive in publishing made their way to Manhattan. Once there, they were told, they would work in marginal jobs for indifferent bosses doing mundane tasks and then one day, if they did all of that without whimper or complaint, they would magically be granted access to a gilded community, the large heaving engine of books, magazines and newspapers.
 Beyond that, all it took to find a place to stand on a very crowded island, as E. B. White suggested, was a willingness to be lucky. Once inside that velvet rope, they would find the escalator that would take them through the various tiers of the business and eventually, they would be the ones deciding who would be allowed to come in. 
 As even casual readers of media news know, those assumptions now sound precious, preposterous even. Calvinistic ideals are no match for macromedia economics that have vaporized significant components of the business model that drives traditional publishing.
 The most popular books of the holiday season have become cat toys in a price war between online and offline retailers. Newspapers still hang onto a portion of seasonal ads, but the retail chains that place them have consolidated into a much smaller cohort, and much of their spending is bifurcated between old and new media marketing. Magazines intended to help the reader primp for Christmas parties are, in many cases, half as big as they were just a few short years ago. 
 Pages are down, spending is down, revenues are down, and the biggest feature of this holiday season in the media kingdom has been layoffs and buyouts at Conde Nast, Time Inc., The Associated Press, and yes, The New York Times. 
 (And it's not just Manhattan-centric endeavors. Published ambition has been diminished by new realities elsewhere, most recently in the announced closing of The Washington Post's remaining domestic bureaus. Last week, in an interview with Howard Kurtz, the executive editor, Marcus Brauchli, said it plainly: ''We are not a national news organization of record serving a general audience.'' Yeow.)
 That feeling of age, of a coming sunset, is tough to avoid in all corners of traditional publishing. Earlier in November, the New York comptroller said that employment in communications in New York had lost 60,000 jobs since 2000, a year when the media industry here seemed at the height of its powers. 
 I arrived in New York that same year as part of Inside.com, a digital news site conceived to cover a media space that was converging and morphing into something wholly new. The site covered the mainstream media's efforts to come to grips with new realities and efforts by new players to cash in on emerging technology.
 Few of us could have conceived that in the next decade some of the reigning titans of media would be routed. Profligate dot-com ad money that had fattened print went away in a digital wipeout, and when digital media came back, it was to dine on the mainstream media rather than engorge it. After 2000, jobs in traditional media industries declined at a rate of about 2.5 percent annually and then went into a dive in 2008 or so. (Inside.com, an idea before its time -- hey, let's charge for high-quality, business-oriented content -- disappeared after about 18 months.)
 That carnage has left behind an island of misfit toys, trains whose cabooses have square wheels and bird fish who are trying to swim in thin air. The skills that once commanded $4 for every shiny word are far less valuable at a time when the supply of both editorial and advertising content more or less doubles every year. 
 Where do all the burgeoning pixels come from? Everywhere, and cheap at that. An outfit called Demand Media now tests headlines for reader salience and cranks out thousands of articles and videos daily that it pays about $20 apiece for. 
 Web crawlers grab expensive content and replicate it far away from the organizations that produce it. Various media labs are now testing algorithms that assemble facts into narratives that deliver information, no writers required. The results would not be mistaken for literary journalism, but on the Web, pretty good -- or even not terrible -- is often good enough.
 For those of us who work in Manhattan media, it means that a life of occasional excess and prerogative has been replaced by a drum beat of goodbye speeches with sheet cakes and cheap sparkling wine. It's a wan reminder that all reigns are temporary, that the court of self-appointed media royalty was serving at the pleasure of an advertising economy that itself was built on inefficiency and excess. Google fixed that. 
 Certain stalwart brands will survive and even thrive because of a new scarcity of quality content for niche audiences that demand more than generic information. The chip that was implanted in me when I arrived at this newspaper -- you might call it New York Times Exceptionalism -- leads me to conclude that this organization will be one of those, but the insurgency continues apace.
 Those of us who covered media were told for years that the sky was falling, and nothing happened. And then it did. Great big chunks of the sky gave way and magazines tumbled -- Gourmet!? -- that seemed as if they were as solid as the skyline itself. But to those of us who were here back in September of 2001, we learned that even the edifice of Manhattan itself is subject to perforation and endless loss.
 So what do we get instead? The future, which is not a bad deal if you ignore all the collateral gore. Young men and women are still coming here to remake the world, they just won't be stopping by the human resources department of Conde Nast to begin their ascent. 
 For every kid that I bump into who is wandering the media industry looking for an entrance that closed some time ago, I come across another who is a bundle of ideas, energy and technological mastery. The next wave is not just knocking on doors, but seeking to knock them down. 
 Somewhere down in the Flatiron, out in Brooklyn, over in Queens or up in Harlem, cabals of bright young things are watching all the disruption with more than an academic interest. Their tiny netbooks and iPhones, which serve as portals to the cloud, contain more informational firepower than entire newsrooms possessed just two decades ago. And they are ginning content from their audiences in the form of social media or finding ways of making ambient information more useful. They are jaded in the way youth requires, but have the confidence that is a gift of their age as well. 
 For them, New York is not an island sinking, but one that is rising on a fresh, ferocious wave.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (88%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); LAYOFFS (69%); CHRISTMAS (67%); INTERNET RETAILING (66%); RETAILERS (66%); PRICE CUTTING (52%)

COMPANY: TIME INC (83%); WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



860 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ON SALES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Shoppers Fill the Streets, if Not Their Bags

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
So much for the job losses, the foreclosures and the disintegrating dollar. Standing on the corner of Prince and Mercer Streets in SoHo, you might think the recession had never happened.
 From Broadway and West Broadway they come, great hordes of shoppers clutching hot drinks from Dean & DeLuca and Balthazar and Porto Rico, clogging the sidewalks and weaving through traffic. They pack the benches at Prada, waiting to try on $670 loafers, or march down Mercer Street to finger $325 cotton button-downs at Rag & Bone. They circle the table of lambskin hats and other handmade items Carlos Wolford has set up outside J. Crew on Prince Street, cooing over what one passer-by calls ''those cute little Eskimo baby booties.'' And throughout the afternoon, they pile into Fanelli's and Mercer Kitchen to fuel up for another round. 
 But dig a little deeper and the signs of economic distress become clear. While foot traffic abounds -- much of it American rather than the usual flood of Europeans taking advantage of the weak dollar -- there is not the commerce to match. 
 ''Look around, you don't see bags,'' said Gary Small, 49, who was out on Prince Street on Friday with his family from the Cleveland suburb Shaker Heights. ''I mean, everybody's shopping, but there's not as much buying.''
 Mr. Small, his wife, Jane, also 49, and their 14-year-old twin daughters, Chloe and Maddie, were no different. Every couple of years, they come to the city to see the Thanksgiving Day parade and go shopping, but this time around they were being much more selective. A year ago, Mr. Small said, he took a job in New Jersey and began commuting home on weekends because the Midwestern banking industry he worked in ''went south.''
 ''Where we used to come and spend a lot of money, we're telling the girls, 'You know, buy one really nice thing and then we'll get some little things,' '' Mrs. Small said. Chloe was still hoping to pick up something ''designer-y'' at a store like Betsey Johnson, but Maddie, who described her style as skater hip-hop, had gotten a pair of white, orange and turquoise high-tops at DC, which specializes in shoes for extreme sports. ''On sale,'' she quickly pointed out.
 A few feet away, a family laden with bags was crowded around Mr. Wolford's table of hats, which had been steadily drawing interest from passers-by, but few sales. Nancy Edindjiklian, 47, who teaches at a public school in Ridgewood, Queens, had already bought a dark green plaid jacket at H&M -- her ''new dog-run coat'' -- and her husband, Tigran, a carpet restorer, had bought a few T-shirts at Topshop, where free breakfast was offered. 
 But her son, T. J., 17, was in the market for an aviator-style shearling hat like the ones Mr. Wolford had for sale, so he tried on several, including the hat Mr. Wolford pulled from his own head, before settling on one in black. The sale did little, though, to change Mr. Wolford's assessment of the market. ''It's very black for us, blacker than black,'' he said. 
 A Vietnam veteran raised in Honduras and Brazil, Mr. Wolford, 67, has been selling hats he makes at the same spot for 20 years, he said, and this year is shaping up to be his worst. ''Last year, I sold almost everything,'' he said of the Thanksgiving weekend. ''On a good day you can make $1,000. If I make $200 today I'll be lucky.''
 The problem, he said, is that even though his prices are far lower than those for similar items at major department stores, at $80 to $150 his hats cost more than people want to spend. And judging by the intermittent stream of shopping bags being toted down the street, that dynamic was as true for the stores as for the street vendors, with most of the purchases coming from shops in the mid-to-low price range -- especially Uniqlo, a Japanese outfitter known for its reasonably priced cashmere and denim. Business at the store was ''excellent,'' Kristi Brink, the general manager, said with a giddy laugh as she wrangled shoppers through the checkout line, some 40 deep. Sales were running about 25 percent higher than last year, and about 40 percent more than for a regular day, she said.
 Guilherme Varez, 31, an investment banker who had bought a few things at Uniqlo and was waiting for his wife outside J. Crew, said that under his jacket he was probably wearing a Uniqlo sweater. ''I just really like the quality of the stuff that they have, and usually it's cheap, and getting an extra $20 off is not bad,'' he said. In the downturn, the city has begun to feel more ''normal'' to him than it had during the boom years. ''You see people looking for bargains and not just paying any price for things, from high-end apartments to sweatshirts.''
 Indeed, Bonnie Stone, 64, the president of Women in Need, a nonprofit organization that provides shelter for homeless families, said she had been waiting a few years to buy the Mac computer she had gotten on sale and was loading into her car. 
 ''I'd been thinking about it and thinking about it because I have an old one, and I finally gave up,'' she said. ''I figured, you know what? Recession or no recession, I need it. I can't stand it anymore.''
 The scene was much different at Prada, where throughout the day far more customers seemed to browse than to buy. 
 Asked how business had been, a manager who declined to give her full name because she was not authorized to speak to a reporter offered a tight smile, and this: ''We are not on sale, and we don't really have Black Friday.'' 
 This is the first article in a series checking in on shoppers and merchants in New York during the second holiday season of the recession. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The crowds were out in droves on Friday at Prince Street and Broadway, on what is traditionally one of the busiest shopping days of the year.
 Carlos Wolford, above, who has sold hats on Prince Street for 20 years, says that this year ''is shaping up to be one of the worst.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JULIE GLASSBERG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (73%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (69%); SPORTS (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION (66%); THANKSGIVING (63%); EXTREME SPORTS (60%); BANKING & FINANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); MIDWEST USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



861 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: The Senate's Proposed Tax on Nips and Tucks Angers Patients and Surgeons Alike

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
Last week, a 41-year-old woman who had recently had her first child walked into the office of Dr. Steven Teitelbaum in Santa Monica, Calif., for an operation that tens of thousands of women like her have undergone this year: a breast lift. 
 ''I didn't like the way they looked,'' said the woman, Jennifer, who asked that her full name not be used because she wanted to keep her medical procedures private. ''And it's the best money I ever spent.'' 
 But the bill for the kind of operation Jennifer had -- and other procedures to combat crow's feet, beer bellies and sags of other sorts -- could also soon be higher under a 5 percent tax included in the health care bill being debated in the Senate. 
 The tax, which would be paid by the customer but collected by doctors, would be levied on any cosmetic surgery that is not necessary to address deformities arising from congenital abnormalities, personal injuries resulting from an accident or trauma, or disfiguring diseases, a definition taken directly from current tax code covering deductible medical expenses. 
 The proposal -- called the Bo-Tax, in a play on the name of Botox, the popular wrinkle-eliminating treatment -- has outraged plastic surgeons, who say they are being singled out because of an outdated perception that people who have cosmetic procedures are well-to-do.
 The 7,000-member American Society of Plastic Surgeons said its internal surveys showed that 60 percent of members' patients earn less than $90,000 a year. 
 ''A lot of people think of this as a tax on rich Republican housewives; rich, nonworking Republican housewives,'' said Dr. Phil Haeck, the group's president-elect. ''And that's not the case.''
 Whatever their pay grade, Americans seem to have a growing appetite for nips and tucks. According to the society, there were more than 12 million cosmetic procedures in 2008, up 3 percent from the year before, though the recession was blamed for double-digit declines in liposuction and tummy-tuck procedures. (Belt tightening, it seems, is not good for belt tightening.) 
 A tax might exacerbate those declines, said Dr. Haeck, who also raised the possibility that more patients might travel to other countries for procedures, which he said often cost less and might not be as safe.
 ''Maybe if you live in a border state, maybe you'll find it more appealing to go to Mexico,'' Dr. Haeck said. He added that in places like Thailand, procedures can cost one-fifth of what they do in the United States. ''I'm not sure if it will drive medical tourism harder and faster, but I shudder to think what we'll see if that practice is enhanced by the surgery tax.''
 Dr. Teitelbaum, the Santa Monica surgeon, seconded that opinion, and called the proposed tax ''cowardly.'' 
 ''You're taxing a disorganized group that has no one of its own representing it,'' he said. ''There's no American Society of Plastic Surgery Patients.'' 
 Dr. Teitelbaum said some patients might be embarrassed to admit to having had cosmetic surgery. ''They don't want to come out and march on Capitol Hill,'' he said. ''You're not going to have a million-man Botox march.''
 Another argument made by some groups is that the tax would be discriminatory toward women, who make up a vast majority of cosmetic surgery patients. 
 Terry O'Neill, the president of the National Organization for Women, said middle-age women, who make up a bulk of her group's financers, would be particularly susceptible to the tax, especially now. Many who have lost jobs might be considering surgery, she said, because they are looking to impress potential employers. 
 ''They have to find work,'' Ms. O'Neill said. ''And they are going for Botox or going for eye work, because the fact is we live in a society that punishes women for getting older.''
 Ms. O'Neill said women commonly pay higher health insurance premiums and suffer wage discrepancies from men. ''And now they are going to put a tax on middle-aged women in a society that devalues them for being middle aged?'' she said. 
 Jim Manley, a spokesman for the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and a supporter of the tax, said that the motivation was purely economic. 
 ''We needed money to make the bill work,'' Mr. Manley said in an e-mail message, adding that such cosmetic surgery taxes had been raised in the past by the Finance Committee. ''Also, we wanted to stay within the health care arena.'' 
 Doctors say that the line between elective and necessary is often blurry. For her part, Jennifer, the 41-year-old patient, said her pregnancy had left her with an exceedingly large bosom, something that was both unflattering and uncomfortable. 
 ''I'm not a Hollywood, Santa Monica type that has to have everything done,'' she said. ''It was a big deal even to consider it.''
 She paid $8,000 for her breast lift, and said that a 5 percent tax would not have dissuaded her from having the operation. 
 And while she said she was economically comfortable -- as a human resources executive, she said, she makes $250,000 a year -- she said she thought her new figure might solve another problem.
 ''I'm single,'' she said. ''But now I'm not going to be.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Steven Teitelbaum, a surgeon in Santa Monica, Calif., called the proposed tax on cosmetic procedures ''cowardly.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); MEDICAL TOURISM (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (65%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



862 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: The Jobs Imperative

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
If you're looking for a job right now, your prospects are terrible. There are six times as many Americans seeking work as there are job openings, and the average duration of unemployment -- the time the average job-seeker has spent looking for work -- is more than six months, the highest level since the 1930s. 
 You might think, then, that doing something about the employment situation would be a top policy priority. But now that total financial collapse has been averted, all the urgency seems to have vanished from policy discussion, replaced by a strange passivity. There's a pervasive sense in Washington that nothing more can or should be done, that we should just wait for the economic recovery to trickle down to workers. 
 This is wrong and unacceptable. 
 Yes, the recession is probably over in a technical sense, but that doesn't mean that full employment is just around the corner. Historically, financial crises have typically been followed not just by severe recessions but by anemic recoveries; it's usually years before unemployment declines to anything like normal levels. And all indications are that the aftermath of the latest financial crisis is following the usual script. The Federal Reserve, for example, expects unemployment, currently 10.2 percent, to stay above 8 percent -- a number that would have been considered disastrous not long ago -- until sometime in 2012. 
 And the damage from sustained high unemployment will last much longer. The long-term unemployed can lose their skills, and even when the economy recovers they tend to have difficulty finding a job, because they're regarded as poor risks by potential employers. Meanwhile, students who graduate into a poor labor market start their careers at a huge disadvantage -- and pay a price in lower earnings for their whole working lives. Failure to act on unemployment isn't just cruel, it's short-sighted.
 So it's time for an emergency jobs program. 
 How is a jobs program different from a second stimulus? It's a matter of priorities. The 2009 Obama stimulus bill was focused on restoring economic growth. It was, in effect, based on the belief that if you build G.D.P., the jobs will come. That strategy might have worked if the stimulus had been big enough -- but it wasn't. And as a matter of political reality, it's hard to see how the administration could pass a second stimulus big enough to make up for the original shortfall. 
 So our best hope now is for a somewhat cheaper program that generates more jobs for the buck. Such a program should shy away from measures, like general tax cuts, that at best lead only indirectly to job creation, with many possible disconnects along the way. Instead, it should consist of measures that more or less directly save or add jobs. 
 One such measure would be another round of aid to beleaguered state and local governments, which have seen their tax receipts plunge and which, unlike the federal government, can't borrow to cover a temporary shortfall. More aid would help avoid both a drastic worsening of public services (especially education) and the elimination of hundreds of thousands of jobs.
 Meanwhile, the federal government could provide jobs by ... providing jobs. It's time for at least a small-scale version of the New Deal's Works Progress Administration, one that would offer relatively low-paying (but much better than nothing) public-service employment. There would be accusations that the government was creating make-work jobs, but the W.P.A. left many solid achievements in its wake. And the key point is that direct public employment can create a lot of jobs at relatively low cost. In a proposal to be released today, the Economic Policy Institute, a progressive think tank, argues that spending $40 billion a year for three years on public-service employment would create a million jobs, which sounds about right.
 Finally, we can offer businesses direct incentives for employment. It's probably too late for a job-conserving program, like the highly successful subsidy Germany offered to employers who maintained their work forces. But employers could be encouraged to add workers as the economy expands. The Economic Policy Institute proposes a tax credit for employers who increase their payrolls, which is certainly worth trying. 
 All of this would cost money, probably several hundred billion dollars, and raise the budget deficit in the short run. But this has to be weighed against the high cost of inaction in the face of a social and economic emergency.
 Later this week, President Obama will hold a ''jobs summit.'' Most of the people I talk to are cynical about the event, and expect the administration to offer no more than symbolic gestures. But it doesn't have to be that way. Yes, we can create more jobs -- and yes, we should. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



863 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: In Japan, an Odd Perch for Google: Looking Up at the Leader

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
In 2001, a fledgling Internet company named Google opened its first overseas office in Japan, eager to tap a huge technology market.
 But after eight years, Japan is one of a few major countries Google has yet to conquer. The Web giant still trails far behind Yahoo Japan, the front-runner here, operated by the Japanese telecommunications giant Softbank.
 In a reversal of the rivalry in the United States, Yahoo Japan dominates Japan's Web search market with 56.5 percent of all queries, according to the Internet research company, GA-Pro. Google, at 33.7 percent, is a distant second.
 Unaccustomed to being second, Google is bending some of its most time-honored traditions in a renewed push into the Japanese market. Earlier this year, Google's splash page for Japan abandoned the company's classic spare design and added links to YouTube, Gmail and other services -- an attempt to lure Japanese users who favor sites decorated with a cacophony of text and graphics. 
 And in a first for Google, which is based in Mountain View, Calif., it initiated branding ads for Japan and staged attention-grabbing publicity stunts, including one in which it invited passers-by to float into the air with the help of 2,500 balloons.
 Google's dogged interest in Japan has partly to do with sheer size. Japan is one of the world's most wired countries, with more than 90 million regular Internet users -- of which three-quarters use fast broadband connections and two-thirds also log in from cellphones.
 And despite a sluggish economy, Japan's 6.6 trillion yen ($77 billion) advertising market remains the world's second-largest, one that an increasingly global advertising force like Google cannot afford to ignore.
 ''Japan is absolutely a key market for Google,'' said Koichiro Tsujino, president of Google Japan. Every day, for example, Japanese view 10 million clips on YouTube, Google's video-sharing site -- and that is just from their cellphones, making them the world's most avid adopters of video on-the-go. ''Japan leads the world in many ways,'' he said.
 That Japanese propensity to try new things is the other reason Google is intent on staying put in Japan. Over the years, Japan has become a testing lab for many of the Web giant's cutting-edge new ideas, especially in mobile technology. Google's Tokyo-based programmers, immersed in Japan's mobile and Web culture, have become a valuable source of ideas for the entire company.
 Overseas markets now account for half of Google's revenue, and the company is becoming more keenly aware of the need to tailor its services to local markets, as well as the advantages of absorbing ideas from outside the United States, company executives say. ''Japan made us realize that non-U.S. ideas can go global,'' David Eun, a vice president for Google, said on a recent trip to Japan, where he closed deals with two Japanese broadcasters to allow YouTube to run some of their content.
 Google Japan's offices occupy several floors in a skyscraper in Shibuya, a Tokyo neighborhood popular with start-ups that is also a hangout for the city's hippest teenagers. Minutes away from where Google developers work, young Japanese perch on sidewalks, playing with their Web-enabled cellphones, thumbs flying and eyes glued to the tiny screens. 
 But most of those trendsetters do not regard Google as being very Japanese -- a big headache for the company. Google has never been able to overcome Yahoo's advantage as the first Web-based search engine. And although 35 percent of Yahoo Japan is owned by Yahoo in Sunnyvale, Calif., it is viewed as a local company. 
 ''Yahoo Japan is a Japanese company, and most of their employees are Japanese people who fluently understand how the Japanese mind-set and business work,'' said Nobuyuki Hayashi, a technology analyst. ''But Google's still a foreigner who's learned how to speak some Japanese.''
 Popularizing Google in Japan has been fraught with 21st-century versions of the cultural mishaps that have long plagued American companies here. In May, Google was forced to reshoot its entire ''Street View'' image stock in Japan -- with a camera positioned to capture views 15 inches lower -- after intense criticism that the service peeked over fences and into people's homes, invading privacy. The narrower width of Japan's roads made the service especially intrusive, bloggers fumed.
 Google Earth also came under fire after posting historical maps that detailed locations of former communities of an ''untouchable'' caste, still a sensitive topic in Japan. Human rights advocates were furious that the maps could be used to identify families that had lived in the low-caste neighborhoods.
 But Google keeps trying. After studying feedback from Japanese users, developers designed Google's maps service here so that a query led users to the town's train station or bus terminal, not the center of town as it would in the United States, reflecting the way the Japanese, heavily reliant on public transportation, think of their personal geography.
 Programmers based in Tokyo have proposed and developed a line of services and functions, including ''emoticons'' for Gmail -- a particular Japanese obsession -- and a function allowing users to add photos to Google Maps. It created ''Spellmeleon,'' to correct misspelled queries. It took developers based in Tokyo to realize that non-native English speakers, who might not be very good spellers of English words, could use a little help with queries.
 ''Part of our job is to think specifically about the Japanese market,'' said Kentaro Tokusei, group product manager at Google Japan. ''We find whatever we build works globally, too.''
 Some services in Japan offer a glimpse into the future. The Japanese version of Google's photo-sharing service, Picasa, offers quick response, or Q.R., bar codes that contain Web address information. Scanning a Q.R. bar code with a Japanese cellphone takes the user to a Web site to view an online photo album.
 Japan has been an especially important market for YouTube, with viewers here making up the site's biggest audience outside the United States. The site's big presence in Japan has put developers here at the forefront of crucial projects -- for example, a recently announced feature that will bring text captions to many videos on the site, linked with automatic translation into 51 languages. 
 The captions will go a long way toward helping videos go viral across language divides, said Hiroto Tokusei, YouTube product manager in Japan and Kentaro Tokusei's younger brother. (The Tokusei brothers, both Stanford graduates with experience in Silicon Valley, were brought to Google Japan with an eye to localizing Google's products while keeping Google at the cutting edge of innovation.)
 Next month YouTube will also start a mobile version of its ''Click-to-Buy'' feature, which identifies songs used in video clips, then lets users download them to their cellphones for use as ring tones.
 ''To have an audience so obsessed with video and TV, and with access to broadband, means Japan is the perfect place to experiment,'' Mr. Tokusei said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Google publicity stunt, with 2,500 balloons. (B1)
 Hiroto Tokusei, left, and his brother Kentaro are Stanford graduates working for Google Japan with an eye on localization. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY SUTTON-HIBBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MOBILE MEDIA (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (71%); SEARCH ENGINES (71%); BROADBAND (71%); TEST LABORATORIES (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); YAHOO JAPAN CORP (91%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); 4689 (TSE) (91%); 4689 (JASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (91%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (91%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



864 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Still Outnumbered, but Council Republicans Count on More Clout

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
One minute, Councilman Lewis A. Fidler, a Brooklyn Democrat, drops by. The next, two other Democrats from Brooklyn, Simcha Felder and Domenic M. Recchia Jr., show up. Then, a couple of Democrats from Queens: Melinda R. Katz, who is leaving office soon, and Leroy G. Comrie Jr., who may replace Ms. Katz as the leader of the Land Use Committee.
 The man they are coming to see, Councilman James S. Oddo, a Staten Island Republican, can hardly believe the new activity. ''It's like a Merv Griffin guest set,'' he said. 
 The attention is flattering, but for good reason: Thanks to two upset wins by Republicans this month, Mr. Oddo is poised to preside over a minority caucus that will swell to five, the most since a high of seven during the mid-1990s.
 It is not as if Mr. Oddo is suddenly entertaining visions of leading the 51-member Council in a city in which Democrats outnumber Republicans six to one. But he says he has never felt more optimistic about his agenda, especially since he expects to forge alliances with perhaps half a dozen centrist Democrats on fiscal policy, development and other core issues.
 ''When leadership at both sides of City Hall is looking for votes to pass a bill, votes to stop a bill, votes to override a bill, I think our phones will be ringing,'' he said. ''This gives us leverage.''
 Such will be the new world of the next City Council when 13 new members -- the most since 2001 -- take their seats in January. The new Council is expected to be more unpredictable, given the prospect of new, loosely fitting blocs like the Republicans and the candidates who opposed the rewriting of term limits and were powered by the Working Families Party.
 ''I think alliances will be much more important now,'' said Councilman Peter F. Vallone Jr., a centrist Democrat who expressed excitement at the prospect of working with Republicans on ''more police, lower taxes and less development.''
 Even Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, who began her career as a tenant advocate but more recently has become closely associated with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, says the Republicans should not be underestimated.
 ''The idea that we would have more discussion, more differences of opinion, more debate -- I'm thrilled by that,'' she said. ''You almost always find a greater chance of consensus having more people on the far left and having more people on the right.''
 It was not that long ago that Mr. Oddo's second-floor office in City Hall, wedged between the Public Design Commission and the women's bathroom, was a lonely place. The Republican caucus had dwindled to a record low, two members -- Mr. Oddo and another Italian-American from Staten Island, Vincent M. Ignizio. Republicans were also still reeling, Mr. Oddo said, from the resignation of a third council member, Dennis P. Gallagher, in April 2008 after he pleaded guilty to sexually abusing a woman.
 But this past February, a Republican, Eric A. Ulrich, 24, a graduate student and community activist, had a surprising victory in a special election in a Queens district that leans Democratic.
 And on Nov. 3, two more Republican upstarts claimed upset victories in open contests: Daniel J. Halloran III, a lawyer, defeated Kevin D. Kim, an aide to Representative Gary L. Ackerman, in northeast Queens; and Peter A. Koo, the owner of a pharmacy chain, beat Yen S. Chou, an educator, to represent the Flushing area.
 Mr. Halloran, who succeeds Tony Avella, an iconoclastic Democrat, prevailed with a focus on bread-and-butter issues like development and taxes. In an interview, Mr. Halloran spoke as if he were already ankle-deep in the issues, talking casually about the city's Board of Standards and Appeals and expressing a desire to join the Land Use and Public Safety Committees.
 He said that Ms. Quinn was quite welcoming during a recent meeting. ''I get the feeling that she's willing to work with the conservative Democrats and the Republicans who want to be a voice of fiscal responsibility,'' Mr. Halloran said.
 Mr. Koo, an immigrant from Hong Kong, succeeds John C. Liu, who was elected comptroller. Mr. Koo said in an interview that he thought Mr. Liu had done an excellent job, and promised to concentrate on four areas: protecting the elderly, improving education, providing relief for small businesses and improving transportation infrastructure.
 And in a move that Ms. Quinn said was apparently without precedent, Mr. Koo has pledged to use his entire $112,500 annual Council salary to set up a special account for community groups.
 ''I won't use a penny,'' he promised. ''A lot of smaller community groups -- they have a hard time getting city money.''
 In lighthearted ways, too, the Republicans are gaining notice. About two weeks ago, when Mr. Oddo took Mr. Halloran and Mr. Koo on a tour of City Hall, they popped into a news conference that Ms. Quinn was holding. She invited them to stand beside her at the lectern, then wondered out loud whether there would be enough room for so many Republicans.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Election wins by Daniel J. Halloran III, second from left, and Peter A. Koo, second from right, will increase the Republican caucus, led by Councilman James S. Oddo, right, to five in January. At left is Councilman Robert Jackson, a Democrat.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM CHARLES ALATRISTE/NEW YORK CITY COUNCIL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CITIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); MAYORS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TERM LIMITS (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



865 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Less Diversity In Supervisors Of Foster Care

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
More than two decades ago, New York started down a path that was considered a hallmark of child welfare reform by creating and strengthening its minority-governed, neighborhood-based foster care agencies.
 By last month, when the city severed ties with Family Support Services Unlimited, a troubled 27-year-old agency in the Bronx, the number of those agencies had fallen to four from more than 15. 
 The agency was the fifth minority-led foster care provider to lose its foster care contracts under the watch of John B. Mattingly, who was appointed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in 2004 to head the Administration for Children's Services. Sharman Stein, a spokeswoman for the city agency, said the city ended its contract with Family Support because of ''widespread and persistent performance and governance issues.'' The last remaining children under the supervision of Family Support have been transferred to other agencies.
 Many of the agencies were created beginning in the 1980s so that more of the city's black and Hispanic foster children could be cared for in their own neighborhoods by minority foster parents, but the agencies had since dwindled in number, and in many cases, in quality. 
 Child welfare advocates and officials said the minority-run agencies had become casualties of a system that, under Mr. Mattingly, incorporated stricter and more frequent monitoring of performance. And some minority-run agencies, which tend to have trouble with fund-raising in the low-income neighborhoods where they are based, have struggled in the difficult economic climate -- unlike the older, more established agencies, which have endowments and deep-pocketed donors to help them ride out an economic downturn. 
 Five years ago, Mr. Mattingly and child welfare advocates in New York recognized that the minority-run organizations were in peril. Mr. Mattingly convened a diverse task force of leaders in the field to study the agencies and recommend how they could be supported and sustained. At the time, only nine agencies remained, and six of them were under review for poor performance, according to the task force's report. 
 Since then, widespread support for the minority-run agencies has been overcome by the reality that some agencies were underfinanced, lacked strong leadership and were not taking good care of the children they supervised, advocates and providers said.
 ''There just hasn't been time for some agencies to build the core infrastructure to survive such a dramatic shift that's occurred over the last few years, especially the overall economic downturn,'' said Fatima Goldman, the executive director and chief executive of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, a leader of the 2005 task force. ''That is the nail in the coffin for so many organizations.'' 
 Mr. Mattingly said in a statement: ''The closing of minority-led agencies in New York City over the past 10 years has been a loss. That is why we worked so hard to support them. Our greatest concern, however, had to be for the children being cared for by all the agencies we had to close. We promised to be vigilant on behalf of these children and their families, and we will continue to do our best toward that end.''
 The minority-run providers are not the only foster care agencies that have disappeared in the last five years.
 In 2004, when Mr. Mattingly was appointed child welfare commissioner, there were 43 foster care agencies in the city. Since then, he has overseen the termination of 10 agencies' foster care contracts. For some agencies, the termination of a city contract results in the closing of the business; however, others continue to provide services other than foster care.
 While the number of agencies has shrunk, so has the number of foster children, to fewer than 16,000 from 22,000 five years ago.
 City officials said they did not take lightly the decision to cancel the contract with Family Support. Before severing ties with the agency, they tried for more than four years to provide extra help, including consultants. 
 But they could not ignore obvious signs of trouble: children were frequently shuttled from one foster home to another, indicating a weakness in the quality of foster parents. (Officials at Family Support did not return calls for comment.)
 After Family Support tried to bring in new leadership, at the request of the city's child welfare agency, there still did not appear to be anyone ''clearly in charge with the necessary control over operations,'' Ms. Stein said. 
 Indeed, some child-welfare advocates privately wondered why it took the city so long to cut the agency loose. 
 The city terminated its contracts with another minority-run agency, Concord Family Services, in September 2008, months after a sham adoption scheme was discovered at the agency. The fiscal director had worked in concert with a city official to create phantom adoptions and pocket the subsidies. 
 James F. Purcell, executive director of the Council of Family and Child Caring Agencies, the umbrella and advocacy group for the foster care agencies in the state, said he regretted that so many minority-run agencies had closed. ''I believe that their experiences added some depth and capacity to our system,'' he said. 
 But Mr. Purcell added that he did not put up a fight when the agencies' contracts were ended. ''By the time they closed, at least several of them, I wasn't objecting to the specifics,'' he said. ''There were problems that weren't being resolved.'' 
 Emory Brooks, the president and chief executive of Community Counseling and Mediation, one of the four remaining minority-run agencies, said he wondered why the city was still giving the agencies any extra help at all.
 ''I've never been comfortable with the idea that we should be given any special allowances or additional points because we happen to be minority and because we happen to be located in the minority community,'' he said. ''We have to be able to compete on a high level.'' 
 Mr. Brooks said that in the last few years he had seen ''dwindling support'' for minority-run agencies. ''And I think that's good,'' he said. ''It's always felt very patronizing to me. It still comes back to your being capable, to your convictions, your willingness to work hard for the families.'' 
 There are signs that the larger, more established agencies have evolved. One of them, the Children's Aid Society, recently appointed a black chief executive, the first in its 150 years. 
 At the city's urging, even the biggest agencies have become more neighborhood-based. The 140-year-old New York Foundling has six regional offices, one in each of the five boroughs and one in Rockland County. The directors of the regional offices live in the area where they work. 
 ''While I certainly believe that our system will be much better off and produce more favorable outcomes if we are able to maintain a mix of agency types,'' said Bill Baccaglini, the executive director of Foundling, ''I would also like to think that the way in which the larger agencies have evolved has enabled them to remain very responsible to the needs of the communities in which they operate.''
 Eric Brettschneider, an independent consultant who was a child welfare official in the Koch administration, said he believed that there was ''a wider view of things now.''
 ''I think the system has moved to more of an emphasis on how rooted an agency is in a community, how much it reflects the communities it serves,'' he said. 
 But two decades after the initial movement to support minority-run agencies, there remains huge concern about the overwhelming number of black and Hispanic children in foster care. 
 ''The issues haven't changed, and yet all of the agencies have disappeared,'' said Alma J. Carten, an associate professor of social work at New York University. 
 Dr. Carten said she feared that support in New York for the minority-run agencies had eroded. ''There's no unified voice of advocacy in the community saying, 'Let's look at what we're doing here,' '' she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOSTER CARE (91%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); FAMILY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); EXECUTIVES (85%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); FUNDRAISING (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



866 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Test Prep for the Preschool Set

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''At $145 a Session, Tips for the Admission Test ... to Kindergarten'' (front page, Nov. 21):
 After reading about the lengths to which well-off Manhattan parents will go in order to give their children a leg up in kindergarten admissions, I am more convinced than ever of the need for affirmative action to guarantee economic equality in education.
 Access to special tutoring, from the preschool years all the way to the SATs, clearly gives advantages to those who can afford it. 
 Concerning the statement from the head of the gifted and talented programs for the city's Department of Education that ''we can't dictate what parents choose to do,'' I beg to differ.
 Require parents applying for gifted and talented kindergarten classes for their child to sign an affidavit stating whether or not the child has received any tutoring or preparatory classes for the test, and then grade the test on a curve favoring those who did not. And, of course, lying on such an affidavit would result in automatic disqualification.
 I think that would help influence ''what parents choose to do.''
 Michael Esterowitz Brooklyn, Nov. 21, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Both the Otis-Lennon School Ability Test and the Bracken School Readiness Assessment are deceptively named. Neither one reliably measures young children's knowledge, ability, talent or readiness for school. Using these tests -- or any standardized test -- to sort children into groups of ''gifted'' and, presumably, ''not gifted'' is educational malpractice.
 New York should follow the lead of North Carolina, which prohibits the use of public funds for standardized testing of children before third grade.
 Edward Miller New York, Nov. 21, 2009
 The writer is a founding partner of the Alliance for Childhood and co-author of its report ''Crisis in the Kindergarten: Why Children Need to Play in School.'' 
 To the Editor:
 Regarding up to $145-a-session fees for tutoring: The fee per session will not stop there! Those parents will be paying high psychotherapy fees as a result of the pressures they are putting on their children to get into gifted programs.
 I know, because I work with many of those children and parents already, and it looks as if they will help keep the therapists in business for a long time.
 Beth Rosen New York, Nov. 21, 2009
 The writer is a psychotherapist.
 To the Editor:
 The enormous increase in test scores for the gifted programs is due, at least in part, to test prep. Test prep works. College counselors and parents of teenagers have known this for years, and now preschool parents and their advisers have caught on as well.
 Good test prep not only increases knowledge but also teaches the student to become a more persistent, efficient and effective thinker.
 If test prep can have such a dramatic effect on the reasoning skills of 3- and 4-year-olds, maybe it's time to extend the benefits of these ideas to all students. Improving students' reasoning skills needs to become a central goal of education and not a peripheral one for the children of the rich.
 Test prep has value that extends well beyond performance on a test. Everyone can benefit from ideas that measurably increase confidence and reasoning skills.
 Matt Bardin New York, Nov. 21, 2009
 The writer is founder of Veritas Tutors and Test Prep and co-author of ''Zen in the Art of the SAT.'' His company does not offer test prep to preschoolers.
 To the Editor:
 When athletes use drugs and other illicit methods to gain an advantage, there are federal investigations. But when parents and test prep companies collude to game the system, it's business as usual.
 There's just one thing wrong with this picture: Everything.
 Murray Suid Inverness, Calif., Nov. 21, 2009
 The writer is a former college teacher.
 To the Editor: 
 I hope that the trainers and administrators who do the testing for kindergarten admissions are aware of the possible alternative answers to their questions, and if they are not, that children will speak up.
 When my son was tested for a coveted spot in a private prekindergarten, he was asked, ''What color is a banana?''
 ''White,'' he answered. 
 ''A banana isn't white!'' he was told. 
 Fortunately, my son was not intimidated. He replied: ''Yes, it is. The peel is yellow, but the banana is white.''
 He was accepted. 
 Willow Partington Cambridge, N.Y., Nov. 23, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY AUGUST HEFFNER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GIFTED EDUCATION (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); WRITERS (89%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



867 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 246 words

 BODY:
ECONOMIC INDICATORS The Fed's collection of anecdotal evidence on the economy and updates on manufacturing are due this week. 
 Reports will include Chicago purchasing managers' index for November (Monday); the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index for November, construction spending for October and pending home sales for October (Tuesday); Automatic Data Processing's employment report for November and the Federal Reserve beige book (Wednesday); revised third-quarter productivity, weekly jobless claims and the I.S.M.'s service index for November (Thursday); and unemployment for November and factory orders for October (Friday).
 COMPANY REPORTS Staples (Tuesday) and Toll Brothers (Thursday).
 AUTO INDUSTRY On Tuesday, automakers will report their United States sales for November, and the board of General Motors will meet to discuss the fate of Saab.
 ET CETERA The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, and top executives from exchanges, clearinghouses and banks will testify before the Senate Agriculture Committee about over-the-counter derivatives (Wednesday). 
 Retailers will report their same-store sales for November (Thursday).
 The Senate Banking Committee will hold a confirmation hearing to consider Ben S. Bernanke's appointment for a second term as chairman of the Federal Reserve (Thursday).
 President Obama will convene a jobs meeting with corporate chief executives, small-business owners and other business leaders (Thursday). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); PRODUCTIVITY (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); RETAILERS (77%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (57%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (57%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (52%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



868 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Upstart Chinese Telecom Company Rattles Industry as It Rises to No. 2

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
When the telecommunications company Telenor decided to upgrade its mobile phone network in Norway, the job drew bids from the companies that had built its original grid: Ericsson and Nokia Siemens Networks.
 Instead, Telenor this month chose Huawei Technologies, a Chinese equipment maker, to build its ultrafast network based on a technology called L.T.E., or Long Term Evolution.
 Grabbing the contract in the heart of Scandinavia was the latest coup for Huawei, the rising star of the mobile equipment industry. The company's low-cost, multipurpose networks have catapulted it to No. 2 in the world, behind Ericsson.
 ''Huawei has established itself as a serious competitor,'' said Morten Karlsen Sorby, the head of global business development at Telenor. ''They have been able in a very short period of time to build the necessary competence and innovation.'' 
 Huawei leapfrogged Alcatel-Lucent and NokiaSiemens in quarterly sales this year, according to Dell'Oro, a research firm in Redwood City, Calif. But Huawei, a private company founded in 1988 by Ren Zhengfei, a former officer of the People's Liberation Army, has fought the perception that it has ties to China's government and military.
 A 2007 report by the RAND Corporation, a policy research institute, for the United States Air Force said Huawei ''maintains deep ties with the Chinese military, which serves a multifaceted role as an important customer, as well as Huawei's political patron and research development partner.''
 Security concerns motivated the Committee on Foreign Investment, a United States government panel, to reject Huawei's joint $2.2 billion bid with Bain Capital in 2008 for 3Com, a communications equipment maker that also produces security software for the American military.
 Huawei's private ownership -- which it has never disclosed in detail -- has brought it scrutiny this year in India and Australia, as well, as it has bid on contracts.
 Edward Zhou, the Huawei marketing director for Europe, dismissed questions surrounding the company's ownership structure as ''market speculation,'' saying Huawei was owned by its 80,000 employees and had no links to Chinese officialdom.
 ''No government or government-linked organizations have any ownership stake,'' Mr. Zhou said. ''Huawei has no connection to the Chinese military, and none of our directors hold, or has held, any positions with, or serves or has served as a consultant or adviser to, any Chinese government or agency.''
 A senior executive for one of Huawei's main rivals, who did not want to be identified because he was not authorized to speak for the company, said he did not know of any government ties. But that does not mean they do not exist, he added.
 ''They are very aggressive as a vendor,'' he said. ''But there is a definite lack of transparency, which makes it very tricky for us.''
 Questions surrounding its ownership have not prevented Huawei from supplying 36 of the world's top 50 mobile operators, including Telus in Canada and Cox Communications, Leap and Clearwire, a WiMax operator majority owned by Sprint Nextel, in the United States.
 All were attracted to innovative Huawei products like its SingleRAN, a wireless network that transmits in second- and third-generation, as well as L.T.E., signals, saving operators the expense of separate networks. In-Stat, a research firm in Scottsdale, Ariz., says Huawei was the first company to produce an L.T.E. base station, the fastest in the industry, on a large scale.
 ''In whatever sector they are competing in, Huawei is a major player,'' said Jeff Heynen, an analyst at Infonetics in Raleigh, N.C. ''They are now among the top three in almost every market. The future for them continues to look bright.''
 Supplying equipment to the three big Chinese operators-- China Mobile, China Telecom and China Unicom -- helped Huawei almost double its share of the $38 billion global mobile equipment market to 20.1 percent in the third quarter, from 11 percent a year earlier, according to Dell'Oro. Huawei moved past Nokia Siemens, at 19.5 percent, and trails Ericsson, which has 32 percent.
 ZTE, China's second-largest maker of networking equipment, is also growing rapidly as Chinese operators this year are building the first 3G networks on mainland China. Sales at ZTE, which is publicly traded, rose 43 percent, to $2.2 billion, in the third quarter and its profit rose 59 percent, to $60 million.
 Huawei is based in Shenzhen, like ZTE, in mainland China near Hong Kong. The company has grown beyond China's borders, with foreign orders accounting for 75 percent of its $18.3 billion in 2008 sales, up 43 percent from a year earlier. Huawei's profit rose to $1.2 billion, from $957 million in 2007.
 In Europe, where it has been selling equipment since 2000, Huawei supplies all of the Continent's major operators, including Vodafone, Deutsche Telekom, France Telecom and Telefonica. European sales are about $3 billion, Mr. Zhou said.
 Scott Siegler, an analyst at Dell'Oro, said inexpensive Chinese labor and Huawei's private ownership, which spares the company from having to pay regular dividends, let it underbid rivals by 40 percent to 50 percent on average.
 That has rattled the industry, Mr. Siegler said. As Huawei's sales soared in 2008, Ericsson's rose 11 percent, while Nokia Siemens' dipped 0.7 percent. The two companies said they would cut thousands of jobs this year.
 ''Huawei is crushing the market,'' Mr. Siegler said. ''They continue to win market share and are forcing others to compete on their terms.''
 Rather than the underbidding, Mr. Zhou said it was Huawei's unique products, like the SingleRAN, short for single radio access network, that were winning contracts. That system lets mobile operators cut operating costs, which account for 80 percent of expenses over the lifetime of a network.
 ''From a cost perspective, we are not the lowest bidder in many projects,'' Mr. Zhou said. ''But our focus has been on lowering the total cost of ownership for the network as a whole.''
 In Moldova, a former Soviet republic between Romania and Ukraine, France Telecom chose Huawei last year to build a new 3G network, the first in Europe that can transmit voice calls in high-definition audio. Liudmila Climoc, the chief executive of Orange Moldova, said Huawei made the best offer to Orange, France Telecom's mobile unit.
 ''Their network was easier to roll out, and it was already H.D. voice-ready,'' Ms. Climoc said. ''With Huawei, it was much easier to implement this feature. Everything was already in place.''
 Mr. Sorby, the Telenor business development chief, said his company had examined Huawei's private ownership but decided it was not a factor in its deal. The Norwegian contract will place Huawei on track to bid on a multibillion-dollar overhaul of Telenor's networks in Eastern Europe, Russia and Central Asia.
 ''Their technology is innovative, and their bid provided the lowest cost of ownership for us,'' Mr. Sorby said. ''And in our business, the lowest cost of ownership is key.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Huawei is a rising star of the mobile equipment field, building big networks and small systems. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM YEH/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Wen Jiabao, left, the Chinese prime minister, with Ren Zhengfei, right, a former army officer and the founder of Huawei. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); ARMED FORCES (66%); AIR FORCES (66%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%)

COMPANY: NOKIA SIEMENS NETWORKS OY (93%); TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (92%); TELENOR ASA (91%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (69%); RAND CORP (67%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (55%)

TICKER: ERIC.B (STO) (92%); ERIC.A (STO) (92%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (92%); TEL (OSL) (91%); ALU (PAR) (69%); ALU (NYSE) (69%); ALU (BIT) (69%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (93%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (67%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORWAY (92%); EUROPE (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



869 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: A Generation in the Balance

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
Do downturns create Democrats? The Great Depression certainly did: The generation that came of age in the 1930s has cleaved to the Democratic Party like no population before or since. And it makes intuitive sense that experiencing a recession at a formative age could inspire lifelong sympathy for the party of the welfare state and lifelong suspicion toward the party of free markets. 
 In a recent paper, ''Growing Up In a Recession,'' Paola Giuliano, an assistant professor of economics at U.C.L.A., and Antonio Spilimbergo, an economist at the International Monetary Fund, offer statistics to back this intuition up. Looking at over 40 years of survey data, the authors report that Americans who experienced ''macroeconomic shocks'' between the ages of 18 and 25 were more worried about poverty and inequality across their voting lives, and more skeptical about the wisdom of the market. 
 These findings track with the results of the 2008 election, when a cratering economy helped Barack Obama win an extraordinary landslide among young and first-time voters. And they provide grist for the liberal hope that the rising generation will prove as enduringly Democratic as that of their Depression-era grandparents, with George W. Bush playing Herbert Hoover to Obama's F.D.R.
 But the study shouldn't make liberals too cocky. The authors find that growing up in a recession can encourage conservative instincts as well. Downturns make young voters distrustful of unfettered capitalism, yes. But they also make them less confident in the federal government.
 This finding may explain why recent recessions have actually ended up pushing America rightward. The stagflation of the 1970s, for instance, and the hapless liberal response, helped usher in Ronald Reagan's revolution. (The cohort that grew up with Reagan is the most staunchly Republican in modern history.) The slump of the early 1990s bolstered Bill Clinton's first presidential campaign -- but it also gave a boost to the fiscally conservative populism of Ross Perot, and then to the Republican wave of 1994.
 Recessions, it seems, only benefit liberals when an activist government is perceived to have answers to the crisis. When liberal interventions seem to be effective, a downturn can help midwife an enduring Democratic majority. But if they don't seem to be working -- or worse, if they seem to be working for insiders and favored constituencies, rather than for the common man -- then suspicion of state power can trump disillusionment with free markets.
 Among voters at large, that's what seems to be happening at the moment. Nothing the government has done across the last 12 months has inspired much public confidence. Of the billions poured out in bailouts and stimulus, a substantial share has gone to privileged insiders and liberal interest groups -- Wall Street bankers, auto unions, public-sector employees. Beltway Democrats have spent months laboring on an enormous health care bill that feels irrelevant, at best, to the continuing unemployment crisis. And Obama and his advisers overpromised on the stimulus package, whose economic boost, while real, remains imperceptible to a nation coping with a double-digit jobless rate.
 Meanwhile, the regions hardest hit by the current downturn are places where liberals have dominated for generations, and where government is overextended already. (Of the 10 ''States in Fiscal Peril'' featured in a recent Pew report, nine went for Barack Obama in 2008.) Even if the residents of California or New Jersey or Illinois wanted further expansions of government, there isn't any revenue to finance them.
 So voters are turning rightward instead. In New Jersey, a recent Quinnipiac poll found that 61 percent of voters favored laying off state workers to reduce the current budget shortfall; only 23 percent favored raising taxes instead. Nationally, the percentage of Americans who say that government is doing ''too much'' hit a 10-year peak this fall. In 2007, 69 percent of the public said that government should guarantee universal health care; now that number is down to 47 percent. 
 The silver lining for liberals, though, is that this rightward turn hasn't touched younger voters yet. With 18- to 29-year-olds, Democratic identification remains high, and Obama's approval ratings are still up over 60 percent. 
 This suggests that a Depression-style realignment, in which today's youthful ''Obama Democrats'' are still voting for hope and change (and grumbling about George W. Bush) in 2050 and beyond, remains within the Democratic Party's grasp. 
 But even the young will need to see results eventually. And the more that Democrats flail in the present, the more likely it becomes that the Great Recession will be remembered as the time when liberalism let the future slip away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); RECESSION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); HISTORY (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



870 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment and Midterms

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
If they crave comfort, Democratic candidates can grab onto this: political science research finds little historical connection between unemployment and midterm Congressional elections.
 But neither the Obama White House nor outside Democratic strategists count on that evidence to protect them in the midterm elections of 2010. That is why, in a week when the Senate begins debating health care and President Obama reveals his new war strategy for Afghanistan, the White House ''jobs summit'' may be just as important politically. It represents the beginning of the Democratic effort to decide which new initiatives may be most effective in stimulating new hiring, and how aggressively to pursue them.
 Economists say that even robust additional steps beyond the $787 billion stimulus package will only marginally reduce joblessness next year -- perhaps by one percentage point. But any sign of pre-election progress may prove crucial to the Democrats' effort to keep a stormy election season from becoming a hurricane. 
 Loss of Seats Is the Norm
 In the 15 midterm elections since Harry S. Truman won the White House in 1948, the sitting president's party lost House seats 13 times. The exceptions were in 1998, when Democrats benefited from a robust economy and a backlash against the Republican drive to impeach President Bill Clinton over the Monica Lewinsky affair, and in 2002, when Republicans capitalized on President George W. Bush's post-Sept. 11 fight against terrorism.
 So both parties expect the Democrats' House majority, now 258 seats, to shrink. Less clear is whether the highest unemployment in a generation will expand the loss to well beyond the average, 22 seats in each midterm election since 1950.
 After matching data on joblessness and elections, Seth Masket, a political scientist at the University of Denver, asserted in a recent blog post, ''There's not much evidence unemployment has any effect at all.'' 
 Reagan-era Republicans lost 26 House seats amid the high joblessness of the 1982 recession. Yet Democrats lost a comparable number under Mr. Truman in 1950, as did Republicans under Mr. Bush in 2006, when unemployment remained low.
 But that conclusion hardly reassures Mr. Obama's party. The 1950 and 2006 contests were driven most by national security worries; the economy is expected to dominate 2010. And the major 1982 Republican defeat coincided with the last time unemployment cracked 10 percent -- until now. 
 ''What does seem to matter is economic growth,'' Mr. Masket observed, particularly pre-election growth in disposable income. Forecasters predict only moderate overall growth of less than 3 percent in 2010, with high unemployment limiting gains in income.
 'It's All About the Change'
 Of the 38 Democratic-held House seats that the political handicapper Charlie Cook deems as in jeopardy, 16 lie in states that had unemployment rates of 10 percent or higher in October. Three of eight endangered Democratic Senate seats are also in those states.
 But pollsters say unemployment now shapes views of the economy for voters nationwide. Democratic strategists consider it crucial to demonstrate a positive turn due to Mr. Obama's policies before the election.
 ''People need to see that point of inflection,'' said Mark Mellman, who advises Democratic House and Senate candidates. ''It's all about the change.'' 
 Other analysts say that on unemployment, all inflection points are not created equal. One variable is how fast joblessness declines; another is whether it falls back below 10 percent.
 ''Anything in double digits, they're not going to get any credit for that,'' said Daron Shaw, a political scientist at the University of Texas who advised Mr. Bush's 2000 and 2004 campaigns.
 The history of turning points in midterm elections colored by sharply rising unemployment does not settle the argument.
 In 1954, Democrats blamed President Dwight D. Eisenhower and the Republican-led Congress as unemployment, which averaged 2.9 percent the year before, rose to 6.1 percent in September. The rate began decreasing in October; Mr. Eisenhower's party lost a comparatively modest 18 seats.
 In 1958, a deep recession drove unemployment from the 1957 average of 4.3 percent to a peak of 7.5 percent in July. Its subsequent decline could not save Mr. Eisenhower's party from a staggering 47-seat loss. 
 A 2010 defeat that large would give Republicans control of the House. Mark Zandi, an economist, predicts that under current policies, unemployment, which stood at 7.6 percent as Mr. Obama took office in January, will peak at 11 percent next summer and fall no lower than 10.5 percent by Election Day.
 That grim outlook propels the White House search for ways to increase employment more rapidly. Mr. Obama and Congressional Democrats must weigh the uncertain benefits of additional spending against the costs, economic and political, of further widening the budget deficit.
 As with health care and Afghanistan, they have no comfortable options. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The parties of Harry S. Truman and Dwight D. Eisenhower lost a comparable number of House seats in midterm elections in 1950 and 1954 despite differing unemployment rates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDTERM ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); IMPEACHMENT (72%); TERRORISM (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (60%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



871 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Enlarging NATO, Expanding Confusion

BYLINE: By MARY ELISE SAROTTE. 
Mary Elise Sarotte, a professor of international relations at the University of Southern California and a fellow of the American Academy in Berlin, is the author of ''1989: The Struggle to Create Post-Cold War Europe.''

DATELINE: Berlin 

 BODY:
 TWENTY years ago, dictatorships across Central and Eastern Europe toppled. During this season of remembering, the focus has rightly been on celebration of the new freedoms gained by the inhabitants of those countries: to speak freely, to travel, to vote and to choose their own national futures and alliances. Yet the legacy of 1989 has difficult aspects as well, mostly centering on the origins and legitimacy of later NATO expansion to former East German and Warsaw Pact territory; acknowledgment of them by the United States could greatly improve American and Russian relations. 
 Moscow has long asserted that the Soviet Union allowed Germany to unify only in return for a pledge from Washington never to expand the Atlantic alliance. Former advisers to Presidents George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush have transcended partisan differences in dismissing the Russian claim. An internal State Department review during the Clinton era concluded that no legally binding prohibition on NATO enlargement emerged from the era of German unification. 
 Since then, however, it has become possible to reconstruct what happened from first-hand evidence. Former Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany released the papers of his office, which inspired the former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev to publish many of his own. A number of other leaders and institutions also opened files in advance of the 20th anniversary of the fall of the wall: the George H. W. Bush Presidential Library, Secretary of State James Baker, the German Foreign Ministry and the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office among them.
 There are many twists and turns, but the story as we now understand it is as follows: The crucial month was February 1990. It had become apparent that the cold war order in Europe had collapsed. Some kind of new order needed to be established quickly. Bonn and Washington had agreed that it should center on the rapid unification of Germany. 
 Both countries also wanted to head off alternative visions to NATO's continued primacy that were proposed by Mr. Gorbachev, who sought new European institutions from the Atlantic to the Urals, and by former Warsaw Pact dissidents-turned-rulers, who wanted a demilitarized Central and Eastern Europe to serve as a neutral bridge between East and West. Those plans would have diminished the leading role of the United States in Europe, whereas perpetuating the Atlantic alliance would maintain it.
 The biggest obstacle was, of course, the Soviet Union. Despite economic hardship at home, the Soviets maintained 380,000 troops in East Germany and still held legal rights of occupation emanating from the unconditional German surrender in 1945. Bonn and Washington thus wanted Moscow to remove its troops and to renounce its claims, without forcing NATO troops out as part of the bargain.
 What would Mr. Gorbachev demand in return? To learn the answer, Mr. Baker and Mr. Kohl journeyed to Moscow within a day of each other. On Feb. 9, 1990, Mr. Baker asked Mr. Gorbachev, ''Would you prefer to see a unified Germany outside of NATO, independent and with no U.S. forces or would you prefer a unified Germany to be tied to NATO, with assurances that NATO's jurisdiction would not shift one inch eastward from its present position?'' Mr. Gorbachev, according to Mr. Baker, answered that ''any extension of the zone of NATO would be unacceptable.'' Their meeting ended without any final deals made. Mr. Baker left behind a secret letter, detailing what he had said, for Mr. Kohl in Moscow.
 While Mr. Baker was in Moscow, though, members of the National Security Council back in Washington were worrying about his comment that NATO would not move eastward. To undo the damage they felt Mr. Baker had caused, they drafted a letter that President Bush sent to Mr. Kohl later that day. 
 The presidential letter included language that differed in a subtle but significant way from the language offered by the secretary of state. Instead of a pledge about NATO's borders, Mr. Bush suggested that East German territory be given a ''special military status'' within NATO. What that status would consist of was to be negotiated later, but the core assumption was clear. NATO would grow and former East German areas would have a special status within the alliance as it did so.
 A foreign leader can see daylight between a president and his secretary of state from the other side of the world, and Mr. Kohl did not have to look that far. He just had to read the differing phrasings used by Mr. Bush and Mr. Baker to notice it. So whose language did Mr. Kohl echo in his own talks with Mr. Gorbachev the next day, Feb. 10 -- the president's or the secretary's? 
 Mr. Kohl chose to echo Mr. Baker, not Mr. Bush. The chancellor assured Mr. Gorbachev, as Mr. Baker had done, that ''naturally NATO could not expand its territory'' into East Germany. The documents available do not record Mr. Kohl using the presidential phrase -- ''special military status'' -- that the National Security Council had rushed over to him. Mr. Kohl's foreign minister, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, visiting the Kremlin as well, assured his Soviet counterpart, Eduard Shevardnadze, that ''for us, it stands firm: NATO will not expand itself to the East.'' 
 Crucially, the Gorbachev-Kohl meeting ended with a deal, as opposed to the Gorbachev-Baker session the previous day. After listening to Mr. Kohl, Mr. Gorbachev agreed that Germany could unify internally. Mr. Kohl and his aides publicized this major concession immediately at a press conference. Then they returned home to begin merging the two Germanys under one currency and economic system.
 In essentially settling for a gentleman's agreement, Mr. Gorbachev missed some important pitfalls and then failed to do anything about them. First, Mr. Kohl spoke for West Germany, not for the United States or for NATO as a whole. Second, the Soviet leader got nothing about the trans-Atlantic alliance in writing. Third, Mr. Gorbachev did not criticize Mr. Kohl publicly when he and Mr. Bush later agreed to offer only a special military status to the former East Germany instead of a pledge that NATO wouldn't expand. Finally, he did not catch subtle signals that, by early 1990, speculative discussion in the West about NATO's future involved the inclusion of Eastern Europe as well. Mr. Gorbachev later complained to Mr. Kohl that he felt he had fallen into a trap.
 Did the United States betray Russia at the dawn of the post-cold war era? The short answer is no. Nothing legally binding emerged from the negotiations over German unification. In fact, in September 1990, an embattled Mr. Gorbachev signed the accords that allowed NATO to extend itself over the former East Germany in exchange for financial assistance from Bonn to Moscow. A longer answer, however, shows that there were mixed messages and diplomatic ambiguities. 
 By acknowledging that there might be some substance to Russian grievances, the Obama administration would strengthen our relations with Moscow. Given that NATO enlargement has already taken place (and efforts for further expansion are stalled), little would be lost with such an acknowledgment but much could be gained. Certainly, Western attempts to manage everything from Iran's nuclear program to European energy supplies during the coming winter would be a great deal easier with Russia's cooperation. A commemoration of the events of 20 years ago that included both celebration and candor would increase the likelihood of such cooperation.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAKOB HINRICHS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); COLD WAR (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); ARMED FORCES (63%); LIBRARIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); GEORGE H W BUSH (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



872 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Debate on Creating Jobs, Without Raising Deficit

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As Democrats renew their push to create jobs, they are at odds over the timing, cost and scope of additional measures, with the White House's concern about high budget deficits pitted against the eagerness of many in Congress to spur hiring before next year's elections.
 After months in which his focus has been on a health care overhaul and foreign policy issues, President Obama will pivot later this week to the economy, convening a White House forum on Thursday to discuss ideas for job creation and then traveling to Allentown, Pa., for his first stop on a ''Main Street Tour.'' 
Congressional Democrats return from a holiday break intent on packaging new proposals for tax incentives and construction projects to promote employment, with the House, where every member is up for re-election next year, on a much faster track than the Senate or the White House.
 While the political rationale for additional government action is clear, it is an open question whether it would have any substantial economic effect. Still, the impetus for the activity will be underscored on Friday when the government releases figures for job losses and the unemployment rate for November. 
 With joblessness, which stood at 10.2 percent in October, likely to remain high through 2010 even as the economy recovers, the stage is set for what could be a yearlong tussle between deficit reduction and government incentives for job creation, and between the politics of Wall Street and Main Street.
 ''There's sort of an anomaly here -- people want us to do stuff on jobs but they don't want to see a lot of government spending,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York.
 At a minimum, Democrats want to extend for a year the emergency benefits for the long-term unemployed that were part of last winter's $787 billion stimulus package and are due to expire at the end of December. While Congress recently extended federal unemployment benefits for up to 99 weeks for those who cannot find jobs, without further action such assistance will not be available to those who only recently lost their jobs or who will in the coming year.
 The question is whether relief for the unemployed will become a vehicle for proposals to encourage hiring.
 While details are still to be worked out, that is the intent of House leaders. They say the House will pass a bill this month that could include a tax credit for new hires, added incentives for credit to small businesses and at least a short-term extension of transportation construction spending. 
 But Senate Democrats say they cannot pass any major stimulus bill soon because debate on the pending health care bill will take weeks. Senators Richard J. Durbin of Illinois and Byron L. Dorgan of North Dakota have been given the job of packaging jobs-related ideas into legislation this month with an eye to debate early next year.
 Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, has proposed having the government share some employers' labor costs temporarily so businesses avoid layoffs. Based on programs already under way in 17 states, the plan would cost an estimated $600 million. Another proposal would give businesses a tax credit equal to a percentage of any expansion in their payrolls.
 White House officials say they remain open to a variety of ideas. But they have also signaled that Mr. Obama's willingness to back any expensive new government programs is limited. One official said Mr. Obama's announcement of the jobs forum was ''carefully crafted'' to emphasize that generally the ''government has done what it can. It's time to hear from the private sector about what it's going to do.''
 Administration officials have told Democrats that the president's State of the Union address in January and his subsequent budget for the 2011 fiscal year will focus on long-range plans to begin bringing down the deficit.
 As the administration and many economists point out, nearly three-quarters of the $787 billion stimulus package remains in the pipeline and thousands of job-creating projects are just getting under way. Yet Democrats in Congress are under pressure to do more from liberal economists, constituents and labor unions. The Congressional Black Caucus recently blocked action on the administration's initiative in the House for financial industry regulation to force attention to its demands for more action on jobs, including expanded credit to inner-city businesses.
 The liberal Economic Policy Institute and the A.F.L.-C.I.O. have released similar five-point plans for about $400 billion in additional unemployment assistance, infrastructure spending, aid to state and local governments to avoid layoffs of teachers and other employees, and a public employment initiative for short-term community jobs, like crews to clean up areas newly blighted by foreclosures. Richard Trumka, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said he would raise the ideas at the jobs summit. 
 Both groups would offset the proposed costs elsewhere in the federal budget. While stimulus measures usually are not ''paid for'' by spending cuts or tax increases since that would defeat the purpose of pumping money into the economy, the fact that even liberal groups now are suggesting ways to avoid adding to the deficit shows widespread acceptance of the political if not economic danger of adding to the ever-growing national debt.
 But there are differences over how to pay for any new spending and business tax breaks. Liberal and labor groups propose a tax on financial transactions to raise money and discourage speculators, and they want to tap unspent financial bailout money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program, the government's main bailout fund. 
 Both the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and the Obama administration, led by Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, are opposing a financial transactions tax, arguing that it could put American businesses at a competitive disadvantage. And the administration wants to apply any money left in the bailout fund to reducing the deficit.
 Congressional Republicans are likely to oppose new programs, aides say. ''Families are asking, 'Where are the jobs?' but all they are getting from out-of-touch Washington Democrats is more spending and more debt piled on our kids and grandkids,'' Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, wrote on a blog recently.
 Democrats said they would do a better job of explaining the effectiveness of government programs in helping the economy.
 ''Before we talk about new jobs initiatives, I think we need to do a better job of letting people know that we've gone from a total freefall to some stability in a very short period of time,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, who leads the House Democrats' campaign committee. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama is about to renew attention on the economy. This week, he will hold a forum at the White House on jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOB CREATION (93%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); TAX LAW (77%); POLITICS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (74%); TAX RELIEF (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); DISMISSALS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); BYRON DORGAN (58%); RICHARD DURBIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (57%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



873 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Vital Tests For Obama On Mandate For Change

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In a narrow sense, President Obama's handling of the critical issues of health care and Afghanistan in the weeks ahead will test the depth of his support among Democrats and determine whether he can draw Republicans to his foreign policy.
 But more broadly, how he manages those two challenges will provide the biggest trial yet of his ability to use the mandate he claimed more than a year ago to bring about substantial change in a political system that often conspires against it. 
 He is heading into this pivotal moment with his job-approval ratings down and much of his initial shine tarnished by months of political combat.
 The sullen economy and the prospect of continued high unemployment threaten to dull his influence in next year's midterm elections. And he faces particularly treacherous crosscurrents both on his effort to overhaul health care, where his own party is showing divisions in the face of nearly solid Republican opposition, and on his plan to escalate the war in Afghanistan, which threatens to alienate his liberal base and leave him reliant on Republican support.
 Mr. Obama won some big victories in the face of complex political calculations at the beginning of the year, notably the economic stimulus legislation. But that was a policy of necessity, born of deep and immediate crisis. The coming weeks could go a long way toward determining his capacity as a leader to bring the country along with him on policies of choice.
 ''This is a momentous week within a momentous year,'' Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, said Sunday in an interview. ''They're not just challenges we're faced with. They are challenges the country is faced with.''
 The health care debate and a new strategy for Afghanistan are coming to the fore at the same point, placing considerable strains on the White House as the president enters the final month of his first year in office. 
 The White House is monitoring these competing political forces to prevent a collision that could threaten both initiatives, along with other elements of the president's agenda.
 ''I think people will have the ability to separate these issues,'' said David Axelrod, a senior adviser to the president. ''There is a tremendous sense of purpose to get health care done. And wherever people stand on Afghanistan, I don't think it's going to dim their enthusiasm or impede their ability to get health care done.''
 Throughout the first 10 months of his presidency, Mr. Obama has grown accustomed to sailing through what often appear to be dispiriting times, marked by major obstacles and perceptions that he is flailing. But as he heads into December, he faces a convergence of some of the most intense challenges yet, the outcome of which will help set the tone for the midterm elections and the next stage of his presidency.
 One day after the president announces his plan for sending more troops to Afghanistan in a speech on Tuesday evening from the United States Military Academy at West Point, Congressional hearings on the war will open on Capitol Hill. 
 The health care debate is scheduled to resume on the Senate floor at the same time, testing the ability of Congress and the administration to multitask on dueling items atop Mr. Obama's agenda.
 Some Republicans are poised to argue this week that Democrats should delay the health care legislation to focus on the war and how it will be paid for. 
 ''The war is terribly important. Jobs and our economy are terribly important,'' Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, said Sunday on CNN. ''So this may be an audacious suggestion, but I would suggest we put aside the health care debate until next year, the same way we put cap and trade and climate change, and talk now about the essentials, the war and money.''
 The White House, which has adjusted to juggling major initiatives and a multitude of crises, is deploying separate teams to guide the Afghanistan and health care debates in Congress. It is seeking to keep the momentum on the health care legislation from being slowed by the dissent over whether the eight-year war in Afghanistan should be escalated and how it will be paid for.
 Senator Bernard Sanders, the Vermont independent who typically aligns with Democrats, said in a television interview Sunday that he and several colleagues had objections to the president's Afghanistan plan. 
 ''I've got a real problem about expanding this war where the rest of the world is sitting around and saying, 'Isn't it a nice thing that the taxpayers of the United States and the U.S. military are doing the work that the rest of the world should be doing?' '' Mr. Sanders said on ABC News's ''This Week.''
 The White House is sensitive to concern among Democrats on Afghanistan, in addition to the criticism that the president is not making good on other promises, like doing more to combat global warming.
 After initially saying Mr. Obama would most likely be too busy with the health care debate and other matters to attend the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen next week, administration officials concluded that the president needed to appear. They said Mr. Obama's decision to go prompted China and India to put forward plans to reduce emissions of heat-trapping gases, which will be presented at the conference.
 The president is increasingly talking about jobs and the economy -- two of the most worrisome subjects for Democrats facing re-election next year -- and will hold a White House forum on jobs on Thursday.
 But finishing the health care legislation, which still faces significant procedural, substantive and political hurdles in the Senate, is the chief task Mr. Obama would like to note as an accomplishment when he delivers his first State of the Union address in January. The first three weeks of December are critical. And the health care debate could spill over into Christmas week, leaving the departure date for Mr. Obama's annual vacation to his native Hawaii up in the air.
 ''We're not exactly coasting into the holidays,'' Mr. Axelrod said in a weekend interview, taking a break before the bustle of December begins. ''We don't have that luxury. There are a lot of challenges facing the country. We have to push forward.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009



874 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2009

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1599 words

HEADLINE: Evaluating Polling Methods and Results

BYLINE: MIKE RICHARD


HIGHLIGHT: Lesson Plan | How to understand and evaluate polling methods. 

 BODY:
 Overview | What basic skills are needed to read a poll? How are scientifically sound polls conducted? How can one gauge the reliability of poll data? In this lesson, students learn terms associated with polling as well as how to read and evaluate poll methodologies and results. They then practice administering and interpreting polls.
 Materials | Computers with Internet connection (if available; not required).
 Warm-Up | As students enter the classroom, have each one take out a blank sheet of paper. Then read aloud the six questions in the New York Times/CBS News Poll on Distracted Driving and direct them to write down their answers independently and silently. When they are finished, collect the polls and quickly tabulate the results. 
Share the results with the class. Ask: Do you think these results are representative of your entire grade? Of the entire school? Of people in your age group? Why or why not?
Then share the results of the Times/CBS poll as well as the summary sentence: "Nearly all Americans say sending a text message while driving should be illegal, and about half say texting while behind the wheel should be punished at least as harshly as drunken driving, according to a recent New York Times/CBS News Poll."
Ask: Do you think these results are indeed representative of what Americans think about these questions? Why or why not? What sorts of things do you think the pollsters for The Times and CBS News had to do to make sure that the poll was valid?
Finally, ask students to share their personal experiences with polls. Ask: Have you ever taken a poll? If so, what was the poll about? Was the poll on a Web site, administered with a Web tool like SurveyMonkey, in a magazine, over the telephone? What polls have they seen in the media recently? Do they tend to trust poll numbers or to be skeptical about them? Why?
 Related | Earlier in the month, Marjorie Connelly reported in the article "Many in U.S. Want Texting at the Wheel to Be Illegal" on the results of the New York Times/CBS News poll that the class took in the warm-up activity:
Nearly all Americans say sending a text message while driving should be illegal, and about half say texting while behind the wheel should be punished at least as harshly as drunken driving, according to a recent New York Times/CBS News poll. [...]
Ninety-seven percent support the prohibition of texting while driving, an unusual level of agreement for any topic. Eighty percent also support a ban on talking on a hand-held cell phone while driving.
Fifty percent said the punishment for texting while driving should be just as severe as for drunken driving.
Read the entire article with your class, using the following questions.
 Questions | For reading comprehension and discussion:

        
Why do you think that on the question of banning texting while driving, there was "an unusual level of agreement" - 97 percent?
        
Which, if any, of the poll findings surprised you, and why?
        
Why do you think the percentage of adult Americans who think using hand-held cellphones while driving went up from 69 percent in 2001 to 80 percent in 2009?
        
According to the article, 829 adults were surveyed. How might the results differ if teenagers were polled as well? Should teens have been included? Why or why not?
        
The poll "has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points." What does this mean to you?
 Activity | Put students into pairs and give each pair copies of "How the Poll Was Conducted," which explains how the texting while driving poll was conducted; the entire poll results; and The New York Times Polling Standards. Direct students to, as they read, underline or highlight terms referring to, and information about, methodology (including self-selection), sample sizes and demographics, margin of error, etc.
Then have each pair convene with another pair, so that students are working in groups of four. Assign each group to focus on one or more specific aspects of polling, including the following, based on the National Council on Public Polls's list of "20 Questions a Journalist Should Ask About Poll Results":

        
 Pollsters - Who conducted the poll? Was it conducted by a disinterested group, like a news organization, or by an advocacy organization? Who paid for it? Why was it conducted?
        
 Sample Size - How many people need to be interviewed for the sample size to produce valid, representative results? For any particular poll, how many people were interviewed? What population are the results said to represent? Is the size adequate to represent that population? How can you tell?
        
 Sample Randomization - Was the sample self-selected or chosen at random ("scientific")? If the latter, was the methodology of finding respondents sufficient to ensure randomness? Why or why not?
        
 Sampling Error - What do "sampling error," "margin of error" and "confidence level" mean? How is the margin of error determined? How can errors be minimized and confidence level be maximized?
        
 Demographics - What area(s) or region(s) were respondents from? Did the survey focus on a specific population, like drivers, voters, African-Americans, etc.? If the poll is meant to represent a large, diverse population, like Americans, do you think it does so and why or why not?
        
 Methodology - Was this poll done over the telephone, in person, on the Internet, some other way? Was it done by experienced poll-takers, or by inexperienced volunteers or students? How might the methodology affect or shape the results?
        
 Question Wording - Does the question wording seem neutral, biased or perhaps confusing or misleading in some way? How about the question sequencing? Might any of these factors, as well as the poll-taker's inflection, have influenced how respondents answered the questions? Do you think respondents expressed their true views?
When groups are finished, have each one report out to the class. For example, the group working on sample size should review and then tell the class how adequate sample sizes are ascertained, whether the sample size of the texting while driving poll seems to be adequate, etc. As the groups report their findings, allow students from other groups to ask clarification questions and to add their own ideas about the validity of the texting while driving poll.
Finally, ask: How would you conduct this poll on our school population? What adjustments would you need to make to the methodology used by New York Times and CBS News? How could you ensure that the poll was scientifically sound and adequately represented the views of the whole school? Write their ideas on the board. If necessary, prompt them to think about the size of the school population, sample size, margin of error, methodology, sub-populations (like age and grade levels) and so on.
 Going Further | Using the ideas generated at the close of the activity, have the class develop a poll to survey the school population on their views on texting while driving. Have students develop polls individually or in pairs. Then look at all of them as a class and use the best, most sound elements from them to create one class-wide poll. Assign students to work as "pollsters" and administer the poll in school. Each pollster should be assigned a specific group or list of students to poll to avoid overlap or gaps.
When the results are in, analyze the results and compare them with The New York Times/CBS News results. Are the results similar or quite different? Why might that be?
To add another element that prompts further thinking about gauging respondents' "true" views, have students play the New York Times game "Gauging Your Distraction."
When they are finished, give them the poll to take again, and retabulate the results. Did any responses change? If they did change an answer, does that make the poll more valid, less valid, equally valid? Why?
In addition, to deepen and reinforce their understanding of sound polling methods and how to read polls, students work individually to analyze a New York Times poll on a topic that interests them.
For example, they might look at a poll on government-run health care, the Yankees versus the Mets, the economy and even college students' impressions of their education.
Remind students to make sure to look at the sidebar on each page to examine the poll questions as well as the related article on how the poll was conducted when they answer the questions. Provide them with the handout 'Survey Says ...': Analyzing a New York Times Poll (PDF) to guide their thinking.
If students are itching to express their own views on the subject, they might also answer The Learning Network's Student Opinion question about texting while driving.
 Standards | From McREL, for Grades 6-12:
 Thinking and Reasoning
 1. Understands and applies the basic principles of presenting an argument.
2. Understands and applies basic principles of logic and reasoning.
6. Applies decision-making techniques.
 Mathematics
 1. Uses a variety of strategies in the problem-solving process.
6. Understands and applies basic and advanced concepts of statistics and data analysis.
 Arts and Communication
 2. Knows and applies appropriate criteria to arts and communication products.
3. Uses critical and creative thinking in various arts and communication settings.
4. Understands ways in which the human experience is transmitted and reflected in the arts and communication.
 Language Arts
 7. Uses reading skills and strategies to understand and interpret a variety of informational texts.

        
What a Poll Can Tell You About the National Mood
        
Political Polls and Pundits: Parsing the Midterm Election Results
        
Predicting the Vote: Analyzing Election Data

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (90%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); TEXT MESSAGING (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (75%); MATHEMATICS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%) polling; polls; surveys; Academic Skills; Current Events; Data Analysis and Probability; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Mathematical Reasoning; Mathematics; Teaching with The New York Times; Thinking Skills

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2013

 
