

601 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''Guilty.''
 Bernard L. Madoff, responding in court to charges that he had run a vast Ponzi scheme that robbed thousands of investors of their life savings. 
 ''I think this economy was a good way to cure my compulsive shopping habit.''
 Maxine Frankel, a high school teacher from Skokie, Ill., who says she now feels ''much more satisfied with the things money can't buy, like the well-being of my family.''
 ''It's potentially a portable, personal spy.''
 Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, on cellphones and smartphones. Advertisers are looking at more specific ways to track phone users' interests, their habits and even their locations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PONZI SCHEMES (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (85%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (85%); SMARTPHONES (66%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (55%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



602 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: New Rochelle Hopes to Draw Artists to Affordable Space

BYLINE: By JULI S. CHARKES

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE 

 BODY:
 THERE were references to wall color and a suggestion or two on how the floors might be finished before he would move in. But Louis Netter, 34, the would-be tenant on the top floor of a building downtown, appeared less concerned with the surface details provided by the landlord than the fact that the work space he was looking to rent for $550 a month came with ample sunlight and heat. 
 ''The light is great here,'' Mr. Netter, a graphic artist and illustrator, said, turning toward a wall of windows overlooking Centre Avenue. ''And there's no damp, so that's better for my drawings.'' 
 Finding affordable studio space has been daunting for Mr. Netter: His art is currently spread out in two studios, including a dilapidated garage that does not include the climate control needed to preserve his satirical etchings.
 But in a time of economic tumult, Mr. Netter and other artists are finding an unlikely partner in their pursuit of affordable studio space. The New Rochelle Business Improvement District is persuading downtown property owners to transform vacant space previously intended for commercial rentals into studio space for artists with monthly rents ranging from $350 to $900, depending on square footage. 
 The idea is to create a marketing niche that will benefit property owners whose real estate has languished in a tepid market, said Ralph DiBart, executive director of the New Rochelle Business Improvement District.
 The district is helping businesses see that they can keep the investment to update their spaces ''at a modest level and therefore affordable to artists and arts businesses,'' Mr. DiBart said. 
 City officials also stressed the advantage of cultivating an artistic community that will bring foot traffic into downtown businesses and become part of the New Rochelle artistic heritage, which includes Norman Rockwell and the Saturday Evening Post illustrator John Falter, among others.
 ''New Rochelle has a rich and distinguished history of the arts,'' Mayor Noam Bramson said. ''This initiative builds on and enhances that identity and integrates the arts more fully into our community.''
 Mr. DiBart said he had identified about 25,000 square feet of unused upper-floor space in downtown buildings suitable for conversion. About 6,000 square feet of that space has been rented to artists, including Mr. Netter.
 The Business Improvement District has allocated portions of a state grant from the Office of Community Renewal's New York Main Street program to jump-start the initiative, Mr. DiBart said. Matching grants of up to $30,000 will be provided per building, up to a total of $90,000, and will help defray renovation costs.
 But the bulk of the initial investment falls on those property owners willing to take a chance on renting out to artists. Len Shendell, chairman of Cornell Pace, which owns the building where Mr. Netter will rent, said he had invested about $200,000 to renovate the interior. The renovations include a new roof and round-the-clock security cameras for the building, which is covered outside with terra cotta Art Deco designs from the 1930s. 
 Mr. Shendell described the move to accommodate artists as a savvy one given that the space has sat empty since he bought it two years ago for $2 million.
 Typically, that space would have rented for $18 to $24 per square foot, Mr. Shendell said. Under the agreement brokered with the Business Improvement District, artists are not charged per square foot, but are provided with a rent of $350 to $900, depending on size and exposure to light. For one lease that has been signed, that works out to just under $17 per square foot.
 Furthermore, Mr. Shendell said the investment in transforming the space was still less than what it would have cost to accommodate more traditional commercial vendors.
 If the New Rochelle move seems like a gamble, there is precedent to show its potential. Mr. DiBart initiated a similar endeavor in Peekskill in the early 1990s, when he was a consultant to the city's development office, overseeing the conversion of artists' studios and work/living spaces for artists. The intention was to expand the city's commercial and tax base while helping to create an artistic community.
 Dwight Douglas, who was the director of planning and development for Peekskill at the time, said the effort to provide artists space helped spur downtown development, which had stalled in the '90s because of a downturn in the economy.
 ''It was a major success story for the city,'' he said. ''We built an artist community that is very important to the city, put together a mix of needed facilities that all support each other and make it an inviting place to come to.''
 Under Mr. DiBart's initiative, Peekskill now has 80 work and living spaces for artists and another 50 studios.
 Mr. DiBart said he was optimistic that the success of Peekskill could be recreated in New Rochelle, particularly given New Rochelle's denser population and proximity to New York City. ''We have a greater pool to draw from,'' he said, referring to artists who would seek studio space. 
 One such artist is Steve Brock, 45, a digital and multimedia artist who signed a lease on a 637-square-foot, sun-strewn studio in Mr. Shendell's building for $900 a month. It is one of 14 spaces Mr. Shendell and his company are transforming from vacant space in time for an April move-in date.
 Mr. Brock has been using the basement of his home in New Rochelle as a studio but said he looked forward to the advantages of a more formal setting. 
 ''This is a way we can be together,'' he said, referring to the professional camaraderie he looks forward to cultivating with other artists in the building. 
 ''For creativity, you need to get out,'' he said. ''There are a lot of creative people working out here in the strangest places.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: INITIATIVE Steve Brock in his 637-square-foot leased studio in New Rochelle.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE1)
 FOR SUNLIGHT: Louis Netter, left, in the studio he will be renting, and Ralph DiBart, of the Business Improvement District.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITIES (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); VISUAL ARTS (75%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (63%); MATCHING GIFTS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



603 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Offering the Best Price for Learning Supplies: Free

BYLINE: By AMY MAYER

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Matt Knapp, a middle school history teacher, used to spend a lot of his own money on supplies for his classroom. Now, he goes to the warehouse-style shop of Extras for Creative Learning.
 ''I come here for the free loot,'' Mr. Knapp said, holding two reams of paper above his head. 
 Extras for Creative Learning is a nonprofit organization that funnels castoff items from businesses into the hands of teachers, day care providers and parents. And the economic downturn is fueling a boom in some donations. 
 ''We actually have been getting all kinds of office things from places that are either downsizing or moving to smaller offices,'' said Jodi Schmidt, the director of the group.
 Mr. Knapp pays $40 a year for eight visits to the warehouse, during which he can take as much as he wants. He usually stocks up on poster board and drawing paper, markers and pens, binders, and sometimes cups, fake coins and other props for skits in his classes at the Lilla G. Frederick Pilot Middle School in Boston.
 Ms. Schmidt said the center received items that would otherwise be destined for landfills or incinerators, allowing businesses a tax write-off. 
 The center, which has an annual budget of $175,000, picks up donated items at no charge. To raise money, it sells new and used donated furniture, like filing cabinets, tables, desks and chairs.
 When Reebok moved a division to South Carolina from Canton, Mass., last spring, all the paper clips, in-boxes and other supplies that employees did not want were sent to Extras for Creative Learning, said Becky Snow, chairman of the Reebok Environmental Action Team.
 The company also reduced its garbage cost by donating more obscure items. Heavy rolls of polyurethane film, most likely used to make prototypes of the cushioning mechanism in sneakers, turned out to be great for making music.
 ''Artists and school groups have been using it for drums,'' Ms. Snow said.
 Recycling for Rhode Island Education, in Providence, also redistributes corporate castoffs with an environmental angle -- ensuring that materials are reused rather than trashed. The Kids in Need Network gives free school supplies to low-income students in 23 cities.
 Extras for Creative Learning has nearly 1,000 members. Anyone can join, though rates are lowest for Boston public school teachers. The school district provides free space for the center in the basement of the Boston Latin Academy. 
 Since August 2008, the center's data show, the school district has received more than $300,000 worth of supplies.
 On a recent visit, Su Theriault, an education instructor at the University of Massachusetts, Boston, chose some short cardboard tubes, felt and paper for a preschool project she coordinates. 
 Then an Extras for Creative Learning worker brought out the items she had called ahead for: 50 canvas tote bags so children could take materials home. 
 ''I just saved $693,'' Ms. Theriault said as she surveyed her items.
 Along with the paper clips, paste and cardboard, there is the occasional must-have oddity -- like the centrifuge once donated by a scientific company. 
 ''You can't pass up an opportunity like that,'' said Teresa Marx, a chemistry teacher at nearby Excel High School who saw the item listed on the center's blog and rushed over. ''It was just too amazing.'' 
 The demand for supplies is steady, and Ms. Schmidt said there was never a shortage of material donations. But like some of its contributors, her 28-year-old organization has its own budgetary troubles. Membership increased fourfold from 2005 to 2008, but furniture sales are currently down because of fewer donations. Cash contributions are also down, and expenses are up. 
 ''We are going to be facing a budget shortfall, probably in mid-July,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Yvette Fair with her take at Extras for Creative Learning, a nonprofit group in Boston that redistributes castoffs from businesses.
 Jodi Schmidt, director of the organization, said corporate downsizing had helped with donations of some materials -- which a touch of creativity can turn into art.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY C J GUNTHER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (87%); HISTORY (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); CHILD CARE (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); LANDFILLS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); POLYURETHANE (50%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



604 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Nassau and Union in Deal to Avoid Layoffs

BYLINE: By LINDA SASLOW

 BODY:
A TENTATIVE agreement between Nassau County and the majority of its employees will save the county $43 million this year and guarantee no layoffs or pay cuts for union members, county and union officials said.
 The savings require deferred payments to county employees and an agreement that by June 4, 325 members of CSEA Local 830, which represents most civilian workers, will volunteer to retire early.
 On Monday, County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi announced a deal with four of the five unions representing county employees, which he said would reduce the work force by 425 and cut the payroll by $30 million annually. 
 Mr. Suozzi said that while payroll deferments were a temporary solution, ''it buys us time to get our finances in order, and we will also be reducing the work force by 5 percent, which is a recurring savings.''
 The unions that are part of the accord are CSEA Local 830, the largest union in Nassau, with 7,000 members who are county employees; and three police unions -- the Police Benevolent Association (which has 1,850 members), the Detectives Association Inc. (404) and the Superior Officers Association (415). The county was still negotiating with the Sheriffs Officers Association (1,073 members).
 The deal, which is subject to ratification by CSEA members and the County Legislature, could still fall apart if not enough CSEA employees agree to take early retirement. But Jerry Laricchiuta, CSEA Local 830's president, said he thought the membership would approve the deal in a vote within three weeks and meet the retirement goal.
 The deal follows a month of discussions between the county and the unions. Mr. Suozzi had threatened to lay off almost 1,000 workers if the unions did not agree to a 7 percent pay cut or savings of $50 million.
 ''I don't believe in layoffs,'' Mr. Suozzi said. ''But it is essential that we never let Nassau County go back to the bad old days when it was fiscally irresponsible.''
 A $130 million hole in the county's proposed $2.6 billion budget is largely a result of diminished sales tax revenues over the past six months, county officials said.
 For Police Benevolent Association members, the deal means deferring holiday pay over the next three years and two weeks' pay in 2009, all to be paid upon retirement. The proposal also calls for downsizing the police department by 100 by replacing police employees in lower-paid desk jobs with civilians and returning some administrative police officers to street patrol.
 Jim Carver, president of the Nassau County P.B.A., said: ''Any time you give back or defer money, you can't call it a good deal. But when you put in perspective the financial crisis of Nassau County, we made the best of a bad situation.''
 Pay delays for two weeks this year would also be required of CSEA Local 830's members. Raises planned for 2010 and 2011 would be deferred until 2014 and 2015. 
 One of the biggest stumbling blocks could be the mandatory early retirement for 325 CSEA employees in a union where officials say the annual attrition rate is 125. To meet the goal, the package would pay those volunteering for early retirement $1,000 for each year of service with Nassau County in a lump sum within 60 days of retirement. Anyone with 15 years of service is eligible for early retirement. 
 Mr. Laricchiuta said the union was ''allowing the county to use some of our money to straighten out its finances.''
 ''We understand that this is not painless for our members,'' he said. ''But our main goal was to avoid layoffs and to make sure that any pay cut would not be permanent and would be delivered back to the members at some time in the near future.'' 
 Mr. Laricchiuta said that 1,500 union members were eligible for early retirement and that he was optimistic the incentive would help the county reach its goal.
 Mr. Suozzi said that if the union does not achieve its target number for early retirement, ''the deal is off.'' And if they come close?
 ''We'll cross that bridge if we come to it,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas R. Suozzi (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (89%); APPROVALS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (64%); SALES TAX (60%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



605 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Washington Sees Excess In Its Fund For Jobless

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
Washington State came late to the recession, but it is now a full participant. Companies like Boeing, Starbucks and even Microsoft have laid off thousands of employees. Unemployment is rising faster here than in most other states. 
 Yet one of the few bright spots in the forbidding state budget is Washington's fund for paying its generous unemployment benefits; the fund is flush with nearly $4 billion. Even if the recession drags through late 2010, even if not another dime is deposited into the fund until then, and even as many other states are raising taxes and borrowing money to pay benefits, state officials say Washington's unemployment safety net will be secure.
 Too secure, in fact.
 ''We do have a healthier fund than you need to have,'' said Sheryl Hutchison, a spokeswoman for the State Employment Security Department.
 Turns out the recession's too-good-to-be-true category is not reserved solely for things like interest-only mortgages and Ponzi schemes. Washington's unemployment insurance fund is out of compliance with federal rules, the federal Department of Labor says. 
 The main issue to be addressed: relatively stable year-round employers, including retailers, pay a disproportionate share into the fund to compensate for predictable layoffs in the state's many seasonal industries, like farming, fishing and construction. 
 ''Full-time employers subsidize part-time employers,'' said Jan Teague, president and chief executive of the Washington Retail Association.
 So now, even as state jobless claims are increasing and the fund is slowly shrinking, lawmakers in the state capital, Olympia, have been forced to revise how employers contribute to the fund. 
 The State Senate recently passed a bill that would reduce contributions from many employers. The measure would not reduce unemployment benefits, though it would not extend a temporary $45 increase in weekly benefits. But it will reduce the fund's cushion to 12 to 15 months from the current 20, in accord with federal recommendations. Several other states, often those accused of having high payroll taxes, have cushions. Oregon, where the unemployment rate is 9.9 percent, has $1.8 billion in its fund. (It is not out of federal compliance.) 
 Far more states with lower tax rates are struggling to meet their obligations. Michigan has borrowed $1.3 billion from the federal government and raised taxes. Michigan's unemployment rate in January was 11.6 percent, the highest in the nation, compared with 7.8 percent in Washington State.
 The fact that Washington's fund is so high, much less that lawmakers are planning to reduce it, ''seems counterintuitive,'' said State Senator Jeanne Kohl-Welles, a Democrat from Seattle who sponsored the bill. But, Ms. Kohl-Welles pointed out, if the state does not revise its law, businesses could lose $300 million in federal tax credits intended to encourage compliance with unemployment programs.
 ''We really do have to act,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Microsoft, with headquarters in Redmond, Wash., is one of several companies in the state laying off thousands of employees.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN LEVINE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RECESSION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX INCREASES (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); CORPORATE TAX (70%); RETAILERS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PONZI SCHEMES (52%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); BOEING CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



606 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1794 words

HEADLINE: Times Are Tough, Libraries Are Thriving

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

DATELINE: CHAPPAQUA 

 BODY:
 PAMELA C. THORNTON, the director of the library here, said that lately she has noticed more than a few people applying for a new library card while sheepishly explaining that they have lost their old one. She is skeptical that they actually did lose their card. Rather, she suspects that they are just too embarrassed to admit they are applying for their first card since childhood.
 Indeed, with the economy continuing to falter, many people are finding their way to the library for the first time in years, or even for the very first time, library officials said. That's because there is an upside to the economic downturn: Libraries are booming. Indeed, the bad news on the economy is good news for libraries across the New York region -- so long as they can escape the budget ax that is falling on many municipal services as cities and towns struggle with declining revenue.
 People are flocking to libraries after forsaking Barnes & Noble or ditching their HBO service and subscriptions to Netflix, library officials said, because libraries' books, DVDs and CDs, they said, have a significant advantage over those other outlets: They are free. 
 Movie lovers are using the library as their local Blockbuster, library officials say; others are showing up at the library for the first time for free entertainment -- films, lectures, concerts and puppet shows. Still others are capitalizing on libraries' newspaper racks, books and free Internet service for job searches and investment advice or advice on a topic that the title of a much-thumbed book makes obvious: ''Surviving a Layoff: A Week-by-Week Guide to Getting your Life Back Together.''
 There is an incongruity in libraries' providing such a wealth of free services, because libraries themselves are vulnerable to the economy. Towns and school districts have started to make cuts, and library hours and employees are frequent targets, though so far most of the cuts seem manageable, library officials said.
 Opal Brown Lindsay, director of the historic Mount Vernon Public Library -- it was built in the early 20th century with money donated by Andrew Carnegie -- said she was given only a slight increase in her $4 million budget, not enough to cover salary increases or fill vacant positions. Nevertheless, she said, the library has experienced a surge in use, particularly in demands on its 18 computers, which are frequently being surfed by job hunters. 
 Librarians said they have not had to make major increases in purchases of books and DVDs, only shrewder ones -- buying extra copies of, say, a John Grisham novel, and cutting back on books that might not have as large a readership.
 For now, libraries are welcoming their new popularity.
 Ms. Thornton said that circulation in December at the Chappaqua Library was up 22.3 percent from December 2007, with patrons checking out 35,692, books, DVD, CDs and other items. 
 The Ridgefield Library in Ridgefield, Conn., noted a 7 percent rise in checkouts in the last six months of 2008. In that same period, 211,500 items, 60 percent of them books, were borrowed.
 The Bergen County Cooperative Library Systems, a consortium of 75 libraries in northern New Jersey, reported an 8.2 percent increase in borrowing in 2008, with nearly 10.9 million items taken out during the year. 
 ''People are reawakening to all the things the library has to offer, and, unfortunately, this is because of the economic downturn,'' said Arlene Sahraie, the library services director for the Bergen County network. ''There's a saying among librarians that libraries will get you through times of no money better than money will get you through times of no libraries.''
 One day recently, Shira Weiss, a 34-year-old publicist, showed up at the Teaneck, N.J., Public Library, with her two children, for the first time in years after her husband gently inquired why she needed to spend so much on books. She applied for a card and -- after taking out two chick-lit novels, an illustrated ''Star Wars'' book for her 5-year-old, Jake, and two animals books for her 2-year-old, Ben -- instinctively pulled out her wallet to pay.
 ''I guess it will take an adjustment period until I realize that some of the best things in life are indeed free,'' she said.
 Robert White, the director of the Bergen network, said he had calculated that ''the average yearly value to every card used in our system was $706.''
 ''You don't get that kind of rebate on the Discover Card,'' he said. ''And it's all free.''
 Of course, some people have known all along about the economic virtues of the library. Joan Friedman, a retired businesswoman, mother of eight and self-described library addict, was in Chappaqua's stacks, weighed down with books and DVDs like ''Belle Epoque'' and ''Nights of Cabiria.'' 
 ''I live on a limited income, and I don't understand why people pay for something when they can get it for free,'' Ms. Friedman said.
 In Ridgefield, an affluent town where many residents work at nearby companies like Pepsi, General Electric and I.B.M., people are tapping the library's free services even if they are financially comfortable enough for now, library officials said.
 ''I just think people are hunkering down,'' said Christina Nolan, the library's director. ''They may not have to cut out Netflix, but they're choosing to do so because they don't know what's around the corner.''
 Indeed, as she spoke, Ann Harrington, a mother of two married to a freelance illustrator whose assignments, she said, were slipping, was carrying a half-dozen DVDs, including ''A Few Good Men'' and ''The Upside of Anger,'' as well as the inspirational football film ''Facing the Giants,'' which her whole family could watch.
 Ms. Nolan said attendance was up 20 percent at the library's abundant -- and free -- weekend and weeknight programs, with residents opting for those rather than tickets to Broadway or Lincoln Center or a movie at the multiplex.
 Ms. Nolan has shown the Batman movie ''The Dark Knight'' and ''Man on Wire,'' the documentary about the Twin Towers tightrope walker, to packed houses of about 100 people, something she said would not have happened a year ago. 
 At the Chappaqua Library last fall, a showing of ''Waitress,'' with a sweetener of 15 pies to highlight a motif of the movie, brought out 95 people.
 Ms. Lindsay, of the Mount Vernon Public Library, said she had also noticed that more children are showing up there after school. She speculated that more parents are either using the library to replace child care they can no longer afford or are leaving their children there while looking for jobs.
 At the Ridgefield Library, Geri Diorio, head of children's services, said she noticed that on many days twice as many mothers and fathers were coming in with children for ''Storytime.''
 ''Rather than 'Let's wander the mall!' it's 'Let's go to the library!' '' Ms. Diorio said. ''I'm also seeing a lot more dads at Storytime.'' 
 One of the mothers at Storytime was Alice Weiner, who signed up her three children, ages 3, 5 and 7.
 ''It's another good activity that doesn't cost,'' she said. ''Instead of going to the bookstore, we come here. A hardcover children's book costs $16.'' 
 Fewer au pairs are taking the children because some stay-at-home mothers are doing without such help, librarians in Ridgefield said. In Ridgefield and Chappaqua, families are also signing up for free passes to museums like the Museum of Natural History and the Guggenheim, library officials said.
 ''Here you'd think: 'Chappaqua? People can afford to go,' but they're constantly in use,'' Ms. Thornton said of the passes. ''We're finding people fighting over them.''
 In Ridgefield, Ms. Nolan said she had observed that people who have lost jobs in a town where two-acre zoning can isolate them are finding their way to the library to seek congenial company.
 ''The library is used as a gathering place for people who are intelligent and have similar values so they're not as isolated,'' she said. ''We have days that 1,400 people come through our doors. That's a lot for a town of 24,000.''
 Investors whose 401(k)'s have been sheared in half are taking advantage of the Chappaqua Library's subscription to Value Line's investment research and analyses, which costs the library $600 a year. Some whose homes have been foreclosed are taking out books about their options, library officials said.
 With unemployment rising, the jobless are flocking to the library for help in finding work, switching careers, brushing up resumes or checking the financial ratings of companies that are advertising for help, library officials said. On a recent day at the East Meadow Public Libarary, on Long Island, four of the nine Internet-ready computers were being used for job searches
 One of the searchers was Gary Eisele, 54, who lost his job as a customer service representative for American Home Mortgage Investment, a firm that filed for bankruptcy in 2007. Mr. Eisle, one of 1,400 people let go on Long Island, was checking help-wanted ads on Monster.com and CareerBuilder.com at the library because, he said, he could no longer afford home Internet service.
 The libraries in both Ridgefield and Teaneck report more people bringing in laptops to use the free WiFi.
 Some libraries are changing buying patterns. In Chappaqua, the library is stocking more popular titles because people have cut back on book purchases, Ms. Thornton said. 
 ''If it's a best seller, instead of buying two copies perhaps we'll buy four,'' she said. ''People are thinking of us as their bookstore.''
 When ''Slumdog Millionaire'' started winning its haul of best picture awards, Michael McCue, the library director in Teaneck, went out and bought copies of the book it is based on. He said he knew there would be requests the next day.
 While meeting patrons' needs, libraries are facing austerity themselves.
 Ms. Thornton said that the Chappaqua Library's budget was safe until June 30, but that she expected ''to sit down and make some hard choices'' for the next fiscal year. 
 ''Are we going to buy more copies of popular fiction and nonfiction, or buy a fringe title?'' she said.
 Ridgefield's library, with a $2 million budget, has been hit with a $60,000 cut this year, which it has been able to absorb with small adjustments. But officials there worry about what may happen when the town votes on its budget in May. To give itself a cushion, the library raised late fees to 25 cents from 10 cents.
 Nonetheless, Ms. Nolan, of the Ridgefield Library, said she thinks sustaining free services is essential.
 ''A library is the people's university,'' she said. ''From cradle to grave, you can come here and learn about ballet, astronomy, gem cutting or whatever you want.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SHELF LIFE:Looking for audiobooks at the Chappaqua Library, where the number of items lent rose 22.3 percent in one year. Public lectures are also among the library's offerings.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE1)
 NET PROFITING: Keeping busy at the Chappaqua Library's banks of computers. At right, Alex Frankel, in the periodicals section, uses the library's WiFi to connect to the Internet on his laptop computer.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (95%); LIBRARIANS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (73%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (63%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (55%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (55%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (55%)

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



607 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2109 words

HEADLINE: Same City, New Story

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
WHEN Leonard Bernstein, Stephen Sondheim, Jerome Robbins and Arthur Laurents created ''West Side Story'' in the mid-'50s, they lived within walking distance of the concrete alleys and playgrounds that were the backdrop for their updated version of ''Romeo and Juliet,'' the crowded tenements where new Puerto Rican immigrants rubbed up against the Irish, Poles and Italians who had preceded them.
 The postwar ''Migracion,'' or Great Migration, was in full swing, and every year tens of thousands of Puerto Ricans, lured by better jobs and wages, left their homeland to settle in New York City. Robbins, who choreographed and directed the show, immersed himself in this historical stream. He attended a high school dance in Puerto Rican East Harlem to observe movements; and when rehearsals with the cast started, he posted an article about a gang killing in the studio on West 56th Street, scrawling above it, ''Read this; this is your life.''
 On Thursday the first Broadway revival of ''West Side Story'' in nearly three decades opens at the Palace Theater, and clearly the worlds inside and outside the theater are vastly different from when Tony just met a girl named Maria more than 50 years ago. 
 Being ''Spanish'' in New York then meant being Puerto Rican and being treated as an outsider. Officials didn't even start counting island natives as a separate ethnic group until 1955. By 1960 the 41,000 Puerto Ricans who lived on the Upper West Side between 58th and 110th Streets made up 14 percent of the neighborhoods' population. After that, ''slum clearance'' was the political slogan of the day, and the streets where the 1961 movie version was filmed were dismantled to make way for high-rises and Lincoln Center. Now Puerto Ricans in that same area amount to just 6,700, about 3 percent of the total.
 Today if Maria, her brother Bernardo and his girlfriend, Anita, were magically airlifted out of their 1957 lives of chewed-up brick and fire escapes into modern-day New York, among the many astonishing wonders awaiting them would be bilingual public schools, a Puerto Rican Day Parade on Fifth Avenue and a city with a majority of minorities. They would also be able to tune in to at least four Spanish-language television stations and five big radio stations for news, music and soap operas. 
 Puerto Ricans are still the city's most numerous Spanish-speaking group -- with 787,000 residents in 2007, one out of three, according to an analysis of United States Census Data by the Queens College sociology department -- but their total has steadily declined over the last 25 years. They are no longer the insecure newcomers, compelled to fight for a patch of turf. They are veterans now, their walk and talk aped by the growing numbers of teenage Central and South American greenhorns from the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Ecuador and elsewhere trying to fit in. 
 These and other changes are partly why Mr. Laurents, who wrote the book for ''West Side Story,'' decided that, at 91, he was ready not only to revive this classic musical but also, for the first time, to direct it himself. 
 ''I don't believe in reviving anything unless you have a fresh approach,'' he said by phone from his home in Quogue, N.Y. 
 For Mr. Laurents that fresh approach includes two critical elements: having the Puerto Rican characters speak in Spanish and focusing on what he believes was always neglected, the story. ''The original was really about how you tell the story,'' he explained -- at the time a new and sophisticated integration of dance, music and book. This version would focus on telling ''the story of Tony and Maria and love.'' 
 The idea went over big in the pre-Broadway run in Washington. ''It's love at first sight for us,'' Peter Marks wrote in The Washington Post, adding that making the script bilingual gives ''a truer sense of the cultural misunderstandings at the heart of 'West Side Story' as expressed in the characters' disparate languages.'' 
 The initial inspiration for a reimagined revival came from Mr. Laurents's companion, Tom Hatcher, who died in 2006. He had seen a performance of ''West Side Story'' in Spanish by a local company in Bogota, Colombia, in which the usual sympathies were reversed so that the Latino Sharks were the heroes. Mr. Laurents liked the idea of a production in which both gangs were perceived equally as villains; Mr. Hatcher suggested that a bilingual version was the way to do it. 
 ''It gives the Sharks infinitely more weight than they've ever had,'' Mr. Laurents said.
 So when Bernardo (George Akram) and his gang take the stage at the Palace, they speak to one another in Spanish, and when Maria confides to friends about her secret love, she giddily swirls to ''Siento Hermosa'' instead of ''I Feel Pretty.'' When the America-loving Anita (Karen Olivo) angrily confronts Maria after she learns that Tony (Matt Cavenaugh) has killed Bernardo, she abandons English to sing ''Un Hombre Asi'' instead of ''A Boy Like That.''
 Sipping a cup of tea in the theater district, Josefina Scaglione, the 21-year-old ingenue from Argentina who plays Maria, explained in her accented English that her character ''is from Puerto Rico, so she would speak Spanish with her friends.''
 ''I think it's more real,'' she said, ''and the more real the better, the truer feeling.'' 
 Mr. Laurents was insistent that Maria and the other Puerto Rican characters in the cast be Latino. ''It can't be high school Spanish,'' he said.
 Certainly not when ''In the Heights,'' written by Lin-Manuel Miranda, which won a Tony last year for best musical, features the Latino neighborhood, rhythms and Spanglish of the immigrant community in Washington Heights. As one character in that musical sings:
 My Mom is Dominican-Cuban,
 My Dad is from Chile and P.R., which means
 I'm Chile-Domini-Curican,
 But I always say I'm from Queens.
 Kevin McCollum, a lead producer of both ''In the Heights'' and ''West Side Story,'' suggested that Mr. Miranda translate Stephen Sondheim's lyrics into Spanish.
 ''It was the hardest bilingual crossword puzzle I've ever done,'' said Mr. Miranda, 29, in the meatpacking district recently to perform with his hip-hop comedy troupe. As he sat on a bar stool in a restaurant and added three sugars and milk to make his coffee light and sweet, the way he gets it uptown, he said that he had played Bernardo in the sixth grade and directed a production of ''West Side Story'' while at Hunter College High School in New York. 
 In his own musical Mr. Miranda struggled to balance English and Spanish; he said that, surprisingly, the amount of Spanish doubled between the Off Broadway and Broadway productions. In the song ''Breathe,'' he noted, when one of the characters returns home confused after dropping out of college, her friends sing about how she has always been the star of the neighborhood.
 ''It's much more visceral to hear them sing in Spanish,'' said Mr. Miranda, dressed in a hooded blue sweatshirt from Wesleyan, where he first started writing ''In the Heights.'' 
 Mr. Sondheim, who has said he was never particularly fond of his lyrics in ''West Side Story,'' especially ''I Feel Pretty,'' told Mr. Miranda to use whatever imagery he wanted.
 ''The idea of the song is so simple,'' Mr. Sondheim said at his Midtown town house, as one big black poodle jumped on the couch to lick his face and a second gave a squeaky-toy serenade by chomping on a plaything. ''I was only concerned that Lin observe the rhyme schemes.''
 Mr. Miranda's father, Luis, who was born in Puerto Rico and came to America at the same time the Sharks were staking out their turf, acted as his thesaurus. ''I basically holed up there,'' Mr. Miranda said of his parents' Inwood apartment. ''Stephen Sondheim and Luis Miranda are the two tent poles I'm trying to satisfy.''
 As for the libretto, he took a Spanish version that had been used in South American productions and changed what he described as its high-toned, Cervantes-like style to the language of the streets.
 Mr. Laurents fiddled more with the script after previews in Washington, where English supertitles were tried during the Spanish scenes and quickly dropped. But after complaints that some dialogue was difficult to follow, English was strategically deployed more frequently so non-Spanish speakers could understand what was going on. 
 For both Mr. Laurents and the producers, integrating Spanish was about heightening the emotional drama and not about sales. ''This show, like 'In the Heights,' is being marketed as a Broadway musical,'' Mr. McCollum said. ''If there is a show that appeals to a certain demographic, that audience will find it. You don't have to market to that group specifically.'' 
 (Over all Hispanics make up just a tiny portion of Broadway's audience. In the 2007-8 season, according to the Broadway League, they bought 5.7 percent of all tickets purchased, compared with 4.8 percent the previous season.) 
 In addition to the language Mr. Laurents made other changes, some to heighten the verisimilitude and others to depart from it. He took out the scene at the end in which a few members of the Sharks help the Jets shoulder Tony after he is killed, for instance, because he felt it was inauthentic; in real life, the police would not let anyone carry off a body from a crime scene.
 At the same time, for the dance scene he put the Jets' girls in anachronistic form-fitting orange miniskirts with slits and took the guys out of their suit jackets. Instead the costume designer, David Woolard, punctuated each outfit with a flash of the gang's color -- orange for the Jets, purple for the Sharks -- in a bandanna, a sweatband, a shirt pattern.
 ''We started out with costumes, and we ended up with clothes,'' said Mr. Laurents, who has just published a book, ''Mainly on Directing,'' detailing the experiences he had reviving both ''West Side Story'' and ''Gypsy,'' with Patti Lupone, on Broadway. In that account he mentions that soon after the costumes were designed, the creative team heard about a gang fight in Nyack, N.Y., that was triggered when one member yanked off the colored bandanna a rival gang member's girlfriend was wearing.
 The gangs in ''West Side Story'' shocked in 1957. Brooks Atkinson in The New York Times called their conduct ''neurotic and savage,'' with a code ''rooted in ignorance and evil.'' While writing the original book, Mr. Laurents said, he at times feared they would be too unsympathetic. Now he worried about the opposite problem: that those ''savages'' seemed too much like benign, lovable misfits, particularly in the opening ''Jet Song'' and in ''Gee, Office Krupke,'' which had always been performed in the style of musical comedy.
 One way to communicate the gangs' thuggishness was to make the attempted rape scene with Anita more violent and graphic. The comic aspects of ''Jet Song'' were eliminated and the vaudeville toned down in ''Krupke,'' despite the original's popularity with audiences.
 Because ''West Side Story'' deals with social change, previous revivals have been burdened with a comparison between what was happening onstage and what was happening on the street, and critics have complained that revivals have seemed dated. In 1968 William Kloman wrote in The Times that ''events have outrun its message.'' When Robbins staged a revival in 1980, Frank Rich wrote that ''the sociology and liberal faith of Arthur Laurents's book are now fairly meaningless,'' and that audiences ''no longer feel ghetto tragedies can be overcome by pleas for tolerance and understanding.''
 One reason Mr. McCollum said he was so excited about this revival is that using a bilingual script keeps it from being ''a museum piece'' and gives it new relevance that it would not have if the Sharks spoke in broken English. 
 Yet the more time that has elapsed, the less of a problem making ''West Side Story'' relevant may be. From the distance of half a century the impulse to link the performance directly to current economic and social trends abates, and it becomes easier to accept ''West Side Story'' on its own terms, just as audiences have accepted the 1949 sensibility of ''South Pacific'' and the hippie buzz of ''Hair.'' 
 To Mr. Sondheim questions of whether a show is dated or has a fresh approach are completely beside the point. ''Dated does not necessarily mean bad,'' he said. Whether a show is relevant to what is on the front page of newspapers is ''completely meaningless,'' he said; that's not where the value of a show lies.
 ''It's relevant if it moves you,'' Mr. Sondheim said. ''It's worth reviving because it's worth reviving.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the new Broadway revival of ''West Side Story'' included a quotation from Peter Marks, a critic for The Washington Post, who wrote in January, ''It's love at first sight for us.'' He was referring to one of the stars, Josefina Scaglione, who plays Maria; he was not referring to the current version of the musical.
An article on March 15 about the revival of the musical ''West Side Story'' referred incorrectly to Puerto Ricans who moved to New York City in the 1950s. As American citizens, they were migrants, not immigrants. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: George Chakiris, right, in the 1961 film version of ''West Side Story.'' Above, a moment from the new Broadway revival, opening on Thursday at the Palace Theater. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY UNITED ARTISTS/GETTY IMAGES
SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.AR1)
Top, Carol Lawrence and Larry Kert in a publicity photograph for the 1957 Broadway production of ''West Side Story.'' Center, scenes from the current revival, left, and the original production. Above, Jerome Robbins and dancers in a rehearsal for the 1961 film. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEO FRIEDMAN
SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ELLEN DARBY/MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK/GETTY IMAGES
 ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.AR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); SLUM DWELLINGS (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); CHOREOGRAPHY (74%); IMMIGRATION (71%); MULTILINGUALISM (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); PARADES & MARCHES (67%); CENSUS (66%); SOCIOLOGY (64%); ETHNICITY (64%); MUSIC (64%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); THEATER (54%); HOMICIDE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: West Side Story (Play); West Side Story (Play)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



608 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: Our Steiner Problem -- and Mine

BYLINE: By LEE SIEGEL. 
Lee Siegel's most recent book, ''Against the Machine: How the Web Is Reshaping Culture and Commerce -- and Why It Matters,'' is out this month in paperback.

 BODY:
Believe it or not, there was once a ''George Steiner problem.'' Back before the economic meltdown, the nanosecond news cycle and our surprise-a-minute public life replaced reflection with the necessity of just keeping up, people argued about the merits of this fabled literary scholar, critic, essayist, amateur linguist and amateur philosopher -- as if they were debating the fate of culture in modern life. In fact, they were doing exactly that. 
 Steiner, who turns 80 next month, has poured forth millions of words on the fate of art and literature in modern times. His central obsession is the Holocaust, and specifically the haunting fact that the Holocaust's ashes spread from high culture's Promethean fire: the civilization that produced Bach also produced Buchenwald. In books like ''Language and Silence,'' ''In Bluebeard's Castle,'' ''After Babel'' and ''Real Presences,'' and in countless magazine essays -- the recently released George Steiner at the New Yorker (New Directions, paper, $17.95) gathers 28 of the 134 articles he published in the magazine between 1966 and 1997 -- Steiner both celebrated culture's survival and questioned its value in an age of atrocity and disbelief. But his provocative lifelong inquiry into the sources of human cruelty and creation does not alone account for his controversial status. 
 Born in France to an Austrian Jewish family that escaped Vienna, Steiner was raised in Paris and New York, and educated at the University of Chicago and Harvard, and then at Oxford. He taught at Cambridge for several years, then accepted a professorship at the University of Geneva in Switzerland. After that, he shuttled back and forth between prestigious universities here and in England before retiring from teaching. All the while, he published dozens of critical monographs, a handful of novels and hundreds of essays, articles and reviews. 
 Steiner aroused his share of outrage with his passionate aversion to Zionism, and especially with his 1981 novel ''The Portage to San Cristobal of A. H.,'' whose portrayal of Hitler some readers thought strangely sympathetic. But even more than these brief uproars, what once made Steiner such a contested figure was the question of just what type of bearer and interrogator of high culture he was. Celebrated as a one-man bastion of high Western culture and admired for his moral subtlety by some, Steiner was attacked as pompous, pretentious and inaccurate in scholarly matters by others. His bracing virtue has been his ability to move from Pythagoras, through Aristotle and Dante, to Nietzsche and Tolstoy in a single paragraph. His irritating vice has been that he can move from Pythagoras, through Aristotle and Dante, to Nietzsche and Tolstoy in a single paragraph. 
 Absurdly or gratuitously pedantic comparisons flow from his pen: ''More, perhaps, than anyone since Nietzsche and Tolstoy . . .''; ''Like Pascal, like Kierkegaard and like Nietzsche . . .''; ''In a way and on a scale inconceivable to Western man from, say, Erasmus to Woodrow Wilson . . .'' -- to cite just a few examples from ''George Steiner at the New Yorker.'' He has a flair for portentous statement of the obvious: ''Massacres have punctuated the millennia with strident monotony.'' He also has a flair for portentous statement of the obscure: ''The shade of a shadow . . .''; ''The political-social desideratum. . . .'' The grating hallmark of his prose is an almost self-parodic knowingness: he will make allusions without explaining the reference and allude to events without describing what happened. Sometimes it seems that for all of Steiner's vaunted erudition, he is so intellectually ambitious that he frequently feels insecure about his command of the material under review, and so overcompensates with a flustered stream of cultural name-dropping. His editors were perhaps too insecure around Steiner to intervene. 
 At the same time, a spiritual energy enlivened Steiner's work, drawing in readers who surrendered themselves to his profligate ruminations. He attributed this quality to Arthur Koestler, who, he wrote, ''seemed to exemplify Nietzsche's insight that there is in men and women a motivation stronger even than love or hatred or fear. It is that of being interested -- in a body of knowledge, in a problem, in a hobby, in tomorrow's newspaper.'' An intensity of outward attention -- interest, curiosity, healthy obsession -- was Steiner's version of God's grace. There is something both exalted and wonderfully mundane about that. 
 To put it bluntly: Was it a pleasure or a punishment to read Steiner? Did he present art and ideas as the entertaining urgencies that they are, or did culture become for him -- as it does for certain people -- simply an extension of ego, a one-man kingdom, the keys to which he flaunted and jingled under the reader's nose while he solemnly pranced back and forth, reciting names of the distinguished dead as though they were aliases for himself? Since Steiner's erudite voice grew more authoritative the more he published, the George Steiner problem came to encompass the larger question of just how culture gets transmitted. 
 Reading the essays in ''George Steiner at The New Yorker,'' you realize that in his polymorphous, polymathic, polyglot -- he taught in four languages, and knew many more -- attraction to just about everything under the sun, Steiner resembled that other great explicator of culture to the matriculated masses, Susan Sontag. They both were critics of the open-minded school, mostly generous in their judgments, abundant in their generalizations about life beyond the subject at hand. But in the deeper sense, Steiner was everything Sontag wasn't -- and vice versa. He was the anti-Sontag. 
 Both critics made their careers introducing and explicating major trends in European culture to Americans, but the ironic contrasts between them are rich. Though Sontag published in highfalutin journals like Partisan Review and The New York Review of Books, she expounded radically democratic notions of pleasure and power. Steiner, on the other hand, used the solidly middlebrow New Yorker (or the equally bourgeois Times Literary Supplement in Britain) to examine and ultimately uphold the sacredness of the very high culture Sontag was attempting to deflate. Both writers, consciously or not, appealed to their audience's vanity: Sontag allowed her intellectually aristocratic readers to indulge their contempt for middle-class Kultur, while Steiner enabled his middle-class readers to feel empowered by aristocratic ideas of truth and beauty. 
 At the same time, again and again, in essays on Brecht, Bertrand Russell, Solzhenitsyn, Celine, Anthony Blunt, Simone Weil -- and in just about every essay in the new selection -- Steiner likes to take on complex personalities, double-sided genius-monsters. ''Where are the bridges in the labyrinth of that soul?'' he asks about Celine, the brilliant novelist and vicious anti-Semite. About the xenophobic Solzhenitsyn: ''This colossus of a man, so markedly a stranger to common humanity.'' On the pacifist Bertrand Russell's nearly homicidal cold-heartedness: ''Bertrand Russell is a man who loves truth or the lucid statement of a possible truth better than he does individual human beings.'' 
 Reciting such elegant moral conundrums has been Steiner's way of easing the general reader into culture and then out again. Out of the Promethean fire comes destruction: If you have time to apply yourself to the treasures of Western culture, fine; if not, count your blessings. At the core of Steiner's horror that the instruments of civilization -- language and even rationality itself -- are also the weapons of barbarism is a palliative for the harried reader's conscience. You haven't finished Proust's novel? Being good, or at least not monstrous, is even better. Steiner may still be a problem for some people, but as a critic, he efficiently offered one double-sided solution to the problem of preserving your attachment to culture after the long leisureliness of college. He has kept people interested in the world of literature and ideas, and he has freed them from feeling guilt when their interest flags. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL PROBST/ASSOCIATED PRESS (2003)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); HOLOCAUST (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (77%); LITERARY CRITICISM (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (54%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (53%) ILLINOIS, USA (54%) SWITZERLAND (76%); FRANCE (73%); UNITED STATES (54%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); AUSTRIA (54%); ENGLAND (53%)

TITLE: George Steiner at the New Yorker (Book); George Steiner at the New Yorker (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



609 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: In Hostel Basement, Newcomer Sets Sights Far Up the Ladder

BYLINE: By ALLEN SALKIN

 BODY:
Never mind the squalor. 
 Elmo Ranelli, five months removed from sleeping on a park bench and scrounging for food, has big plans. ''I want to be the go-to guy for a good time in New York,'' he said. ''If you want to know what's going on in New York, you'll call me.''
 Mr. Ranelli is 27. He spoke while sitting on a bunk bed in a messy basement room he shares with two other men at the Jazz on the Park youth hostel on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. 
 Mr. Ranelli arrived here in late August with $2,000 in his pocket, no job and no real friends in the city. Soon he saw the headlines that Lehman Brothers had collapsed. 
 But he was done with Birmingham, Ala., where he had a band, acted in plays and had an easy life. Too small-time. Too easy.
 ''There's a ceiling in Birmingham,'' Mr. Ranelli said. ''And I had hit it.''
 The room at the Jazz hostel on West 105th Street, Mr. Ranelli concedes, smells like unwashed feet, and the pipes that run along the ceiling of the hallway drip on the concrete floor. But his belly is full and he has saved nearly enough money by working three jobs to put down a security deposit on an apartment in Harlem. 
 And it is the hostel that has made it possible.
 The economic boom -- it seems like a long-ago era, even a dream -- had some unexpected side effects. It became popular to speculate that New York had become too expensive for would-be bohemians. But because hotels were so expensive, dozens of youth hostels opened in the last few years, offering $20-a-night dormitory beds to budget travelers. 
 Now, the boom over, the hostels remain. While many of the customers at the city's roughly 60 hostels are young European backpackers, the hostels also offer a first rung in the city for artsy dreamers like Mr. Ranelli. In exchange for working 24 hours a week as the Jazz hostel's social director, leading guests on pub crawls, club nights and karaoke outings, he receives the bed in the basement room. 
 Even as the city's hotel occupancy rate has fallen to 66 percent in February, from 81 percent in the same month last year, despite steep discounts, many youth hostels are reporting banner business. 
 Aisling White, a spokeswoman for Hostelworld.com, the Expedia of hostels, said bookings for hostels in the United States were up 17 percent in the last three months of 2008, compared with the last three months of 2007. Shirley Levy, the managing director of Jazz Hostels, which has six properties in Manhattan, said January revenue was up 30 percent, compared with the same month last year. 
 To meet Mr. Ranelli, to speak with him, is to hear how the explosion in hostels has created opportunities for a small band of close-to-the-ground entrepreneurs. Mr. Ranelli is showing an important trait for a New Yorker: the ability to adapt fast. 
 For every one of those young Europeans he manages to bring to the nightclub Pacha on Friday nights after midnight, he receives $10. 
 That is on top of the $250 he said he was paid weekly by the club for making a circuit of 23 of the city's hostels, passing out fliers for Pacha. The club's management is so impressed by his promotional skills that it is flying him to Miami Beach in late March for the Winter Music Conference. He will be staying at the Royal Palm Resort, which does not have bunk beds.
 ''Elmo is the best!'' said Kathrin Stoppel, a 20-year-old German traveler whom Mr. Ranelli had brought out Wednesday night with her fellow Jazz on the Park guest Julia Hartinger, 19. ''He knows all the places.'' 
 The group was at Blockheads on the Upper West Side. Later they moved to the Ding Dong Lounge, where they joined another new friend of Mr. Ranelli's, Annabel Park, a photography student from Los Angeles who said she was interning at Glamour magazine.
 It may be hard for those who have been in New York for a long time to remember what it can be like those first few months in the city, when friendships can be formed out of the raw need to connect with someone, anyone, in this dizzying place of eight million faces.
 About a week ago Mr. Ranelli was working his day job as one of those people with clipboards who stand on the sidewalk trying to persuade strangers to stop and give money to save a child in a developing nation. Ms. Park was with a friend. They did not want to donate, but had a question for Mr. Ranelli, who, with his faux-hawk and rat-tail hairstyle, looked like he might know where the party was.
 ''Do you know where the good bars are?'' she asked him. 
 ''My people!'' Mr. Ranelli said. Since then, they have hung out five nights out of seven.
 The youth hostel has afforded him a few romances, if brief. 
 ''It's like summer camp,'' he said. ''Everyone shows up ready to hook up.'' 
 Yes, life is good. He said he earned $750 to $1,000 a week, nice considering he was eating out of restaurant garbage bins last fall and sleeping in Central Park, looking for work of any kind. If he signs up three people a day for a $22-a-month commitment to Children International, he makes about $150 a day in salary and commission, he said.
 By April 1, he hopes to be in the four-bedroom apartment on 125th Street between Lenox and Fifth Avenues, which he will share with another worker at the hostel and two others. 
 Next up: building a team to do more nightclub promotions so he can earn enough to leave his day job. ''I'm hoping to buy a suit soon,'' he said. ''I want to be able to present something to people.''
 Then maybe he will get a band together, he said, and go on some acting auditions. In five years? ''I'd like to own my own venue where I can throw parties and book bands,'' he said. 
 Lots of tall buildings here, but no ceiling. ''I'm not leaving until I get something good,'' he said. ''I had to go through so much just to stay.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Elmo Ranelli, 27, top, works at a hostel on the Upper West Side in exchange for a bed in the basement. Above left, he spent time with two hostel guests, Kathrin Stoppel, left, and Julia Hartinger, at a lounge. Right, he sought donations for a children's aid group.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); BUDGETS (70%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (68%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (68%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



610 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; ASIA-PACIFIC ISSUE CHOICE TABLES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Tastes of Bali With a French Accent

BYLINE: By JEN LIN-LIU

 BODY:
THE chef Chris Salans bumped into a stream of fashionable European diners as they departed through the garden at Mozaic, his restaurant in Ubud on the Indonesian island of Bali, and kissed each of their cheeks like a good Frenchman. But once they were out of earshot, he said in a no-nonsense American accent, ''I don't normally say goodbye to all my guests that way.'' He explained that they were expatriates and frequent guests at Mozaic, which has become known for its innovative French cuisine laced with Indonesian flavors.
 Mr. Salans, 38, who is equal parts French and American, has garnered rave reviews and recently expanded his restaurant to include a workshop, where cooking classes and private chef's tastings are held several times a week. One evening a few months ago, Mozaic buzzed with life, as every wicker chair in the 60-seat pavilion was taken by 8 o'clock. Since being accepted as a member of the French association Les Grandes Tables du Monde in 2004, Mozaic has also received recognition from Wine Spectator magazine and The Miele Guide, an Asian restaurant guide published in Singapore. 
 Not long after Mozaic opened in 2001, Bali's tourism industry was hit by two terrorist attacks. The world financial crisis and renewed terrorism warnings have added to the island's woes. But Mozaic (62-361-975768; www.mozaic-bali.com) has managed to thrive in a place better known for its beaches and rice paddies than for its cuisine.
 ''Chris is very business oriented, which comes from his American side, but he's also very passionate, which illustrates the French side of him,'' said Rakesh Kapoor, the general manager of Mozaic, who has known Mr. Salans for six years. ''The way he infuses his food with local flavors couldn't happen without him embracing the culture.''
 Guests choose from four six-course tasting menus that change nightly and showcase Mr. Salans's ''market cooking'' style, which takes Indonesian ingredients and incorporates them into a range of French dishes, resulting in creations like curry butter-roasted crayfish and passion fruit cream baked in phyllo pastry. Other Indonesian ingredients he uses include turmeric, ginger flowers and cardamom.
 ''In New York, you're lucky to work with ginger and lemon grass,'' Mr. Salans said, ''and they call that Asian.'' 
 He buys as much as he can locally, but imports certain premium ingredients he can't find, like wagyu beef and oysters from Australia and cepe mushrooms from France. He hires a full-time employee to ''go knocking on the doors'' of farmers on Bali for fresh passion fruit. He buys baby lamb and crayfish from the island of Java. 
 Guests are first seated in a newly renovated lounge decorated with white sofas, where they sip Champagne and select their menu before moving to the main dining room and garden, full of tropical greenery. The prix-fixe menu costs 550,000 to 750,000 rupiah ($46 to $63 at 12,303 rupiah to the dollar) a person before wine.
 The workshop in the back of the restaurant feels like a cozy studio apartment with an open kitchen stocked with equipment from the German oven maker Rational, the French cast-iron cookware company Staub, and Epromas, a Singaporean sous vide equipment manufacturer. The companies donated the equipment in exchange for exposure to the Bali market.
 Mr. Salans holds casual half-day cooking classes for tourists and professional training courses for local chefs working at luxury hotels and high-end restaurants. Asked whether he's creating competition for himself by teaching the island's chefs, Mr. Salans said confidently, ''Just because you go to college for three days doesn't mean you can graduate.''
 From an early age, Mr. Salans, who has a French mother and a Jewish American father, has felt the pull of different cultures. Though he was born in Washington, his family moved to Paris when he was 2 and he grew up there. After high school, he moved near Boston to attend Tufts University, majoring in biology.
 Deciding on a career was a struggle, and his father pushed him to go to medical school. To delay the decision, he returned to Paris to enroll in Le Cordon Bleu. He then landed his first paying job at the Paris restaurant Lucas Carton, where he became addicted to working in a kitchen, despite the horrible conditions.
 He said he was underweight, ''pale white, and everyone cried at least once a day from the mental abuse.''
 ''It was like the military,'' he said, ''and if you're a masochist -- most chefs are -- you enjoy it.''
 Eventually he landed positions as the chef de cuisine for David Bouley at Bouley Bakery in New York and head chef at Bouchon, Thomas Keller's bistro in Napa Valley.
 While working for Mr. Bouley, Mr. Salans accompanied him to Thailand for a cooking exhibition in 1995, which set off another period of bouncing between two continents, this time Asia and America. ''It was the first time I had been in Asia as a chef,'' he said. ''I loved the explosion of lemon grass, turmeric and galangal,'' a gingerlike root.
 Mr. Salans was so enamored of the food in Thailand that he began searching for a position in Asia. When the boutique hotel group GHM offered him a job cooking at a property in Bali, he accepted, even though he didn't know where Bali was. ''I looked on the map and saw that it was a tiny dot in the middle of nowhere,'' he said.
 During his stint in Bali, Mr. Salans met a Javanese woman, Erni, whom he later married and with whom he now has two children. (''They're trinationals,'' he said proudly.) He converted to Islam for his wife, though he calls himself a ''bad Muslim'' because he ''eats pork, swears and drinks.''
 After a few more years of cooking in the United States for Mr. Bouley and Mr. Keller, Mr. Salans, along with his wife, went to Bali on what was supposed to be a one-month vacation but resulted in a permanent settlement on the island. Away from the competitive atmosphere and the culture of celebrity chefs in Paris and New York, Mr. Salans has been able quietly to develop his cooking style, with the help of James Ephrain, his British sous-chef.
 But being in Bali is not without its challenges. Because Mozaic is one of the few fine dining restaurants in an isolated place, service and cooking standards are difficult to maintain, and the chef is known to drill his staff with classroom lectures, role-playing exercises and even graded tests. ''It's like pulling a truck,'' Mr. Salans said. ''Sometimes I think I should just be making sandwiches.''
 And of course, Mozaic is facing the difficulties of operating in lean economic times. Hotel occupancy rates in Bali are the lowest the island has seen in several years, according to the Bali Hotel Association. ''But the good thing is, my business was born in crisis,'' Mr. Salans said.
 ''We opened one month before the World Trade Center bombing in 2001 and we survived the Bali terrorist attacks in 2002 and 2005. We're resilient.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ABOVE: In the kitchen of Mozaic, in Ubud on the Indonesian island of Bali.
 LEFT: A sample of the chef Chris Salans's approach: foie gras with cherries and cocoa. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM MOZAIC RESTAURANT) MAPS: Bali 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); WINE (69%); BEEF (66%); TERRORISM (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%); TOURISM (52%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) INDONESIA (95%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



611 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Bill Proposes Restrictions on Raw Milk Sales

BYLINE: By JAN ELLEN SPIEGEL

 BODY:
CONNECTICUT'S Department of Agriculture had learned to live with raw milk -- the unpasteurized, unhomogenized milk that enthusiasts believe is good for you but that health officials have long warned can put humans at risk of disease-carrying bacteria.
 The state's raw milk regulations have been among the most liberal in the nation. But officials proposed stricter regulations after an outbreak of E. coli last summer, which the State Department of Public Health investigators traced to a dairy in Simsbury that has since closed. The department confirmed seven illnesses -- including two toddlers who ended up on kidney dialysis -- and said there were another seven probable cases. 
 ''We felt we had to do something,'' said Wayne Kasacek, assistant director of the Agriculture Department's Bureau of Regulation and Inspection. 
 A bill under consideration in the Environment Committee of the General Assembly would restrict raw milk sales to the farm where it is produced and farmers' markets, which would put the state's laws on par with most of the nearly 30 states that allow raw milk sales. The bill would eliminate raw milk sales in stores. 
 The bill has sparked a spirited clash over food safety, freedom to choose what you eat, and small business economics.
 ''The Department of Agriculture seems absolutely bent on putting the raw milk farmers out of business,'' said Representative Diana Urban, Democrat from Stonington, environment committee member and a lifelong raw milk drinker. ''I do understand,'' she said referring to the health concerns, ''but I believe we have adequate safeguards in place.''
 Erin Barringer of West Hartford, whose daughter contracted E. coli from a child who drank raw milk, according to health officials, is helping to campaign for the stricter legislation. ''It can be frustrating at times because I think everybody's lost sight of who the victims are,'' said Ms. Barringer, whose daughter, Emma, was 2 years and 10 months old when she got sick, even though she herself never drank raw milk. 
 Ms. Barringer believes raw milk poses a public health threat and has solicited support from national organizations like the Center for Science in the Public Interest, which sent a letter backing the legislation. Raw milk is produced in 14 Connecticut dairies and accounts for about one-third of 1 percent of all milk produced here. Currently a dozen or so small stores in the state sell it. Whole Foods in West Hartford stopped carrying it after some of the tainted milk was bought there. The proposed bill would require stronger warning labels advising of dangers to children and the elderly. A provision that would have required farmers to pay for increased pathogen testing was scrapped after a contentious public hearing last month. Health and agriculture officials have tried to persuade lawmakers to ban the sale of raw milk altogether, but those attempts have gone nowhere in the past.
 ''This legislation is going to kill me,'' said Lisa Santee, owner of Foxfire Farm in Mansfield Center, who said that she sells all her 100 gallons a week through 10 retail stores and that she had no place to put a store. ''If you don't want to drink it, don't drink it.'' 
 In trying to galvanize supporters for the February public hearing, the dairies started a blog and sought assistance from the Weston A. Price Foundation, a national organization that supports the retail sale of raw milk. The dairies are also in the early stages of forming a nonprofit organization to seek grant money for independent monthly testing and writing a best-practices manual for raw milk production.
 ''This is not a bribe, this is something we feel strongly about,'' said Chris Newton, owner of Baldwin Brook Farm in Canterbury, who said plans would proceed even if the legislation is not approved. Mr. Newton and his wife, Mavis, bottle about 125 gallons of raw milk a week, selling about half in stores. They said they could not sell all of it out of their farm. 
 Other dairy owners said selling only on the farm might actually be good for their business because they wouldn't have to transport the product. 
 ''I spend six days a week driving milk around to stores and a heck of a lot of stuff doesn't get done around here while I'm driving around,'' said Chris Hopkins of Stone Wall Dairy in Cornwall Bridge, which sells two-thirds to three-quarters of its milk in stores. 
 Kim Piccioli, of West Hartford, who said her son drank raw milk from the Simsbury dairy, said doctors told her that he may have permanent kidney damage. She said that she had not been aware of the dangers of raw milk and that the milk she bought did not have its required health warning label.
 ''No one's taking it away,'' she said. ''We're just putting some limitations on it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LIMITATIONS: Stone Wall Dairy in Cornwall Bridge, run by Chris Hopkins, above. Left, Jonathan Kirschner works at Stone Wall Dairy. Erin Barringer of West Hartford with her daughter Emma, who contracted E. coli.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY WENDY CARLSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILK (95%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DAIRY FARMING (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); E COLI (89%); CHILDREN (89%); BACTERIA (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (77%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (75%); PRODUCT LABELING (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (67%); DIALYSIS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



612 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Banks Of America

 BODY:
David Leonhardt (The Way We Live Now, March 1) presents a well-balanced discussion of ''bank nationalization'' -- until he comes to the issue that nationalizing the whole U.S. banking system ''would probably cost a whole lot of money.'' Here the Obama administration supposes that even if only a few banks were taken over initially, ''shareholders might abandon others . . . banks would then need government support.'' 
 If shareholders just walked away, however, they would lose their entire investment; so they are more likely to run to the government and ask (beg?) for limited nationalization. Furthermore, Leonhardt's notion of ''a whole lot of money'' reflects the continuing refusal of some commentators to look to the Federal Reserve, which has virtually unlimited capacity to supply the Treasury with funds for worthy projects without raising taxes or adding to the national debt. 
 EDWIN P. REUBENS Weston, Fla.
 True, radicalism is suggested by the word ''nationalization'' when applied to private banks, as David Leonhardt states. Yet the phrase it is meant to imply, ''government ownership,'' itself is no longer appropriate in the new environment of globalization or internationalization. Our financial world now has significantly increased cross-border capital flows, totally different from the far less interdependent and synchronous financial world of Lenin or even Reagan. Sovereign wealth funds like Singapore's Temasek or South Korea's Development Bank can invest in or lend to U.S. banks and firms without fearing Congressional opposition to government ownership (''socialism''). More important, we need to recognize that Sweden is too small to be a model for the credit freeze-up here and that joint action among all the world's largest central banks leading to new minimum and uniform bank regulations is required. Hopefully, that should be settled by the London meeting of the G20 in April.
 BERTRAND HORWITZ Asheville, N.C.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NIGEL PARRY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONALIZATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); BANKING LAW (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); GLOBALIZATION (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



613 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: When Figures Trail the Facts

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
ONE might be excused for thinking that all Manhattan condominium buyers are in a state of panic at the moment, thrashing around for any reason to back out of contracts already signed for apartments in the new glass towers dotting the skyline.
 After all, co-op sales have dried up, and preliminary figures show that average co-op prices are off 28 percent so far this year from the record prices in the first quarter of 2008. 
 Yet last month, despite the faltering economy and a difficult mortgage market, lawyers for 328 buyers of new and existing condos filed deeds with the Department of Finance, the final step in property purchases. And average condo prices are up sharply from those of last summer and fall.
 Many buyers stood by commitments, made in better economic times, to buy new apartments in expensive condominiums that are just now being completed. Still, the number of buyers closing on condominiums is falling each month and few buyers are now signing contracts for the latest round of new buildings, endangering many weaker developers. The number of deed filings is off 20 percent from the number of filings in January, off 40 percent from December, and 60 percent from February 2008, when sales were still strong.
 The prices on the new apartments that have actually closed so far in 2009 were so high (including a $30 million glass-walled two-story box built atop a converted industrial building on Hudson Street in SoHo, and a $15 million triplex in a condo conversion at 101st Street and Fifth Avenue) that they drove both the average and median condominium prices to near-record levels, far above the prices in the last half of 2008.
 A review of preliminary figures for the first quarter, through last week, put the average condo closing price at $1.82 million, with a median price of $1.195 million. The average price was about 14 percent above that of the second half of 2008, and only 4 percent below the peak average price in the first quarter of 2008, when many apartments were closing at very expensive new developments like 15 Central Park West. 
 But the higher average prices, might, perversely, represent some bad news.
 Dolly Lenz, a top-selling broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman, said major banks had recently cut back on lending in new condominiums, especially those with many unsold units, reducing closings. Wealthy buyers paying cash for more expensive apartments were not affected. 
 The banks, she said, are now requiring that 70 percent of new apartments be sold or in contract before they will issue mortgages, a policy based on new federal guidelines. This requirement is jeopardizing many newer projects. 
 The co-op market is faring far worse so far this quarter, as many brokers and analysts had predicted. Prices are down sharply, and deed filings have fallen by more than 60 percent this year compared with the same period in 2008, with the steepest decline in sales among the most expensive units. 
 Gregory J. Heym, the chief economist at Halstead and Brown Harris Stevens, said that the decline in co-op prices occurred several months ago, but is appearing only now in property records because co-op closings are often delayed until the buyer is approved by the co-op board. As a result, the average co-op sale price recorded by the Department of Finance fell below $1 million for the first time since the fourth quarter of 2006; it is now just under $930,000, preliminary figures show. The median fell to $598,250, its first time below $600,000 since the same quarter in 2006. 
 Average co-op prices were off 18 percent from the second half of 2008, and 28 percent from the record high prices in the first quarter of 2008, according to the preliminary figures. 
 Kirk Henckels, the director of Stribling Private Brokerage, said that for the last few weeks, the high-end market had been ''picking up momentum,'' with more deals every week. But last week, he said, with more worries about the banks, insurance companies and the auto industry, there appeared to be yet another pause. 
 ''That has caused another little intake of air,'' he said. ''Let's hope it doesn't last.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (92%); CONDOMINIUMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); STATISTICS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



614 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1658 words

HEADLINE: Times Are Tough, Libraries Are Thriving

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

DATELINE: EAST MEADOW 

 BODY:
 A woman in her 50s dropped in after work at the East Meadow Public Library and applied for a library card. She confided to a librarian, with a smidgen of embarrassment, that it was her first library card since childhood.
 ''Now I don't have to buy my books,'' she told the librarian, Jude Schanzer. ''This is how I'm cutting back.''
 Ms. Schanzer, East Meadow's director of programming, tells the story to illustrate one upside to the economic downturn: Libraries are booming.
 Indeed, the bad news on the economy is good news for libraries -- so long as they can escape the budget ax that is falling on many municipal services as cities and towns struggle with declining revenue. 
 People are flocking to libraries after forsaking Barnes & Noble or ditching their HBO service and subscriptions to Netflix, library officials said, because libraries' books, DVDs and CDs have a significant advantage: They are free. 
 Some people are showing up at libraries for the first time for free entertainment -- movies, lectures, concerts and puppet shows, library officials said. Still others are capitalizing on their newspaper racks, books and free Internet service for job searches and investment advice or advice on a topic that the title of a much-thumbed book makes obvious: ''Surviving a Layoff: A Week-by-Week Guide to Getting your Life Back Together.''
 There is an incongruity in libraries' providing such a wealth of free services because libraries themselves are vulnerable to the economy. Towns and school districts have started to make cuts, and library hours and employees are frequent targets, though so far most of the cuts seem manageable, library officials said. 
 Librarians said they had not had to make major increases in purchases of books and DVDs, only shrewder ones -- buying extra copies of, say, a John Grisham novel, and cutting back on books that might not have as large a readership.
 Still, Gov. David A. Paterson's budget proposal has included an 18 percent cut in the roughly $100 million once earmarked for state aid to libraries. As a result, the annual librarians' trip to lobby state legislators in Albany for money drew many more participants last Tuesday. Three busloads of librarians left from Nassau and two from Suffolk.
 But for now, libraries are welcoming their new popularity.
 At the Brookhaven Free Library, overall circulation was up 59 percent in January compared with January 2008, with children's books among the materials leading the way.
 ''We're seeing more grandparents coming in with their grandchildren because more mothers are being forced to work part time,'' said Debra Domingos, head of children's services.
 Jackie Thresher, director of the Nassau Library System, a consortium of 54 public libraries, said library use was up 15 percent in the last quarter of 2008 compared with the same quarter in 2007. 
 In Suffolk County, said Robert Gadue, business manager of the Suffolk Collaborative Library System, there was an 18.1 percent increase from 2007 to 2008 in books being requested by borrowers at one library from another library within a system of more than 60 libraries. 
 People who once might have turned to Barnes & Noble or Amazon if their local library did not have a book are now asking librarians to search the entire county system, Mr. Gadue said. ''As the economy shrinks,'' he said, ''you always see an increase in library usage.''
 That growth in library use is evident across the New York region.
 One day, Shira Weiss, a 34-year-old publicist, showed up, with her two children, at the Teaneck, N.J., Public Library for the first time in years after her husband gently inquired why she needed to spend so much on books. She applied for a card and -- after taking out two chick-lit novels, an illustrated ''Star Wars'' book for her 5-year-old, Jake, and two animal books for her 2-year-old, Ben -- instinctively pulled out her wallet to pay.
 ''I guess it will take an adjustment period until I realize that some of the best things in life are indeed free,'' Ms. Weiss said.
 Robert White, the director of the Bergen County Cooperative Library System in New Jersey, said he had calculated ''the average yearly value to every card used in our system was $706.''
 ''You don't get that kind of rebate on the Discover Card,'' he said. ''And it's all free.''
 In Ridgefield, Conn., an affluent town where many residents work at nearby companies like Pepsi, General Electric and I.B.M., people are tapping the library's free services even if they are financially comfortable enough for now, library officials said.
 ''I just think people are hunkering down,'' said Christina Nolan, director of the Ridgefield Library. ''They may not have to cut out Netflix, but they're choosing to do so because they don't know what's around the corner.'' 
 Indeed, as Ms. Nolan spoke, Ann Harrington, a mother of two married to a freelance illustrator whose assignments, she said, were slipping, was carrying a half-dozen DVDs, including ''A Few Good Men'' and ''The Upside of Anger,'' as well as the inspirational football film ''Facing the Giants,'' which her whole family could watch.
 ''I tend to try the library and take out more of the DVDs rather than go to Blockbuster,'' she said.
 Ms. Schanzer, the East Meadow librarian, has felt the impact of the economy personally, with her husband having lost a theater job as a special effects technician. She said that earlier this year, the library's online newsletter informed patrons that 140 tickets for a Yiddish road production being staged at the library by the famed National Yiddish Theater -- Folksbiene would be distributed at 9 a.m. online or at the library desk.
 ''The online tickets were gone by 9:08 a.m., and our tickets were gone by 9:10 a.m.,'' she said. ''These people who are losing their jobs and looking for something to do are coming to the library, instead of going to the movies, to see a play or a concert.''
 East Meadow is a blue-collar and middle-class hamlet of nearly 40,000 in Nassau County, and attendance in the library's adult programs has gone up by almost 2,000 in a year, to 19,241. So many children now attend ''Storytime'' that the library runs two sections to accommodate all comers. 
 At the Ridgefield library, Geri Diorio, the head of children's services, said that on many days she noticed twice as many mothers and fathers coming in with children for Storytimes.
 ''Rather than, 'Let's wander the mall!' it's 'Let's go to the library!' '' she said. ''I'm also seeing a lot more dads at Storytime.'' 
 Fewer au pairs are bringing children in because some stay-at-home mothers are doing without such help, librarians in Ridgefield said. In Ridgefield and in Chappaqua, in Westchester County, families are signing up for free passes to museums like the Museum of Natural History and the Guggenheim, library officials said.
 ''Here you'd think 'Chappaqua? People can afford to go,' but they're constantly in use,'' Pamela C. Thornton, the library director, said of the passes. ''We're finding people fighting over them.''
 In Ridgefield, Ms. Nolan, the library director, said she had observed that people who have lost jobs in a town where two-acre zoning can isolate them are finding their way to the library to seek congenial company.
 ''The library is used as a gathering place for people who are intelligent and have similar values so they're not as isolated,'' she said. ''We have days that 1,400 people come through our doors. That's a lot for a town of 24,000.''
 With unemployment rising, people are flocking to the library for help in finding jobs, switching careers, brushing up resumes or checking the financial ratings of companies that are advertising for help, library officials said. In East Meadow recently, four of the nine Internet-ready computers were being used for job searches.
 One of the searchers was Gary Eisele, 54, who lost his job as a customer service representative for American Home Mortgage Investment, a Melville-based firm that filed for bankruptcy in 2007. Mr. Eisele, one of 1,400 people let go on Long Island, has taken some temporary jobs and was checking help-wanted ads on Monster.com and CareerBuilder.com in the library because, he said, he could no longer afford home Internet service.
 Ms. Schanzer said that the library has long been offering programs on how to challenge property assessments in the hope of lowering property taxes, but that now the programs are drawing three times as many people -- 120 a day.
 Some libraries are changing their buying patterns. 
 When ''Slumdog Millionaire'' started winning its haul of best picture awards, Michael McCue, director of the Teaneck Public Library, bought copies of the book it is based on. He said he knew there would be requests the next day.
 While meeting patrons' needs, libraries are facing austerity themselves. Ridgefield's library, with a $2 million budget, has been hit with a $60,000 cut this year, which it has been able to absorb with small adjustments. But officials there worry about what may happen when the town votes on its budget in May. To give itself a cushion, the library raised late fees to 25 cents from 10 cents.
 Ms. Schanzer said East Meadow's library meets its budget with state and other grants. But $15,000 in grants -- including one from the New York State Council on the Arts -- has been cut, and Ms. Schanzer will have to appeal to local companies to keep programming at current levels, including the library's Sunday series of concerts and performances. Governor Paterson has proposed a $7 million cut in funds for the arts council, which helps pay for some library programs. 
 Nonetheless, Ms. Nolan, of the Ridgefield Library, said she thinks that sustaining free services is essential.
 ''A library is the people's university,'' she said. ''From cradle to grave, you can come here and learn about ballet, astronomy, gem cutting or whatever you want.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: VOLUME BUSINESS: As the economy has sunk, libraries like the East Meadow Public Library in Nassau, above, have gained popularity. Below, children crowding the library's free computers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.LI1)
 BOOKS PLUS: Jessica Lee on violin and Reiko Uchida on piano in a free concert at the East Meadow Public Library, which, like many libraries, lends not only books but also DVDs, videos and CDs and provides use of computers and Internet service. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.LI7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (91%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); LIBRARIANS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (77%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (69%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%); LOBBYING (60%); CHILD WELFARE (60%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (56%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (56%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (56%)

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (56%); DAVID PATERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



615 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; BACKDROP; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 75 words

HEADLINE: Power Lunching, Recession or Not

 BODY:
Has the power lunch lost some of its wattage? Business at two of its bastions -- the ''21'' Club and the Four Seasons in Manhattan -- has been down this winter compared with last. But on a dreary Monday last week, the Four Seasons Grill Room was fully booked, as the likes of John A. Thain, E. Stanley O'Neal and Martha Stewart filed into the room. Maybe it was a sign that in a recession, the ritual of seeing and being seen is more important than ever. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In recent months, the ''21'' Club has lost more business in its 10 private dining rooms than in its main dining room, above.
In its current location since 1929, the ''21'' was a speakeasy during Prohibition. It is now owned by Orient-Express Hotels.
A tourist having lunch at ''21'' recently bought this 1985 bottle of Romanee-Conti for $8,600.
Rezart Gorencavic, sous-chef at ''21,'' left, and Fotios Moutopoulos, waiter. A $24 prix-fixe lunch is offered for Restaurant Week.
Four Seasons bookings were off by 20 percent earlier this year but are now rebounding, said Julian Niccolini, managing partner.
 Rackyod Theragul, left, waiter, and Steve MacArthur, captain, at the Four Seasons. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

PERSON: STAN O'NEAL (53%); JOHN THAIN (53%); MARTHA STEWART (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



616 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; FIELD NOTES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Wedding Bells' Toll

BYLINE: By MARIANNE ROHRLICH

 BODY:
WHO says you have to spend a fortune on a wedding present? Etiquette experts and style-makers have helpful tips for how weddinggoers can buy impressive -- yet affordable -- gifts.
 In fact, the only wedding event for which a present is absolutely required is the bridal shower. And though some say you could skip the wedding gift, it is ''the nice thing to do, the right thing to do,'' said Rebecca Dolgin, the executive editor of theknot.com. ''There is no formal mandate about a wedding gift,'' she said adding that the point of a shower is to give gifts. 
 ''An invitation to a wedding is supposed to come with no strings attached,'' said Linda Kevich, the editor of superweddings.com, ''and attending a wedding is never conditional upon giving a gift.'' 
 But Martha Stewart said she had never heard of such a thing. ''Giving some sort of present is definitely required, although you have a year to do so,'' she said, adding, ''The amount you spend has totally to do with your budget.'' Ms. Stewart suggests a dozen fluffy white towels tied together with a wide white ribbon for presentation. ''There are always white sales for good buys,'' she said.
 Consignment shops, she said, also have bargains on silver and china these days. 
 Bee Kim, a wedding blogger in New York (weddingbee.com), says the amount to spend depends on your financial situation and how close you are to the couple. ''There are no rules,'' she said. But there are many ways to give a personalized gift on a budget, she added. ''You can frame the wedding invitation, or why not give the couple three bottles of wine and tag each bottle.'' The tags would note the celebration of their first and sixth months of marriage and one-year anniversary.
 Roseann Hirsch, a freelance book editor from New York, is a veteran wedding guest who has ''probably been to 75 or 80 weddings over the years.''
 ''There's no rule of thumb about how much to spend,'' she said. ''There are lots of ways to give welcome gifts within a tight budget if you think outside the box,'' she said. ''Maybe a gift certificate to a restaurant, concert tickets or a stack of art books from a museum. Art books are an interesting gift that has legs in terms of longevity. They will decorate a coffee table long after they are read.'' She said those gifts could be bought for about $100.
 Ms. Dolgin said ''something small is fine -- a gift is not something to show off with.'' She suggested a personal touch ''like a mixing bowl with a print out of a special recipe is nice -- those are the presents that stand out.'' 
 Letitia Baldrige, the etiquette expert in Washington, said giving a gift isn't just about emptying the pocketbook. ''The whole idea of a present is to please people and make them happy,'' she said. ''We've gotten so blase in the past few years with all the gift-giving by people wanting to look rich.''
 What is her chic, money-saving secret? ''I always go to a small, unknown antiques shop and buy something very inexpensive,'' she said. ''I write a lovely note on the card that this item is very old, perhaps 100 years old, and from Vienna. Just that note makes the gift rise in value. It's called a gentle white lie.'' 
 The economy has changed as has the age of many brides. 
 Elaine Griffin, a 44-year-old interior designer, married for the first time this year (Vows column, Jan. 31). 
 ''I'm a fortysomething bride and for us wedding gifts are a whole different ballgame she said. 
 Because of her profession, she is difficult to buy a present for and she already has a fully decorated house. But because she did not cook until her marriage, her kitchen is bare of essentials. What would she like now? ''My dream gift is a dozen white dish towels from Ikea and some good potholders,'' she said.
 The most practical advice is from weddingchannel.com. Its rule of thumb is not to spend more than you can afford. ''If money is an issue, try your hardest not to be impulsive when you're out there shopping for just the right present,'' the site said.
 And what happened to matching the amount of the present to the price of your dinner at the wedding? In a column posted on the Web site, lifestyle.msn.com, Miss Manners answered that question.
 ''That this idea is widespread does not rescue it from being astonishingly vulgar and crass,'' she wrote. ''Etiquette recognizes no such rule, Miss Manners assures you.'' 
 And what to buy for your friend's fourth wedding?
 ''They should give me a present,'' Ms. Baldrige exclaimed.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOM BLOOM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); RESTAURANTS (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (70%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (65%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



617 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; ASIA-PACIFIC ISSUE NEXT STOP; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: The Surf's Always Up in the Chinese Hawaii

BYLINE: By BONNIE TSUI

 BODY:
THE sun is out, the sand gleaming white, the waves rolling toward shore in clean, regular sets. At the edge of this palm-fringed paradise, the sea is a pale, minty hue and empty of people. Launching my surfboard from the beach on Hainan Island, I paddle out to catch a wave. 
 Hainan Island has often been called the Chinese Hawaii, and indeed, it is the only tropical beach destination in China. With coasts on the South China Sea and the Gulf of Tonkin, about a 90-minute flight southwest of Hong Kong, this island, slightly bigger than Maryland, is attracting hordes of Chinese in the market for a little sun and fun. 
 The warm, sandy south coast around the port city of Sanya is experiencing a luxury hotel boom: Ritz-Carlton, Banyan Tree, Le Meridien and Mandarin Oriental have all opened resorts there in the last year, with Fairmont and Raffles properties also in the pipeline. Look around, and you'll encounter weekend warriors from Beijing, Shanghai, Hong Kong and Guangzhou, all seeking to escape the crush of big-city life for a quiet stretch of beach and a frozen cocktail. 
 In the past, Hainan had a romantic, Wild West frontier air about it; as the southernmost point in China, it served for centuries as a place of banishment for criminals, exiled poets and political undesirables. Thirty minutes from Sanya is the famously scenic Tianya Haijiao, a k a the Edge of the Sky and the Rim of the Sea, a boulder-strewn beach depicted on the Chinese two-yuan note. Today, it is an immensely popular tourist attraction. 
 After Hainan separated from Guangdong to become its own province in 1988, a development boom was quickly followed by a bust that left many building projects on the island half-finished. In the last few years, Hainan has welcomed back investors and become a fashionable draw for Russian tourists looking to escape winter -- entire blocks in Sanya have signs lettered in Russian for their benefit.
 More recently, Hainan has attracted younger international travelers like Drew Aras and Catherine Forman, both 24 and from Melbourne, Australia. Mr. Aras, a physical therapist, first heard about the island while watching the Beijing Olympics, since it was where organizers obtained the 17,000 tons of sand for the Games' beach volleyball courts. 
 ''Usually, when we travel together, we negotiate a place that is both interesting to travel to and has the added bonus of offering some surf time for me,'' said Mr. Aras, who has been surfing since he was 5. ''We thought we'd find a nice place to relax by the beach and maybe catch a few waves between cocktails.''
 What they found were uncrowded waves, cheap and delicious seafood and a quirky landscape that skipped from isolated coastline to spots jammed with mainland package tourists outfitted in matching head-to-toe Hawaiian prints. 
 The couple were introduced to the island by Brendan Sheridan of Surfing Hainan, a small local company that leads surfing expeditions and rents surfboards to visitors. Mr. Sheridan, 29, attended high school in Hong Kong and learned to surf while at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Two years ago, he made it his mission to bring surfing to the Chinese people. 
 ''It's the right time for the Chinese to get into surfing,'' Mr. Sheridan told me as we set out to surf at Riyuewan, a picturesque bay about an hour and a half northeast of Sanya. ''There's an emerging middle class that is finally learning how to spend their money and have some fun in life.'' 
 Most of his customers are foreigners, as many Chinese have an aversion to the sun -- having a tan still denotes ''farmer'' -- and don't have much experience with the ocean. But Mr. Sheridan, who speaks Mandarin, finds that more and more Chinese are interested in the culture of surfing, including his two Chinese staff members, who are both in their 30s and have taken to the sport with a vengeance. 
 Around Hainan, the surf is up pretty much year round. Between April and September, waves tend to come from the south, while October to March brings a northeastern winter swell.
 It can be somewhat expensive to be an independent traveler exploring the island beyond Sanya -- public buses are infrequent, and a one-way taxi ride from Riyuewan to Sanya, for example, can run upwards of 300 yuan, about $43 at 7 yuan to the dollar. But Mr. Aras thought it added to the sense of adventure.
 ''It was refreshing to go somewhere not set up for Western tourists,'' he said. ''My parents, who live in Hong Kong, already plan to go back to Hainan, and they know of other Aussie and Hong Kong expats who visit frequently. I don't think it'll take long for surfers to catch on.''
 Development is already fast and furious. The economic downturn may have lessened visitor numbers, but the hotels, with their glass-tiled pools and grand marble staircases, keep coming. 
 Along Yalong Bay, a lovely four-and-a-half-mile stretch of beach about 15 miles east of Sanya that was developed as a national resort district, the new Ritz-Carlton sits at the end of a long string of resorts that went up before it, including the Hilton, Marriott, Sheraton and Crowne Plaza. Overlooking the water, the Yalong Bay Golf Club, designed by Robert Trent Jones Jr., is shaped like a dragon's claw and has hosted tournaments on the European and Asian Tours. There are now 16 courses on the island, with a couple more in the works.
 The sheer numbers of Chinese mean that remote, once-unspoiled locations like Tianya Haijiao (on the two-yuan note), Wuzhi Shan (the ''five finger mountain'' in the center of Hainan), and Wuzhizhou (a tiny, white-sand island just offshore northeast of Yalong Bay) have been developed with Disney-like fervor to entertain the throngs of flamboyantly dressed tourists who want to view them on a package tour (ferries every 10 minutes, waterfall rides, horse treks). In these places, the Chinese Hawaii more closely resembles a Chinese Miami, full of shiny resorts and artificial attractions. 
 But stretches of green, mist-covered mountain slopes do remain. The warm, humid climate makes Hainan a bounty of tropical crops -- the island is an important producer of pineapples, coconuts, mangoes, sugar cane, coffee and rubber trees. On a drive I took north out of Sanya last November, the countryside quickly retreated from apartment and hotel blocks to hillsides heavy with mango trees and rice paddies worked by teams of farmers and water buffalo. 
 Of all the new high-end resorts I visited, Le Meridien Shimei Bay, about an hour and a half northeast of Sanya's airport, had the most authentic sense of place, with lush forests, a pristine, white sand beach and no other development around as yet, though an adjacent series of hotels is planned by Starwood Hotels and Resorts.
 Changes are happening all over China, and Hainan Island exemplifies this moment. The boom in tourism there is exposing mainland travelers to a foreign beach culture in new and interesting ways. 
 One afternoon, when Mr. Sheridan took two young Chinese couples out for a surf lesson in Sanya, he got an unusual request from one of the women. ''Can I take this umbrella with me onto the surfboard?'' she asked. Mr. Sheridan fought off laughter and soberly told her that he didn't think it was a good idea. 
 But he did admire her effort. He said, ''Why not have it both ways?'' 
 LUXURY HOTELS AND LONGBOARDS
 Hainan is an easy flight from any major Chinese city; Sanya is about 90 minutes from Hong Kong and Guangzhou and about three hours from Shanghai. China Southern (www.cs-air.com/en), Dragon Air (www.dragonair.com) and Air China (www.airchina.com.cn/en/index.jsp) offer frequent flights. You can fly to Haikou in the north of the island, but it is several hours from the southern beaches.
 Of the many new hotels on Hainan, the most secluded is Le Meridien Shimei Bay (Shimei Bay, Wanning; 86-898-6252-8888; www.starwoodhotels.com/lemeridien; doubles from 1,040 yuan, about $149 at 7 yuan to the dollar). The infinity pool and open atrium are stunning, and the 275 rooms, including 25 villas, feature polished wood and indigenous motifs. There is excellent hiking nearby and exclusive access to an offshore island. 
 In Luhuitou Bay, the Banyan Tree Sanya (6 Luling Road, Sanya; 800-591-0439 in America; www.banyantree.com/en/sanya/index.html; from 3,100 yuan) is closer to the action, but the 61 pool villas make privacy and spa indulgence the priority. 
 Between Luhuitou and Yalong Bay is the Mandarin Oriental Hotel Sanya (12 Yuhai Road, Sanya; 86-898-8820-9999; www.mandarinoriental.com/sanya; from 1,600 yuan), where all 297 rooms have views of the sea.
 To surf several breaks, rent a board or take a lesson with Surfing Hainan (8 Huayun Road, Sanya; 86-135-1980-0103; www.surfinghainan.com; from 350 yuan a person, with transportation and equipment).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ABOVE: Tianya Haijiao, depicted on the two-yuan note, is a popular attraction on Hainan Island.
LEFT: Luxury hotels line Sanya. BOTTOM LEFT: Rice paddies near Yalong Bay. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTIE JOHNSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.TR7)
TOP: A vendor at the night market in Sanya, at the heart of the tourist boom.
 ABOVE: Hainan is developing a reputation as a surfer's paradise. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTIE JOHNSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.TR10) MAPS: Hainan, China (pg.TR10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (90%); SURFING (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); TOURISM (70%); CITIES (69%); TOUR PACKAGES (64%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (64%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (60%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (71%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (57%) SOUTH CHINA (99%); HAWAII, USA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); HAINAN, CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%); VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (68%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



618 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Baby Boomers 'Under Water'

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
A RECENT report suggests that the housing-market slump is hitting baby boomers particularly hard: many middle-aged homeowners had been so seduced by the rising prices of years past that they failed to save for retirement and may now owe more than their homes are worth. 
 The Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington, which released the report last month, estimated that 30 percent of homeowners aged 45 to 54 were in this predicament, known as being ''under water.'' (About 15 percent of older baby boomers, 55 to 64, fell into that category as well.) 
 So, if these people were forced to sell their homes now, they would have to bring cash to the closing. 
 The center's report also found that baby boomers in the 45-to-54 group saw their overall net worth plummet by about 45 percent over the last five years, to a median level of $94,200 from $172,400. 
 While the drop partly reflected the meltdown of Wall Street, Dean Baker, the co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, said that conservative estimates showed that home equity accounted for about $20,000 of the net income figure. 
 Another factor that has led to a decline in personal wealth is what the report calls ''the near zero level of savings nationally'' from 2004 to 2009.
 ''As a result of the bubble-inflated values of their homes, tens of millions of families opted not to save during what would typically be their peak saving years,'' the report said.
 The center used 2004 consumer finance data from the Federal Reserve Board that measured a typical consumer's wealth in several categories, including stocks and home equity. Researchers then reduced those values in accordance with the drop in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the median sale price of a house as tracked by the National Association of Realtors. The November S.&P./Case-Shiller 20-city price index was also factored into the projections.
 Mr. Baker said he suspected that fewer baby boomer homeowners were under water in the New York metropolitan region than in other parts of the country, particularly areas where prices have fallen sharply, like Florida, Arizona and Rust Belt states like Michigan and Ohio. But he said that because of the financial industry's persistent woes, owners in the New York area could see more significant declines in home prices this year.
 Indeed, many areas in the region are already suffering. According to a report this month by Integrated Asset Services, a Denver-based real estate consulting firm, prices in Fairfield County, Conn., have dropped 42 percent since their peak in 2006, while prices in Passaic County, N.J., have dropped 26 percent.
 Those homeowners around age 60 whose mortgages are under water, and who might now be considering selling, should carefully weigh their options, said Richard E. Austin, a financial adviser with Lincoln Financial Advisors in Rye Brook, N.Y. Selling the house would cost them money, he noted, which could mean that they might need to liquidate other assets -- even retirement savings plans like 401(k)'s.
 But Mr. Austin said that if these homeowners expected real estate prices to decline for years, and if they wanted to retire someplace other than their current home, selling now could shield them from deeper losses in the future. 
 ''I wouldn't recommend that as the first option, because I'm more of an optimist,'' Mr. Austin said, adding that a better option might be to rent out the house while waiting for home prices to rebound. 
 Even baby boomers who aren't under water could have a more difficult time affording retirement. According to the center's report, five years ago, the median baby boomer household, with people aged 45 to 54, had enough net assets to generate about $14,000 in annual interest once the homeowners reached age 65. 
 Now, that figure is just under $8,000.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate: Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 2 or 3 percentage points above this index.(Source: HSH Associates) Chart details line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BABY BOOMERS (93%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



619 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; MODERN LOVE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1576 words

HEADLINE: A Family That Takes 'No' for an Answer

BYLINE: By LEIGH NEWMAN. 
Leigh Newman, who lives in Brooklyn, is working on her first novel.

 BODY:
EVERY year, my far-flung family gathers for Christmas at my parents' house in eastern Idaho along the Snake River, where the snow falls with thick, dreamy, often relentless abandon. Last year, it had been falling for almost a week. The day before Christmas Eve, as flakes continued to drift down and the afternoon light dimmed, my father suggested we shoot some ducks for dinner. 
 Who wanted to go?
 My husband, Lawrence, did; he was new to the Western ethos of hunting your own food. And I wanted to go, too, even though I was five months pregnant, if only to dispel any ideas my family might have about my now being a wimpy New York City pregnant lady, capable only of sitting in a rocker, ordering BPA-free baby bottles online. 
 Off we set, throwing on parkas and hauling out shotguns. The route down to the river is a narrow quarter-mile walk through cottonwoods. The fresh drifts came up to our thighs. We lumbered along, our spaniel Tory nosing ahead. Ten yards before the bank, Dad motioned us down with his glove. We hit the snow, peeking through thickets of iced branches to scout what lay below.
 Nothing.
 We crossed a semifrozen knee-high section of the river, climbing up a narrow gravel island. Already my hands were numb. I hadn't dressed properly; my gloves were fingerless, and I had skipped the snow pants. Just on the other side of the island, a small flock of ducks, plus several Canada geese, were fussing in the bent, crackling reeds. We crouched down.
 ''Don't hit anything that flies,'' Dad said. ''They're right near shore where we can get them. Tory won't swim in this cold.''
 All of a sudden they took off in a squawking flurry, flying across the white sky. Law squeezed off a shot and missed. I held tight a few seconds longer, but also missed.
 Dad, however, displaying his old-school finesse, waited for just the right moment and brought down a goose that tumbled directly into the water. Away it rushed with the current.
 I looked at Dad; he looked at me. I knew why he'd taken the shot, as did he. Every goose seems like the last he'll ever shoot, and it may very well be -- at least with his daughter watching.
 ''Well,'' he said, ''that was something to be ashamed of.''
 ''Don't worry,'' Law said, handing me his gun and taking off running. ''I'll get it.''
 Law, of course, was the only one among us with strength to follow the goose. I was too slow and huge and was carrying my grandfather's heavy double-barreled shotgun. And Dad could no longer run at all, not at age 65 with his two hip replacements and damaged heart.
 We watched Law sprint down the bank. There was something teenage in his step, something raw and gleeful and almost obsessed. His hat flopped off. His figure bounded over the deep snow. Painfully, slowly, Dad and I began to follow, foils to Law's progress, not just in our movements, but in our mind-sets.
 Dad and I come from a pessimistic family, a family that on his side has seen more than its share of suicide, alcoholism, manic-depression and premature death. Luckily, the two of us had escaped those routes.
 But if you asked us, for example, if we thought the experimental drugs Dad was trying might help repair his heart, we would say no, probably not, and change the subject to snowblowers or recipes for pheasant cacciatore. The economy? About to implode and leave us destitute. My youngest brother? His flight was never going to make it into Idaho Falls in this storm. 
 No matter the situation, we believe it's better to say ''no'' and believe that no. That way you can't be disappointed, or at least not as disappointed as you would be had you allowed yourself to dream otherwise.
 Five years ago, the day my father told me he was dying, he stopped the truck along a highway in the Rockies and said, ''Look I've got a 22 percent chance of making it through the next two years.'' He just wanted me to have the scientific facts.
 I cried a little there in the truck, he cried, and we never talked about it again. Most of the time, I actually forget about Dad's health. Except when I notice he is panting from a 10-second walk. 
 Or when he shot a goose that we couldn't bring in.
 Now we were stumbling along, Dad in front, trying to follow in Law's deep boot prints. Our eyelashes gunked over with flakes. Our breath turned labored. We stopped every 15 steps, bent over, to rest. Law had to be at least a half-mile ahead, out of sight.
 ''You don't think he'll get that goose, do you?'' Dad asked.
 ''No. No unless it hit an eddy and somehow washes up.'' But secretly, I allowed myself to believe Law might. 
 THERE was a reason for that. Seven years ago, three months after Law and I married, I called it quits. I was burning up with anger over issues large and small, all the messy, unresolved stuff that had been pushed aside as we planned the wedding, only to flare up after.
 So I left him with the wedding china and salad spoons in our cozy apartment in Manhattan and moved into a small carriage house in Massachusetts, where I had enrolled in graduate school. We already had serious problems, I told him. Therefore, we were over.
 Law took the news with a kind, understanding, broken expression. He agreed that our marriage was, indeed, over. Then he proceeded to ignore that, even when I announced it to my friends and family, even when I asked him to file for a separation. He continued to come up to visit me. He continued to plan my visits down for weekends and school vacations. 
 He seemed to accept, in theory, that we were separated. Yet all of his actions suggested an absolute denial of everything I had expressed and he had agreed to. This should have enraged me further. I was not being listened to! 
 And yet it didn't. His pretending let him believe I hadn't left the marriage. And oddly, it let me pretend I hadn't left, either, once I realized that I didn't really want to leave, that I wanted to stay and fix our problems.
 ''He's never going to get that goose,'' Dad said. ''And I don't think I can go on much further.'' Dad did not look good. As for me, I wanted to lie down in the snow, not an excellent indicator for wilderness survival.
 ''Why doesn't he give up?'' my father asked. 
 ''I don't know, '' I said. And I didn't know.
 ''I tell you what's got me worried,'' Dad said. ''What if he tries to get that goose and falls in somehow? Then we're going to be in real trouble.''
 I cupped my hands and shouted ''Law!'' down the bank.
 Nothing.
 The sky flushed and darkened. We waited for a half-hour. We looked for any footprints doubling back to the house. More and more, I started seeing the scenario Dad had laid out. What if Law was so sure of himself that he did think he could get the goose? What if he leaned down to pull it over with a branch and fell in up to his thighs? The water would rapidly turn him hypothermic. ... 
 I felt sick. I walked faster. So did Dad. We lacked flashlights, snowmobiles, cellphones.
 When we were a few miles from the house, Dad said: ''I think you better go back to the house and call the sheriff. I'll keep going along the bank.'' 
 We unloaded the guns, leaving two of them by a tree. Dad kept going up the bank. I slung my grandfather's gun over my shoulder and headed home through the woods, panicking, stumbling through untouched snow that now came up to my waist. My stretched belly hurt with every step. And on top of it all, I couldn't remember the way. We had gone so far downriver that I wasn't sure where the house was. Until I finally saw our windows shining through the trees.
 I started yelling, ''Anne!'' 
 My stepmother came out and helped me inside.
 ''Lawrence was just here,'' she said. ''He doubled back from the river. You guys must have just missed each other.''
 I wanted to laugh. If Law had gone the other way around the house, I would have seen his tracks. If I had gone the other way, we might have run into each other at the door. Everything at that point should have just been chalked up to a silly scare, due to bad communication and luck. Except that Dad was still out there, alone. 
 I waited by the fire. About an hour later, the two of them came back. Law had done lap after lap to find Dad (who, though exhausted, had remained on the trail of Law) and bring him home, along with our abandoned guns. 
 THAT night, as we lay in bed, Law turned over. ''You didn't really think I was stupid enough to dive into a frozen river in the middle of a blizzard, did you?''
 I wasn't sure what to say. It wasn't stupidity that I thought might have inspired him. It was hope. Law knew Dad felt badly about killing the goose. And he believed he could fix it, even as that goose floated, faster and faster, out of reach.
 What's the difference between hope and denial? I wanted to ask him. Does it hurt or help to pretend your father might go on living, even if all facts say he won't? 
 If our marriage -- a sturdy, surprising, wonderful marriage -- gets into trouble again, will it help or hurt if we pretend it's O.K. and push blindly on, the way we did last time? What does refusing to see the grim side of the truth do: smash down issues we'd be better off confronting or keep us from sinking into premature, unnecessary defeat? 
 ''Oh, no,'' I said, turning off the light, curling up with him in the snug log-cabin dark. ''I knew you'd have the sense to turn back eventually.'' Just as I knew, and appreciated, that he lacked the sense to stop himself from chasing it in the first place.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPHER SILAS NEAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); BISPHENOL A (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



620 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LIVES; Pg. 98

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Misadventures in Paradise

BYLINE: By TOM RUPRECHT. 
Tom Ruprecht writes for ''Late Show With David Letterman'' and is the author of ''George W. Bush: An Unauthorized Oral History.''

 BODY:
Several months ago I booked a nonrefundable trip to Bora Bora for my honeymoon. The island looked amazing -- South Pacific, tiki huts over clear water. Virtually from the moment I bought the tickets, however, the U.S. economy began to plummet. So in January, when we should have been hoarding the rest of our savings, my wife, Lorraine, and I found ourselves embarking on the most extravagant trip we'd ever taken. But that didn't matter, because after the stress of work and the stress of the wedding, we were looking forward to our reward -- two weeks in paradise. 
 Everyone assured us these would be the happiest two weeks of our lives, which only added another layer of stress: how do you go about having the Greatest Time of Your Life? 
 The trip started with a form of hell called the international terminal of LAX. It could be my imagination, but I believe that one of the thousands of families in front of us in the security line had a set of octuplets -- and that during the course of checking in each one of the octuplets had its own set of octuplets. 
 It was a voyage so long and arduous that I felt as if I should stick an American flag in the soil upon arrival. When we got to the otherwise lovely hotel, the first thing I noticed was that no one was there. I'm not talking romantic seclusion; I'm talking ''Twilight Zone.'' I was like Will Smith wandering around a desolate, postapocalyptic world. Assuming, of course, this was one of those rare apocalypses that left palm trees and turquoise lagoons in its wake. Apparently the rest of the world had opted not to go on a decadent South Pacific getaway during the worst fiscal crisis in 80 years. 
 My goal for the trip was simple -- I wanted to replace my normal stressed-out personality with a new stress-free version. Wishing to get into the spirit of island life, I signed us right up for a boating excursion. It turned out that this excursion involved swimming with stingrays and sharks, which was great because nothing makes me quite as stress-free as swimming with sharks. 
 When I mention our outdoor activities, friends say, ''But you were on your honeymoon,'' as if the only acceptable way to spend your honeymoon is to have nonstop sex for 14 straight days. But I mean, aside from Charlie Sheen, who really does that? So we tried to take in all that the island had to offer. And because nobody was there, every excursion was awkwardly private. For instance, when we wanted to go out to dinner, the owner of the restaurant would pick us up, drive us to the restaurant, where we were often the only customers, and then drive us back to the hotel. Leave a bad tip and we're talking one seriously uncomfortable car ride home. 
 One particular restaurant was featured on a ''1,001 Places to See Before You Die'' list because of its phenomenal view. Though only one other couple was dining there that night, the restaurant inexplicably scheduled our pickup for 7 p.m., 30 minutes after sunset. So we ate in darkness, imagining the view. (I foolishly left my night-vision goggles back at the hotel.) As a result, I still have 1,001 places to see before I die, which really messes up my dreams of dying young. 
 But as the days went by, I gradually acclimated. I grew more relaxed. I kicked my Coca-Cola addiction. I got a tan. I kicked my Diet Coke addiction. I wore a goofy shirt. By our final day, I came to believe I was an Island Guy. In fact, I was so visibly laid back that when we checked out, the concierge, seeing me as a kindred spirit, asked if I could do him a favor. 
 I said, ''Sure,'' and he handed me a brown package -- he said it was ''a previous guest's BlackBerry'' -- and told me to bring it on my flight to Tahiti. Once in the Tahiti airport, I was supposed to hand it off to a cabby named ''George.'' Wanting so badly to believe I was now a laid-back person, I agreed to be his mule.
 We had 45 minutes to kill before leaving for the airport, so we got a drink at the hotel bar. Lorraine, who unlike me isn't a moron, was not pleased. She pointed out that delivering this package had absolutely no upside unless a Tahitian prison was one of the 1,001 Places to See Before You Die. So I decided to listen to my wife, as well as my inner sissy, and returned the package to the concierge.
 As beautiful as Bora Bora is, I wasn't sorry to leave. It seems part of the reason you go away is to gain a new appreciation for your life at home. Well, instead of dreading a return to the office, I was grateful to have an office, and a job, to return to. The first morning back in New York, I happily packed myself into an overcrowded subway car and gave up all hope of ever being mellow. 
 Submissions for Lives may be sent to lives@nytimes.com The magazine cannot return or respond to unsolicited manuscripts. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HOLLY WALES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); WORKPLACE STRESS (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%)

PERSON: CHARLIE SHEEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FRENCH POLYNESIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



621 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; THE ISLAND SOUND BEACH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Feeling Stung by a Layoff; Sowing One's Own Hope

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN. 
E-mail: theisland@nytimes.com

DATELINE: SOUND BEACH 

 BODY:
 SITTING at a desk in the frantically assembled home office in her attic, a lonely room where she has spent the winter feverishly searching for work, Eileen Nally recounted, in a shaky voice, the last time she was in a real office sitting at a real desk, gainfully employed. An office that provided health benefits, a respectable paycheck and a sense of self-worth; an office reached by a commute that did not entail a perilously steep set of stairs.
 It was late on a Friday afternoon last October, and she was finishing up some paperwork at the two-person insurance agency in Calverton that she had managed for seven years, when her boss handed her a letter confirming in print what he was about to reveal in a couple of mumbled words. The parent company, Farm Family insurance, had terminated him; he was terminating her. Collateral damage. 
 ''I said, 'So this is my last day and I don't come back on Monday and there will be no more paychecks and no more insurance?' and he responded, 'That's right,' '' Ms. Nally recalled. She was too shocked to cry. That came later, here at home. 
 ''I'm just another casualty of the economic situation, but you can't help but take this personally,'' she said. ''There have definitely been moments when I've said to myself, what's the point? I'm 56 years old; am I done? That's the despair you feel. But what's the alternative, go down in the basement and put a bullet in your head? No, don't print that! But it's true, you do have those dark moments.''
 She forced herself to respond to her plight in character: with pragmatism. Ms. Nally filed for unemployment and found health insurance through the state's Healthy NY program, in retrospect both crucial moves. (Farm Family has held the Nallys' auto, home and other insurance policies for nearly three decades. That fact irks her, but she feels too inundated by change of late to cope with making more.)
 She attended a mandatory meeting -- ''Basically an orientation to unemployment'' -- at a Workforce New York One-Stop Career Center in Patchogue. She updated her resume. Yet, despite a letter of recommendation from the general manager at her former employer regarding her stellar skills as a customer service representative, she has not found a new employer.
 ''I don't have a job and have not had a job since Oct. 17,'' said Ms. Nally, a self-starter who earned a sociology degree at SUNY Stony Brook at age 40 to challenge herself and set a good example for her daughter, who is now an accountant. It is Mom who, although at home in the modest ranch house where she and her husband, Joe, a self-employed landscape contractor, have lived for 30 years, is dressed in a white blouse, long skirt and black suede boots, as if ready for a job interview. In reality, there have been none.
 ''My husband and I were looking at retirement in 10 years, but this has been like, 'Hellooooo, forget about it,' '' Ms. Nally said. ''These days it takes two salaries to get by. This has been devastating. I lost my paycheck, my health insurance and a job I loved all in one day.''
 Friday seems to be the convenient day to drop the two-word bombshell -- You're fired -- that is rocking psyches, knee-capping careers and corroding nest eggs across Long Island, where the unemployment rate has risen to a 16-year high of 6.9 percent. 
 ''The reason this is not your usual recession is that it's hitting everybody; no one is safe in their job,'' cautioned Pearl M. Kamer, the chief economist for the Long Island Association, a nonprofit group that monitors the health of the business sector. ''It's the end of the economy as we know it,'' added Ms. Kamer, speculating that between 35,000 and 50,000 more jobs -- on top of 24,100 private sector jobs lost last year -- will disappear on Long Island before the economy hits bottom. ''Employers are in survivor mode: they're shedding employees, not hanging on to them.'' 
 That's a resounding chorus of Friday bombshells. 
 For Ellen Atkins, an imports logistics specialist with Fortunoff at its headquarters in Uniondale for 19 years, the ax fell on Friday, Feb. 13, the day before her 11th wedding anniversary on Valentine's Day. So much for sentimental timing. Because the 87-year-old company went from bankruptcy to liquidation in weeks, no severance was offered. 
 Ms. Atkins, 59, of Huntington, said she and about 300 colleagues lost their jobs in that weekend purge, ''and we're all still walking around like zombies. In three short years a respected company is gone forever. It makes me think back to that Ayn Rand book 'Atlas Shrugged,' where everything just disappears.''
 ''I haven't been unemployed since I was 18,'' she added. ''I've been on seven interviews, all jobs with lower salaries than I was making. I'm doing everything in my power, but there's thousands of people out there doing exactly the same thing. My greatest fear is that I'll lose my home, the thing my husband and I have worked for all these years.'' 
 Ms. Kamer said that as of January, 102,200 people were out of work on Long Island, a drastic increase from the 68,800 unemployed a year earlier. Her advice to Ms. Nally, Ms. Atkins and, given the contagious aspects of the economic Armageddon, too many Long Islanders: ''Gird yourself.'' 
 Ms. Nally was pushed to desperation when just one of the resumes she sent out in December yielded a polite response from the Town of Brookhaven's Wildlife and Ecology Center informing her that it was not hiring. But rather than head for the basement, she said, she took some advice, along with a few hundred tulip and daffodil bulbs, from her husband. She planted them in her front yard. They're sprouting.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LET GO: Eileen Nally, left, at home in Sound Beach, has been job hunting since she was laid off in October. Ellen Atkins, below, was a victim of the Fortunoff's liquidation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAXINE HICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.LI2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (86%); LABOR FORCE (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (70%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



622 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Green and Diverse

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''In Environmental Push, Looking to Add Diversity'' (news article, March 10) notes that national environmental organizations have traditionally formed their membership and leadership from the white and affluent and have been criticized for that. 
 Earth Day Network, the nonprofit group that grew out of the original Earth Day in 1970, has diversifying the environmental movement at the core of its mission statement. We are a convener of the National Latino Congreso, working on issues like global warming and green schools, and we have registered tens of thousands of diverse and low-income people to vote. 
 We have worked with 5,000 community groups in the United States, and we have taken on green economics, green jobs and green schools as our rallying cry to help the environment and lift people out of poverty at the same time.
 We agree with Van Jones, a green jobs pioneer, that ''the more the green movement transforms into a movement for economic opportunity, the more it will look like America.'' We believe in that credo, and have practiced it for years.
 Gerald Torres Kathleen Rogers Washington, March 11, 2009
 The writers are, respectively, chairman and president of the Earth Day Network.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); EARTH DAY (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (55%)

PERSON: VAN JONES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



623 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; ON THE HOMEFRONT; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: After The Bubble

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MAHLER. 
Jonathan Mahler is a contributing writer. His most recent book is ''The Challenge: Hamdan v. Rumsfeld and the Fight Over Presidential Power.''

 BODY:
A few years ago, while working on a profile of Mayor Bloomberg for this magazine, I had dinner with his deputy mayor for economic development, Dan Doctoroff, at an Italian restaurant in the Clinton Hill neighborhood of Brooklyn. At the time, the city was flush with cash -- weeks earlier, it reported a budget surplus of $3.4 billion -- the Dow was above 12,000 and still climbing and Doctoroff was presiding over a long list of extensive public-private projects across the five boroughs, bold strokes of urban re-engineering reminiscent of the days of Robert Moses.
 As a violent summer storm raged outside, Doctoroff sketched out for me Bloomberg's ambitious plans for New York. The rail yards and warehouses of the far West Side would be replaced by condos, hotels and retail stores. Thousands of apartment units and a new arena for the Nets would rise on the site of the Atlantic Yards in downtown Brooklyn. Penn Station would undergo a gut renovation (and be renamed after Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan). Lower Manhattan would be transformed into a recreational playground, with cafes, performing-arts pavilions, ball fields, an outdoor ice rink, even a floating garden on the East River. 
 I've been thinking a lot about that dinner over the past several months, while watching the Dow plummet and the city's unemployment rate soar. All of Bloomberg's mega-projects are now indefinitely delayed, victims, in part, of the credit crunch and the mounting municipal deficit. Even if he's elected to a third term, the mayor probably won't ever realize his grand vision for New York. And yet his legacy is already visible on the city's landscape. It is less sweeping, perhaps, but no less significant: he empowered the private sector to remake the city bit by bit.
 This was partly a function of the way Bloomberg ran New York, a natural byproduct of his ability to govern the ungovernable city. ''The perception under Bloomberg has been that New York is a good place to do business, and that's very important for developers,'' says Jonathan Miller, one of the city's best-known real estate appraisers.
 But it was also deliberate. Bloomberg is a businessman. He believes in growth and has faith in the private sector. His administration expedited permits and signed off on building designs with minimal interference. It also freed up underutilized land -- old piers, elevated freight lines, warehousing districts, rail yards -- either by rezoning or by threatening to employ its powers of eminent domain. In many cases it offered attractive incentives, most notably tax breaks, to encourage companies to build. The administration did its share of construction too, adding parks across the boroughs and along the city's long-neglected waterfront and, in partnership with private developers, initiating New York's largest affordable-housing project in decades.
 You don't have to be an architect or an urban planner to recognize how much the city was transformed along the way. Walk around most neighborhoods in Manhattan and many neighborhoods in the outer boroughs, and you will be confronted with new construction, whether the steel-and-glass condominium complexes that tower above the old factories and warehouses on the rezoned waterfront of Greenpoint and Williamsburg; the 43-story headquarters for Goldman Sachs that recently sprouted in Lower Manhattan (thanks, in part, to a generous financial incentive from the city); or the two virgin ballparks where the Yankees and Mets will soon open their 2009 seasons (with the help of big municipal tax breaks and an enormous infrastructure investment in the stadium's respective neighborhoods).
 All of these structures represent the newest layer in a cityscape that bears witness to the cyclical nature of New York's economy. The post-Civil War bonanza, when New York cemented its status as the nation's commercial and financial capital, produced the iconic cast-iron structures of today's SoHo; the city's ur-luxury apartment building, the Dakota; and such Beaux-Arts masterpieces as the American Museum of Natural History. (Not to mention a park, Central Park, laid out on an undesirable strip of land that had housed pigsties, slaughterhouses and shantytowns.) It was during the Roaring Twenties that many of the city's most recognizable steel skyscrapers -- the Chanin and Chrysler buildings, among them -- sprang to life. Post-World War II peace and prosperity ushered in a wave of Modernist structures like the Seagram Building and Lever House.
 The ''greed is good,'' precrash 1980s brought another real estate boom to New York, though one with a limited impact on the physical appearance of the city. Much of the development community's energy was focused on converting rental units into co-ops. The new construction was largely confined to the island of Manhattan and, with the notable exception of the handiwork of a young real estate mogul named Donald Trump, was generally unremarkable.
 During the most recent binge, with property values soaring and capital readily available to both builders and buyers, developers didn't bother with generic, low-slung apartment buildings and conversions. Soaring glass condo towers sprang up everywhere. New York, long criticized for its lack of cutting-edge architecture, became a destination for celebrity architects like Norman Foster, Frank Gehry, Jean Nouvel, Charles Gwathmey and Renzo Piano.
 That era is over. Since November, some $5 billion worth of development has been delayed or canceled. New York is again a city of abandoned lots, half-finished buildings and free-floating anxiety. ''At this particular moment, I think that everyone who is honest with themselves can't but help think about 1929, which came at the end of an extraordinarily fertile period for architecture,'' says Robert A. M. Stern, dean of the Yale School of Architecture and designer of the apartment building 15 Central Park West, which in 2007 earned the distinction of being the highest-priced new apartment building in the history of New York. Even for the rare developers who still have credit lines, there's the separate question of whether they want to bring a new building to a market with vacancy rates climbing all over the city.
 The city has been here before. Work on the Empire State Building was completed in 1931, when the Great Depression was already under way. Renters were scarce -- so scarce, in fact, that the city's tallest skyscraper became known as ''the Empty State Building.'' Not until 1950 did it become profitable. During the 1970s, those infamous years of white flight and urban blight, the city was so broke and certain neighborhoods so desperate and depleted that one former city-housing commissioner, Roger Starr, suggested that New York simply cut off services to them and let them die -- ''planned shrinkage,'' he called it.
 The current downturn, like the previous downturns, is not something to celebrate; the city and its residents will suffer. But the building boom, while breathing new life into a number of long-struggling neighborhoods, was problematic in its own right. New York got some first-class architecture, but it also got more than its share of eyesores, and the proliferation of luxury-condo towers accelerated the regrettable transformation of Manhattan into an island of the wealthy. Too much of the new construction did nothing to enrich the fabric of the city. ''Here we practice the art of the deal, not the art of the city,'' as the architecture critic Ada Louise Huxtable has put it. 
 The downturn will give New York a chance to pause and reflect on this period of hyperactive development, and to think about what sort of buildings it needs in the future. Better still, the absence of private capital may spur federal investment that could enable the city to not simply patch up its deteriorating infrastructure but to reinvent it for a new, greener era. ''Even though we've come through a period of real economic development, we have an infrastructure that badly needs investment and imagination,'' says Vin Cipolla, president of New York's Municipal Arts Society.
 For its part, the Bloomberg administration has no intention of scaling back its Moses-like ambitions. When I spoke recently with Doctoroff, who is now president of Bloomberg L.P., he told me that he and his colleagues had always envisioned their grand scheme as part of a long-term plan for New York. They never assumed they could outrun the next bust. ''We are now in the middle of the 12th serious downturn since New York became a major financial center in the early 19th century,'' Doctoroff said. ''The lesson of every single one of these previous 11 busts is that the city always comes back stronger than ever. History is perfect on that one.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON THE KEY COVER: ONE TEN THIRD, A CONDOMINIUM BUILDING DESIGNED BY GREENBERGFARROW AND BUILT BY TOLL BROTHERS CITY LIVING. THE PHOTOGRAPHER IN SOOK KIM SET UP LIGHTS IN A DOZEN APARTMENTS AND PLACED THE RESIDENTS IN THEIR WINDOWS. IN POSTPRODUCTION, SHE REARRANGED THE WINDOWS TO FORM THE SHAPE OF A KEY. PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY IN SOOK KIM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT LAFORET)
Boom and Bust: Each era of economic euphoria created its own particular layer in New York's urban landscape. From left: Grand Central Terminal, built at the turn of the 20th century
the Chrysler Building, which rose in the 1920s
the city's first bronze-clad skyscraper, at 375 Park Avenue, completed in 1958
the Frank Gehrydesigned I.A.C. building in Chelsea, built in 2007.(PHOTOGRAPH FROM LEFT: UNDERWOOD & UNDERWOOD/CORBIS (2)
BETTMANN/CORBI S
CHUCK CHIO/ARCAID/CORBI S .)(pg. MM48)
 (pg. MM49) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); MAYORS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ZONING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EMINENT DOMAIN (77%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); RETAILERS (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



624 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Without a Pastor, Obama Turns to a Circle of 5

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

 BODY:
President Obama has been without a pastor or a home church ever since he cut his ties to the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr. in the heat of the presidential campaign. But he has quietly cultivated a handful of evangelical pastors for private prayer sessions on the telephone and for discussions on the role of religion in politics. 
 All are men, two of them white and three black -- including the Rev. Otis Moss Jr., a graying lion of the civil rights movement. Two, the entrepreneurial dynamos Bishop T. D. Jakes and the Rev. Kirbyjon H. Caldwell, also served as occasional spiritual advisers to President George W. Bush. Another, the Rev. Jim Wallis, leans left on some issues, like military intervention and poverty programs, but opposes abortion.
 None of these pastors are affiliated with the religious right, though several are quite conservative theologically. One of them, the Rev. Joel C. Hunter, the pastor of a conservative megachurch in Florida, was branded a turncoat by some leaders of the Christian right when he began to speak out on the need to stop global warming. 
 But as a group they can hardly be characterized as part of the religious left either. Most, like Mr. Wallis, do not take traditionally liberal positions on abortion or homosexuality. What most say they share with the president is the conviction that faith is the foundation in the fight against economic inequality and social injustice. 
 ''These are all centrist, social justice guys,'' said the Rev. Eugene F. Rivers, a politically active pastor of Azusa Community Church in Boston, who knows all of them but is not part of the president's prayer caucus. ''Obama genuinely comes out of the social justice wing of the church. That's real. The community organizing stuff is real.''
 The pastors say Mr. Obama appears to rely on his faith for intellectual and spiritual succor. 
 ''While he may not put 'Honk if You Love Jesus' bumper stickers on the back of his car, he is the kind of guy who practices what he preaches,'' said Mr. Caldwell, the senior pastor of Windsor Village United Methodist Church in Houston. ''He has a desire to keep in touch with folk outside the Beltway, and to stay in touch with God. He seems to see those as necessary conditions for maintaining his internal compass.''
 Bishop Jakes said he had been tapped for several prayer phone calls -- the most recent being when Mr. Obama's grandmother died in November, two days before the election. ''You take turns praying,'' said Bishop Jakes, who like the other ministers did not want to divulge details of the calls. ''It's really more about contacting God than each other.'' 
 Mr. Hunter said of the phone calls: ''The times I have prayed with him, he's always initiated it.''
 The Obama administration has reached out to hundreds of religious leaders across the country to mobilize support and to seek advice on policy. These five pastors, however, have been brought into a more intimate inner circle. Their names were gleaned from interviews with people who know the president and religious leaders who work in Washington. Their role could change if Mr. Obama joins a church in Washington, but that could take some time because of the logistical challenges in finding a church that can accommodate the kind of crowd the Obamas would attract.
 The White House refused to comment for this article.
 The pastor in the circle who has known Mr. Obama the longest is Mr. Wallis, president and chief executive of Sojourners, a liberal magazine and movement based in Washington. In contrast to the other four, his contact with the president has been focused more on policy than prayer. Mr. Wallis has recently joined conservatives in pressing the president's office of faith-based initiatives to continue to allow government financing for religious social service groups that hire only employees of their own faith. 
 Mr. Wallis said he got to know Mr. Obama in the late 1990s when they participated in a traveling seminar that took bus trips to community programs across the country. Mr. Wallis said they ''hit it off'' because they were both Christians serious about their faith, fathers of young children the same age and believers in ''transcending left and right'' to find solutions to social problems. 
 ''He and I were what we called back then 'progressive Christians,' as opposed to the dominant religious-right era we were in then,'' Mr. Wallis said. ''We didn't think Jesus' top priorities would be capital gains tax cuts and supporting the next war.''
 Presidents through the ages have leaned on pastors for spiritual support, policy advice and political cover. The Rev. Billy Graham was a counselor to at least five (Dwight D. Eisenhower, Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard M. Nixon, Ronald Reagan and George Bush), and tapes from the Nixon White House reveal that their talks veered beyond religion to political and social topics that later proved regretful. 
 Some presidents, like Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton, regularly attended a local church. George W. Bush never joined a local church, but courted ministers on the religious right, which gained him favor with a major constituency for most of his two terms. 
 Pinning down Mr. Obama's theological leanings is not easy, the ministers said in interviews. They said he is well read in the Bible, but has not articulated views consistent with the racially inflected interpretation of his former pastor, Mr. Wright. 
 Mr. Moss, who once worked alongside the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and who only recently retired from his pulpit at Olivet Institutional Baptist Church in Cleveland, said of the president, ''I would simply say that he is a person of great faith, and I think that faith has sustained him.''
 Mr. Moss's son is the Rev. Otis Moss III, who succeeded Mr. Wright as pastor of Trinity United Church of Christ in Chicago, Mr. Obama's former church. Mr. Wright and the president are no longer in contact, said several people who know both men.
 Bishop Jakes said he sought out Mr. Obama in Chicago because of their common interest in Kenya and because he was impressed with the speech Mr. Obama delivered at the Democratic National Convention in 2004. 
 Bishop Jakes is himself a nationally known preaching powerhouse who fills sports stadiums and draws 30,000 worshipers to his church in Dallas, the Potter's House. He also produces movies, writes books and runs antipoverty programs in Dallas and Kenya, where Mr. Obama has ties through his Kenyan father. 
 Three of the ministers said their introduction to the president was through Joshua DuBois, who led religious outreach for the Obama presidential campaign and now heads the White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships. Mr. DuBois, who declined to comment, is himself a Pentecostal pastor. 
 Mr. Hunter, who leads a church in Longwood, Fla., said he was approached by Mr. DuBois in 2007 -- a few months after he left his new post as head of the Christian Coalition, the conservative advocacy group, because the board did not want to enlarge its agenda to include environmental issues like global warming. 
 He has since written a book, ''A New Kind of Conservative: Cooperation Without Compromise,'' and gave an invocation at the Democratic National Convention in Denver last year. 
 Bishop Jakes, Mr. Wallis and Mr. Hunter said they were political independents. Mr. Moss and Mr. Caldwell publicly endorsed Mr. Obama, and Mr. Caldwell donated money to his campaign.
 On the morning of the inauguration, Bishop Jakes delivered the sermon at a private service at St. John's Episcopal Church. He likened Mr. Obama to the boys in the Book of Daniel who are thrown intoa fiery furnace that is seven times hotter than it should be -- and survive. ''God is with you in the furnace,'' Bishop Jakes preached to Mr. Obama. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Rev. Joel C. Hunter is a pastor of a conservative megachurch. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN RAOUX/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A1)
The Rev. Jim Wallis (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILL SHILLING/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
The Rev. Kirbyjon H. Caldwell (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
The Rev. Otis Moss Jr. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICKEY WELSH/MONTGOMERY ADVERTISER)
 Bishop T. D. Jakes (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON PHILLIPS/TRISTAR PICTURES) (pg.A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); CHURCH & STATE (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); ABORTION (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%); GLOBAL WARMING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



625 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: The Jockeying Begins on Plan For Fiscal Pain

BYLINE: By DUNSTAN A. McNICHOL

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
 BALANCING the state budget with deep cuts and an estimated $1 billion in tax increases, Gov. Jon S. Corzine used his budget address last week to portray himself during this election year as the politician who will make unpopular choices during difficult times. 
 To drive home his point, he surprised most lawmakers by announcing his plan to eliminate the property tax deduction for state income taxpayers for at least a year to save the state about $400 million. The proposed change on a sacred tax deduction to help balance the state's $29.8 billion budget would cost the typical homeowner hundreds of dollars next year.
 ''That was a fastball that went over a lot of heads,'' State Senator Kevin J. O'Toole, an Essex County Republican, said moments after the governor's speech.
 As Republicans prepared to use the property tax deduction and other elements in Mr. Corzine's plan against him during what is expected to be a competitive governor's race this year, Democratic lawmakers argued that the budget plan was a realistic response to the upheaval in the economy. 
 ''The message we need to carry to constituents and citizens is this is an honest budget, and everyone is sharing in the pain,'' said Assembly Speaker Joseph J. Roberts Jr., a Camden Democrat.
 How that message is received by residents of a state already known for its high taxes will serve as a backdrop during the campaign and the budget hearings over the next 15 weeks, and will go a long way in determining whether Mr. Corzine can reverse declining poll numbers as he and all 80 members of the State Assembly face re-election in November.
 ''I think his job is to tightrope-walk his way through November,'' said Brigid C. Harrison, a political science and law professor at Montclair State University. ''It's a balancing act, and it's going to be tricky.''
 Mr. Corzine offered plenty of pain in the spending plan he laid out for the state budget year that begins July 1. Even supplemented with $2 billion in federal funds, the budget was $5 billion in the red.
 To close the gap, Mr. Corzine proposed $4 billion in spending reductions and $1 billion in new revenues, raised primarily through a $380 million income tax increase on the state's 44,000 wealthiest residents and the $400 million suspension of the homeowners' income tax deduction.
 Mr. Corzine proposed raising another $136 million by extending a corporate tax that was scheduled to expire, increasing the tax on cigarettes by 12.5 cents a pack, raising taxes on wine and liquor by 25 percent and taxing lottery winnings that exceed $10,000. 
 Ross K. Baker, a political science professor at Rutgers, said Mr. Corzine would probably not suffer politically for his austerity, so long as he convinces people that he has spread the budget pain evenly.
 ''It's likely to be greeted with sullenness rather than rebellion,'' Professor Baker said. ''You have to be living the life of a hermit to deny how hard the economic situation is in the state.'' 
 Senator Bill Baroni, a Republican whose Mercer County district is home to thousands of the state workers who would incur unpaid furloughs and a pay freeze under Mr. Corzine's plan, said the governor had a difficult case to make.
 ''The governor talked a lot about New Jerseyans at their kitchen tables,'' Mr. Baroni said. ''And as New Jerseyans learn what's in this proposal, they are banging on their kitchen tables, because they are angry.'' 
 Mr. Corzine framed his plan as a form of fiscal triage.
 It called for business owners to pay $370 million in additional taxes to support benefits for the unemployed. It eliminated $900 million in homeowner rebates and tax credits in the name of preserving benefits for the poor and elderly. And it cut support for the arts and recreation in favor of money for hospitals and prescription drug benefits.
 ''We are making the tough choices to do the right thing,'' Mr. Corzine said repeatedly during his budget address. He called his spending plan ''a budget that values children, seniors and the most vulnerable, and asks a little more from the rest of us.''
 Mr. Corzine also acknowledged that he has been forced to retreat from the sound fiscal management policies he declared to be priorities when he took office three years ago.
 His spending plan includes little new financing for the state pension system, which was underfunded by $28 billion before last year's stock market collapse siphoned off billions more. It would divert $116 million from specially dedicated accounts even as Mr. Corzine denounced past governors for bankrupting the state's Unemployment Insurance Trust Fund through similar diversions. He followed his address by signing an executive order that essentially negates an order he signed last June requiring state spending to match the money raised through recurring taxes.
 ''Make no mistake,'' he said. ''Because of where the world is right now, we must move in directions we might not otherwise choose.''
 But before Mr. Corzine had even made his way from the legislative chambers where he delivered his address, critics were complaining that they had been singled out for more than their fair share of sacrifice.
 ''We think the governor really asks too much,'' said Robert Master, political director for the state's largest state employees' union, the Communications Workers of America. ''He asks state workers to close 10 percent of the budget gap.''
 Specifically, Mr. Corzine's budget counts on state workers to save $420 million by taking 12 unpaid furlough days and forgoing a 3.5 percent raise scheduled to take effect July 1.
 The alternative, Mr. Corzine said in his speech, is layoffs.
 ''I believe it is far better for employees to share in these reductions and continue working than it is for savings to be achieved by the layoff of up to 7,000 workers,'' he said.
 Mr. Master suggested a third alternative.
 He said Mr. Corzine should increase the temporary .75 percent increase in state income tax rates he has proposed for residents who earn more than $500,000 a year.
 ''We believe that increasing the tax burden on the wealthiest people is a fair way to make it possible to minimize the cuts in all other areas,'' he said. ''I think the time is long past to pit one needy constituent group against the other.''
 Mr. Roberts, the Assembly speaker, said such complaints were inevitable, but did not necessarily signal a flaw in the governor's strategy.
 ''I think everyone will say, 'I've done more than my share, go see the other guy,' '' he said. ''That gives you a good sense the pain is fairly distributed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GRIMACE AND BEAR IT: Governor Corzine delivering his budget address on Tuesday in Trenton.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(NJ1)
 IN CHAMBERS: Governor Corzine presented the Legislature with a budget that would suspend property tax deductions.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(NJ5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); LOTTERIES (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



626 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: No Clear Accord on Stimulus By Top 20 Industrial Nations

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr. and JULIA WERDIGIER; David Sanger contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: HORSHAM, England 

 BODY:
Two weeks before President Obama and the leaders of 19 other industrial nations meet to confront a global economic contraction, top finance officials meeting here Saturday committed to take ''whatever action is necessary'' to revive consumer demand and regulate global markets. Even so, they still seemed to have divergent views on what actions are required now. 
 At the end of a lengthy meeting at a luxury resort outside London, the so-called Group of 20 nations, who together represent about 85 percent of the world economy, failed to offer specifics about the size or timing of coordinated economic stimulus, and some major players, including Germany and France, remain deeply reluctant to add to their national debt.
 They did agree on Saturday to commit more money to help developing countries and the emerging markets of Eastern Europe, where the downturn has spilled into street protests. They also pledged to step up efforts to revive bank lending and regulate hedge funds. 
 But the vagueness of the commitment meant that it will be up to President Obama -- and the leaders of China, Russia and European nations, among others -- to convince the markets that they have a coordinated strategy as they prepare to meet in London on April 2. 
 Mr. Obama, meeting in the Oval Office with President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil, tried to dispel reports that the Europeans and the United States had different priorities.
 ''This is a phony debate that I think has been -- has evolved over the last few days in the news cycle,'' he said, arguing that he was committed to the broad new regulations that Europe and China say are necessary to prevent the market excesses that contributed to the crisis. But, he added, ''we also think we've got to see worldwide concerted action to make sure that the massive contraction in demand is dealt with.''
 He also hinted at actions to come intended to address the growing national security concerns set off by the crisis, saying that he wanted to focus on making sure emerging markets had access to credit. For the poorest countries, he said his focus was on ''figuring out how do we make sure that their food supplies are adequately dealt with.''
 But the fact that the G-20 finance ministers stopped short of announcing any details left the impression that beneath the pledges of cooperation, a trans-Atlantic rift remained over whether government intervention should emphasize more regulation or stimulus spending.
 ''We have taken decisive coordinated and comprehensive action to boost demand and jobs,'' a statement from the group read, though it did not specify that action, ''and we are prepared to take whatever action is necessary until growth is restored.''
 The United States, Japan and Britain have placed emphasis on government stimulus, with the hope of reviving consumer demand. European nations, however, are wary of such deficit spending measures and have pushed for more regulation and oversight to prevent further deterioration of the global economy.
 The United States Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, who attended the G-20 meeting on Saturday, joined Mr. Obama in trying to present a united front, saying that the world was committed to increasing consumer demand -- despite the oft-stated reluctance of European leaders to commit to further spending. 
 ''The world is with us on this,'' Mr. Geithner insisted. ''We will do what is necessary to get the economy moving again.'' 
 Mr. Geithner did concede, albeit obliquely, that there were philosophical differences among the participants. ''I have never seen this scale of commitment,'' he said. ''But of course we see differences in emphasis because we all see different challenges.''
 Asked about the Chinese government's worries of America's growing debt burden and the possibility that continued deficit spending could lead to a collapse in the price of Treasury bills, Mr. Geithner said he had a ''good meeting'' with his counterpart in China and the governor of the central bank, though he provided no details of the talk. 
 In Washington and in London, American officials said they were satisfied with the outcome, and that they had never intended the meeting on Saturday to result in specific pledges. They pointed in particular to the commitment to bolster the International Monetary Fund, which is now stepping into the breach in Eastern Europe and other nations.
 Germany and France were the only two countries to give a joint news conference after the meeting, in which they reiterated their position that the focus of the G-20 meeting in London next month should be on reforming regulation rather than additional stimulus measures.
 The German finance minister, Peer Steinbrueck, stressed that any economic stimulus must work itself through the system before governments can contemplate further steps aimed at reviving consumer demand. 
 The dispute between the United States and continental Europe highlights a continuing gap on a range of economic and strategic issues, including matters like sharing the burden of fighting the war in Afghanistan. 
 Despite the widespread popular appeal of President Obama outside the United States, the underlying divisions and conflicting goals could prevent the G-20 summit from presenting a broad call to economic arms as it had initially intended.
 ''The great gap that became apparent in the 1990s between European and American attitudes toward the conduct of international affairs remains as wide as ever,'' said Robert Kagan, a conservative foreign policy strategist.
 The economic officials did manage to find common ground. Mr. Geithner was quick to emphasize in his remarks the United States' commitment to not just bolstering demand but also overhauling its regulatory structure. 
 ''We have seen a systematic failure of national regulation,'' he said, adding that major financial companies that have an influence in the market need to ''be brought into a system of oversight,'' an apparent reference to hedge funds. Although hedge funds are not at the center of the crisis, European leaders want to submit them to more intensive regulation.
 In their statement, the G-20 finance leaders said they had agreed to increase financing to the International Monetary Fund ''very substantially'' to aid smaller economies, though they did not give a dollar figure. Mr. Geithner has been pressing to raise the level to $750 billion, from about $250 billion now, while his counterparts in Europe want something closer to $500 billion.
 The I.M.F., an international lending institution, has pledged to support Ukraine with $16.4 billion and approved $15.7 billion for Hungary. Latvia, Belarus, Iceland, Pakistan and Serbia have also been granted financing, and Turkey and Romania may also request help from the fund soon.
 In a way, given the strains that have emerged, the ministers seemed to be looking to the I.M.F. to step in -- with added financing and a revamped governance structure -- thus taking pressure off national governments.
 Alistair Darling, the British chancellor of the exchequer and the host of the meeting here, said the group wanted the I.M.F. to serve as a monitor of how countries were increasing spending to assure that the burden did not fall mostly to the United States and China, which have undertaken the most vigorous stimulus programs. But it remains unclear how an institution with an expertise in crisis resolution would do as a broad overseer.
 Pressed to give details on how much I.M.F. financing wouldbe increased and how hedge funds would be regulated, the American and British finance officials declined to give specifics.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 24, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article and a headline on March 15 about a meeting of finance ministers from the Group of 20 nations outside London described the makeup of the group incorrectly. The organization, also called the G-20, consists of the 19 leading industrial and developing nations and the European Union; it is not composed of 20 industrial nations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (54%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (53%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) EUROPE (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); ENGLAND (79%); BRAZIL (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (77%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



627 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: At A.I.G., Huge Bonuses After $170 Billion Bailout

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and PETER BAKER; Mary Williams Walsh contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The American International Group, which has received more than $170 billion in taxpayer bailout money from the Treasury and Federal Reserve, plans to pay about $165 million in bonuses by Sunday to executives in the same business unit that brought the company to the brink of collapse last year.
 Word of the bonuses last week stirred such deep consternation inside the Obama administration that Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner told the firm they were unacceptable and demanded they be renegotiated, a senior administration official said. But the bonuses will go forward because lawyers said the firm was contractually obligated to pay them.
 The payments to A.I.G.'s financial products unit are in addition to $121 million in previously scheduled bonuses for the company's senior executives and 6,400 employees across the sprawling corporation. Mr. Geithner last week pressured A.I.G. to cut the $9.6 million going to the top 50 executives in half and tie the rest to performance.
 The payment of so much money at a company at the heart of the financial collapse that sent the broader economy into a tailspin almost certainly will fuel a popular backlash against the government's efforts to prop up Wall Street. Past bonuses already have prompted President Obama and Congress to impose tough rules on corporate executive compensation at firms bailed out with taxpayer money. 
 A.I.G., nearly 80 percent of which is now owned by the government, defended its bonuses, arguing that they were promised last year before the crisis and cannot be legally canceled. In a letter to Mr. Geithner, Edward M. Liddy, the government-appointed chairman of A.I.G., said at least some bonuses were needed to keep the most skilled executives.
 ''We cannot attract and retain the best and the brightest talent to lead and staff the A.I.G. businesses -- which are now being operated principally on behalf of American taxpayers -- if employees believe their compensation is subject to continued and arbitrary adjustment by the U.S. Treasury,'' he wrote Mr. Geithner on Saturday.
 Still, Mr. Liddy seemed stung by his talk with Mr. Geithner, calling their conversation last Wednesday ''a difficult one for me'' and noting that he receives no bonus himself. ''Needless to say, in the current circumstances,'' Mr. Liddy wrote, ''I do not like these arrangements and find it distasteful and difficult to recommend to you that we must proceed with them.''
 An A.I.G. spokeswoman said Saturday that the company had no comment beyond the letter. The bonuses were first reported by The Washington Post.
 The senior government official, who was not authorized to speak on the record, said the administration was outraged. ''It is unacceptable for Wall Street firms receiving government assistance to hand out million-dollar bonuses, while hard-working Americans bear the burden of this economic crisis,'' the official said.
 Of all the financial institutions that have been propped up by taxpayer dollars, none has received more money than A.I.G. and none has infuriated lawmakers more with practices that policy makers have called reckless. 
 The bonuses will be paid to executives at A.I.G.'s financial products division, the unit that wrote trillions of dollars' worth of credit-default swaps that protected investors from defaults on bonds backed in many cases by subprime mortgages.
 The bonus plan covers 400 employees, and the bonuses range from as little as $1,000 to as much as $6.5 million. Seven executives at the financial products unit were entitled to receive more than $3 million in bonuses.
 Mr. Liddy, whom Federal Reserve and Treasury officials recruited after A.I.G. faltered last September and received its first round of bailout money, said the bonuses and ''retention pay'' had been agreed to in early 2008 and were for the most part legally required.
 The company told the Treasury that there were two categories of bonus payments, with the first to be given to senior executives. The administration official said Mr. Geithner had told A.I.G. to revise them to protect taxpayer dollars and tie future payments to performance. 
 The second group of bonuses covers some 2008 retention payments from contracts entered into before government involvement in A.I.G. Indeed, in his letter to Mr. Geithner, Mr. Liddy wrote that he had shown the details of the $450 million bonus pool to outside lawyers and been told that A.I.G. had no choice but to follow through with the payment schedule. 
 The administration official said the Treasury Department did its own legal analysis and concluded that those contracts could not be broken. The official noted that even a provision recently pushed through Congress by Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat, had an exemption for such bonus agreements already in place.
 But the official said the administration will force A.I.G. to eventually repay the cost of the bonuses to the taxpayers as part of the agreement with the firm, which is being restructured.
 A.I.G. did cut other bonuses, Mr. Liddy explained, but those were part of the compensation for people who dealt in other parts of the company and had no direct involvement with the derivatives. 
 Mr. Liddy wrote that A.I.G. hoped to reduce its retention bonuses for 2009 by 30 percent. He said the top 25 executives at the financial products division had also agreed to reduce their salary for the rest of 2009 to $1.
 Ever since it was bailed out by the government last fall, A.I.G. has been defending itself against accusations that it was richly compensating people who caused one of the biggest financial crises in American history. 
 A.I.G.'s main business is insurance, but the financial products unit sold hundreds of billions of dollars' worth of derivatives, the notorious credit-default swaps that nearly toppled the entire company last fall. 
 A.I.G. had set up a special bonus pool for the financial products unit early in 2008, before the company's near collapse, when problems stemming from the mortgage crisis were becoming clear and there were concerns that some of the best-informed derivatives specialists might leave. It locked in a total amount, $450 million, for the financial products unit and prepared to pay it in a series of installments, to encourage people to stay. 
 Only part of the payments had been made by last fall, when A.I.G. nearly collapsed. In documents provided to the Treasury, A.I.G. said it was required to pay about $165 million in bonuses on or before Sunday. That is in addition to $55 million in December.
 Under a deal reached last week, A.I.G. agreed that the top 50 executives would get half of the $9.6 million they were supposed to get by March 15. The second half of their bonuses would be paid out in two installments in July and in September. To get those payments, Treasury officials said, A.I.G. would have to show that it had made progress toward its goal of selling off business units and repaying the government.
 The financial products unit is now being painstakingly wound down.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 26, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 15 about plans by the American International Group to pay $165 million in bonuses to employees of its financial products division misidentified the news organization that first reported the existence of the bonuses. It was Bloomberg News, not The Washington Post. (The error was repeated that day in the DealBook column at www.nytimes.com.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BAILOUT BONUSES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (73%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (93%); WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (93%); 8685 (TSE) (93%); WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (79%); EDWARD M LIDDY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



628 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; LONG ISLAND VINES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: Forces Shaping Wine Business

BYLINE: By HOWARD G. GOLDBERG

 BODY:
Whether or not the New York State Legislature adopts Gov. David A. Paterson's proposal to let food stores sell wine, as 35 states already do, the future of Long Island's wine industry is being shaped by other outside forces. 
 If wines go into small grocery stores and supermarkets, favorites like Jamesport sauvignon blanc, Lenz gewurztraminer, Lieb pinot blanc, Paumanok chenin blanc, Pellegrini merlot and Wolffer rose could find new customers throughout the state in the coming years.
 Meanwhile, the sinking economy is forcing producers to reconsider their pricing, to develop new programs in their tasting rooms and to create inducements for retailers and restaurateurs to carry their wines.
 For example, Raphael, in Peconic, is cutting prices and doing more in-store tastings and restaurant wine dinners and has just begun offering free shipping on Internet sales, said Richard Olsen-Harbich, the winemaker.
 Americans' rising interest in wine is a crucial factor in determining the fate of the Island's wine industry. By 2012 the United States is expected to become the world's biggest consumer of still wine, according to a study conducted by The International Wine and Spirit Record, in London, for Vinexpo, an exposition sponsor in Bordeaux. 
 Wine blogs are an increasingly important source of news and commentary. For example, comments about Long Island wines and information about visiting the region turn up regularly on eRobertParker.com, the heavily trafficked Web site of the critic Robert M. Parker Jr. 
 Tom Wark, who operates Fermentation, a popular California blog, estimates that 800 wine blogs exist. They are replacing dwindling newspaper coverage of wine and compete with wine magazines, which offer their own Web sites containing blogs.
 By all accounts, Island wineries' Internet sales are taking hold despite nationwide legislative battles over permitting out-of-state producers and retailers to ship their merchandise across state lines. New York wines can be sent to about 35 states. Direct shipping inside New York has been legal for years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (91%); WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); WINERIES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (88%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (71%); PRICE CUTTING (70%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



629 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2070 words

HEADLINE: Is It Time to Retrain B-Schools?

BYLINE: By KELLEY HOLLAND

 BODY:
JOHN Thain has one. So do Richard Fuld, Stanley O'Neal and Vikram Pandit. For that matter, so does John Paulson, the hedge fund kingpin. 
 Yes, all five have fat bank accounts, even now, and all have made their share of headlines. But these current and former giants of finance also are all card-carrying M.B.A.'s.
 The master's of business administration, a gateway credential throughout corporate America, is especially coveted on Wall Street; in recent years, top business schools have routinely sent more than 40 percent of their graduates into the world of finance. 
 But with the economy in disarray and so many financial firms in free fall, analysts, and even educators themselves, are wondering if the way business students are taught may have contributed to the most serious economic crisis in decades. 
 ''It is so obvious that something big has failed,'' said Angel Cabrera, dean of the Thunderbird School of Global Management in Glendale, Ariz. ''We can look the other way, but come on. The C.E.O.'s of those companies, those are people we used to brag about. We cannot say, 'Well, it wasn't our fault' when there is such a systemic, widespread failure of leadership.''
 Critics of business education have many complaints. Some say the schools have become too scientific, too detached from real-world issues. Others say students are taught to come up with hasty solutions to complicated problems. Another group contends that schools give students a limited and distorted view of their role -- that they graduate with a focus on maximizing shareholder value and only a limited understanding of ethical and social considerations essential to business leadership.
 Such shortcomings may have left business school graduates inadequately prepared to make the decisions that, taken together, might have helped mitigate the financial crisis, critics say.
 ''There are extraordinary things taking place in business education, and a lot that is very promising,'' said Judith F. Samuelson, executive director of the Business and Society Program at the Aspen Institute. ''But what's the central theorem of business education? It's wanting.'' 
 Some employers and recruiters also question the value of an M.B.A., and are telling young people they can get better training on the job than in business school. A growing number are setting up programs to help employees develop skills in-house.
 On many campuses, changes are under way in courses and curriculums. Some schools are heightening their focus on long-term thinking or leadership, and many are adding seminars to address the economic crisis. 
 Jay O. Light, the dean of Harvard Business School, argues that there have been imbalances both on campuses and in the economy. ''We lived through an enormous extended period of financial good times, and people became less focused on risks and risk management and more focused on making money,'' he said. ''We need to move that focus back toward the center.''
 BUSINESS SCHOOLS have looked inward before, and some of the current problems may have stemmed from their last major self-examination. In the late 1950s, reports that the Ford and Carnegie foundations commissioned found mediocre faculty, and curriculums narrowly focused on vocational skills.
 One of their recommendations was for business schools to become much more analytical and rigorous in their approach. And, over the years, that happened almost everywhere. Doctoral programs are commonplace. Professors conduct independent research and publish often in scholarly journals. Students learn complex models for analyzing competitive strategy, valuing options and more.
 But schools may have gone too far in this direction, according to Warren Bennis, a professor of management at the University of Southern California. The schools suffer from ''an overemphasis on the rigor and an underemphasis on relevance,'' he said. ''Business schools have forgotten that they are a professional school.''
 Henry Mintzberg, a professor of management studies at McGill University in Montreal, also argues that because students spend so much time developing quick responses to packaged versions of business problems, they do not learn enough about real-world experiences. 
 For all of the emphasis on analytical rigor in business schools today, another major recommendation of the foundations' reports from the 1950s -- that business become a true profession, with a code of conduct and an ideology about its role in society -- got far less traction, said Rakesh Khurana, a professor at Harvard Business School and author of ''From Higher Aims to Hired Hands,'' a historical analysis of business education. 
 Business schools, he said, never really taught their students that, like doctors and lawyers, they were part of a profession. And in the 1970s, he said, the idea took hold that a company's stock price was the primary barometer of success, which changed the schools' concept of proper management techniques. 
 Instead of being viewed as long-term economic stewards, he said, managers came to be seen as mainly as the agents of the owners -- the shareholders -- and responsible for maximizing shareholder wealth.
 ''A kind of market fundamentalism took hold in business education,'' Professor Khurana said. ''The new logic of shareholder primacy absolved management of any responsibility for anything other than financial results.'' 
 Outwardly, at least, business schools look robust. For years, they have drawn some of the most talented students, and many top candidates are still applying. In fact, business school applications typically rise as the economy softens because potential students see graduate school as a haven from professional uncertainty.
 Employers are making fewer recruiting trips to business schools this year, given the economy, but newly minted M.B.A.'s are still winning highly selective jobs in finance and consulting. A survey last year of M.B.A. candidates worldwide by the Graduate Management Admission Council, which administers the GMAT, found that 29 percent of incoming M.B.A. candidates were working in finance or consulting, and that 53 percent went into those industries upon graduating. 
 For universities, business education is a kind of cash cow. Business schools are less expensive to operate than graduate schools with elaborate labs and research facilities, and alumni tend to be generous with donations.
 Business education is big business, too. Some 146,000 graduate degrees in business were awarded in 2005-06, roughly one-fourth of the 594,000 graduate degrees awarded that school year, according to the Education Department.
 Still, there have been signs that all is not well in business education. A study of cheating among graduate students, published in 2006 in the journal Academy of Management Learning & Education, found that 56 percent of all M.B.A. students cheated regularly -- more than in any other discipline. The authors attributed that to ''perceived peer behavior'' -- in other words, students believed everyone else was doing it. 
 Some employers are also questioning the value of an M.B.A. degree. A research project that two Harvard professors released in 2008 found that employers valued graduates' ability to think through complex business problems, but that something was still lacking. 
 ''There is a need to broaden from the analytical focus of M.B.A. programs for more emphasis on skills and a sense of purpose and identity,'' said David A. Garvin, a professor of business administration and one of the project's authors.
 Indeed, students themselves may welcome an emphasis on character skills. In surveys that the Aspen Institute regularly conducts, M.B.A. candidates say they actually become less confident during their time in business school that they will be able to resolve ethical quandaries in the workplace.
 Business education ''accentuates the simple technical pieces,'' said Ms. Samuelson of the Aspen Institute, and ''ignores the real complexity and, frankly, the really exciting opportunities business has to be the driver of long-term prosperity.''
 A GROWING number of business schools are trying new approaches -- and many are finding valuable lessons to draw from the economic crisis.
 At the Stern School of Business of New York University -- situated in what its dean, Thomas F. Cooley, called ''the belly of the beast'' in Lower Manhattan -- 33 professors recently wrote papers analyzing the crisis and offering policy recommendations that have been combined in a book to be published this month. A course that Stern offered on the book filled up minutes after it was announced, Mr. Cooley said. 
 Thomas Philippon, an assistant professor of finance at Stern, plans to incorporate the changed world into his class this fall. While he plans to keep discussing basic financial concepts and tools, he also plans to spend more time on concepts like systemic risk.
 Professor Philippon also plans to inject a discussion of whether or not the market is always right when it values things. ''You would not have had that discussion three years ago,'' he said. 
 Some schools had deep reviews of their curriculums under way even before the economic crisis unfurled.
 Last year, Harvard Business School began a review pegged to its centennial, and it's considering ways to make courses more global. There will probably also be more emphasis on leadership skills, Dean Light said. 
 ''I think we need to redouble our efforts,'' he said, ''to make sure that even those people we send to financial services are first and foremost leaders who understand situations from a general management perspective.'' 
 More immediately, Harvard is assembling cases based on recent events -- issues involving accounting practices, for example, and JPMorgan Chase's acquisition of Bear Stearns.
 In 2006, the Yale School of Management introduced a curriculum offering interdisciplinary perspectives on complex problems. It's also developing cases based on the financial crisis, and there are plans to devote sessions in the core curriculum to the crisis. 
 The Aspen Institute, meanwhile, is trying to change business education from the outside. It produces an annual report ranking business schools on how well they integrate social and environmental issues into curriculums. (Not all schools participate in its research, however.)
 It has also developed a curriculum in conjunction with the Yale School of Management that is aimed at teaching students how to act upon their values at work. About 55 business schools, including those at Stanford, Northwestern and M.I.T, are using all or part of it in pilot programs.
 There are also calls to make management a profession like law or medicine, with a code of conduct, a certification examination and continuing education.
 Dean Cabrera of Thunderbird has been working with the United Nations Global Compact, which promotes standards for sustainable business practices, and led a task force in developing a set of ''Principles for Responsible Management Education'' that follow a similar philosophy. Roughly 200 business schools worldwide, including Thunderbird, have adopted them, though some of the best-known American schools are not on the list.
 At the Yale School of Management, the new dean, Sharon M. Oster, has called for a renewed focus on the social value of management. ''Business creates value in terms of services and products,'' she said. ''That's what business delivers, just like medicine delivers a healthy person.''
 PROFESSIONALIZATION is hardly a panacea. No one would argue that lawyers, doctors and accountants are immune from wrongdoing or poor judgment, and they have long been taking certification exams and promising to act ethically. It is also unclear who would monitor continuing education and what kind of certification would be required.
 But surveys of business students show that they are starting to focus more on social issues and ethics, and that this could intensify talk of making managers' obligations to society more explicit.
 ''The challenge for a lot of business schools is how to develop leaders and not managers,'' said James Tran, a candidate for an M.B.A. and a master's in public administration at Harvard. Many of the top schools are moving in that direction, he said, but ''I don't think they have actually figured out how to do that in the most effective way.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Harvard Business School, on the Charles River. Its dean wants more focus on managing risk.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHITOSE SUZUKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Angel Cabrera, center, dean of the Thunderbird School of Global Management, withRob Reese, left, and Pablo Rivera. Dean Cabrera said schools played a role in business's ''failure of leadership.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (76%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (76%); CURRICULA (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ETHICS (69%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (60%)

PERSON: JOHN THAIN (90%); STAN O'NEAL (74%); RICHARD S FULD (73%); VIKRAM PANDIT (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



630 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Obama Reassures Countries On Investments in U.S. Debt

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Peter Baker reported from Washington, and Alexei Barrionuevo from Sao Paulo, Brazil.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama reassured China and other countries on Saturday that their investments in United States government debt were safe as he seeks to finance record deficit spending to pull the American economy out of its deep recession. 
 ''There's a reason why even in the midst of this economic crisis, you've seen actual increases in investment flows here into the United States,'' Mr. Obama told reporters. ''I think it's a recognition that the stability not only of our economic system but our political system is extraordinary.''
 He added, ''Not just the Chinese government, but every investor can have absolute confidence in the soundness of investments in the United States.''
 Mr. Obama's comments came a day after China's prime minister, Wen Jiabao, expressed worries about the safety of Beijing's $1 trillion investment in American debt. Mr. Obama needs foreign investors to finance a projected $1.75 trillion budget deficit this year, pumped up by stimulus spending and bank bailouts, and none is more critical than China, the largest overseas holder of United States government bonds.
 Mr. Obama offered his assurances after a meeting with Brazil's president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. They discussed energy cooperation and the economic crisis, trying to coordinate ideas before upcoming summit meetings. 
 Mr. da Silva pressed Mr. Obama to help reopen global trade talks known as the Doha Round and to lower tariffs that keep Brazilian biofuels out of the American market. Mr. Obama said they had a ''wonderful meeting of the minds'' and expressed interest in making progress on trade, but he indicated no tariff changes were afoot anytime soon. 
 Mr. da Silva's early visit to the White House suggested that Mr. Obama planned to pick up where President George W. Bush left off in trying to make Brazil a key to United States policy in Latin America. David Fleischer, a political science professor at the University of Brasilia, said the meeting ''reinforces Brazil's growing leadership in the region.''
 Mr. da Silva has been a leading voice in urging the United States to moderate its dealings in Latin America.
 He has also made a point of linking himself with Mr. Obama, citing similarities between their origins and the challenges they overcame to lead their countries. Sitting next to him in the Oval Office, Mr. da Silva said he prayed more for Mr. Obama than he did for himself and, with all the troubles confronting him, would not want to be in the American president's shoes.
 Mr. Obama smiled and replied, ''You sound like you've been talking to my wife.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama discussed energy cooperation and the economic crisis with President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICS (79%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BONDS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); BANK FAILURES (52%); BIOFUELS (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); WEN JIABAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (95%); CHINA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



631 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Finding Messages In a Blueprint

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard. He was an adviser to President George W. Bush.

 BODY:
PRESIDENTIAL candidates campaign with soaring rhetoric, but presidents and their advisers make actual policy with spreadsheets. So for policy wonks like me, there is no better place to learn what President Obama really believes than the budget proposal released late last month. 
 Here are four lessons we can learn from the budget documents about the president and his economic team: 
 THEY ARE ECONOMIC OPTIMISTS Like everyone else, the president's economists expect 2009 to be a grim year of falling national income and rising unemployment. But despite all the talk about the worst crisis since the Great Depression, they expect their policies to bring the recession to a swift conclusion. For the next four years, they forecast an average growth rate of 4 percent. The unemployment rate is projected to fall to 5.2 percent in 2013.
 Not everyone is so sanguine. The administration forecast is ''way too optimistic,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at IHS Global Insight and author of the excellent primer ''Spin-Free Economics.''
 Let's hope that the administration is right. But if I had to bet, I'd put my money on Mr. Behravesh.
 THEY LIKE TO SPEND In light of the economic downturn, the stimulus package and all the bailouts coming out of Washington, it is no surprise government spending is skyrocketing. According to the president's budget, federal outlays will be 27.7 percent of gross domestic product in 2009 and 24.1 percent in 2010 -- levels not reached since World War II.
 But more telling about the president's priorities is what happens to spending after the crisis is well behind us, at least according to the administration's forecast. In a second term for Mr. Obama, with the economy recovered and unemployment stabilized at 5 percent, federal outlays would be 22.2 percent of G.D.P. -- well above the average of 20.2 percent over the last 50 years.
 It is also well above levels in recent history. Before the financial crisis hit in 2008, federal outlays under President George W. Bush never exceeded 20.4 percent of G.D.P. That includes spending from the Iraq war. President Obama is counting on that conflict being over, and no new money-draining military commitment taking its place. Yet federal spending still remains high.
 To be sure, part of the increase in government spending is driven by the aging of the population. As more baby boomers retire and become eligible for Social Security and Medicare, spending rises automatically. But President Obama's focus on universal health insurance suggests that he is more interested in expanding the benefits that Americans can claim than in reining in the unfunded entitlements already on the books.
 THEY ARE SERIOUS ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE President Obama's budget makes clear that he wants to address the problem of global climate change. This commitment stands in stark contrast to policy during the previous two administrations.
 President Bill Clinton offered the Kyoto Protocol, but the policy ended up more symbolic than real. The treaty was overwhelmingly rejected by both parties in Congress, in part because it left out China, now the world's largest emitter of carbon. President Bush rejected the Kyoto principles as well, but he never made finding an alternative approach to climate change a major priority.
 For the new administration, climate change is not only an environmental issue but a budgetary one as well. Under the proposed cap-and-trade system, the government would auction off a limited number of carbon allowances. The cost would be passed on to consumers as higher energy prices, encouraging conservation. According to President Obama's budget projections, the system would also raise more government revenue than his much-discussed tax increases on upper-income households.
 The thrust of the policy makes sense, but several questions remain. First, why not instead impose a more transparent and administratively simpler tax on carbon emissions? Is it merely because the phrase ''climate revenues'' used in the budget is more politically palatable than the word ''tax''? More important, how will the president get China on board? Without China's participation, any climate policy, along with the associated revenue, may be a political nonstarter.
 THEY ARE DEFICIT DOVES Few economists would blame either the Bush administration or the Obama administration for running budget deficits during an economic downturn. What is more telling is what happens to the deficit during normal economic times. From that perspective, the Obama budget policy looks surprisingly similar to the Bush version.
 From 2005 to 2007, before the current crisis, unemployment in the United States hovered around 5 percent. During those years, the budget deficit averaged just under 2 percent of G.D.P.
 In the Obama administration's forecast, unemployment again reaches 5 percent in 2014 and remains at that level thereafter. But despite that rosy prediction, the budget does not get close to balance. The Obama team calculates that under its proposed policies, the budget deficit will average a bit over 3 percent of G.D.P.
 So if you are a deficit hawk who lamented the Bush budget deficits, the new president's budget should not make you feel much better. President Obama offers different fiscal priorities than President Bush did: less military spending, more domestic spending and higher marginal tax rates to ''spread the wealth around.'' But the borrowing and debt imposed on future generations will not be very different, at least if the numbers in the Obama administration's own budget document can be trusted. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); RECESSION (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (75%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); AGING TRENDS (74%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); MEDICARE (70%); WRITERS (67%); BABY BOOMERS (65%); WORLD WAR II (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NARIMAN BEHRAVESH (66%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



632 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: The Culture Warriors Get Laid Off

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
SOMEDAY we'll learn the whole story of why George W. Bush brushed off that intelligence briefing of Aug. 6, 2001, ''Bin Laden Determined to Strike in U.S.'' But surely a big distraction was the major speech he was readying for delivery on Aug. 9, his first prime-time address to the nation. The subject -- which Bush hyped as ''one of the most profound of our time'' -- was stem cells. For a presidency in thrall to a thriving religious right (and a presidency incapable of multi-tasking), nothing, not even terrorism, could be more urgent. 
 When Barack Obama ended the Bush stem-cell policy last week, there were no such overheated theatrics. No oversold prime-time address. No hysteria from politicians, the news media or the public. The family-values dinosaurs that once stalked the earth -- Falwell, Robertson, Dobson and Reed -- are now either dead, retired or disgraced. Their less-famous successors pumped out their pro forma e-mail blasts, but to little avail. The Republican National Committee said nothing whatsoever about Obama's reversal of Bush stem-cell policy. That's quite a contrast to 2006, when the party's wild and crazy (and perhaps transitory) new chairman, Michael Steele, likened embryonic stem-cell research to Nazi medical experiments during his failed Senate campaign. 
 What has happened between 2001 and 2009 to so radically change the cultural climate? Here, at last, is one piece of good news in our global economic meltdown: Americans have less and less patience for the intrusive and divisive moral scolds who thrived in the bubbles of the Clinton and Bush years. Culture wars are a luxury the country -- the G.O.P. included -- can no longer afford. 
 Not only was Obama's stem-cell decree an anticlimactic blip in the news, but so was his earlier reversal of Bush restrictions on the use of federal money by organizations offering abortions overseas. When the administration tardily ends ''don't ask, don't tell,'' you can bet that this action, too, will be greeted by more yawns than howls. 
 Once again, both the president and the country are following New Deal-era precedent. In the 1920s boom, the reigning moral crusade was Prohibition, and it packed so much political muscle that F.D.R. didn't oppose it. The Anti-Saloon League was the Moral Majority of its day, the vanguard of a powerful fundamentalist movement that pushed anti-evolution legislation as vehemently as it did its war on booze. (The Scopes ''monkey trial'' was in 1925.) But the political standing of this crowd crashed along with the stock market. Roosevelt shrewdly came down on the side of ''the wets'' in his presidential campaign, leaving Hoover to drown with ''the dries.''
 Much as Obama repealed the Bush restrictions on abortion and stem-cell research shortly after pushing through his stimulus package, so F.D.R. jump-started the repeal of Prohibition by asking Congress to legalize beer and wine just days after his March 1933 inauguration and declaration of a bank holiday. As Michael A. Lerner writes in his fascinating 2007 book ''Dry Manhattan,'' Roosevelt's stance reassured many Americans that they would have a president ''who not only cared about their economic well-being'' but who also understood their desire to be liberated from ''the intrusion of the state into their private lives.'' Having lost plenty in the Depression, the public did not want to surrender any more freedoms to the noisy minority that had shut down the nation's saloons.
 In our own hard times, the former moral ''majority'' has been downsized to more of a minority than ever. Polling shows that nearly 60 percent of Americans agree with ending Bush restrictions on stem-cell research (a Washington Post/ABC News survey in January); that 55 percent endorse either gay civil unions or same-sex marriage (Newsweek, December 2008); and that 75 percent believe openly gay Americans should serve in the military (Post/ABC, July 2008). Even the old indecency wars have subsided. When a federal court last year struck down the F.C.C. fine against CBS for Janet Jackson's ''wardrobe malfunction'' at the 2004 Super Bowl, few Americans either noticed or cared about the latest twist in what had once been a national cause celebre. 
 It's not hard to see why Eric Cantor, the conservative House firebrand who is vehemently opposed to stem-cell research, was disinclined to linger on the subject when asked about it on CNN last Sunday. He instead accused the White House of acting on stem cells as a ploy to distract from the economy. ''Let's take care of business first,'' he said. ''People are out of jobs.'' (On this, he's joining us late, but better late than never.)
 Even were the public still in the mood for fiery invective about family values, the G.O.P. has long since lost any authority to lead the charge. The current Democratic president and his family are exemplars of precisely the Eisenhower-era squareness -- albeit refurbished by feminism -- that the Republicans often preached but rarely practiced. Obama actually walks the walk. As the former Bush speechwriter David Frum recently wrote, the new president is an ''apparently devoted husband and father'' whose worst vice is ''an occasional cigarette.''
 Frum was contrasting Obama to his own party's star attraction, Rush Limbaugh, whose ''history of drug dependency'' and ''tangled marital history'' make him ''a walking stereotype of self-indulgence.'' Indeed, the two top candidates for leader of the post-Bush G.O.P, Rush and Newt, have sixmarriages between them. The party that once declared war on unmarried welfare moms, homosexual ''recruiters'' and Bill Clinton's private life has been rebranded by Mark Foley, Larry Craig, David Vitter and the irrepressible Palins. Even before the economy tanked, Americans had more faith in medical researchers using discarded embryos to battle Parkinson's and Alzheimer's than in Washington politicians making ad hoc medical decisions for Terri Schiavo.
 What's been revealing about watching conservatives debate their fate since their Election Day Waterloo is how, the occasional Frum excepted, so many of them don't want to confront the obsolescence of culture wars as a political crutch. They'd rather, like Cantor, just change the subject -- much as they avoid talking about Bush and avoid reckoning with the doomed demographics of the G.O.P.'s old white male base. To recognize all these failings would be to confront why a once-national party can now be tucked into the Bible Belt.
 The religious right is even more in denial than the Republicans. When Obama nominated Kathleen Sebelius, the Roman Catholic Kansas governor who supports abortion rights, as his secretary of health and human services, Tony Perkins, the leader of the Family Research Council, became nearly as apoplectic as the other Tony Perkins playing Norman Bates. ''If Republicans won't take a stand now, when will they?'' the godly Perkins thundered online. But Congressional Republicans ignored him, sending out (at most) tepid press releases of complaint, much as they did in response to Obama's stem-cell order. The two antiabortion Kansas Republicans in the Senate, Sam Brownback and Pat Roberts, both endorsed Sebelius.
 Perkins is now praying that economic failure will be a stimulus for his family-values business. ''As the economy goes downward,'' he has theorized, ''I think people are going to be driven to religion.'' Wrong again. The latest American Religious Identification Survey, published last week, found that most faiths have lost ground since 1990 and that the fastest-growing religious choice is ''None,'' up from 8 percent to 15 percent (which makes it larger than all denominations except Roman Catholics and Baptists). Another highly regarded poll, the General Social Survey, had an even more startling finding in its preliminary 2008 data released this month: Twice as many Americans have a ''great deal'' of confidence in the scientific community as do in organized religion. How the almighty has fallen: organized religion is in a dead heat with banks and financial institutions on the confidence scale. 
 This, too, is a replay of the Great Depression. ''One might have expected that in such a crisis great numbers of these people would have turned to the consolations of and inspirations of religion,'' wrote Frederick Lewis Allen in ''Since Yesterday,'' his history of the 1930s published in 1940. But that did not happen: ''The long slow retreat of the churches into less and less significance in the life of the country, and even in the lives of the majority of their members, continued almost unabated.''
 The new American faith, Allen wrote, was the ''secular religion of social consciousness.'' It took the form of campaigns for economic and social justice -- as exemplified by the New Deal and those movements that challenged it from both the left and the right. It's too early in our crisis and too early in the new administration to know whether this decade will so closely replicate the 1930s, but so far Obama has far more moral authority than any religious leader in America with the possible exception of his sometime ally, the Rev. Rick Warren. 
 History is cyclical, and it would be foolhardy to assume that the culture wars will never return. But after the humiliations of the Scopes trial and the repeal of Prohibition, it did take a good four decades for the religious right to begin its comeback in the 1970s. In our tough times, when any happy news can be counted as a miracle, a 40-year exodus for these ayatollahs can pass for an answer to America's prayers.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCIENCE POLICY (90%); BIOETHICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TERRORISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (75%); POLITICS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (67%); ABORTION (65%); EVOLUTION THEORY (60%); RELIGION (55%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (72%); MICHAEL STEELE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



633 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2849 words

HEADLINE: Secrets of the Talent Scouts

BYLINE: By GEORGE ANDERS

 BODY:
AT most enterprises these days, hiring is in tatters. Bosses who once fretted over the talent wars are announcing hiring freezes, mass layoffs or pay cuts. Collapsing financial markets and a rapidly deteriorating economy have touched off a race to retrench.
 In pockets of the American economy, however, the hunt for game-changing stars remains surprisingly intense. Competitors in entertainment, venture capital and medical research keep racing to sign the right people and turn them loose on winning projects. Finding the next big hit can save the day, but running out of talent is a recipe for extinction.
 So mavericks like Michael Moritz, the Silicon Valley venture capitalist, are shrugging off talk of economic collapse and scouting for winners anyway. ''A downturn can be a very good time to build a company,'' he contends. ''The parvenus and the pretenders are gone. The only people who want to start a company in a time like this are the ones with the greatest conviction.'' 
 Mr. Moritz's firm, Sequoia Capital, scored big by helping Cisco Systems expand during a tech slump in the late 1980s. Now Mr. Moritz, a former journalist who became a billionaire by backing Yahoo and Google, is scouting not only in the United States but also in China, India and Israel. ''We're planting our version of winter wheat,'' he declares. 
 Of course, bravado alone won't guarantee success. But in fields where picking hits is crucial, executives say it's vital to keep wooing candidates no matter how jittery the economy. In extended interviews, seven of these talent scouts argue that enduring success can come only from adding more of the best people to their teams.
 These executives' specialties are as diverse as architecture, biotechnology and country music. Asked to share their recruiting principles, they touched on a handful of simple, recurring themes. Among them: take chances on passionate people early in their work lives, focus on what can go right, offer rewards no one else can match and harness the lessons of your own career.
 A favorite starting point for talent-spotters is to cast a wide net, finding intriguing candidates who might never appear on rivals' radar screens. In Mill Valley, Calif., the executive recruiter Robin Reed makes her living that way.
 She starts by listing the 50 most promising graduate students at each of nine elite engineering schools in the United States. It's hard to determine their names and even harder to figure out what they're working on, but she likes the challenge. While she isn't yet wooing them for corporate clients, she figures that they will be worth watching as their careers unfold. As far as she can tell, no other recruiter is doing anything quite like it.
 To widen her contact list, Ms. Reed subscribes to 31 periodicals, including Technology Review and niche publications like WaterWorld. She takes pride in having attended the first Burning Man festival in Nevada and the first TED conference in California; she has been networking at those engineer-friendly events and at many others ever since. 
 As a result, Ms. Reed has been able to dip into a vast pool of non-obvious candidates over the years to find a chief information officer for Amazon.com, a site-reliability expert for eBay and 275 other placements since she started Reed Shay & Company nearly 20 years ago. 
 Clients often don't know exactly what they want at first, she says. So she introduces them to a few candidates early -- and then helps the searchers become more precise about what talents, personality traits and potential are most important. One of her main questions is this: ''Imagine it's a year from now. How will you know this has been an excellent hire?'' As suitors articulate their answers, she says, their priorities can undergo drastic changes, almost always for the better.
 ANOTHER person accustomed to casting a very wide net is Daniel J. Socolow, who runs the MacArthur Foundation's fellows program, colloquially known as the ''genius grants.'' Those prizes of $500,000 each, spread over five years, are conferred each September on about 25 people. Recent recipients have included an astrophysicist, a weaver, a saxophonist and a stage lighting designer.
 Although the stock market's skid has dented the foundation's assets, work on this year's awards is proceeding normally; there are no plans to scale back.
 Mr. Socolow argues that the project is a one-of-a-kind philanthropic activity that stands far apart from talent-picking in business. MacArthur fellows aren't expected to do any work for the foundation, he says; they're free to spend the money as they see fit. And while the foundation, which is based in Chicago, hopes that the awards will help recipients make a bigger mark in the world, no one is upbraided if they don't.
 Still, entities like the Harvard Business Review have analyzed the MacArthur program for possible parallels to business talent searches. Getting as much advice as possible is crucial to the MacArthur program; it relies on hundreds of nominators from all sorts of disciplines to suggest recipients. Nominators serve for only eight weeks and then are replaced, so that fresh thinking keeps coming in. 
 ''We're constantly challenging ourselves to think as far as we can dream,'' Mr. Socolow says. When the MacArthur program started in 1981, many of its early choices were already well-known figures like the author Robert Penn Warren. Once the awards became widely recognized and coveted, winners tended to be much more eclectic, often bursting into prominence in fields that otherwise might not have won much attention.
 For the Silicon Valley venture capitalist K. Ram Shriram, one of the best ways to find the right people involves peeking inside Stanford professors' computer labs, where graduate students' business ideas are just taking shape. One such chat led him to Google six years before its initial public offering in 2004. His six-figure investment in Google -- he wouldn't divulge the exact amount -- has produced one of the great venture-capital winnings of all time: $1.15 billion in sales proceeds, according to Thomson Reuters. He still holds about $420 million of Google stock.
 Mr. Shriram's advice to anyone trying to spot talent is this: Bet on passionate newcomers. ''I prefer youth over experience,'' he says. ''You need a spark of idealism, and that's much more likely in someone's first or second start-up.'' He also warms up if he hears that a candidate's parents were teachers or academics, believing that it ''generates kids with great curiosity.''
 ''They gravitate to interesting, unsettled issues,'' he said.
 In Nashville, the country-music executive Scott Borchetta scored his biggest career break by backing the singer Taylor Swift in 2005, when she was just 15 and most people in the music business believed she wasn't ready for a solo career. Mr. Borchetta liked her blunt, edgy lyrics and thought that they could connect with other teenagers, who usually aren't big country fans.
 Some young singers have seen their appeal fade fast when sudden fame proved tormenting. But Mr. Borchetta says he saw early on that Ms. Swift could thrive in the spotlight, coming across as friendly and open with almost any audience. A defining moment came in 2006, when the two visited a radio station in Bristol, Tenn., hoping to make a good impression.
 ''Often they just say hello for a few minutes and don't let a brand-new artist on the air,'' Mr. Borchetta recalled. ''But they liked one of Taylor's songs and told her so. Without missing a beat, she replied: 'Thank you. Can I play it right now for your listeners?' '' The station managers couldn't say no, and Ms. Swift's march to the top of the charts had begun. 
 Not only does Mr. Borchetta look for singers who are passionate about their music, he also asks: ''What can go right?'' In 2006, his Big Machine Records label signed Jack Ingram, a longtime Texas honky-tonk singer who had been dropped by Sony Records because his sharp-tongued songs about heartless women and burning cars weren't catching on nationally. 
 ''Jack really wanted to take his music to the next level,'' Mr. Borchetta recalled, ''and we talked a lot about how he could do that.''
 In the months to come, Mr. Ingram released gentler songs more likely to appeal to women in their 30s who buy much of country music. He agreed to tour more than 100 days a year, often as the opening act for bigger stars. When one of Mr. Ingram's songs, ''Wherever You Are,'' reached the top 15 on the country charts, Mr. Borchetta pulled out all the stops.
 ''We picked a week where we wanted to get it to No. 1,'' Mr. Ingram recalled. ''I was on tour all that week. I'd get into my hotel at 2 a.m. Then at 4 a.m. I'd get up and go to the local radio station. We'd do an interview there and call any radio station in the country that would have me on. I'd do that for six hours and then drive to the next show.'' 
 It was a grueling routine, but it worked. For one week, Mr. Ingram had the No. 1 country song in the nation on Billboard's charts.
 No one knows for sure why some songs become smash hits and others don't. But Mr. Borchetta, who has worked in Nashville since the mid-1980s, says that a lot of star quality comes down to how committed an artist is to his or her music, and how well he or she shares that with the public. 
 AT Gensler, the architectural firm, getting the right people is less about wowing audiences and more about understanding the firm's future needs. Right now international expansion is a top priority. In recent years, business outside the United States has grown at least 30 percent a year and now constitutes a quarter of Gensler's overall business.
 So, this summer, Gensler is bringing a new twist to its internship program. A major goal involves hiring students from United States universities who grew up in Brazil, Argentina, India, China or the Mideast and might eventually want to return to their native countries later in their careers. The hope, says Diane Hoskins, one of three executive directors running Gensler, is that these interns can eventually play important roles in helping Gensler build its overseas offices.
 Historically, Gensler has expanded in a gradual, impromptu way, opening most of its 31 offices when major clients want work done in new locations. But Gensler's new effort to nurture transnational architects reflects a more deliberate matching of future talent and future strategy, by clustering gifted people together. 
 This approach pays homage to one of the firm's most successful hires. In 1991, an American-trained Chinese immigrant, Jun Xia, joined Gensler's office in Denver and thrived there, winning awards for a regional airport job. He had planned to settle in the United States, but after a visit to Shanghai in 1998, he urged his bosses to open an office there, so Gensler could play an important part in China's building boom. The firm did so. 
 Mr. Xia is now Gensler's design director in Shanghai. Last year, he and his team won an architectural mandate to create Shanghai Tower, a 2,074-foot colossus that is expected to be China's tallest building when completed in 2014. Finding young architects with the potential to do something similar for Gensler has become a strategic priority, Ms. Hoskins says.
 While attractive pay is usually part of what brings talented people into an organization, recruiters who specialize in nonprofit organizations -- and even some who do corporate work -- say that there's a cadre of talented people who can be pried out of existing jobs only if they sense a chance to do historic work in the new setting. That may mean greater prestige, fame or a sense of rescuing a vital institution. In all of these cases, people are responding to nonfinancial rewards that no one else can match.
 Norbert Bischofberger, the head of research and development at Gilead Sciences, a pharmaceutical company in Foster City, Calif., oversees 1,500 people. As big as that number seems, it's less than one-fifth the size of R&D departments at other drug companies with similar stock market valuations. So Mr. Bischofberger can offer recruits the chance to be part of an unusually productive R&D team -- as long as he can figure out why Gilead has that edge and what it must do to preserve it.
 A big part of the answer, he says, is in Gilead's smooth teamwork, which improves its ability to turn promising molecules into approved drugs -- and reduce costly misfires. He looks for scientists with a deep curiosity about how their own work fits into the bigger picture, and a willingness to collaborate with others without squabbling over the credit.
 Job candidates may interview with as many as 20 people to make sure they can mesh with all aspects of Gilead's system. One recent hire is the lung-transplant surgeon Noreen Henig, who joined Gilead as a medical affairs director, overseeing clinical drug trials. She interviewed with people in more than a dozen disciplines before being hired. 
 Gilead's fondness for flexible, panoramic thinkers is its way of atoning for the pitfalls of a more rigid approach in its early years. In the early 1990s, Gilead believed that it could develop a new class of drugs, called antisense, that would block harmful genes from doing mischief. Chemists doing test-tube research posted thrilling results, but biologists couldn't achieve anything comparable in living animals, despite years of trying. 
 If Gilead's chemists, like Mr. Bischofberger, had known more about membrane biology, he says ruefully, the antisense project might have wound down earlier. Dead ends are inevitable in medical research. But by harnessing the lessons of its history, and hiring new researchers who are better at peering around corners, Gilead hopes to make such missteps briefer and less costly.
 Lessons from experience are an important part of how the venture capitalists at Sequoia keep trying to improve their talent-picking skills, too. Partners keep a formal record of mistakes and debate them, in the hope that they won't repeat such blunders.
 Mr. Moritz, meanwhile, draws on the experience 25 years ago of covering Silicon Valley for Time magazine and writing a book about Apple Inc. For several months in the early 1980s, Mr. Moritz enjoyed a rare, up-close look at the foibles and the charismatic allure of the company co-founder Steve Jobs. That experience, he says, has been a touchstone ever since. 
 The Apple encounters made Mr. Moritz especially alert to what kinds of executives can build a big new consumer market on the strength of their ingenuity and sheer force of will. ''It's extremely rare,'' Mr. Moritz says. ''But the best entrepreneurs have this incredible need to do what they're doing. A subject has entirely engrossed them. They have an extraordinary drive to flourish in it. They can't think of anything else they want to do.''
 Hardly any entrepreneurs can combine that much intensity with a truly worthy idea. When Jonathan Kaplan pitched his initial business plan for the Flip video camera, Mr. Moritz branded it ''terrible.'' Mr. Kaplan, who had been hoping for something like ''promising,'' or ''has potential,'' came away jolted.
 But every now and then, Mr. Moritz meets an entrepreneur who dazzles him. He saw that with the founders of Yahoo and Google, which he financed on behalf of Sequoia. When that happens, the taunts disappear. Mr. Moritz throws his energy into persuading those entrepreneurs to let Sequoia invest and help them build their business.
 Ultimately, Mr. Moritz decided that Mr. Kaplan did have the right stuff with his Flip camera. The key was to stop positioning the Flip purely as another electronic device, and to recast it as something simpler and more revolutionary: a source of easy, on-the-go video that would brighten people's lives. Apple would have been proud.
 MR. MORITZ tests entrepreneurs' passion for their company by grilling them about their own proposed salaries -- a standard venture-capitalist question. High salaries are viewed with suspicion. Bare-bones pay is generally a good sign; it means the founder wants every possible dollar to go toward the success of the company, even if it means personal sacrifices. Mr. Kaplan says he passed that test by taking a mere $50,000 annual salary at first as the chief executive of Flip's maker, Pure Digital Technologies. 
 Mr. Moritz also wants entrepreneurs who think big. Steve Streit, founder of the Green Dot Corporation, a prepaid-debit-card company backed by Sequoia, says he asked Mr. Moritz a few years ago whether they should consider an offer to sell the company. Both men recall Mr. Moritz retorting: ''You don't understand what you have here. Maybe you should take a vacation. You will not have five Green Dots in your life.'' 
 Talk of selling Green Dot vanished.
 For all of Sequoia's success, Mr. Moritz cautions: ''We often get it wrong. Judging people is more difficult than judging a market or a product. Markets rarely deliver big surprises. People will always produce surprises.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Moritz, a venture capitalist who was an early investor in Silicon Valley titans like Google and Yahoo, saw the potential in the Flip video camera, developed by Jonathan Kaplan, foreground.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The country-music executive Scott Borchetta, center, who has worked in Nashville since the 1980s, at a concert for one of his acts.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Diane Hoskins, a top executive at Gensler, the architectural firm, which is starting an internship program focused on foreign students who might eventually help build Gensler's global business.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ''I prefer youth over experience,'' says K. Ram Shriram, the Silicon Valley venture capitalist. ''You need a spark of idealism, and that's much more likely in someone's first or second start-up.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); BIOLOGY (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (71%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (57%); COUNTRY MUSIC (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (55%); SEQUOIA CAPITAL (55%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MORITZ (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



634 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: Laugh Lines

 BODY:
DAVID LETTERMAN
 Bernie and his wife, Ruth, want to keep $69 million. They said that's not money they swindled. That's just money they had laying around. That's money they saved by switching to Geico. 
 Warren Buffett says the U.S. economy has fallen off a cliff. I said, ''Well, who cares what that margarita guy thinks anyway?''
 JAY LENO
 Well, this is kind of exciting. There's talk President Barack Obama wants to lift trade restrictions with Cuba, which is great news for anybody here looking to buy a '58 Buick.
 Politicians in the state of Iowa have voted to rename their Department of Elder Affairs. They're changing the name to the Department of Aging. Have they thought this through? I mean, now, elderly people will be calling the D.O.A.
 A sheriff in Illinois is suing Craigslist, claiming it's the largest source of prostitution in the United States. Apparently there are over 10,000 prostitutes on Craigslist, according to a list compiled by former New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer.

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS: Joe Heller: Green Bay Press-Gazette, Heller Syndicate
Jimmy Margulies: The Record (Hackensack, N.J.), King Features Syndicate
Mike Peters: Dayton Daily News, King Features Syndicate
 Joel Pett: Lexington Herald-Leader, CartoonArts International 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (86%); SENIOR CITIZENS (86%); AGING (86%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); PROSTITUTION (65%); SHERIFFS (51%)

COMPANY: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (58%); CRAIGSLIST INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (74%); WARREN BUFFETT (57%); JAY LENO (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); ELIOT SPITZER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



635 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Dozens of Schools to Benefit From Funds in Corzine Budget

BYLINE: By JOHN MOONEY

DATELINE: Piscataway 

 BODY:
 WHEN Gov. Jon S. Corzine signed a new school financing law for New Jersey last year, the school district here was just the kind the new formula was meant to help.
 With its high property taxes and relatively low spending for schools, the Middlesex County district, situated on the edge of Rutgers University, won a 20 percent boost in state aid, or about $2.7 million.
 ''We brought down property taxes, while able to hold down class sizes,'' said Robert Copeland, the district's superintendent. ''It stopped us from having to cut programs.'' 
 A year later, all the economic rules have changed, especially after last week, when Mr. Corzine presented his austere $28.9 billion state budget plan for next year. School officials throughout the state have been worried that any gains from last year could prove fleeting in the next.
 Over all, Mr. Corzine's budget will make almost no one happy, especially many homeowners who will not be able to deduct property taxes on state income tax returns for at least a year. But schools have been spared the worst cuts, and indeed dozens of public school districts will benefit from Mr. Corzine's proposal, including Piscataway.
 The budget includes $300 million in additional aid to public schools, virtually all of it to more than 170 districts like Piscataway that spend less than the new school financing formula deems ''adequate.'' Those districts could see budget increases of as much as 5 percent under Mr. Corzine's plan. 
 ''There are certain parts of our government's work that we must sustain,'' Mr. Corzine said Tuesday in presenting his budget. ''In New Jersey, we recognize the importance of our children, they are our bright hope for the future. To that purpose, in this budget, we have increased, rather than cut, classroom funding for K-12 education.''
 Yet that still leaves about 400 districts that will see no increases at all, including those in Cape May and Sussex Counties and all but one district in Hunterdon. And even places getting small increases may be hard-pressed to go to the local voters for property tax increases to make up the difference. 
 Still, reaction from educators and others was mostly relief that the outlook wasn't worse.
 ''Dodged a bullet? I'd say the schools dodged a cannonball on this one,'' said Assemblyman Joseph Cryan, a Democrat from Union County, who is chairman of the Democratic State Committee.
 Child advocacy groups said they were grateful that Mr. Corzine also saved at least some money for preschool. With New Jersey set to receive at least $1 billion in federal stimulus funds for education, Mr. Corzine was able to avert overall cuts in school aid, and he proposed spending $25 million of that money to start the state's planned preschool expansion into more than 80 working- and middle-class districts, where 3- and 4-year-olds will be entitled to full-day programs.
 Districts are still awaiting word on whether they will receive additional federal funds for students with special needs and disabilities.
 With a tough re-election campaign ahead for Mr. Corzine, those steps should help the governor with some core constituencies, political observers said. 
 ''It's not just the teachers union, but there are lots of parents out there, and most importantly, it will help with controlling the property taxes that fund the schools,'' said Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich Institute for New Jersey Politics at Rider University.
 ''So many people are going to be affected negatively by this budget,'' Mr. Dworkin said. ''The fact he's able to find some money for public education, that's a political winner.''
 That's not to say that schools will be immune from the hard times befalling towns and cities all over the state. In Piscataway, whose main streets are lined with many shuttered businesses, the local school board had hoped for no property tax increase in the next budget, the superintendent said, but that has yet to be determined.
 If the district does not get more money from the federal stimulus package, Mr. Copeland said, he may need to make about $1 million in spending reductions, likely leading to bigger class sizes again. 
 ''When you get into the big dollar numbers, teachers are almost the only place you can go,'' Mr. Copeland said.
 Christine DiCanto, a chemistry teacher, has relished the smaller size of her advanced placement classes, saying the personal attention is critical. ''You need it to get to that level of instruction,'' Ms. DiCanto said.
 She said everyone in the schools understands that the bad economy is bringing extraordinary pressures. Her husband lost his job as an electrical engineer and she said students are also talking about the economy, including one top-flight senior who said he might have to give up on the Ivy League.
 ''He came to me and said Rutgers would give him a free ride,'' Ms. DiCanto said. ''He's worried about his parents' ability to retire.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CRITICAL TIME: Christine DiCanto, a chemistry teacher, works in class with William Twine, left, and Brandon Cosentino at Piscataway High School.
 Robert Copeland, Middlesex district superintendent.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (91%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CHILDREN (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (74%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (74%); CHILD WELFARE (63%); INCOME TAX (52%); VOTERS & VOTING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (58%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



636 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Administration Open to Taxing Health Benefits

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration is signaling to Congress that the president could support taxing some employee health benefits, as several influential lawmakers and many economists favor, to help pay for overhauling the health care system.
 The proposal is politically problematic for President Obama, however, since it is similar to one he denounced in the presidential campaign as ''the largest middle-class tax increase in history.'' Most Americans with insurance get it from their employers, and taxing workers for the benefit is opposed by union leaders and some businesses.
 In television advertisements last fall, Mr. Obama criticized his Republican rival for the presidency, Senator John McCain of Arizona, for proposing to tax all employer-provided health benefits. The benefits have long been tax-free, regardless of how generous they are or how much an employee earns. The advertisements did not point out that Mr. McCain, in exchange, wanted to give all families a tax credit to subsidize the purchase of coverage. 
 At the time, even some Obama supporters said privately that he might come to regret his position if he won the election; in effect, they said, he was potentially giving up an important option to help finance his ambitious health care agenda to reduce medical costs and to expand coverage to the 46 million uninsured Americans. Now that Mr. Obama has begun the health debate, several advisers say that while he will not propose changing the tax-free status of employee health benefits, neither will he oppose it if Congress does so.
 At a recent Congressional hearing, Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat whose own health plan would make benefits taxable, asked Peter R. Orszag, the president's budget director, about the issue. Mr. Orszag replied that it ''most firmly should remain on the table.''
 Mr. Orszag, an economist who has served as director of the Congressional Budget Office, has written favorably of taxing some employer-provided health benefits and using the revenue savings for other health-related incentives. So has another Obama adviser, Jason Furman, the deputy director of the White House National Economic Council.
 They, like other proponents, cite evidence that tax-free benefits encourage what Mr. McCain called ''gold-plated'' policies, resulting in inefficient and costly demands for health care and pressure on employers to hold down workers' pay as insurance expenses rise. And, they say, the policy discriminates against those -- many of whom are low-income workers -- who do not have employer-provided coverage. 
 When Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, advocated taxing benefits at a recent hearing of the Finance Committee, which he leads, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner assured him that the administration was open to all ideas from Congress. Mr. Geithner did, however, allude to the position that Mr. Obama had taken as a candidate.
 The administration's receptivity to the idea is owed partly to the advocacy of Mr. Baucus, whose committee has jurisdiction over tax policy and health programs, and to support from Republicans. There is less enthusiasm among Democrats in the House, though the health debate is at an early stage and no comprehensive plans are on the table. 
 Also, Mr. Obama's own idea for raising revenues for health care -- limiting the income tax deductions that the most affluent taxpayers claim -- has run into opposition not only from Mr. Baucus but also from his counterpart in the House, Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee.
 Mr. Obama's proposed limit on deductions would raise an estimated $318 billion over 10 years, or half of his proposed ''health care reserve fund.'' That is a fraction of the revenues that could be raised from taxing employer-provided health benefits.
 In the campaign, Mr. McCain estimated that taxing all health benefits would raise $3.6 trillion over a decade -- ''a multitrillion-dollar tax hike,'' one Obama advertisement said. 
 The Congressional Budget Office says that including health benefits in taxable income could mean $246 billion in additional revenue for a single year. Stopping short of full taxation, as Mr. Baucus and others suggest, would mean less new revenue.
 The latest government figures, for 2007, show that 70 percent of the 253 million people with health insurance received at least some of their coverage through employers. Employment-based insurance covers three-fifths of the population under 65.
 Those who want to tax benefits in whole or in part make two main arguments. They say the tax exclusion is a generous subsidy that insulates employees from the true costs of health care, leading them to demand more of it and driving up overall costs. Critics also say the policy is unfair because it favors higher-income people. ''It's too regressive,'' Mr. Baucus said. ''It just skews the system.''
 But in a blueprint for health legislation that he issued last November, Mr. Baucus said taking the exclusion on health benefits out of the tax code would go ''too far'' and ''cause widespread disruption in employer-based health benefits.'' Mr. Obama has also said he wants to preserve employer-provided coverage. Mr. Baucus, in his paper, cited other options, like taxing benefits above some value, taxing only wealthy employees or both.
 However the proposal is devised, advocates will not have an easy time selling it.
 Republicans, like Mr. McCain and former President George W. Bush before him, tend to favor taxing the benefits to finance other incentives for people to buy their own insurance. But given Mr. Obama's use of the issue in his campaign, Republicans are unlikely to support a change unless the president himself proposes it, a senior adviser to Senate Republicans said.
 Many Democrats, especially House liberals, are opposed. ''It's a dumb idea,'' said Representative Pete Stark of California, chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health. ''We have to maintain as much as we can of the employer payments.''
 Administration officials often say they will not repeat the mistakes of former President Bill Clinton, whose plan for universal health insurance collapsed in 1994. But Frank B. McArdle, a health policy expert at Hewitt Associates, a benefits consulting firm, said, ''If President Obama agrees to cut back the tax break for employee health benefits, he will risk repeating one of Mr. Clinton's errors by disrupting health insurance for people who have it and like it.''
 Some big businesses consider nontaxable employment benefits a tool for recruiting and retaining workers. The United States Chamber of Commerce opposes eliminating the exclusion on health benefits, but James P. Gelfand, senior manager of health policy, said the group had not taken a position on limiting it.
 Organized labor, a pillar of the Democratic Party base, considers the benefits among the union movement's historic achievements for the middle class. But a split could be developing between the manufacturing unions, which have negotiated rich benefit packages, and the growing service employees unions, which include many low-wage workers without generous benefits.
 Alan V. Reuther, legislative director of the United Automobile Workers, said: ''These proposals would represent a tax increase on working families. They would undermine good health care coverage.''
 But at the Service Employees International Union, which was an early supporter of Mr. Obama, Dennis Rivera, the coordinator of the union's health care campaign, said that while his organization was ''predisposed not to agree to the taxing of health benefits,'' he would wait to pass judgment. The union, Mr. Rivera said, wants to see how any tax changes fit into the overall effort to revamp the health care system. ''We need to see the total picture,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: HEALTH BENEFITS IN THE TAX CODE: Under current law, employer contributions to the cost of health insurance are not counted as taxable income for employees. Workers do not pay income or payroll taxes on the value of the benefits. Tax savings are greater at higher income levels. (Source: Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation) (pg.A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); PETER ORSZAG (78%); RON WYDEN (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



637 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: A Land's Vast Potential, Seen From Within

BYLINE: By HARRY HURT III

 BODY:
THERE are scores of books by well-known businessmen who pontificate about social, political and economic issues affecting a broad swath of humanity. Unfortunately, far too many of these books are exercises in self-promotion or revisionist history, and with thinly veiled ideological agendas. 
 ''Imagining India: The Idea of a Renewed Nation'' by Nandan Nilekani (Penguin Press, $29.95) is one of those rare books in which a businessman proves himself to be a capable expository writer, a balanced social and political commentator, and an innovative economic thinker. 
 Mr. Nilekani is a co-founder of Infosys Technologies, a business-process outsourcing company based in Bangalore. In the introduction to ''Imagining India,'' Thomas L. Friedman, the New York Times columnist, credits Mr. Nilekani with inspiring his best-selling book ''The World Is Flat.'' 
 ''There are not a lot of executives around the world who are known simply by their first names,'' Mr. Friedman writes. ''Silicon Valley has 'Steve' -- as in Jobs, Seattle has 'Bill' -- as in Gates. Omaha has 'Warren' -- as in Buffett. And Bangalore has 'Nandan' -- as in Nilekani.''
 Like its subject, ''Imagining India'' is vast and complicated. Its more than 500 pages contain a laundry list of topics, ranging from the influences of the British Raj, Nehru and Mahatma, Indira and Rajiv Gandhi to the intricacies of caste, class, region, religion, family planning, sanitation, urbanization, education, health care and information technology (Mr. Nilekani's area of expertise). 
 The unifying theme is what the author calls an ''idea-based approach'' to meeting the present and future challenges facing the world's largest and fastest-growing democracy.
 Mr. Nilekani divides his book into four idea-based sections. The first, subtitled ''Ideas That Have Arrived,'' recounts India's stumbling march toward globalization, its begrudging acceptance of the role of entrepreneurs in transforming the formerly socialist economy, and its even more grudging acceptance of English as the unofficial national language. It also addresses a feature that sets India significantly apart from every other country except China: its population of one billion people.
 ''The idea of population as an asset rather than a burden has especially gained currency with the rise of knowledge-based industries such as I.T., telecommunications and biotechnology in the 1970s,'' Mr. Nilekani observes. ''In fact, the information economy is the culmination of what the Industrial Revolution started -- it has placed human capital front and center as the main driver of productivity and growth.''
 Mr. Nilekani contends that India is uniquely positioned to enjoy a ''demographic dividend'' because the median age of its population is only 23 while that of China, with a total of 1.3 billion people, is already over 32. ''India already has the second-largest reservoir of skilled labor in the world,'' Mr. Nilekani notes. ''It produces 2 million English-speaking graduates, 15,000 law graduates and about 9,000 Ph.D.'s every year. And the existing pool of 2.1 million engineering graduates increases by nearly 300,000 every year.''
 Mr. Nilekani, however, is keenly aware of the contradictions, paradoxes and sociocultural obstacles that may prevent India from sustaining its current annual growth rate of 6 percent. In Part 2 , subtitled ''Ideas in Progress,'' he notes that even though Indians now widely recognize a need for primary education, the country has the world's highest rate of high school dropouts. In Part 3, subtitled ''Ideas in Battle,'' he likewise laments that the nation's university system still consists of ''institutions of sand.''
 According to Mr. Nilekani, Indian politics continues to be mired in conflicts between feudalism and secularism, rationalism and traditionalism, and is based on caste, class, regional and religious interests. As recently as 1998, he notes, a political candidate was said to be the reincarnation of Kush, the son of Lord Vishnu. 
 He says a predilection to cling to statism and bureaucracy creates ''the paradox of a nation that is blessed with the most talented and diverse entrepreneurs, but which still does not trust the market to deliver on broad-based development.''
 MR. NILEKANI uses the final section of his book, subtitled ''Ideas to Anticipate,'' to discuss likely challenges for India in coming decades. He puts special emphasis on avoiding the mistakes made by developed countries like the United States.
 ''We do not need to burn through our forests and drain our groundwater before we realize that abusing the environment has awful consequences,'' he writes. ''We do not need to grow addicted to oil before we realize the potential of renewable energy.''
 ''Imagining India'' has its flaws. Grandly ambitious in scope, the book touches on so many issues as to boggle the mind. Mr. Nilekani has a tendency to repeat facts, and he often resorts to the rhetorical flourishes of the populist demagogues he decries. (''For the first time there is a sense of hope across the country, which I believe is universal,'' he declares.) 
 Even so, he provides us with a vividly realistic portrait of his native India, a nation with potential that may forever defy the imagination. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); OUTSOURCING (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); POPULATION SIZE (73%); BESTSELLERS (73%); URBANIZATION (71%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%)

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (83%)

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (83%); INFY (NYSE) (83%); INFY (NSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (83%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



638 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON THE HILL; Pg. 

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Issue of Gun Rights Still Holds Sway

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
Democrats have been exorcising some of their most stubborn political demons of late.
 In challenging former President George W. Bush over the war in Iraq, they showed they were overcoming their deep post-Vietnam fear of being painted as weak on defense when taking a strong anti-war stance. Now, exhibiting comfort with rolling back Bush-era tax cuts, Democrats seem to be losing their anxiety about the tax-and-spend label.
 But there is one issue that retains the power to leave Democrats quivering: gun rights. Gun issues still persistently tie the party in knots and have been used by Republicans to stall two major bills this year, with more likely to come. 
 ''It is a hot-button issue,'' said Representative Allen Boyd, Democrat of Florida, a longtime hunter and one of the moderates who typically split from the more liberal wing of the party to support the rights of gun owners. ''Some people around here know they can use it as a wedge issue, and they try to do that.''
 It is a particularly hot-button topic with veteran Congressional Democrats who believe the party's strong support for a 1994 assault weapons ban was the real reason they lost control of the House that year -- not the House bank scandal, the failed health care initiative, the Contract with America or Newt Gingrich.
 The power of that bad memory was unmistakable a few weeks ago in the immediacy with which Speaker Nancy Pelosi shot down the suggestion by new Attorney General Eric Holder that Congress might reinstitute the assault weapons ban.
 ''On that score, I think we need to enforce the laws we have right now,'' said Ms. Pelosi, echoing the position often taken by advocates of gun rights.
 Gun rights are probably equaled only by abortion rights in their ability to split Democrats and create political havoc.
 Well aware of the Democratic sensitivity on guns and the reluctance of suburban and rural lawmakers to cast any vote that could be perceived as anti-gun, Republicans see the issue as one of their most effective poison pills to sabotage legislation. They were able to add an expansion of gun ownership in the District of Columbia to a long-sought measure giving the district a full-voting seat in the House of Representatives. Now the gun issue is an anchor on the bill in the House.
 Democrats also came up just short of winning approval of a public lands bill this week because of three Democratic holdouts. They were influenced in part by concerns that the bill would upset gun owners even though the National Rifle Association had already signed off after a promise that the bill would not curtail hunting on federal land.
 Democratic leaders admit they are confounded by the mounting problems with gun votes and are trying to find a way out of a situation that is partly a product of their own success. The wider their majority, the more members Democrats have from swing districts where gun rights are likely to be a prominent issue.
 One of those members, Representative Travis Childers of Mississippi, last year was able to win House approval of his plan to let residents of the District of Columbia buy and keep guns in their homes for self-protection, a further retreat from the district's virtually universal ban on legal handgun ownership that had already been relaxed by the Supreme Court.
 ''The Second Amendment right is a long-standing pillar in our system of government, and I believe law-abiding citizens should have the right to defend their homes in the District of Columbia, just like they have the ability to do so in the First Congressional District of Mississippi,'' said Mr. Childers, who persuaded 81 other Democrats to side with him.
 Democratic leaders say that baseline of 80 or so Democrats has undoubtedly grown, given gains in moderate districts last November, providing a solid House majority for gun rights when combined when strong support among Republicans. The cultural shift is pronounced -- this week's mass shootings in Alabama and Germany stirred hardly a Congressional call for new gun restrictions, a contrast from past episodes.
 Even with important legislation on the line, Ms. Pelosi and other Democratic leaders seem unwilling to demand that Democrats with a record of backing gun rights relent when the issue is secondary, as is the case with the District of Columbia voting-rights bill.
 ''Members come here to represent their districts, and I respect that,'' Ms. Pelosi said.
 And the fact is many conservative and moderate Democrats are not simply acting out of worry of getting a black mark from the N.R.A -- they are hunters and sportsmen and strongly believe in the right to own and bear arms. 
 But what some Democratic leaders fear is that Republicans are taking better advantage of the party divide on the subject and will step up their use of gun rights to derail other issues in the months ahead.
 Mr. Boyd, the Florida lawmaker, said that Democrats cannot let that happen.
 ''The truth is this administration and this Congress have some very serious economic problems to deal with and we are going to get through them,'' he said. ''Hopefully we will work around these distractions.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUN CONTROL (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); FIREARMS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (76%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); LAWYERS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); SCANDALS (65%); APPROVALS (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (59%); ALLEN BOYD (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ERIC HOLDER (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



639 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Building Coalitions, One Issue At a Time

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
He has been called a socialist by angry critics on the right, an accommodationist by disappointed fans on the left and a pragmatist by his staff. President Obama, who normally eschews labels, pinned on one of his own last week by declaring himself a ''New Democrat.'' 
 After eight weeks in office, Mr. Obama has managed to satisfy or outrage nearly everyone on the ideological spectrum. But his once-murky governing philosophy is coming into sharper focus as he pivots from the opening days of his presidency to lay out a broader agenda for the rest of his term.
 Obamaism, as it is shaping up, appears to be an amalgam of philosophies -- a strong belief in the role of an activist government in shaping the economy and redistributing wealth, and a more centrist view of national security and at least some cultural issues. Mr. Obama has advanced the most expansive spending programs of any president in generations while moderating, but not wholly dismantling, the wartime policies of his predecessor and speaking to some of the values often embraced by conservatives. 
 The complex blend of ideas and instincts has proved advantageous in electoral politics, helping him win the presidency by blurring differences and appealing across lines. But now in office, it may force him to build different legislative coalitions depending on the issue, a tricky challenge given the scope of his ambition. 
 He has rallied liberals behind efforts to overhaul health care, tackle climate change and raise taxes on the rich. But he has challenged liberal orthodoxy on issues like linking teacher pay to performance and has won Republican support for sending 17,000 more troops to Afghanistan and pulling out of Iraq more gradually than the left wanted.
 ''The answer is yes, he is all of those things, but none of them in toto,'' said Michael Berman, a longtime Democratic strategist. ''I would likely describe him as a moderate who is instinctively comfortable with a variety of progressive positions. He is very hard to label. And my guess is that that is the way he likes it.''
 That has sometimes confused opponents trying to pin down his philosophy. ''You could pick any moment out of the last few weeks and make a diametrically opposite conclusion, so I just don't know,'' said Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin. ''He just got here, and when he got to the Senate he started running for president. So nobody up here really knows him.''
 Other presidents came to office with longer histories on the national stage and more defined ideological identities, even if actions in office did not always match their images. Ronald Reagan was the Cold Warrior denouncing government as the problem, not the solution. Bill Clinton was the original New Democrat nudging his party toward the center. George W. Bush was the compassionate conservative sanding the harsher edges off Newt Gingrich's revolution.
 Mr. Obama, with only two years in the Senate before starting his presidential campaign, arrived as something of a cipher -- a ''Rorschach test,'' as he once put it -- who often seemed to be whatever people wanted to him to be. While compiling a reliably liberal record, he made enough nods toward the other side that he put moderates and some conservatives at ease.
 Just before his inauguration, 40 percent of Americans surveyed by The New York Times and CBS News considered Mr. Obama a liberal, while 34 percent called him a moderate and 13 percent a conservative. Even now, aides point to high approval ratings to argue that Americans are comfortable with his approach and that his critics are out of step.
 ''He's not an ideologue,'' said David Axelrod, his senior White House adviser. ''He's a pragmatist. He's someone who's interested in ideas that will work. Some may have their roots in one doctrine; some may have roots in another. But he's not concerned about that. He's less concerned about how he's described than what he can accomplish.''
 During a recent interview with The Times, Mr. Obama rejected the ''socialist'' tag, arguing that he was only returning top tax rates to where they were before Mr. Bush. Asked if ''liberal'' or ''progressive'' better defined his philosophy, he said, ''I'm not going to engage in that.''
 Days later, though, he did engage during a closed-door meeting with moderate House Democrats, later reported by Politico.com. Mr. Obama called himself a New Democrat, a term popularized under Mr. Clinton referring to Democrats who are fiscally conservative, socially liberal and relatively hawkish on foreign affairs.
 ''If you asked him, I think he'd put himself on the ideological scale as a New Democrat,'' said Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff. ''But I think he'd say that doesn't fully capture it.''
 Others said Mr. Obama does not fit the New Democrat model. Where Mr. Clinton overhauled welfare and balanced the budget, Mr. Obama has overseen more than $1 trillion in spending to fix the economy, set aside $634 billion over 10 years to expand health coverage and proposed forcing industry to pay for pollution credits.
 ''President Obama is turning out to be utterly and conventionally liberal, embracing record-breaking spending programs and record-breaking tax increases and giving us a record-breaking deficit and record-breaking debt,'' Peter Wehner, a former Bush aide, wrote on Commentary magazine's Web site. 
 Liberals likewise do not view him as a New Democrat. ''Here's a label if you want one -- pragmatic populist progressive,'' said Justin Ruben, executive director of MoveOn.org, an influential group on the left. ''It's not fire-breathing populism. It doesn't necessarily look the same. But what he's saying is this has to work for everyone but in a pragmatic way.''
 John D. Podesta, who led Mr. Obama's transition, says the president has embraced the trial-and-error approach employed by predecessors. ''That traces back to progressive roots in the kinds of experimentation in reform you saw under Teddy Roosevelt and the experimentation you saw under Franklin Roosevelt,'' he said.
 At the same time, Mr. Obama has upheld much of the Bush security architecture. While ordering the closing of the prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, Mr. Obama endorsed some Bush positions on holding detainees, guarding state secrets and snatching terrorism suspects from other countries.
 On the cultural front, Mr. Obama has liberalized policies on abortion and stem cell research, but also embraced issues favored by the other side, making ''responsibility'' a regular theme of his rhetoric and retaining Mr. Bush's office of faith-based initiatives. And he has resisted calls by liberal allies to investigate the Bush team. 
 Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who proposed such a ''truth commission,'' said he understood Mr. Obama's position. ''He has to govern the whole country,'' Mr. Leahy said. ''He has to bring us back together.''
 Former Representative Tom Davis of Virginia, a Republican, said Mr. Obama was smart to avoid fights on secondary issues. ''What's really dominant right now is the economy,'' Mr. Davis said. ''You can't afford to alienate people on the cultural front or the national security front while you're fixing the economy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama announcing plans for a gradual withdrawal from Iraq at Camp Lejeune, N.C., which won Republican support.
 Mr. Obama signing an executive order lifting Bush-era restrictions on stem cell research.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); PAUL RYAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009



640 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORK DAYBOOK

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
The Roots of Green Beer
Tuesday, 11 a.m. Buried beneath the celebration there is -- as always -- misery on St. Patrick's Day. That's how it happens in America, terra optimista, where a bloody revolution is transformed each summer into fireworks and hot dogs, and a feast day in honor of a Christian youth sold into slavery by Irish raiders is turned into a Guinness-fueled parade. But you don't care about the history, of course. You just want to get drunk like everybody else. Good thing you didn't give up alcohol for Lent. Fifth Avenue from44th to 86th Street, Manhattan. 
Don't Let Debt Win
Friday, 8:30 a.m. Even back in the early days, the powers-that-were understood that the surest way to control the masses was to lend them lots of money. Thomas Jefferson himself is said to have argued that the best method for managing the country's Indian tribes was to a) switch them from a hunting to an agricultural society and b) load them down with enormous piles of debt. Agriculture is no longer what it used to be, but debt, of course, is the root cause of the current economic crisis. Learn how to manage the debt on your home before foreclosure occurs -- and before you lose your credit cards. Queens Chamber of Commerce, 75-20 Astoria Boulevard, not far from La Guardia Airport.
Spring, Just in Time
Saturday, 7 p.m. Just when you thought that the bonds of civilization had frayed beyond the breaking point, that the universe itself was out of whack, here comes spring to save the day. There are many ways to celebrate the vernal equinox -- it's actually on Friday -- but none are cheerier than joining Maryanne Savino, a sonic alchemist, as she weaves her soundscape of divine mother transmissions and Tibetan singing bowls. This, you jaded urbanite, is a sonic tuneup, the likes of which you've never seen, guaranteed to revitalize your inner god or goddess. Watch out: a whole lot of New Atlantean energy is going to be released. Nurture's Path Healing Arts, 1133 Broadway, near 26th Street, Manhattan.
Who's Eco-Friendliest?
Sunday. Then again, none of it really matters if the planet disappears. This either will or will not happen, but considering humanity's knack for self-destruction, which way are you going to bet? To stack the odds just slightly, send a plan for an eco-friendly venture to the New York City Green Business Competition -- whose deadline is today -- because recycling Coke cans isn't going to cut it. Details: greenbusinesscompetition.com.
ALAN FEUER
Submit items for consideration: daybook@nytimes.com
TAKING
QUESTIONS
This week, Jesse Hoffnung-Garskof, assistant professor of history and author of ''A Tale of Two Cities: Santo Domingo and New York after 1950,'' will answer questions about how New York has been transformed by Dominican immigration and how Dominicans' lives here have affected life in their native country. Submit questions online; the first set of answers will be published on Wednesday on the blog.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Equinox egg-balancing.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIAN HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); FORECLOSURE (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); SLAVERY (56%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



641 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: With Health Care for Nearly All, Massachusetts Now Faces Costs

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
BOSTON -- Three years ago, Massachusetts enacted perhaps the boldest state health care experiment in American history, bringing near-universal coverage to the commonwealth with Paul Revere speed.
To make it happen, Democratic lawmakers and Gov. Mitt Romney, a Republican, made an expedient choice, deferring until another day any serious effort to control the state's runaway health costs.
The day of reckoning has arrived. Threatened first by rapid early enrollment in its new subsidized insurance program and now by a withering economy, the state's pioneering overhaul has entered a second, more challenging phase.
Thanks to new taxes and fees imposed last year, the health plan's jittery finances have stabilized for the moment. But government and industry officials agree that the plan will not be sustainable over the next 5 to 10 years if they do not take significant steps to arrest the growth of health spending. 
With Washington watching, the state's leaders are again blazing new trails. Both Gov. Deval Patrick, Mr. Romney's Democratic successor, and a high-level state commission have set out to revamp the way public and private insurers reimburse physicians and hospitals.
They want a new payment method that rewards prevention and the effective control of chronic disease, instead of the current system, which pays according to the quantity of care provided. By late spring, the commission is expected to recommend such a system to the legislature.
If Massachusetts becomes the first state to make this conversion, health policy experts argue that it would be as audacious an achievement as universal coverage. The state faces several hurdles, including securing federal permission to impose the changes on Medicaid, a shared state and federal program, and more unusually on Medicare, which is financed entirely by Washington.
Those who led the 2006 effort said it would not have been feasible to enact universal coverage if the legislation had required heavy cost controls. The very stakeholders who were coaxed into the tent -- doctors, hospitals, insurers and consumer groups -- would probably have been driven into opposition by efforts to reduce their revenues and constrain their medical practices, they said.
Now those stakeholders and the state government have a huge investment to protect. But the task of cost-cutting remains difficult in a state with a long tradition of heavy spending on health care. Massachusetts has more doctors per capita than any state, Boston is home to some of the country's most expensive academic medical centers, and a new state law requires comprehensive benefits like prescription drug and mental health coverage.
Alan Sager, a professor of health policy at Boston University, has calculated that health spending per person in Massachusetts increased faster than the national average in seven of the last eight years. Furthermore, he said, the gap has grown exponentially, with Massachusetts now spending about a third more per person, up from 23 percent in 1980.
''Just as this may have been the easiest place to do coverage, it may be the most difficult place to do cost control,'' said Jonathan Gruber, a health economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
But Mr. Patrick has shown signs of playing tough with the state's hospitals and insurers. Responding in January to a series in The Boston Globe that exposed how the state's most influential hospitals negotiate high reimbursement rates, Mr. Patrick announced that he would explore whether the state could regulate insurance premiums.
''Frankly, it's very hard for the average consumer, or frankly the average governor, to understand how some of these companies can have the margins they do and the annual increases in premiums that they do,'' Mr. Patrick said in an interview. ''At some level, you've just got to say, 'Look, that's just not acceptable, and more to the point, it's not sustainable.' ''
The threat seems to have been heard. Insurers seeking to participate in the state's subsidized insurance program, Commonwealth Care, recently submitted bids so low that officials announced last week that they would keep premiums flat in the coming year. That may provide cover for the program as the state seeks ways to fill a nearly $4 billion gap in its 2010 budget.
The state expects to spend $595 million more on its health insurance programs this year than in 2006, a 42 percent increase. But about 432,000 people have gained coverage, leaving only 2.6 percent of the population without insurance, according to a recent state survey. At only one-sixth the national average, that is by far the lowest rate in any state.
Massachusetts achieved its high coverage rates by mandating in its landmark law that almost every resident have health insurance, and that all but the smallest businesses make some contribution toward their employees' costs. Those who do not enroll but are deemed able to afford insurance can be fined up to $1,068 in the 2009 tax year.
To make the mandated insurance affordable, the state subsidizes premiums for those earning up to three times the federal poverty level, or $66,150 for a family of four. Massachusetts already had a law requiring insurers to accept all applicants regardless of their health status.
Although nearly 60 percent of the newly insured are covered by public programs, Massachusetts also seems to be a rare state where the percentage of employers offering health benefits is actually growing. And the state government has realized substantial savings, worth about $250 million last year, from lower payments to hospitals for uncompensated care for the uninsured and underinsured.
In its first full year of operation, Commonwealth Care drew higher enrollment than anticipated, and the state found itself facing an inaugural budget gap. Mr. Patrick and the legislature filled it by assessing insurers and hospitals, raising the penalty on noncompliant businesses, increasing premiums and co-payments for consumers, and raising the state tobacco tax.
The fear was that such tree-shaking would become an annual ritual. But enrollment in the $820 million Commonwealth Care program peaked last May and then declined before hitting a plateau.
Some modest provisions to control costs were included in the original health care bill, including a merger of the small group and individual insurance markets and new spending on electronic record-keeping and hospital infection control.
More efforts were made last year in legislation that provided incentives for doctors to practice primary care, required uniform billing procedures among providers, toughened the state's regulation of new hospital construction, and established the payment reform commission.
The commission is looking at various options, but all would do away with the fee-for-service system, which provides perverse incentives by paying physicians and hospitals for each patient visit. The changes under consideration include reimbursing for episodes of care rather than individual visits and bundling payments to groups of providers who would together take responsibility for a patient's health.
Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts, the state's largest insurer, recently devised an innovative model that pays doctors a flat fee per patient, with adjustments for age, gender and health status, and then adds bonus payments for high standards of care.
Blue Cross officials say they believe that the new plans can cut the growth of premiums in half over five years and expect them to account for 15 percent of their business by June. ''We're very committed to this path because we feel it's the only credible place to go,'' said Cleve L. Killingsworth, the company's chairman.
Some health policy experts argue that changes in payment practices will not be enough to slow the growth in spending, even when combined with other cost-cutting strategies. To truly change course, they say, the state and federal governments may need to place actual limits on health spending, which could lead to rationing of care.
''Really controlling costs requires just stopping spending,'' said Stuart H. Altman, a professor of health policy at Brandeis University.
Because Massachusetts now requires its residents to be insured, it cannot fall back on the strategy used by other states in hard times -- to simply remove people from the public insurance rolls by restricting eligibility.
''It forces us to look in the mirror and say, 'What do we do about health care spending?' '' said Jon M. Kingsdale, executive director of the agency that administers Commonwealth Care. ''And the reason that's so challenging is that it means limiting resources for people doing really good stuff.
''It's not like the fat sits out here easily identified and you just slice it off. It's marbled throughout the meat.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts hopes to revamp the way public and private insurers reimburse physicians and hospitals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A13) CHART: Sharp Climb In Health Spending: Massachusetts spends 33 percent more per person than the national average, up from 23 percent in 1980. (Sources: Alan Sager, Boston University School of Public Health, analysis of health spending data compiled by Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); INSURANCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); HISTORY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MEDICARE (76%); CHRONIC DISEASES (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (71%); LEGISLATION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); MEDICAID (58%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (93%); CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); DEVAL PATRICK (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



642 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Banks Can Live as Walking Dead

BYLINE: By ROB COX and ROBERT CYRAN

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
American bankers are fighting -- for the right to be zombies. You wouldn't know it by last week's rally in bank stocks. But it's one plausible interpretation of comments by the chief executives of Citigroup and Bank of America playing up the earnings power of their respective institutions.
Vikram Pandit, Citi's chief executive, boasted of $19 billion of revenues in the first two months of the year in a memo to his staff. Annualized, that would be $114 billion -- impressive given the state of financial markets and not far from 2007. That sparked the ''Pandit rally'' in the market. Citi alone surged 75 percent last week. 
Kenneth D. Lewis then said Bank of America should generate $50 billion of profit before taxes and provisions. He said ''that kind of cash flow can solve a lot of problems, given time and an improving economy.'' Bank of America shares rocketed 86 percent.
Their message is clear: give us time and we'll be able to handle the write-downs we may need to take on the sketchy assets on our books. That may be true. Bank of America has a balance sheet of around $2.4 trillion. Assuming Mr. Lewis is right about earnings, the bank could write off a full 2 percent of its balance sheet annually before chewing into Tier 1 capital. A similar hit to Citi would sacrifice $40 billion of pretax earnings.
So, even the poster children of the current banking crisis have the capacity to grind through the recession, now that they have been helped out by the government. That should be cause for celebration, right? Not quite. It's essentially what the Japanese banks did in the 1990s. As a consequence of permitting its zombie banks to plod forward, Japan's economy experienced a lost decade.
Among the alternatives is one the United States urged on the Japanese at the time: bite the bullet, recognize bad assets and recapitalize the banks. That would likely entail wiping out equity investors, firing managers and perhaps even inflicting pain on bondholders.
Mr. Pandit and Mr. Lewis are probably right that they can muddle through. But whether the country's crucial engines of credit creation should be left to that fate is open to debate. And until that is resolved, investors in banks should remain on their toes.
Deals Under Review?
Antitrust regulators have time on their hands. The mergers boom has subsided, so there will be fewer new cases for the bureaucrats to scrutinize even though, after an eight-year hiatus, they have the backing of a more interventionist administration.
So what to do? Revisit the past. Christine A. Varney, President Obama's pick to run the antitrust unit at the Justice Department, said in her nomination hearings last week that she was ''absolutely'' open to retrospectively studying the effects of approved mergers.
The idea of re-examining completed transactions may seem unfair. A deal's a deal, no? Yet there's no statute of limitations on the matter. It's not even extraordinary -- the Bush administration filed a suit in December against a company called Microsemi seeking to undo its acquisition of a rival.
Antitrust cognoscenti are bracing for the new administration to use this power more often. And it's not too hard to see where it might strike. History suggests CVS Caremark, the company created by the 2007 merger of a drugstore chain with a pharmacy benefits manager, could be one of the first cases to be re-examined.
In the early 1990s, Merck agreed to buy pharmacy benefits manager Medco. The transaction glided to approval under the first President Bush. The Clinton administration reopened the case. Federal authorities, with Ms. Varney taking a leading role at the Federal Trade Commission, claimed vertical integration of drug middlemen like Medco invited anticompetitive behavior.
The government eventually succeeded in imposing sanctions. Merck subsequently spun off Medco because the government limitations on things like data-sharing meant that there were no synergies.
Fast forward to 2007. The drugstore chain CVS agreed to acquire Medco's rival Caremark, and the merger won quick approval. Now, a new Democratic administration is in power with Ms. Varney in the top position. And groups aligned to the administration's thinking have claimed CVS Caremark's vertical integration is anticompetitive.
Of course, nothing may happen. CVS Caremark says claims of anti-competitive actions have no merit and there are strong internal safeguards against improper data-sharing. And Ms. Varney's appointment hasn't even been approved. Yet CVS Caremark's board -- like those at acquisitive companies ranging from AT&T to Whirlpool -- shouldn't assume their mergers of the past won't become headaches of the future.
ROB COX and ROBERT CYRAN
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.
Correction: March 17, 2009, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Breakingviews.com column on Monday, about the ability of Citigroup and Bank of America to weather the recession, misstated the middle initial for the chief executive of Bank of America. He is Kenneth D. Lewis, not Kenneth A.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christine A. Varney, nominated to the antitrust unit at the Justice Department. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (63%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); BONDS (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (77%); KENNETH D LEWIS (76%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



643 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: PAKISTAN LEADER FORCED TO BOW TO OPPOSITION

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Waqar Gillani contributed reporting.

 BODY:
LAHORE, Pakistan -- The Pakistani government agreed early on Monday to reinstate the independent-minded former chief justice of the Supreme Court, a stunning concession to the opposition leader Nawaz Sharif, who had been heading toward the capital in a convoy threatening to stage a mass protest over the issue after he broke free from house arrest at his residence near here.
The concession, broadcast on national television by Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani, came after a tumultuous weekend in Pakistani politics in which a dispute between President Asif Ali Zardari and Mr. Sharif escalated into a crisis that was destabilizing nuclear-armed Pakistan, already under pressure from a growing Islamic insurgency and severe economic troubles.
The decision to restore the chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, came after calls to Mr. Zardari and Mr. Sharif, including from Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, asking them to ease their differences. 
The Obama administration's special envoy to Pakistan, Richard C. Holbrooke, said the United States applauded ''the statesmanlike act by President Zardari and hope that it will help defuse a dangerous confrontation so that Pakistan, with the help of its many friends, can address the nation's pressing and urgent needs.''
In reaction to Mr. Zardari's concession, Mr. Sharif said he would call off his protest and the planned sit-in in the capital. He said the restoration of the chief justice was a victory for Pakistan and a due but belated move by the president. After making his remarks in Gujranawala, he returned to his home in Raiwind, outside of Lahore.
The restoration of Mr. Chaudhry, who was dismissed two years ago by then-President Pervez Musharraf, appeared to show new weakness by Mr. Zardari. The former chief justice's fate was a festering unresolved issue between Mr. Zardari and Mr. Sharif while the two men led a coalition government last year.
A vibrant lawyers' movement has agitated for Mr. Chaudhry's return, and Mr. Sharif made Mr. Chaudhry, as a symbol of an independent judiciary, the centerpiece of his platform since his return to Pakistani politics from his exile in late 2007.
Word of Mr. Chaudhry's rehabilitation followed a momentous weekend in which the government had tried but failed to prevent a protest by Mr. Sharif and the lawyers in Lahore, Mr. Sharif's political power base.
After the police placed him under house arrest Sunday morning, Mr. Sharif and his entourage broke through barricades at his home and drove to the center of Lahore, where a pitched battle had taken place between his supporters and the police.
But in apparent deference to Mr. Sharif, the police melted away, and he proceeded from Lahore in a convoy of cars along the 200-mile route to the capital.
During that trip, the prime minister appeared on television, and jubilant supporters of the chief justice rallied outside the home of Mr. Chaudhry in Islamabad. Even before the formal announcement, Mr. Chaudhry was receiving elated lawyers and supporters at his house at 3 a.m.
Mr. Gilani said Mr. Chaudhry would take his seat on the Supreme Court on March 21, the day after the chief justice appointed by President Musharraf and favored by Mr. Zardari retired.
In his speech broadcast a few minutes before 6 a.m., the prime minister also lifted security restrictions imposed last Wednesday to try to deter protest by Mr. Sharif and his supporters.
Just before the prime minister spoke, Pakistani television reported that roadblocks into the capital were being removed, a sign that Mr. Sharif and his supporters would apparently be welcome as victors, not protesters.
Mr. Sharif and Mr. Zardari fought over the future of Mr. Chaudhry until their coalition fell apart last September over what Mr. Sharif said was Mr. Zardari's refusal to reinstate the chief justice. Mr. Sharif accused the president of refusing to reinstate the judge because of Mr. Zardari's fears that Mr. Chaudhry would repeal an amnesty on corruption charges that had been granted to Mr. Zardari and his wife, former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto.
As chief justice, Mr. Chaudhry was an unusual maverick who was widely honored in the past year by universities and bar associations in the United States.
He had asked the Musharraf government to bring intelligence officials to his court to explain the disappearances of hundreds of Pakistanis believed held without charges since the American war on terrorism began in 2001.
General Musharraf dismissed him on March 9, 2007, apparently because he believed that Mr. Chaudhry would prevent him from running for a third term.
The collapse of the security effort in Lahore, apparently on the orders of the provincial police, represented an erosion of authority that foreshadowed serious problems ahead for Mr. Zardari's weak national government, politicians and analysts said.
The emergence of Mr. Sharif from house detention and his ability to draw huge crowds demonstrated his popularity and the credence of his cause, they said.
The army's chief of staff, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, was widely reported to have met with Mr. Zardari and Mr. Gilani Sunday and urged a solution to the crisis.
General Kayani has said he wants to keep the army out of politics, but there was renewed speculation about how long the patience of the army would hold.
The turnout of jubilant crowds in Lahore after Mr. Sharif broke his house detention came as police officers who had been hurling tear gas at protesters suddenly receded and stood idly by.
While there was no official explanation for the turnaround, it appeared the policemen did not have their hearts in the attack on the protesters. ''It was one of the most remarkable scenes in the city's recent history,'' said Arif Nizami, editor in chief of The Nation, a national daily newspaper published in the city.
The outpouring of support for Mr. Sharif showed that ''Mr. Zardari was on the ropes,'' he said.
Lahore is the capital of Punjab Province, the most populous and politically significant province, where Mr. Sharif and his brother, Shahbaz, have long held sway.
Mr. Zardari made what is generally considered a power grab on Feb. 25 when he dismissed the Punjab legislature and introduced federal executive rule. The president acted after the Supreme Court had disqualified Mr. Sharif and his brother, who is the chief minister of Punjab, from holding elective office.
The events in Lahore showed the depths of resentment in Punjab against the national government, a dangerous signal for Mr. Zardari, said Jehangir Tareen, a legislator from Punjab in the national Parliament with a faction of the Pakistan Muslim League-N, Mr. Sharif's party, and a cabinet member in the Musharraf government. ''This shows the people resent the arbitrary action of the national government, and the fact that it has no respect for the mandate the people of Punjab gave to the P.M.L.-N,'' Mr. Tareen said.
The breakdown of authority in Lahore was startling for Pakistan, said Maleeha Lodhi, a former Pakistani ambassador to the United States and Britain. ''This is uncharted territory, there's great uncertainty, no one knows what is around the corner,'' she said.
A battle in the center of Lahore between demonstrators and the police in riot gear raged for more than an hour in the early afternoon.
As soon as Mr. Sharif broke through the cordon around his house, the police began to recede. By early evening, many of them were relaxed, sitting on the edges of the road, chatting. ''The officers had been asking us to defend, but when we saw the mob was so powerful we retreated and the officers told us to retreat,'' said Constable Mohammed Imtiaz. He supported the call for the restoration of the judiciary, he said. ''We need the rule of law.''
One of the senior officials in the Lahore government, the chief magistrate, Sajjad Bhutta, said he had resigned and refused to carry out what he called the illegal acts of the police crackdown. He appeared among the crowds on the Mall, surrounded by cheers and waving flags.
The day in Lahore began with roadblocks around the inner core of the city. At Mr. Sharif's house, small groups of protesters waited outside. When his car emerged through the gates of the house and, apparently with the help of sympathetic policemen, broke through the barricades that had hemmed him in, the protesters joined him on the slow-moving convoy to the city center.
Speaking to Geo television from his car, Mr. Sharif said: ''This is a prelude to a revolution.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Lahore, Pakistan, on Sunday, police officers beat supporters of the opposition political leader Nawaz Sharif during a protest. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BEREHULAK/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A1)
Supporters of Nawaz Sharif, a rival of President Asif Ali Zardari, surged around his vehicle, left front, in Lahore on Sunday. Later, Mr. Sharif headed for Islamabad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHSIN RAZA/REUTERS)
 Protesters threw rocks at the police in Lahore on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BEREHULAK/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A10) MAPS: The government failed to quell the protest in Lahore. (pg.A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); HOUSE ARREST (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); ARRESTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); RELIGION (54%)

PERSON: NAWAZ SHARIF (92%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



644 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2082 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
International
CHaVEZ ORDERS SEIZURE OF PORTS
That Export Petroleum
In a further step toward controlling Venezuela's infrastructure, President Hugo Chavez ordered the navy to seize seaports in states with major petroleum exporting installations. Page A5
NINE QUESTIONED IN ULSTER KILLINGS
Only a small group of people were involved with the Irish Republican Army dissident groups that claimed responsibility for the shooting of two soldiers and a police officer in Northern Ireland, according to the province's police chief. Of the nine people arrested and questioned in connection with the case, not one has been formally charged. Page A5
IN SPAIN, TENSIONS IN THE FIELDS
As unemployment rises across Andalusia, a region in southern Spain, workers are returning to the fields that they had abandoned in favor of better paying occupations like office work and construction. But they are now competing with the migrant workers who replaced them. The tension and resentment are mounting, and farmers and immigrant representatives are worried the situation could become explosive. Page A5 
POPE TO VISIT AFRICA
Benedict XVI will make his first trip to Africa as pope on Tuesday. The continent represents a source of both great strength and challenges for the church. The continent has one of the world's largest Catholic populations, but is rife with starvation, disease, poverty and conflict. Page A6
Kiev Journal
Unraveling the Truth of a Famine
When a Ukrainian historian was ordered by his Soviet overlords to whitewash the 1930s famine, which killed millions of Ukrainians, as a natural disaster, he refused. That was 25 years ago, and it was a turning point in the search for truth that has become connected with Ukraine's post-Soviet search for identity. Above, a monument to the famine. Page A6
4 South Koreans Killed in Yemen A7
TIBETANS OPEN TO TALKS WITH CHINA
The Tibetan government in exile in India said it would be open to further policy talks with China, but would continue to seek autonomy for Tibet. In China, the anniversary of Tibetan protests against Chinese rule passed without reports of large-scale protests. Page A7
FOUR G.I.'S KILLED IN AFGHANISTAN
A roadside explosion in eastern Afghanistan killed four American soldiers, according to the United States military. A spokesman for the Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack. Page A9
National
FOR BUILDERS OF AMERICA'S ROADS,
Some Relief May Be in Reach
There was a feeling of good cheer at a recent World of Asphalt convention, and it was not because of the wide selection of reflective vests. With $27.5 billion in stimulus money going to state transportation departments, the people who build highways for a living have reason to hope for a revival of the slumping industry. Page A11
BUILDING UP A PEANUT IMMUNITY
Medically supervised, daily doses of peanuts for children may help blunt the effects of the allergy, according to two new studies. The findings suggest a cure may be as near as two or three years away. Page A11
FROM THE DESERT TO THE JUNGLE
Over the last two decades, there has been an increase in the number of coyotes moving into metropolitan areas. No city has had more sightings than the Denver suburb of Greenwood Village, Colo., and the town has hired a man to kill any coyote found to be threatening. Page A14
New York
MINING A SENSE OF HERITAGE
For the Details of History
The children of immigrants born generally carry a story arc of their parents' lives. But the details are frequently glossed over or lost to history. For this reason, a professor at Hunter College requires all of the students in her ''The Peopling of New York'' class to interview a close relative. The discoveries can be startling. Page A16
PLAN TO TAX AFFLUENT NEW YORKERS
Senate Democrats are working on a budget proposal that would raise the income taxes of at least some wealthy New Yorkers, according to a Senate official with knowledge of the plan. Page A16
EXTORTION RINGS AT RIKERS ISLAND
In the year before an 18-year-old inmate was beaten to death on Rikers Island, the Department of Correction repeatedly documented groups of inmates operating extortion rings within the adolescent jail, according to reports based on internal department investigations. Page A17
Obituaries
THE REV. JOSEPH C. MARTIN, 84
His battle with alcoholism inspired him to become a national leader in the fight against the disease by speaking, writing books, making videos and starting a treatment center. Page A19
Business
A BAILOUT OF DAYS PAST
May Offer Model for the Future
A generation ago, the government bailed out a struggling railroad industry, essentially running it until it was healthy again. This plan, Louis Uchitelle writes, could be applied to the ailing automobile companies of today. Page B1
PROMISES FOR HAND-HELD POWER
The computer industry has trained its sights on the smartphone market in looking for the next big thing. PC makers are promising devices that pack the power of a computer into a hand-held device. Page B1
OPEC to Push Curb in Production B3
Sports
March Madness Big East Earns Top Seeds,
But Small Leagues Are Left Out
The Big East was dominant all season and became the first conference to place three teams as No. 1 seeds when the N.C.A.A. announced the field for its postseason tournament. Louisville, Connecticut and Pittsburgh joined North Carolina on the top lines, and each of the seven Big East teams that earned bids are seeded No. 6 or higher. But it was a rougher night for teams not in the power conferences. PAGE D1
HOW TO PICK A BRACKET WINNER
Derek Willis, who works for the interactive news technology group at The New York Times, had the highest score last year in the company's Bracket Tournament. What he looks for in tournament winners: rebounding, great guard play, and the ability to adjust on defense. PAGE D6
DUKE REGAINS ITS SWAGGER
In defeating Florida State to win the Atlantic Coast Conference Tournament, Duke was hoping to show a little bit of its old swagger, which critics said had faded after consecutive early losses in the N.C.A.A. tournament. PAGE D10
Baseball
Eager to Finally Get the Rust Off
Jorge Posada was itching to test out his surgically repaired shoulder in his first action at catcher since July in a spring training game against Minnesota. And though the Yankee backstop never got the chance to try to throw out a runner in the team's 5-1 victory, the manager, Joe Girardi, said he liked what he saw. PAGE D2
BASEBALL'S VANISHING TALENT GAP
The surfeit of top-flight baseball talent from elsewhere means that the United States should not be too surprised or deflated when it gets drubbed in international competitions like the World Baseball Classic. Harvey Araton, Sports of the Times. PAGE D3
GOINGS-ON AT THE CLASSIC
President Hugo Chavez criticized Venezuelans fans who booed Magglio Ordonez -- an ardent Chavez supporter -- during the country's 3-1 win over the Netherlands. Meanwhile, the matchup between the United States and the Dutch reunites Derek Jeter with an old friend, and Puerto Rico proves that it is the class of the tournament. PAGE D3
N.B.A. Roundup D12
Arts
NERVOUS BUT OPTIMISTIC
At European Art Fair
Art fairs are always a gamble for exhibiting dealers, but in a tough economic climate, the stakes are even higher. So it was with jitters and optimism that the European Fine Art Fair opened with about $1 billion worth of art and objects from ancient times to the 21st century, with prices ranging from a few hundred dollars to about $30 million for a van Gogh landscape. PAGE C1
Architecture Review
Planning That's Not Set in Stone
City officials in Stockholm are considering five designs for a project that aims to replace a tangle of traffic circles, bridges, underpasses and boat locks in the heart of downtown. The proposals all seek to breathe life into the dead zones unwittingly created by Modernist and postwar planners, and they illustrate just how far European governments have come in addressing failed urban policies with contemporary ideas. PAGE C1
Video Game Review
The Living Dead Take Africa
In the fifth installment of the Resident Evil franchise, the action shifts to Africa and it's the player's job yet again to save humanity. The game has provoked accusations of racial insensitivity, and, as Seth Schiesel writes, we all have our predilections about whom it is acceptable to kill, even in the case of digital zombies. PAGE C1
DISSECTING A SOCIAL NETWORK
''Stealing MySpace,'' by Julia Angwin, is a chaotic, action-packed history of MySpace that digs into the shady business practices, trailer-park aesthetics, lucky accidents and borderline personality types that have allowed MySpace to tap into the American psyche. PAGE C1
READINGS OF A PRO-GAZA PLAYLET
The New York Theater Workshop will hold staged readings of Caryl Churchill's provocative new 8- to 10-minute play, ''Seven Jewish Children: A Play for Gaza,'' which features fictional members of a Jewish family instructing children about how to view violence affecting them, from the Holocaust to the Israeli military campaign in Gaza. PAGE C2
ALL THAT SAMBA AT SYMPHONY SPACE
Two up-and-coming singers from Sao Paulo, Mariana Aydar and Jair Oliveira, made their New York solo debuts at Symphony Space at the World Music Institute's two-night Brasil Fest, grounding themselves in the distinctively Brazilian samba before adding their own personal twists. PAGE C3
How These Piggies Went to Market C2
Eastern Art on the East Side C5
Beethoven's Echo at Carnegie Hall C5
Editorials
THE RULES ON STEM CELLS
No sooner had President Obama lifted the Bush-era restrictions on financing embryonic stem cell research than critics began urging that any federal support be limited to work with stem cells derived from surplus embryos at fertility clinics. That would be a mistake. PAGE A20
APPALACHIA'S AGONY
The longstanding disgrace of mountaintop mining is now squarely in President Obama's hands. The right course is clear: suspend the mining permits until the underlying regulations are revised so as to end the practice altogether. PAGE A20
MISSING WHITE HOUSE HISTORY
Every new administration arrives heady with resolve to make history. Unfortunately, the Bush administration was determined to hide a lot of it. It somehow deleted hundreds of days' worth of official White House e-mail from the public record. Legal protections are needed to ensure that the nation's increasingly electronic history is preserved PAGE A20
Op-Ed
PAUL KRUGMAN
So far, Europe is failing to respond effectively to the economic crisis. Partly this is a result of poor leadership, but it also reflects the fact that Europe's economic and monetary integration has run too far ahead of its political institutions. PAGE A21
ROGER COHEN
Iran is emerging from extremist fervor as clerical absolutism and pluralism spar. It is in America's strong interest to develop relations with what is the most dynamic society in the region. PAGE A21
IRELAND'S TOUGH PEACE
After the murder of two soldiers and a policeman by I.R.A. dissidents, everyone wondered whether ''the Troubles'' had returned to Northern Ireland. But the desire for peace and the strength of reconciliation have proved more powerful than old factions and fears, writes the Irish novelist David Park. PAGE A21
Media
YAHOO VIDEO, TAKE TWO
Yahoo is embarking on a second attempt at an online video strategy. Executives say they have found a sustainable model for original video content that will not compete with television. Page B4
ISSUES OF ONLINE PRIVACY
More than 90 percent of the Americans who responded to a survey citied online privacy as an important issue. Page B5
INTERGALACTIC PANEL AT U.N.
The creators and some of the cast of the Sci Fi Channel series ''Battlestar Galactica'' will attend a panel discussion about the show with representatives of the United Nations. Also attending will be 100 New York City high school students in efforts by the United Nations to become more media savvy. Page B4
A BOON FOR BOOKS
Whether they are searching for an explanation for the economic crisis or reading about the latest lovelorn vampire, people are reading. And as many media have been eviscerated by the crisis, the oldest one of all has been holding strong, and books sales have been on the rise. Page B4
Bits
The Phone as Wingman
A free mobile application tries to turn dating into an actual game instead of a metaphorical one. Ways that technology can be used to skip that anxious wait at the doctor's office. The broadband is always faster on the other side of the fence, or in this case, pond. Page B6
nytimes.com/bits

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
 A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); FAMINE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); IMMIGRATION (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); TALIBAN (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); FOREIGN LABOR (74%); MIGRANT WORKERS (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLICE FORCES (71%); ARRESTS (71%); HISTORY (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); STARVATION (65%); NATURAL DISASTERS (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (58%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%) XIZANG, CHINA (90%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%) TIBET (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); SPAIN (91%); UKRAINE (90%); YEMEN (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



645 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Snapshots of a Downtrodden Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Looting of America's Coffers,'' by David Leonhardt (Economic Scene, March 11):
 The financial crisis is complex, and solutions to it will be equally complicated. But a good start could be made by applying some simple principles:
 No institution should be too big to fail. Break up the largest banks (or what is left of them), General Motors and Ford. Prevent mergers that would create newly dominant corporations (why even think of permitting Merck to acquire Schering-Plough?).
 Discourage and even preclude conglomeration. Let bankers be bankers, insurance executives sell insurance policies, and stockbrokers act as intermediaries in securities transactions. Re-establish investment banks, and keep them separate from commercial banks and stock brokerages. 
 Expand personal liability for those who control corporations that commit fraud or knowingly violate the securities, banking and other regulatory laws. Permit the recovery of property transferred by those individuals to their families or controlled entities like trusts while laws are being broken. 
 I can hear executives and analysts saying I do not understand the complexity of the system. They may be right. But I know that the system has failed.
 Jonathan J. Margolis Brookline, Mass., March 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 What the economy needs is for money to flow, and that flow cares not whether the spending is from what's called stimulus or earmark. Jobs are jobs. 
 Many of those complaining of those jobs provided by earmarks are the same ones who complain that the stimulus plan doesn't produce enough jobs, let alone quickly enough. 
 Even easy credit is of no value unless there are jobs that produce incomes that produce spending that produces the need to restock that produces the need for credit. Put the credit cart behind the horse if the cart is to move. 
 Dan Thompson Union, Ore., March 12, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''A Tsunami of Excuses'' (Op-Ed, March 12):
 William D. Cohan's piercing review of how Wall Street executives destroyed their own companies while plunging the national and global economies into crisis requires one addendum.
 Mr. Cohan is of course right to say that the executives' greed led to their demise. But should anybody be surprised that Wall Street executives are greedy? Why do people go to Wall Street other than to make money?
 Robust public controls over the financial sector must be imposed. Crucially, this should mean a fundamental change in the Wall Street bonus culture.
 Incentive pay must be linked by law to long-term performance, not year-over-year profitability. We need as well a prohibition on exotic financial instruments that pose huge systemic risk but serve no social purpose, and a financial transactions tax to deter the short-term, speculative impulse.
 Robert Weissman Washington, March 12, 2009
 The writer is the editor of Multinational Monitor magazine.
 To the Editor:
 ''Job Losses Hint at Vast Remaking of U.S. Economy'' (front page, March 7) paints the picture of an America whose economic contours have been dramatically reshaped as a result of our economic crisis. The financial meltdown has accelerated the dramatic erosion of middle-class opportunity that was once the trademark of the American Dream.
 But while today's economic outlook is decidedly grim, tomorrow's forecast can once again be bright if our nation seizes the opportunity to invest in made-in-America, clean energy solutions. At this moment of crisis, we can shed, once and for all, our nation's dangerous dependence on foreign oil, which has damaged our economic competitiveness and put our security at risk.
 The stimulus package takes a historic leap toward these goals with more than $100 billion in clean and green investments. Now America must summon the will to build on this foundation by putting renewable energy companies on an even playing field with their fossil fuel competitors, retooling our manufacturing capabilities to create green-collar jobs here at home, and training a new force of workers for the clean energy industry of the future.
 Phil Angelides Sacramento, March 10, 2009
 The writer, a former treasurer of California, is chairman of the Apollo Alliance, a coalition of labor, business, environmental and community leaders working to catalyze a clean energy revolution.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Some Banks, Feeling Chained, Want to Return Bailout Money'' (front page, March 11):
 If the banks feel ''chained'' by the restrictions of the public on executive pay -- and want to bail out so they can pay this on their own -- so much the better. If they have enough money to provide this pay anyway, they never needed the money in the first place.
 We have many other areas in need of financing. Let them return the money and bail out!
 A. J. Burdick Kansas City, Mo., March 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''As Jobs Vanish, Motel Rooms Become Home'' (front page, March 11):
 This story is enough to make a grown man cry. I know it is, because I just did. 
 My life growing up in the Great Depression was no picnic, and many of those memories leave me embittered even to this day. But never did our family, at least, experience anything like what your article depicts. 
 Help those of us who have read this story: tell us where we can send money to help these down-and-out people. 
 Bernie Hargadon Charlotte, N.C., March 11, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 I was shocked to see the photograph and read the sad story of the family of six living for the last seven months in a motel room. The parents both lost their jobs before the move.
 I believe that many of the lost jobs are now being done by people in foreign countries. We are buying services and products that are made overseas rather in the United States. I suggest that to help our jobless millions, those of us who can afford it should try to buy goods that are made in America. 
 I am putting a bumper sticker on the back of my (American-made) car saying, ''Help our jobless; buy products made in the U.S.A.'' (And I am practicing what I preach.) Samuel O. Raymond Falmouth, Mass., March 11, 2009
 The writer is a retired manufacturer of deep ocean scientific equipment.
 To the Editor: 
 The state of the economy has created a new kind of loss, loss that does not have a monetary value. In the vast range of places people call home, there can be a small sense of comfort and relief often taken for granted: privacy. 
 For families forced by hardship to motel living, privacy can be such a deeply affecting loss. The calm and tranquil place that privacy can be has now become, for some, a luxury.
 Harold Langus Poughkeepsie, N.Y., March 12, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LENNY NAAR AND KATIE BARCELONA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); MERGERS (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); WRITERS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); BONUS PAY (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INSURANCE POLICIES (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



646 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: OPEC to Keep Production Steady

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: VIENNA 

 BODY:
With oil consumption falling sharply as a result of the global financial crisis, the OPEC oil cartel said on Sunday that it would not seek a new cut in production targets, as fears about the global economy outweighed calls for a more aggressive stance to prop up prices.
 Instead, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said it would press its 12 members to ''comply fully'' with earlier agreements to curb production. OPEC said it would meet again in two months to review these actions and consider further production cuts. 
 While some countries favored a tougher approach, OPEC moderates, including Saudi Arabia, persuaded other producers that the global economy remained very vulnerable, and that higher prices could jeopardize an eventual global recovery.
 OPEC is facing its toughest environment since oil prices collapsed in the late 1990s. Oil demand is falling in both industrialized nations, like the United States, and developing countries like China, which had been the main engine of growth for the past decade.
 As a result, oil prices have dropped nearly 70 percent since their summer peak.
 Since September, OPEC has agreed to trim its output by a total of 4.2 million barrels a day. According to outside estimates, the cartel has achieved about 80 percent of these reductions, a remarkably high outcome at a time of crisis.
 So far, these cuts have been successful in stemming the drop in prices and stabilizing the market. After peaking at $147 a barrel in July, oil now trades at $47 a barrel.
 Producers are torn by contradictory forces. On one hand, the sharp drop in oil demand during the global financial crisis suggests the need for members of the cartel to keep slashing their output to prevent a price collapse.
 Algeria, as well as Venezuela, favors more cuts, but the most powerful member, Saudi Arabia, is wary of putting more strains on customers whose economies are deep in recession.
 Before the meeting, Chakib Khelil, the Algerian energy and mines minister, said he favored both better compliance and another cut, and suggested that if OPEC did not act, crude prices could resume the steep fall they have experienced since oil peaked last summer near $150 a barrel.
 In a speech opening the meeting, Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos, OPEC's president and the minister of petroleum of Angola, said: ''Without any doubt, we are living in exceptional times. Long-established practices and procedures in the world's financial sector are breaking down.''
 He added that while better compliance has helped stabilize oil prices, ''these are still at low levels.'' In addition, he said: ''The outlook for oil demand in the coming months -- and longer -- concerns all of us in the industry. Crude oil prices are at levels that do not support sound investment strategies for the future.''
 For many producers, today's prices remain too low. Iraq, which does not participate in the group's quota system, has urged more cuts in production. Like many countries that rely on exports to provide the bulk of their revenue, Iraq has been badly hurt by the recent slump in oil prices.
 But at the same time, the producer group cannot ignore that the global economy remains extremely weak. Some members of the cartel, especially Saudi Arabia, fear that any further attempts to raise prices could cripple the global recovery.
 The Obama administration has also weighed in heavily in recent days. On Friday, President Barack Obama called King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia to discuss ways to help the global economy, according to the White House, which provided no details about the call. Saudi Arabia, the world's top exporter, is the most influential member of the oil-producing group.
 The administration also sought to signal a clear shift in its energy policy before the first OPEC meeting since it came into office. Steven Chu, the United States secretary of energy, who initially distanced himself from any involvement in oil policy, said Friday that ''the most effective way'' to make the world economy less vulnerable to volatile prices was to use less oil.
 ''We will continue to send a strong and clear message to OPEC nations about the importance of protecting the world economy from significant price increases that aren't good for any nation,'' Secretary Chu said. ''But the ultimate answer is to depend less on oil and more on clean and renewable energy.''
 Relations between consumers and producers are clearly straining. Nobuo Tanaka, the executive director of the International Energy Agency, the leading energy advisor to industrialized countries, urged producers not to cut their output. He said that if oil prices stayed around $40 a barrel through the end of the year, that would amount to a stimulus of $1 trillion for the global economy.
 Such advice did not please Mr. Badri, who responded curtly to the comments, saying they were ''confusing and misleading.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARTELS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (73%) SAUDI ARABIA (92%); ALGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



647 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Irish Premier's U.S. Trip Has Dark Tone

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN; Mathew R. Warren contributed reporting.

 BODY:
With the formerly highflying Irish economy now in an even deeper tailspin than the American one, the Irish prime minister's annual St. Patrick's Day visit to the United States has an unusually somber feel about it. 
 In a speech Sunday night at the American Irish Historical Society on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, Prime Minister Brian Cowen of Ireland said he would urge the Obama administration to expand visas for Irish workers and allow them to stay two years here instead of the current one. 
 And in a move to woo Irish-Americans, Mr. Cowen proposed measures to make it easier for Americans to claim Irish citizenship, reversing a restrictive course the Irish government took in 2005.
 ''The connections between Ireland and America remain strong,'' Mr. Cowen said, ''but we cannot take them for granted.''
 Mr. Cowen, who took office last May, has been grappling with a slate of problems that will seem familiar to Americans. Ireland is suffering through the worst housing bust in Europe. The unemployment rate now exceeds 10 percent. The government has grabbed billions from pension funds to prop up failing banks. Public servants have seen their paychecks slashed. Bankers and architects are applying for jobs at McDonald's. As a result, popular support for his government has plummeted.
 But Mr. Cowen was cheered Sunday, at least in some quarters, for his proposal to ease naturalization by allowing Americans whose nearest Irish ancestor is a great-grandparent to qualify for citizenship, provided that they have spent considerable time studying or working in Ireland. Under current law, the most distant forebear an American could claim and still qualify for Irish citizenship is a grandparent.
 ''There's an awful lot of Irish-Americans who feel very cut off by the 'grandfather rule,' '' said Niall O'Dowd, the former chairman of the Irish Lobby for Immigration Reform and a founder of the Irish Voice newspaper in New York as well as of a new Web site, Irishcentral.com, that started Sunday night. ''This would open up Irish citizenship to a whole new generation of Irish-Americans.''
 The number of Americans with Irish ancestry has been estimated to be as high as 40 million, and millions of those people have no closer blood tie to Ireland than a great-grandparent.
 The immigration proposal grew out of a ''strategic review'' of Irish-American relations Mr. Cowen ordered up last year, the first such review performed by the government since the 1930s, he said.
 For Irish professionals looking to find work in the United States, Mr. Cowen, 49, who worked doing demolition in Midtown Manhattan on a summer off from college, said he hoped the American government would enact something like the E-3 visas it has offered to a set number Australians a year since 2005.
 Not all the economic news on the visit was grim. In addition to taking part in holiday festivities in New York and Washington, Mr. Cowen was due to preside Monday over a ceremony at the New York Academy of Sciences in which smaller Irish-owned companies would sign $130 million worth of contracts to do work in the United States.
 ''That's an interesting breakthrough for those companies in a time of turmoil,'' he said in an interview at the Fitzpatrick Manhattan Hotel on Lexington Avenue before his speech. ''Often that basic thing is lost when people talk about the high politics of these sorts of visits. It's all about retaining and creating jobs.''
 Relations between the American and Irish governments suffered under the Bush administration, in part over the administration's war policies. On his St. Patrick's Day visit in 2006, Bertie Ahern, then the prime minister, asked President George W. Bush for more ''transparency'' about C.I.A. flights over Europe that had been said to contain prisoners en route to secret rendition sessions. Mr. Cowen declined to talk about difficulties during the Bush administration, but he said he looked forward to working with President Obama.
 After Mr. Cowen's speech at the historical society, Daniel Neely, 35, a musician from Sunnyside, Queens, said the prime minister had ''hit all the right notes.'' 
 He added: ''I think he really wants to work together with Obama, and I don't think that there really was an opportunity beforehand with Bush.''
 Of the loosened requirements for Irish citizenship, Mr. Neely, who had a maternal great-grandfather born in Ireland, said, ''I think I actually could take advantage of that. It's not something I've ever thought about, but now that the opportunity could be available, I'll think about it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:Prime Minister Brian Cowen of Ireland, center, on Sunday with Vanessa Redgrave at the American Irish Historical Society in Manhattan. He was on his annual trip to the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CITIZENSHIP (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (76%); NATURALIZATION (76%); HISTORY (72%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); LOBBYING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); WEB SITES (50%)

PERSON: BRIAN COWEN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRELAND (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



648 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 325 words

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include industrial production and capacity utilization for February and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index (Monday); housing starts for February and the Producer Price Index for February (Tuesday); the Consumer Price Index for February and the current account deficit for the fourth quarter (Wednesday); and the Philadelphia Federal Reserve manufacturing index for March and the leading economic indicators for February (Thursday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Reports will come from Adobe Systems and Darden Restaurants (Tuesday); FedEx, General Mills, Nike and Oracle (Wednesday); and 3Com, Barnes & Noble, Blockbuster, Borders and Palm (Thursday).
 THE REGULATORS The Federal Open Market Committee begins a two-day meeting on Tuesday, with its announcement about the economy coming on Wednesday.
 The House Financial Services Committee conducts a hearing about the regulation of systemic risk in the financial services industry (Tuesday).
 The House Financial Services subcommittee on capital markets, insurance and government-sponsored enterprises conducts a hearing about the American International Group, the giant insurer that is nearly 80 percent owned by the government (Wednesday). 
 The Senate Banking Committee conducts a hearing on modernizing bank supervision and regulation (Thursday). Witnesses are expected to include Daniel K. Tarullo, a Federal Reserve governor; and Sheila C. Bair, left, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
 The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, speaks on a panel with Ms. Bair at a convention in Phoenix (Friday).
 ET CETERAApple previews a new version of its software for the iPhone (Tuesday).
 General Electric meets with investors to discuss GE Capital (Thursday).
 South by Southwest, a festival and conference highlighting music, movies and new media technologies, starts Friday in Austin, Tex., and continues through Sunday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INSURANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (57%)

COMPANY: AMTRUST FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (90%); ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (83%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (82%); DARDEN RESTAURANTS INC (71%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (67%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); GENERAL MILLS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%)

TICKER: AFSI (NASDAQ) (90%); ADBE (NASDAQ) (83%); ADB (FRA) (83%); GNE (PAR) (82%); GEC (LSE) (82%); GE (SWX) (82%); GE (NYSE) (82%); DRI (NYSE) (71%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); GIS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (71%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (67%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (67%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (57%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (57%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (57%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%); SHEILA BAIR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



649 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Book Sales in Europe Are Gaining in Tough Times

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Some people are seeking explanations for the global economic crisis. Others want to escape into the fanciful world of vampires. Still others are just looking for a nice plate of comfort food.
 Whether they are picking up ''La Crise, et Apres?'' by the French economist Jacques Attali, one of the countless translations of the American author Stephenie Meyer's ''Twilight'' series, or ''Jamie's Ministry of Food,'' by the British television chef Jamie Oliver, they are buying books. As the recession leaves other media industries in tatters, the oldest mass medium of all is holding up surprisingly well.
 ''It's a happy message,'' said Andre Breedt, research and development analyst at Nielsen BookScan, which tracks book sales. ''People have been reading and they will keep reading, no matter what happens.'' 
 That resilience has been particularly evident in Continental Europe. After a dip in the fall, the number of books sold in France rose 2 percent in December from a year earlier and 2.4 percent in January, according to Livres Hebdo, a trade publication. 
 The trend has been similar in Germany, where the number of books sold rose 2.3 percent in January, according to the Borsenverein des Deutschen Buchhandels, a trade organization. Analysts say many other European markets have also shown gains.
 In the United States and Britain, book sales have been slightly less robust, falling by a fraction of 1 percent in both countries last year, according to Nielsen BookScan. Sales in the United States were down about 1 percent in the first 10 weeks of this year.
 Still, given that many other industries are struggling with double-digit sales declines, even those numbers look pretty good. To angst-ridden publishers, they are particularly surprising because comparisons with 2007 were bound to be difficult. Sales that year benefited from the publishing industry's equivalent of an economic stimulus package: a Harry Potter novel.
 Publishers and analysts offer a variety of reasons for the relative strength of the book market. Compared with a new television or video game console, books are inexpensive. With unemployment on the rise and working hours in decline, people may simply have more time on their hands. After the excesses of recent years, reading is an activity well suited to a more contemplative era.
 ''Books are a very cheap treat,'' said Helen Fraser, managing director of Penguin Books in London. ''When you are reading all this dreadful news in the paper, a lovely 500-page novel by Marian Keyes or a classic by Charles Dickens takes you right away from all that.''
 So far, books have also been largely unaffected by the wrenching changes that digital technology is bringing to other media. So-called e-books are gaining adherents, as are electronic reading devices like the Kindle by Amazon, but most people still read books the old-fashioned way.
 That is not to say that all is well in publishing. A number of New York publishing houses, including HarperCollins, Random House, Simon & Schuster, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt and Macmillan, have recently announced layoffs or executive shake-ups -- or both.
 One reason things look worse in publishers' offices than on bookstore floors is that retailers have been cutting back on their orders in anticipation of slower sales. As tracked by the Association of American Publishers, wholesale book sales in the United States fell by 2.4 percent last year. Orders for adult hardcover books -- that is, new mainstream titles -- have been particularly weak.
 Christine Ferrand, editor of Livres Hebdo, said she had spoken with historians to ask them how the French book business responded to the Wall Street crash of 1929. There was no immediate slowdown at the time, she was told, but several years later, as the Great Depression deepened, book sales plunged and many publishers went out of business.
 ''Now we are asking ourselves, will it be like that again?'' she said. ''There is still a sense of fragility.''
 But downturns have also created opportunities for publishers. Penguin was founded in 1935, during the Great Depression, by the publisher Allen Lane, who wanted to sell quality books for roughly the price of a pack of cigarettes.
 Not everything is selling well. The market for travel books has been sluggish. And while comfort food is in, dieting is out, along with books about fitness and fashion, Ms. Fraser said.
 ''It just feels too sybaritic and selfish to buy books about how to lose 100 pounds or to run a marathon,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An old medium is proving popular beyond bastions like the Leipzig Book Fair in Germany, above, and the Paris Book Fair, below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SEBASTIAN WILLNOW/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - GETTY IMAGES
 REMY DE LA MAUVINIERE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK SALES (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TRENDS (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (76%); WRITERS (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (60%); PUBLISHING (55%)

COMPANY: PENGUIN PUBLISHING CO LTD (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: STEPHENIE MEYER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



650 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: A Red Carpet That Leads To All Homes

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail:carr@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Austin, Tex. 

 BODY:
 On Saturday night at the Paramount Theater here, ''Alexander the Last,'' a small but highly anticipated film by Joe Swanberg, had its world premiere at the South by Southwest Film Festival. At the party afterward at the Karma Lounge, there was all manner of insider chatter about the film, with hundreds of critics, bloggers, industry types and hard-core cineastes all in the know about a film that just had its first showing.
 But in fact, the film had been available all day at the push of a button in millions of homes all over the country. And not via illegal downloads, but on IFC Festival Direct, an on-demand service provided by IFC Entertainment that is on Time Warner, Comcast and Cablevision, among other cable systems. (IFC in Theaters, another pay-per-view service, is also available on those systems and DirecTV as well.)
 Standing amid the throng at Karma, Mr. Swanberg was chatting up all the well-wishers over the thump of house music, but they were not the first. 
 ''Late last night when the movie went up on IFC, I started getting all sorts of e-mail messages from people that they had seen and liked the movie,'' he said of the digital premiere that began the same day his film was scheduled to screen here. 
 In an era where more and more films are vying for ever more precious big screens, little movies like ''Alexander the Last'' are beginning to show up on small screens at the flick of the remote. With the multiplex full of $100-million-plus superhero epics and studios pulling back from small movies, independent filmmakers need to dig a new route to their audience: no red carpet premiere, no splashy ad campaign, no Burger King action figure. 
 Historically, movies have to be shown in theaters for a week in New York or Los Angeles to get a review in the national media, but ''Alexander the Last,'' which was shot digitally and had yet to be seen inside the movie house, was written up by David Denby in The New Yorker last week and was reviewed in The New York Times by Manohla Dargis on Saturday. (She suggested Mr. Swanberg had improved with each new movie, among other things.)
 ''Joe will have his world premiere here, a lot will be written about it and people will want to see it right away,'' said Janet Pierson, producer of the South by Southwest film festival. ''Publicity is very expensive, and this is a very economical way to reach and grow the fan base.''
 It amounts to what could be a new future for film -- one that has nothing to do with movie theaters and studio lots but everything to do with the audience. Creating movies, historically a cumbersome, expensive enterprise, has become far more accessible by dint of cheap digital filmmaking. And the results are not always diminutive -- ''Slumdog Millionaire'' was shot digitally and won the Oscar for best picture and has surpassed $130 million in sales. 
 But the fact that almost anyone with a credit card can now make a movie means they often do, creating a huge surplus of small films. Even after running the gantlet and making it into one of the premier American festivals (a very long shot) and getting picked up for distribution (lotto territory), finding a slot at the movie house is a very expensive proposition. 
 So IFC is working on a hybrid model where movies pick up sparkle and reviews at film festivals and are then pushed out through an on-demand grid. There may come a day when much of the film business is a digital-in/digital-out affair, with all manner of ''films'' showing up on all manner of devices, and a consumer algorithm -- think Netflix -- driving what people end up seeing.
 Mr. Swanberg is a young auteur of the so-called mumblecore movement, films that are generally shot quickly and inexpensively, usually featuring a few characters. At the tender age of 27, he has completed his sixth feature film, and hence the so-called day-and-date release with an assist from the festival here suits his needs from a financial and artistic perspective. 
 While many directors insist that their work must be seen in the churchlike confines of a movie theater with a big screen and great sound, Mr. Swanberg is far less picky as long as he is able to continue working.
 ''I don't care what kind of screen they watch it on,'' he said by phone the week before the festival. ''New films are having a hard time finding an audience, and as a filmmaker I don't really care how the audiences access the work.''
 It's not as experimental as it sounds. Steven Soderbergh's ''Che,'' which opened at Cannes and had a limited run in theaters, has already reached 150,000 viewers through IFC's video-on-demand service. Mr. Soderbergh is an acclaimed director whose work includes the ''Ocean's 11'' franchise, so he's not exactly hurting for outlets, but for a certain kind of film -- say a subtitled one about a guerrilla leader that's in two parts and lasts four-and-a-half hours -- the alliance with IFC and its outlets makes sense. 
 ''We are partnered with Joe, utilizing the attention of the festival and the press that goes with it and trying to leverage that moment by releasing it on-demand at the same time,'' said Jonathan Sehring, president of IFC Entertainment. 
 Mr. Sehring points out that IFC has its own exhibition space in Manhattan and its parent company, Cablevision, operates Clearview Cinemas. But he is looking for distribution beyond the movie house: both he and Mr. Swanberg envision a time when his movies will have their premieres on iTunes and Amazon's Unbox video player, as well. 
 Given the installed base of giant HD screens in American homes, it's hard to argue that video on demand is an inferior option to lining up at the theater.
 ''Right now Joe's movie is blowing up on Twitter,'' said Barry Jenkins, the director of ''Medicine for Melancholy,'' another film IFC is showing here and on demand. Standing apart from the party waiting to get in, he pointed out that ''many of the people who hear about it can just see it right then and there, not five months from now when all of the excitement has calmed down. And that's amazing.''
 The IFC approach also broadens and democratizes access to independent films beyond certain neighborhoods in downtown New York. Many people who live in so-called B and C markets no longer have to cross their fingers and hope that the next small big thing makes it to their town. Now the art house lives in the remote. 
 ''I have a lot of films that I'd like to do that don't require a lot of money or people, so I'd like to get the work out there,'' Mr. Swanberg said. The revenue streams coming off of a single film may be small, but someone as prolific as Mr. Swanberg can end up sitting on a catalog of films. And as any studio executive can tell you, at a time of multiplying V's -- DVD, VOD, PPV -- the catalog business is where the money is.
 ''We are getting to the point where the means of production are cheap enough so that a filmmaker can work like painters or writers,'' he said. ''And it should not take millions and millions of dollars to find an audience for that work.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); PAY PER VIEW (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (69%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (56%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



651 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: As Tax Havens Acquiesce, Monaco Adopts Standards

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Monaco succumbed to international pressure over the weekend, becoming the latest country to adopt international standards for banking openness and information-sharing at a time when the United States and its European allies in battling tax evaders face what could be years of negotiations before they are able to proclaim victory.
 ''There's been dramatic progress,'' Angel Gurria, the secretary general of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, said by telephone Sunday. 
 While the organization has been working since 1996 to encourage greater openness in banking, he said, ''there is a new atmosphere,'' partly because the financial crisis has helped to focus the attention of finance officials in the United States, Germany, Britain and France, who were eager to crack down on tax evaders to help replenish government coffers. But he cautioned that thousands of double-taxation laws would have to be amended, and in some cases referendums would have to be held first. 
 ''This will require changing not just culture and habits, but also laws,'' Mr. Gurria said.
 A spokesman for the government of the principality of Monaco, who was not allowed to be identified because of official rules, said he expected an announcement this week that the country would adopt the rules. 
 Monaco is joining Switzerland, one of the countries that told the organization in the last few weeks that it would abide by the standards outlined under Article 26 of the organization's Model Tax Convention, which requires the tax authorities to exchange information on request if there is probable cause to suspect tax evasion. 
 The other governments joining Switzerland and Monaco are Austria, Belgium, Luxembourg, Andorra, Liechtenstein, Singapore and Hong Kong.
 The rush of compliance comes as leaders of the Group of 20 are expected to highlight the issue -- and greatly expand the list of ''uncooperative tax havens''-- at their meeting on April 2 in London, subjecting the holdouts to intense international scrutiny. 
 Mr. Gurria said that there had been no effort to ''blacklist'' individual countries, and he said that Hong Kong, Singapore and Macao were technically not even ''tax havens'' at all but merely needed to make some changes to bring their regulations in line with the organization's standards. 
 There is some doubt about how long the enthusiasm of the converts will last. After an outcry in the Swiss media after the announcement that the country would comply with the standards, the Swiss government issued a statement on Saturday saying the decision ''does not constitute 'the end of bank secrecy,' '' and said the government had ''stated on several occasions that Switzerland has no intention of relinquishing bank secrecy.''
 Nicolas Michellod, an analyst with the Zurich office of Celent, an international financial research firm, said that ''the Swiss are trying to gain time'' and that ''negotiating new tax treaties with each country will take years.''
 He said that could give opponents of the measure on the Swiss right, whom he described as feeling aggrieved by the international criticism, a chance to drag out any changes to the banking laws until the issue moved out of the headlines.
 Still, the United States and Germany, in particular, are unlikely to be satisfied even with the latest steps, he predicted, and will keep the pressure on.
 Switzerland distinguishes between tax fraud and tax evasion and does not consider tax evasion a crime. By adopting the organization's definition, it has agreed to exchange information when provided with specific information in a specific request. The Swiss authorities said they would still not allow broad ''fishing expeditions.''
 UBS, the big Swiss bank, is fighting a civil case in the United States in which the Internal Revenue Service is seeking account data on 52,000 Americans suspected of dodging taxes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); REFERENDUMS (53%); PROBABLE CAUSE (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); MONACO (91%); FRANCE (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); ANDORRA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LIECHTENSTEIN (79%); BELGIUM (78%); GERMANY (58%); AUSTRIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



652 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
 According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.19 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.41 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.08 percent.
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 MONDAY
 King County, Wash., $300 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. 
 TUESDAY
 Wake County, N.C., $502.3 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 THURSDAY
 Lexington-Fayette County, Ky., $70 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Portland, Ore., Community College District, $200 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. 
 ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Albuquerque Water Utilities, $159.6 million of revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
 Art Institute of Chicago, $60 million of debt securities. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Boston Water and Sewer Commission, $153.9 million of debt securities. Banc of America Securities.
 City of Detroit Water Supply System, $120 million of second-lien revenue bonds. Siebert Brandford Shank.
 County of Milwaukee, $400 million of debt securities. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Dormitory Authority of the State of New York Mental Health Services Facilities, $400 million of improvement revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 El Paso Electric Company, $63.5 million of debt securities. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Florida Board of Education, $100 million of lottery revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 Hawaii Department of Hawaiian Homelands, $50 million of homeland revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 Henry County, Ga., $66.1 million of general obligation bonds. Morgan Keegan.
 Illinois Finance Authority OSF Healthcare System, $150 million of fixed rate bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 Intermountain Power Agency subordinated supply, $325 million of revenue refinancing bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Joint Development Authority of Dekalb County, Newton County and Gwinnet County for the GGC Foundation, $99.9 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Keller, Tex., Independent School District, $142.2 million of unlimited tax school building bonds. Morgan Keegan.
 Los Angeles Community College District, $350 million of general obligation bonds. Citigroup Global Markets. 
 Los Angeles Community College District, $100 million of general obligation bonds, for County of Los Angeles. Goldman Sachs.
 Loudon County, Va., $174 million of general obligation public improvement bonds. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Missouri Joint Municipal Electric Utility Commission, $100 million of debt securities. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Modesto, Calif., Irrigation District, $130 million of certificates of participation. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Mountain States Health Alliance, Tenn., $90 million of hospital revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 Parker County, Tex. $60 million of unlimited tax road bonds. Morgan Keegan.
 Reorganized School District No. 4 of Jackson County and Blue Springs, Mo., $131.4 million of general obligation refinancing and improvement bonds. George K. Baum.
 Rhode Island Economic Development Corporation, $167.8 million of grant anticipation bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Rhode Island Health and Educational Building Corporation, $123.8 million of hospital financing revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Rockport Pollution Control, $50 million of refinancing revenue bonds. Wachovia Bank.
 State of Connecticut, $310 million of general obligation bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 The Rockefeller University, N.Y., $50 million of debt securities. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Town of New Canaan, Conn., $60 million of refinancing bonds. Piper Jaffray.
 Washington County, Ore., Clean Water Services, $56.9 million of debt securities. Banc of America Securities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (88%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (88%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (75%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (73%); SCHOOL BONDS (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (73%); IRRIGATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); HEALTH CARE (70%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); LOTTERIES (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (69%); HOSPITALS (63%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (50%); MENTAL HEALTH (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); EL PASO ELECTRIC CO (66%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (56%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); INTERMOUNTAIN POWER AGENCY (53%); OSF HEALTHCARE SYSTEM (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (91%); EE (NYSE) (66%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (66%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (66%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (66%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); EL PASO, TX, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



653 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARCHITECTURE REVIEW SLUSSEN PROJECT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Bold Plans Prove That a City's Future Needn't Be Cast in Concrete

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

DATELINE: STOCKHOLM 

 BODY:
City officials here have yet to announce the winning design for the Slussen project, which aims to replace a tangle of traffic circles, bridges, underpasses and boat locks in the heart of this city. But they have already done us a major public service. 
 The five proposals in the competition, on view at stockholm.se/slussen, offer a snapshot of contemporary urban planning ideas. They include a breathtaking design by Jean Nouvel, a head-scratching proposal by Norman Foster and some intriguing work by younger talents who are still mostly unknown internationally. 
 But the competition's greatest value is as a measure of just how far many European governments have come in addressing failed urban policies of the past. The designs all seek to breathe new life into the dead zones created unwittingly by Modernist and postwar planners. Americans can only hope that such ingenuity will prod us toward a similar re-evaluation in the near future.
 Built in the mid-1930s, Slussen is a prime candidate for a re-examination of large-scale Modernist planning. Designed to link two sides of the historic city, its concrete entry ramps curl around a cylindrical office building before stretching over an underground bus terminal and the massive locks that regulate boat traffic between Lake Malaren and the Baltic Sea.
 In some ways the weaving of a mind-numbing range of transportation systems into a single integrated network made the project a tour de force. But the structure began to deteriorate decades ago, partly because of the poor quality of its concrete construction. Most planners regard it as a lesson in everything that was wrong with orthodox Modernism: endless swaths of barren concrete plazas and dank underpasses that seemed to invite midday muggings.
 The competition encourages us to ponder those values with a fresh, unbiased eye. The most intriguing of the five designs can be separated more or less into two categories: those that try to bring clarity and order to the jumbled traffic systems, and those that seek to draw the bustling energy of the old city across the site.
 Mr. Nouvel's entry tries to harness that energy. He begins by rerouting the bulk of car traffic to the west, forging a more direct connection between southern Stockholm and the central business district. An immense public park laid over this freeway would offer stunning views of Lake Malaren. 
 The existing bridge is transformed into a contemporary Ponte Vecchio, a pedestrian alleyway of shops and restaurants that links the two sides of the city. A series of layered roof structures replicate the density and complexity of the urban tissue on either side; terraces present spectacular watery vistas. The design reflects a conviction that the collision of ideas, even more than architectural forms, gives cities their civilizing power.
 The most impetuous challenge to Mr. Nouvel's proposal, a design from BIG, a young, still relatively unknown firm in Copenhagen, treats emptiness as a virtue rather than a vice. Like Mr. Nouvel these architects reroute the majority of car traffic to the west. A new pedestrian plaza is then draped over the network of locks and walkways like a soft crumpled blanket. A series of incisions are cut into this surface, and the concrete fabric peels back to make room for retail space underneath. The surfaces of these giant flaps become public bleachers where pedestrians can sit and look out at the sea.
 The contrast in philosophies is striking. Mr. Nouvel is part of a generation of European architects whose ideas were shaped by the student uprisings of 1968 and the collapse of old Modernist dogma. Through his architecture, he has sought to recapture the messiness of ordinary life that tabula rasa planning typically erased. Rather than smoothing over the competing forces that shape the contemporary city, his fragmented forms celebrate tension.
 The architects of BIG, weaned in the age of the Internet, seem more interested in fashioning a fluid, integrated relationship among architecture, landscape and public infrastructure. To them the barren windswept plazas of early Modernism are not horrifying; they are a source of inspiration. In an age when we are constantly bombarded with visual noise, these architects seem to be saying that desolation can be a refuge. If their design has a weakness, it may be that it lacks the mix of monumental and intimate spaces that humanize Mr. Nouvel's scheme.
 The rest of the proposals fall somewhere between these two extremes. A design by the Swedish architect Gert Wingardh evokes Baron Haussmann's grand arterial plan for Paris, substituting straight lines for the old curves of the 1930s project. The traffic bridge is straightened to create a more direct link to the old medieval quarter. The city grid is extended to the water's edge, bringing the two sides of Stockholm closer together. 
 The most poetic detail is a small pedestrian bridge whose low form seems to skim over the surface of the water, bringing you closer to the natural scenery and offering an impressive view of the muscular structure that supports the traffic bridge above.
 But the project is tainted by commercial excess. The matrix of retail and residential buildings that spill toward the water's edge are split in two by a giant staircase that evokes a more vulgar version of the Spanish Steps in Rome. A towering wall of glass shops on the banks of the lake is no more than a glorified mall.
 Mr. Foster's entry also disappoints. It is dominated by a pedestrian bridge that corkscrews up over the lake before connecting to a big public plaza. The bridge would take forever to cross while presenting nothing special in terms of visual experience. The plaza, roughly the proportions of London's Trafalgar Square, is framed by pretentious pseudotraditional buildings that are meant to blend into the surrounding context but only diminish it. A series of generic bridges for cars, pedestrians and bicycles are equally unimaginative.
 (The design is reminiscent of his scheme for the site of Rossiya Hotel in central Moscow, and the two schemes make you wonder if Mr. Foster's planning skills match his reputation as an architect.) The cool hyperrational spaces of the final design, by Nyrens architects, may bring to mind Eastern-bloc architecture of the 1960s and '70s. It is dominated by a series of sweeping terraces that step down to the lake. A massive exhibition building sits on top of the bus terminal, its monumental form isolated within a plaza. 
 But whatever you may think of the individual designs, the range of ideas presented here will be instructive for American urban planners entering an era of potential policy change. Government cash is nice. But we also need government to support fresh and innovative thinking about cities.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A design by the firm called BIG is among five proposals for the Slussen project to transform the heart of Stockholm, taking the city beyond failed urban policies.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BIG ARCHITECTS)(pg.C1)
The designs submitted for the Slussen project in Stockholm reflect a range of urban planning philosophies. Among them are those by, top, Jean Nouvel and Habiter Autrement, and, above from left, Nyrens Architects, Gert Wingardh and Norman Foster.(PHOTOGRAPHS, ABOVE, BY JEAN NOUVEL AND HABITER AUTREMENT
LEFT TO RIGHT, NYRENS ARCHITECTS
GERT WINGARDH ARCHITECT
NORMAN FOSTER)
 The 1935 opening of the Slussen, called a triumph in its day.(PHOTOGRAPH BY COURTESY OF STOCKHOLM STARTSIDAN)(pg.C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (91%); CITIES (91%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RESTAURANTS (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (64%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (94%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%) SWEDEN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



654 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 544 words

 BODY:
DISCLOSURES FROM A.I.G. With public anger rising, the American International Group disclosed some financial institutions that benefited from the federal bailouts meant to prop up the troubled insurance giant. 
 G.M. UNDER MICROSCOPE More than two dozen officials traveled to Detroit to scour records at General Motors and assess for the United States whether the company needs more aid or a managed bankruptcy. [B1.]
 MODEL FOR AUTO CRISIS A generation ago, Congress supervised the reorganization of the bankrupt Northeastern railroads and formed Conrail, in 1976, to run them. This could provide a template for the auto industry. [B1.]
 EYEING CELLPHONE MARKET Emboldened by the success of the AppleiPhone, many PC makers and chip companies are embracing cellphones, promising new palm-size devices with the power of standard computers. [B1.]
 FACE OF CHINESE CAPITALISM Rui Chenggang's nightly financial news program attracts 13 million viewers on China Central Television, where Mr. Rui puts tough questions to business chiefs and economists, delivered with a nationalist flair. [B1.]
 EXPANDING FILMMAKING Digital filmmaking has made a cumbersome, expensive enterprise far more accessible. Now the trick is finding audiences. The Media Equation: David Carr. [B1.]
 NO OPEC CUTS Though OPEC wants higher oil prices, it decided to delay production cuts. [B1.] 
 CUTTING THROUGH CLUTTER The annual South by Southwest Interactive conference, which once helped vault Twitter and Blogger, attracts thousands of influential Webheads, but capturing their attention can be tricky. [B3.]
 MONACO TO TIGHTEN BANKING Giving in to international pressure as the United States and Europe battle tax evaders, Monaco will adopt international standards for banking openness and information-sharing. [B3.]
 BOOK SALES HOLDING UP As the recession leaves other media industries in tatters, the oldest mass medium of all is holding up surprisingly well, as book sales are up in France and Germany, and down only slightly in the United States. [B4.]
 NEW VIDEO FROM YAHOO Executives at Yahoo have hopes for a new approach to original video online, in part by explicitly not competing with television. [B4.]
 BACK ON THE AIR Ron Insana, formerly of CNBC, is done losing money at a hedge fund. He is returning to CNBC. [B4.]
 MORE FINANCE ON CNN Between breaking news stories this week, all of CNN's programs will present coverage and guests related to financial topics. [B4.]
 SCI FI AT U.N. ''Battlestar Galactica'' will be the subject of a panel discussion at the United Nations that will include high school students. [B4.]
 ONLINE PRIVACY A CHIEF WORRY More than 90 percent of respondents in a survey of more than 1,000 Americans called online privacy a ''really'' or ''somewhat'' important issue. [B5.]
 E-MEDICINE AND MORE A study found that visits to the doctor's office can be significantly reduced in practices that use electronic health records; an iPhone game for locating friends; dealing with a slower Web in the United States. Bits. [B6.]
 NEW NAME IN SCI FI The Sci Fi Channel is planning a shift in its identity, to the oddly spelled Syfy -- pronounced the same as ''Sci Fi'' -- on July 7. A new logo and slogan are part of the plan. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B7.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CARTELS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); MEDICAL RECORDS (79%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COMPUTER MAKERS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (75%); SMARTPHONES (75%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); TELEMEDICINE (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); DIGITAL CINEMA (67%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (67%); INTERNET PRIVACY (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (65%); BOOK SALES (63%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%); TAX FRAUD (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (78%); MONACO (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



655 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Optimism And Jitters At Art Fair In Europe

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

DATELINE: MAASTRICHT, the Netherlands 

 BODY:
No matter what the economic climate, art fairs are always a gamble for the exhibiting dealers. The cost of renting a booth, shipping precious artworks, insuring them and keeping a sales staff housed and fed in a foreign city can add up to hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
 So in these rough times it was with a good deal of jitters that the European Fine Art Fair -- one of the world's foremost art and antiques events -- opened here with a preview on Thursday of a record 239 exhibitors from 15 countries.
 It seemed like business as usual at this annual gathering, which runs through Sunday. For the party on Thursday a smartly dressed, multilingual crowd waited patiently to get through the doors of the cavernous Maastricht Exhibition and Congress Center. On view was about $1 billion worth of art and objects from ancient times to the 21st century, with prices ranging from a few hundred dollars for a 19th-century British photograph to about $30 million for a van Gogh landscape.
 Dealers hope the fair can capitalize on Christie's successful $483.8 million auction of art and decorative objects belonging to Yves Saint Laurent and his partner, Pierre Berge, in Paris last month. 
 ''The Saint Laurent sale certainly gave the market confidence,'' said Richard L. Feigen, a New York dealer. ''Still, there are pockets of liquidity, people who have money and are worried about the dollar, the euro, the sterling, and don't know where to park their cash. So they buy art.'' 
 The Saint Laurent sale's effect on the fair could also be seen in the objects for sale. After such a landmark auction, works quickly surface, and it was no surprise to find a pair of German gold tazze (saucerlike objects on pedestals), at Galerie Neuse from Bremen, Germany. They were originally used to serve sweets, Achim Neuse, the gallery's owner, said. He sold them to Mr. Saint Laurent and Mr. Berge years ago and bought them back last month. He is asking about $879,000 for the pair. 
 While it is always difficult to gauge just how much business is done at any fair -- dealers, after all, are masters of positive spin -- there were a lot of relieved faces on Friday morning. At the opening Christophe Van de Weghe, a Belgian-born Manhattan dealer who was exhibiting here for the first time, had sold a 1982 Basquiat painting, ''Untitled (Black Athlete),'' that was the centerpiece of his booth. Depicting a full-length boxer with raised arms, it was snapped up by Laurence Graff, a London jeweler who also had a booth here, for $4.5 million. 
 A well-known Basquiat fanatic, Mr. Graff has bought other boxer images by him. In 2007 at Christie's in New York, for instance, Mr. Graff bought ''Sugar Ray Robinson,'' another 1982 Basquiat, for $7.3 million. 
 It wasn't just the painting but also the cost that clinched the deal. ''My prices are attractive,'' said Mr. Van de Weghe, who had also sold two Picasso drawings by Friday morning. ''These paintings would have been a lot more expensive six months ago. It's important to make people feel they are getting a deal.'' 
 Sales did not come easily. ''Everything we've sold was subject to more negotiations than last year,'' said Angela Westwater, whose Sperone Westwater Gallery is in the meatpacking district of Manhattan. By Friday she had parted with works by the sculptor Evan Penny and the Dutch painter Jan Worst. 
 The economic crisis was felt here in less obvious ways too. Several dealers admitted that they were selling artworks for clients who were seriously in need of quick cash. ''One person who got Madoff-ed gave us an important old-master painting to sell,'' Mr. Feigen said, although he declined to identify the seller or the painting. 
 Karsten Greve, a dealer with spaces in Switzerland, Germany and France, was showing an exceptional suite of seven 1960s watercolors by Lucio Fontana priced at nearly $620,000 for the set. ''I had sold them to an American collector who had lost money, so I bought them back,'' Mr. Greve said. ''I had always thought they would end up at the Museum of Modern Art.'' 
 Noticeably absent were several big-name dealers who had pulled out. Among them were American galleries like Acquavella, Richard Gray and Barbara Mathes, as well as Leslie Waddington from London. Replacing them were names who had been on a waiting list for years. 
 ''We wanted a larger European clientele,'' said Mark Brady, a New York dealer who was new to the fair. Among the stars in his booth was Theodore Rousseau's ''Farm in Les Landes,'' a luminous landscape from a set of three of the same size and format. ''One is in the Frick, the other in the Museum der Bildenden Kunste in Leipzig,'' Mr. Brady said. ''This is the only one left in private hands.'' The three, which Rousseau began during the 1840s and '50s, were documented in a letter. This painting was in a private Portuguese collection for more than 60 years, and Mr. Brady was asking $1.25 million for it. 
 People watching is always part of the fun of this fair. Talk was of top collectors who were spotted perusing the booths, including Sheik Saud bin Mohammed al-Thani of Qatar, the French financier Michel David-Weill and the New York real-estate developer Mark Fisch. While there were fewer American collectors than in years past, curators from museums like the Metropolitan in New York, J. Paul Getty in Los Angeles, the National Gallery of Art in Washington, the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, could be seen walking the aisles. 
 This being the heart of old-master country, there was the usual array of 17th-century paintings, although not the blockbusters of years past. Among the most stunning canvases was ''An Old Woman at a Meal,'' by the Dutch Baroque painter Gabriel Metsu. It was being offered by Noortman Master Paintings (a subsidiary of Sotheby's, which acquired the gallery in 2006). The interior, which depicts a woman in a simple white bonnet eating soup, was priced at $4.6 million. 
 ''It came from a Dutch collection,'' said Anthony Crichton-Stuart, a former head of Christie's old-master painting department who recently joined Noortman. ''Paintings by Metsu don't come on the market often.'' 
 Within the first 24 hours of the fair the painting had a red ''sold'' sticker beside it. While nobody at the gallery would confirm the buyer, talk among old-master dealers was that it was Ike van Otterloo, a collector and Boston financier. 
 Every year the fair tries to become more up-to-date to compete with Art Basel, the contemporary art fair held in Switzerland in June. This year there was a new section devoted to 20th-century design. There was also a lot more photography than before. Hans P. Kraus Jr., a New York photography dealer, was an addition. His booth featured seminal works like William Henry Fox Talbot's ''Ladder'' (1844), one of his best known images, for $750,000, and Edward Steichen's photograph of the back of a nude woman, ''The Little Round Mirror,'' from 1902 for $1.8 million. 
 ''We've been waiting to get into this fair for five years,'' Mr. Kraus said. ''So we brought a cross section of things starting with Talbot and going through to the beginning of modern photography with Stieglitz and Steichen.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Gabriel Metsu's ''Old Woman at a Meal,'' and above, Theodore Rousseau's ''Farm in Les Landes,'' at the Maastricht fair.(PHOTOGRAPHS, ABOVE, BY ANTHONY CRICHTON-STUART
 BELOW, BY W. M. BRADY & CO.)(pg.C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); ART DEALERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); JEWELRY (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BREMEN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) NETHERLANDS (91%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (88%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



656 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: A Continent Adrift

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

DATELINE: MADRID 

 BODY:
 I'm concerned about Europe. Actually, I'm concerned about the whole world -- there are no safe havens from the global economic storm. But the situation in Europe worries me even more than the situation in America.
 Just to be clear, I'm not about to rehash the standard American complaint that Europe's taxes are too high and its benefits too generous. Big welfare states aren't the cause of Europe's current crisis. In fact, as I'll explain shortly, they're actually a mitigating factor. 
 The clear and present danger to Europe right now comes from a different direction -- the continent's failure to respond effectively to the financial crisis.
 Europe has fallen short in terms of both fiscal and monetary policy: it's facing at least as severe a slump as the United States, yet it's doing far less to combat the downturn.
 On the fiscal side, the comparison with the United States is striking. Many economists, myself included, have argued that the Obama administration's stimulus plan is too small, given the depth of the crisis. But America's actions dwarf anything the Europeans are doing.
 The difference in monetary policy is equally striking. The European Central Bank has been far less proactive than the Federal Reserve; it has been slow to cut interest rates (it actually raised rates last July), and it has shied away from any strong measures to unfreeze credit markets.
 The only thing working in Europe's favor is the very thing for which it takes the most criticism -- the size and generosity of its welfare states, which are cushioning the impact of the economic slump. 
 This is no small matter. Guaranteed health insurance and generous unemployment benefits ensure that, at least so far, there isn't as much sheer human suffering in Europe as there is in America. And these programs will also help sustain spending in the slump. 
 But such ''automatic stabilizers'' are no substitute for positive action.
 Why is Europe falling short? Poor leadership is part of the story. European banking officials, who completely missed the depth of the crisis, still seem weirdly complacent. And to hear anything in America comparable to the know-nothing diatribes of Germany's finance minister you have to listen to, well, Republicans. 
 But there's a deeper problem: Europe's economic and monetary integration has run too far ahead of its political institutions. The economies of Europe's many nations are almost as tightly linked as the economies of America's many states -- and most of Europe shares a common currency. But unlike America, Europe doesn't have the kind of continentwide institutions needed to deal with a continentwide crisis.
 This is a major reason for the lack of fiscal action: there's no government in a position to take responsibility for the European economy as a whole. What Europe has, instead, are national governments, each of which is reluctant to run up large debts to finance a stimulus that will convey many if not most of its benefits to voters in other countries. 
 You might expect monetary policy to be more forceful. After all, while there isn't a European government, there is a European Central Bank. But the E.C.B. isn't like the Fed, which can afford to be adventurous because it's backed by a unitary national government -- a government that has already moved to share the risks of the Fed's boldness, and will surely cover the Fed's losses if its efforts to unfreeze financial markets go bad. The E.C.B., which must answer to 16 often-quarreling governments, can't count on the same level of support. 
 Europe, in other words, is turning out to be structurally weak in a time of crisis. 
 The biggest question is what will happen to those European economies that boomed in the easy-money environment of a few years ago, Spain in particular.
 For much of the past decade Spain was Europe's Florida, its economy buoyed by a huge speculative housing boom. As in Florida, boom has now turned to bust. Now Spain needs to find new sources of income and employment to replace the lost jobs in construction. 
 In the past, Spain would have sought improved competitiveness by devaluing its currency. But now it's on the euro -- and the only way forward seems to be a grinding process of wage cuts. This process would have been difficult in the best of times; it will be almost inconceivably painful if, as seems all too likely, the European economy as a whole is depressed and tending toward deflation for years to come.
 Does all this mean that Europe was wrong to let itself become so tightly integrated? Does it mean, in particular, that the creation of the euro was a mistake? Maybe.
 But Europe can still prove the skeptics wrong, if its politicians start showing more leadership. Will they? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); EURO CRISIS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); CURRENCIES (68%); INTEREST RATES (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



657 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: For Sellers of Pavers and Cones, Stimulus Lifts Hopes After a Troubled Year

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla. 

 BODY:
Past the salespeople hawking heavy machinery that looked like oversize Tonka toys, the industry boosters giving away ''I Love Asphalt'' bumper stickers, the woman handing out the latest copy of Rock & Dirt, and a wide selection of reflective vests, Joe Ford was showing off his company's wares.
 He had orange traffic cones, available in ''single collar'' or ''double collar,'' depending on how many shiny stripes were desired. He had a line of big orange work-area barrels, which could be accessorized with flashing lights. And he had a newer item that he said had grown popular in recent years: a rubber ring that fits around manhole covers exposed by road work. ''It saves cars,'' he said. 
 But beyond his pride in protecting the motoring public, Mr. Ford had a big reason to smile last week at World of Asphalt, the industry's annual trade show. With $27.5 billion in federal stimulus money heading to state transportation departments, the people who make their living by building highways were in an uncharacteristic good mood. They hope the money will begin to revive an industry that hit a rough patch last year.
 ''It's got to go somewhere; some of it's got to come to us,'' said Mr. Ford, the Eastern regional manager for Work Area Protection, a company based in Illinois. He said his hopes were lifted by calls he had received in the last few days from contractors in New Jersey who were interested in buying solar-powered light-up signs, the ones that steer drivers into other lanes and warn of road work ahead. 
 The world of asphalt really is a world unto itself. It has a proud history -- the National Asphalt Pavement Association says the first recorded use of asphalt was in 625 B.C., when, according to an inscription, the Babylonians used ''asphalt and burned brick'' to pave a street leading from King Nabopolassar's palace.
 It has its own news media -- magazines like Roads & Bridges, Pit & Quarry and Better Roads, all represented at the show. It has its own rivalries, mainly with the concrete industry. (Conventiongoers readily hold forth on the superiority of asphalt, although equipment vendors, serving both camps, stay neutral.)
 It even has its own academies. The pavement association was raffling off the Asphalt Smooth Rider, a custom motorcycle with sharkskin seats, to raise money for the National Center for Asphalt Technology, a research laboratory in Alabama with a 1.7-mile test track that is unusual because it tests the road, not the cars.
 And if the image of the world of asphalt is enough to give some environmentalists fits, many at the show emphasized their efforts to be more green. Mike Acott, the president of the pavement association, called asphalt the ''No. 1 recycled product in America,'' pointing out that contractors were increasingly milling the surface off old roads, crushing it, reheating it and using it to augment new pavement. And he spoke of the next great hope of the industry: warm mix, which requires less heat than traditional asphalt pavement. 
 The stimulus package notwithstanding, those at World of Asphalt were not exactly popping Champagne corks, not after the year many of them had just had. And, despite the location, if a television announcer had stopped them to ask, ''Now that you're getting $27.5 billion for road building in the stimulus package, what are you going to do?'' none of them would have pumped their fists and shouted, ''We're going to Disney World!''
 The money, though welcome, will not replace the private-sector work that many of them lost last year, when high oil prices dealt a double blow to the industry. 
 Asphalt pavement has two components: while it is mostly crushed stone or gravel or other aggregate material, roughly 5 percent of it is a tarlike binder made from petroleum. So when oil prices shot up last year, asphalt prices shot up too, causing many financially ailing states to drastically scale back their road-work programs. On top of that, the rising oil prices led many people to cut back on their driving, eroding a chunk of the gas tax revenues that pay for many road projects. 
 ''It was a -- disaster might be too strong a word -- but it was the worst year we've had in 25 years,'' said one of the show's chairmen, Rick Moore, the president of the Lehman-Roberts Company in Tennessee. He said the collapse of private construction and the drop in highway work had forced him to offer early retirement to a fifth of his management team, lay off a third of his production workers and stop buying equipment.
 Now, though, Mr. Moore's company is becoming an illustration of the goals of the stimulus program as it gears up to compete for the road work that Arkansas, Mississippi and Tennessee are starting. He ordered five new pieces of equipment this month and has begun to bolster his staff. ''We put an ad in the paper and had 200 folks apply for jobs,'' he said.
 The show provided a vivid window into what economists call the multiplier effect: how allocating money to let states hire road contractors will eventually benefit an entire industry, from the quarries that crush the rock and the manufacturers that sell them mining equipment to the companies that sell 2,000-watt halogen bulbs for night work or, in one company's case, little mirrors that road workers can attach to their hard hats so they can see if cars are coming from behind. 
 Marty Evans, whose company, Coastal Lasers, based in North Carolina, sells high-tech equipment to contractors, went to the show wearing a shirt he had had embroidered with 130,000 stitches showing a bulldozer and a series of satellites to represent the GPS devices many contractors use. He said he was optimistic about the stimulus.
 ''Hopefully we'll start seeing some asphalt being laid,'' Mr. Evans said. ''They'll start breaking things and tearing them up. So then hopefully my sales will go back up again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A road equipment display last week at the World of Asphalt show in Orlando, Fla. States are set to receive $27.5 billion in federal stimulus money for roadwork.
 Jake Rudnick of Neuwaukum Industries in Washington State demonstrating safety mirrors that clip on to workers' hard hats. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GREGG MATTHEWS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); ASPHALT PRODUCTS MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); TRADE SHOWS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%); SOLAR ENERGY (50%)

COMPANY: WORK AREA PROTECTION CORP (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339950 SIGN MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3993 SIGNS & ADVERTISING SPECIALTIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



658 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Opts For No Shift In Output

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: VIENNA 

 BODY:
With energy consumption falling sharply as the global financial crisis worsens, the OPEC oil cartel said on Sunday that it would not seek to reduce its output, as fears about the world economy trumped calls to raise prices.
 Instead, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said it would press its 12 members to ''comply fully'' with earlier agreements to curb crude output. After dropping from a high of $147 last summer to a low of $33 a barrel in December, oil prices have stabilized in the range of $40 to $50 a barrel.
 While some countries favored a tougher line in order to fill their depleted coffers, OPEC's biggest producer, Saudi Arabia, found support from other moderate nations that believed the global economy remained vulnerable, and that higher crude prices could jeopardize an eventual recovery. 
 The OPEC leaders were also keenly aware of the symbolism any decision they made here would carry, coming on the heels of Saturday's meeting in Britain of the finance ministers of the top 20 industrial nations. The ministers discussed a coordinated response to the global economic crisis. The leaders of the so-called Group of 20 nations will follow up with a summit meeting on April 2.
 ''OPEC does not want to make life more difficult for the G-20,'' said Chakib Khelil, the Algerian oil minister. Mr. Khelil, who had called for deeper production cuts in recent days, said in an interview after the meeting that in the end, ''the consensus was reached because the G-20 meeting was on the horizon, and we didn't need to look bad.''
 Since September, OPEC has agreed to trim its output by a total of 4.2 million barrels a day. According to outside estimates, the cartel has achieved about 80 percent of these reductions, a remarkably high level of cooperation at a time of crisis.
 The cuts succeeded in stemming the drop in prices and stabilizing the market. Based on current trends, Mr. Khelil predicted cartel members would trim their output by an additional 500,000 barrels a day in March.
 The cartel decided it would meet again in May to consider whether more production cuts were needed, giving members who have not stuck to the quotas more time to comply. 
 For OPEC, this is the toughest environment it has faced since oil prices collapsed in the late 1990s. Energy consumption is falling in both industrialized nations like the United States and developing countries like China, which had been the principal engine of new growth over the past decade.
 Global oil demand is expected to drop by 1.2 million barrels a day, or 1.5 percent, to 84.4 million barrels a day in 2009, according to the International Energy Agency. Last year's drop of 300,000 barrels a day was the first such decline since 1983.
 ''It's really getting very ugly -- we see people out of work, we see people in tents in the most rich countries,'' said OPEC's secretary general, Abdalla Salem el-Badri, at a press conference after the announcement. ''Maybe this is the bottom; I hope so.''
 Because of the bleak demand picture, Mr. Badri said that OPEC had given up on its goal of pushing oil prices back to the $60 to $70 level this year. ''We have not abandoned this price, but the time is not right and 2009 will be a very difficult year,'' he said. 
 Russia's deputy prime minister, Igor Sechin, also addressed the producers' conference on Sunday morning, a sign of friendlier relations between the cartel and Russia, the largest non-OPEC producer in the world. 
 Mr. Sechin, who praised the efforts of OPEC to prop up the market, warned that at current prices, producers would have a difficult time making new investments and increasing production in the future. Russia's oil production fell last year because of insufficient investment and policies that have driven off foreign investors. 
 Behind the scenes, the Obama administration weighed in heavily in recent days. On Friday, President Barack Obama called King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia to discuss ways to help the global economy, according to the White House. Saudi Arabia, the world's top exporter, is the most influential member of the oil-producing group.
 The administration also sought to signal a clear shift in the nation's energy policy before the first OPEC meeting held since it came to office. Steven Chu, the energy secretary, who initially distanced himself from any involvement in oil policy, said on Friday that the most effective way to make the world economy less vulnerable to volatile prices was to use less oil.
 ''We will continue to send a strong and clear message to OPEC nations about the importance of protecting the world economy from significant price increases that aren't good for any nation,'' Mr. Chu said. ''But the ultimate answer is to depend less on oil and more on clean and renewable energy.''
 Relations between oil consumers and producers are becoming more tense. Nobuo Tanaka, the executive director of the International Energy Agency, the leading energy adviser to industrialized countries, urged producers not to cut output. He said that if oil prices stayed around $40 a barrel through the end of the year, that would amount to a stimulus of $1 trillion for the global economy.
 At the same time, strains are growing between OPEC members on the Arabian peninsula, like Saudi Arabia, which have largely adhered to the quotas, and those that have not, like Iran, Venezuela and Angola. In the coming months, these three are likely to be closely watched to see if they can indeed slow their pumps.
 ''The countries that have not contributed their fair share are under great pressure from the gulf countries,'' said Edward L. Morse, chief economist for LCM Commodities in New York and a veteran oil market observer. ''The Saudis are responsible for about half of the total production cut so far by OPEC, so they're especially sensitive about it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chakib Khelil, Algeria's oil minister, said that now was not the time for deep production cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAMUEL KUBANI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (78%) ALGERIA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



659 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: On Africa Trip, Pope Will Find Place Where Church Is Surging Amid Travail

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO

DATELINE: VATICAN CITY 

 BODY:
When Pope Benedict XVI embarks on his first trip to Africa as pontiff on Tuesday, traveling to Cameroon and Angola, he will be visiting the future of the Roman Catholic Church, if not its present. 
 With one of the world's largest Catholic populations, estimated at 158 million, Africa is the continent where the church is at once strong -- in terms of sheer numbers and devotional vitality -- and weak, inevitably touched by the poverty, corruption, conflict and disease afflicting the larger society. 
 Benedict is expected to touch on both those realities in his visit, which kicks off a period of attention to Africa, culminating in October, when the world's bishops meet for their annual monthlong synod in Rome. This year it is devoted to ''The Church in Africa at the Service of Reconciliation, Justice and Peace.'' 
 On the first stop in his six-day trip, in French- and English-speaking Cameroon, Benedict is expected to present the working paper for the synod, which was called by Pope John Paul II before he died in 2005. 
 The synod is expected to touch on the church's role in promoting democracy and social justice; ''inculturation,'' or finding a balance between Rome-mandated Catholic dogma and the varieties of local practice; health; and the tensions in Africa between Catholics, Muslims and the continent's fast-growing Pentecostal population. 
 There is a lot at stake. By 2025, one-sixth of the world's Catholics, or about 230 million, are expected to be African. The world's largest seminary is in Nigeria, which borders on Cameroon in western Africa, and over all, Africa produces a large percentage of the world's priests. 
 Africa is the continent ''where the church appears most vital, appears in a phase of expansion,'' said Sandro Magister, a veteran Italian Vatican journalist. ''But this expansion is also very fragile.'' He added that it ''shows the typical characteristics of youth and adolescence: great waves of feeling and emotion with rather weak roots.''
 Although the Vatican hierarchy is a deeply European institution, it too has changed over the years. Pope John XXIII appointed the first African cardinal in 1960. There are now 16 cardinals from Africa, out of 192.
 ''You sometimes hear the remark that the main problem with the Vatican is it's 2,000 miles too far north,'' said Philip Jenkins, a professor at Pennsylvania State University and the author of ''The Lost History of Christianity,'' about the early history of Christianity in Africa and Asia.
 In his more than 25 years as pope, John Paul II made 16 trips to Africa, visiting 42 countries. In many ways, Africa would seem a lower priority for Benedict, who in his four years as pope has been deeply preoccupied with strengthening the church in Europe, where its status is increasingly diminished. 
 But Africa is important for Benedict's vision. Compared with Europe and the United States, African churches tend to take a more traditional line on issues like homosexuality.
 ''Not just is Christianity booming in that part of the world, it seems to be a pretty conservative kind of Catholicism,'' said Professor Jenkins, of Penn State. ''I think he has high hopes of the global south churches,'' and sees them ''as a very serious counterbalance to liberal trends in the north.'' 
 But the situation on the ground is rich and complex. 
 Many local African prelates must set their own guidelines for how to balance Catholicism with the faith healing and animal sacrifice practiced by many parishioners.
 The Catholic Church is also concerned that tribalism could undermine its more universal authority, especially if clerics are seen as too closely tied to a particular ethnic or tribal group. 
 Similarly, preaching the gospel in the local language could tie it to one ethnic group, yet reading it only in a formerly colonial language poses other complications. 
 Benedict has tried to crack down on the tendency of many African priests to take wives. Addressing a meeting of African bishops in Rome in 2005, Benedict implored them ''to select conscientiously candidates for the priesthood,'' and to encourage them ''to open themselves fully to serving others as Christ did by embracing the gift of celibacy.''
 In the same address, Benedict spoke on AIDS for the first time as pope, calling it ''a cruel epidemic'' that ''not only kills but seriously threatens the economic and social stability of the continent.''
 He also stated the Vatican's position forbidding the use of condoms. ''The traditional teaching of the church has proven to be the only fail-safe way to prevent the spread of H.I.V./AIDS,'' Benedict said then, adding his endorsement of ''Christian marriage and fidelity'' and ''chastity.''
 On his Africa trip, the pope is not expected to revisit the Vatican's stance on condoms, according to the Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi. ''The position we have is that to think you can resolve AIDS with condoms is an illusion,'' Father Lombardi said. Instead, he added, the church will continue to endorse education, promoting ''more responsible sexuality,'' within the confines of marriage.
 In many places in Africa, including Nigeria, Catholicism and Islam are fighting for souls. In Cameroon, which has a significant Muslim population, the pope is expected to meet with Muslim clerics. 
 In Nigeria and elsewhere in Africa, the church is increasingly worried about losing ground to charismatic Pentecostal churches. In recent years, those churches have radically transformed the religious landscape in Latin America, which has the world's largest Catholic population. 
 In Angola, which emerged in 2002 from 25 years of civil war, Benedict is expected to meet with politicians and diplomats to speak out against corruption and assert the renewed role that the church hopes to play in fostering democracy and civil society in Africa. 
 He will also mark 500 years since Catholic missionaries began converting people in the former Portuguese colony and meet with groups promoting the role of women in Africa. 
 In his weekly angelus message on Sunday, Benedict said that on his trip to Africa he intended ''to embrace the entire African continent, its thousand differences and its deep religious spirit, its ancient cultures and its difficult path toward development and reconciliation, its painful wounds and its enormous potential and hope.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Yaounde, Cameroon, a portrait of Pope Benedict XVI signaled his impending visit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FINBARR O'REILLY/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); RELIGION (93%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (88%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (51%) AFRICA (98%); HOLY SEE (94%); CAMEROON (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); ANGOLA (90%); ITALY (88%); NIGERIA (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



660 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Alternate Route: Bypassing the G.O.P.

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
There is an easier way.
 An easier way, that is, for President Obama to achieve his huge health care and energy goals than begging, pleading and negotiating for help from Republicans. The absence of bipartisan consensus, after all, has prevented strong action on either front for decades.
 The easier way would let the president negotiate with only fellow Democrats. The deal they strike could pass Congress this year by a simple majority vote -- in a single budget bill with historic health and energy policy changes that Republicans could not filibuster. 
 Here is how: Congressional Democrats pursue Mr. Obama's agenda under the arcane rules of ''budget reconciliation.'' Here is the problem: By disarming the legislative minority, that path would cause the opposite of political reconciliation with Republicans.
 Indeed, Republicans warn that such a move would be a hostile act, as bitterly divisive, one leader cautions, as President George W. Bush's conduct of the Iraq war.
 ''If President Obama takes a look at what happened to President Bush, he won't want to,'' said Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, who is chairman of the Senate Republican Conference. ''It would be very difficult for Obama to have a successful presidency.''
 The White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, responded that it was ''entirely premature'' for Republicans to focus on procedure in lieu of practical solutions. Without signaling any final decision, Mr. Gibbs added, ''what we're concerned about is not how we get there, but that there's progress.''
 A One-Party Push
 The budget reconciliation process dates back to reforms of the mid-1970s, as lawmakers grew anxious about deficits. It streamlined procedures for action, notably banning Senate filibusters, the minority's most powerful weapon.
 The process smoothed the path for President Ronald Reagan's economic plan in 1981. As Mr. Gibbs points out, it provided the vehicle for Mr. Bush's 2001 tax cuts. Without it, President Bill Clinton never could have enacted his deficit-reducing tax increases in 1993 by the barest of margins.
 Democrats that year considered including Mr. Clinton's health care plan in the budget reconciliation process. They did not, and under withering attacks from Republicans and businesses, the plan never even came up for a vote.
 Thus, Democrats, now facing complaints that Mr. Obama seeks ''too much too soon,'' are exploring that option. Under the procedure, the House and the Senate would first agree on an overall budget outline. Then they would pursue legislation ''reconciling'' the outline with any needed policy changes.
 So long as 50 of 58 Senate Democrats support the legislation -- with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. available to break ties -- the White House would not need a single Republican vote. 
 ''Bipartisanship is not an end in itself; health care is the end,'' said Andy Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union and a sharp critic of Congressional gridlock.
 Yet business leaders worry that streamlining procedures would curb their influence and cloud chances for consensus. Health insurers once financed ''Harry and Louise'' advertisements attacking Mr. Clinton's agenda. Today, the Web site of America's Health Insurance Plans urges, ''Be part of health reform now.''
 ''I don't want to sound like a Pollyanna,'' said the organization's president, Karen Ignagni, ''but there's a real role for bipartisan discussions.''
 Democratic Congressional aides say the House, at the behest of the White House, is likely to call for reconciliation procedures in its coming budget resolution. Less clear is whether the Senate will, given warnings from Republicans and some prominent Democrats like Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the chairman of the Budget Committee. 
 The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, is ''exploring all options,'' a spokesman said, with Democrats ''a week or so from having to make a decision.''
 A Backup Plan
 One Senate aide outlined a compromise: a call for reconciliation ''couched as a fallback'' should bipartisan negotiations fail.
 The smartest approach would be to use the process ''to bring Republicans to the table,'' the Congressional scholar Norman J. Ornstein said, embracing the fallback option. '' 'We can do this without you, with no input and none of your ideas, or we can sit down together and negotiate to get to 65 votes.' ''
 The threat depends on Mr. Obama's ability to deliver a Democratic deal that could withstand parliamentary objections against ''extraneous'' budget reconciliation provisions and draw a simple majority. Mr. Alexander predicts ''massive defection'' of moderate Democrats from Mr. Obama's energy plan to cap carbon emissions, which opponents call a tax increase.
 Acting with a bare majority, Democrats would lack the bipartisan cover politicians prefer for controversial changes. ''They'll own the whole thing,'' the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, observed dryly.
 Yet Mr. Obama has consistently demonstrated his desire for movement. He may ultimately decide that reconciliation as a means of enacting new health and energy policies is worth the risk of angering Republicans who almost unanimously opposed his economic stimulus package.
 ''He strongly believes that sustainable economic recovery depends on major action,'' said John D. Podesta, who directed Mr. Obama's presidential transition. ''He's not going to give that up to make people feel the process is somehow sweeter.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); IRAQ WAR (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JOE BIDEN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



661 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Railroad Bailout May Offer a Model for Detroit

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
As General Motors and Chrysler struggle to remain solvent, the railroad bailout of a generation ago could offer a template to the Obama administration -- one in which the federal government would run the auto companies until they are back on their feet.
 That was a different age, of course. Congress was very much on board, supervising the reorganization of the bankrupt Northeastern railroads and then forming Conrail, in 1976, to run them. The auto companies, in contrast, are being pushed by the White House and Congress to reorganize themselves and remain private corporations, owned by shareholders. 
 Conrail presided over huge cutbacks in rail operations, leaving the railroad system with much less track and roughly half the number of employees. By 1981, it was turning a profit hauling freight, and eventually its operations were sold back to privately operated lines. 
 Five years after Conrail's creation, Ronald Reagan became president and gave government takeovers a bad name by popularizing the view that government was inept in the marketplace. The Obama administration, respectful of this continuing view, wants the automakers to stand on their own, with only temporary federal loans to get them through the hard times. 
 ''The ideological debate already in progress,'' said Peter Cappelli, a management professor at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business, ''is whether government should actually direct the auto companies, stepping into management, or passively give them more loans, and then get out of the way.''
 The railroad failures in the Northeast, vividly evident in the 1970 bankruptcy of the Penn Central network, endangered an industry that President Gerald Ford and Congress considered vital to the nation's well-being. The American-owned automakers are similarly regarded as vital; if not all three, then at least General Motors and Ford. Automaking in this country might not survive, this argument goes, without American companies at its core. 
 Their footprint in manufacturing is huge. Even now, no other industrial sector, except perhaps pharmaceuticals, spends more on research than the Big Three, according to the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. The automakers are also the principal customers for the nation's 6,000 independent auto parts makers. 
 ''The hit to the parts makers if one or two of the Big Three disappeared would be so great that Toyota and Honda would have difficulty operating here, and they have said so publicly,'' said Sean McAlinden, the center's chief economist.
 The Obama administration's reaction, so far, has been to appoint a task force that is sorting out the viability of G.M. and Chrysler. The goal of the task force is to determine whether the automakers' plans for survival -- even the best laid plans -- justify the risk of billions more in bridge loans, on top of the $17.4 billion already lent. The goal is to keep the companies alive, and out of bankruptcy, until auto sales climb back to a level that would permit them to survive on their own. 
 For that to happen, vehicle sales nationwide would have to reach at least 12.5 million to 13 million a year, G.M. said in the survival plan that it submitted to support its case for more federal loans. Ford and Chrysler offer similar estimates. The annualized sales rate in February, in contrast, was only nine million. And months may pass before that rate climbs back to 12.5 million or 13 million -- a pace associated with upturns in the economy or milder recessions than this one. 
 Whatever the dangers of persistently weak sales, ''the task force does not seem to be going in the direction of running the auto companies, even though that might be a fine idea,'' said Dan Luria, research director for the Michigan Manufacturing Technology Center, who has spoken with some of the 21 task force members. 
 None has spoken publicly yet. But there are eerie similarities in the unwinding of the railroads in the 1970s and the American-owned automakers today.
 Hurricane Agnes, sweeping through the Northeast in 1972, did roughly the same damage to the railroads as the devastating recession is doing today to the auto industry. The hurricane flooded hundreds of miles of track, precipitating more bankruptcies among already weakened railroad companies operating lines from Boston west to Chicago and St. Louis. 
 The biggest bankruptcy was in 1970, when Penn Central went under, leaving lenders, mainly banks, holding $100 million in suddenly worthless commercial paper. In what turned out to be a preview for today, the Federal Reserve pumped reserves into the damaged banks, just as it is doing now on a broader basis. 
 More to the point, if the auto companies declared bankruptcy, shedding their debts, then Washington would be under pressure to cover a shortfall of more than $30 billion in retiree benefits, mainly for health care. 
 The Obama task force itself has a rough parallel in the railroad crisis. Congress created a similar commission in 1973, on the heels of Agnes, to lay out a course of action that would make the railroads workable in their competition with truckers for freight. About 12,000 miles of underused track were abandoned, the work force was cut to 50,000 from 100,000, and unprofitable passenger services were jettisoned. 
 The American auto companies are similarly slimming down, but ad hoc in response to a recession that has destroyed their sales. Factories have been closed, car models dropped and 235,000 auto workers have lost their jobs in the last year, or 25 percent of those making vehicles and parts. 
 Pay is also shrinking. With the tacit agreement of the United Automobile Workers, wage rates are gradually being cut to the levels paid by the foreign auto companies assembling vehicles here, in nonunion plants. 
 ''The U.A.W. realized that bailout money would not be provided unless it brought wages and even benefits into line with those of the transplants,'' said Harry Katz, a labor economist and dean of Cornell's School of Industrial and Labor Relations. ''That was the standard that moderate Democrats accepted.'' 
 Despite the cost cutting, the American auto companies may need federal loans for many months to stay afloat. Faced with that same situation in the 1970s, Congress created Conrail to run bankrupt freight lines in the Northeast and Midwest.
 Five years later, the government-run company earned its first profit. In time Conrail disappeared, its operations sold to commercial railroads that dominate freight traffic today across the country and do so profitably.
 But there is a difference. Railroads, regulated for decades, had come to be viewed as public utilities, and federal ownership was not unimaginable, said John McArthur, dean emeritus of the Harvard Business School and a Penn Central bankruptcy trustee.
 ''Discussions about the American railroad system and its shortcomings went on all through the first half of the 20th century,'' he said, ''and when the crisis came, there was a consensus how to proceed. Today, our society has yet to decide whether we want government-owned auto companies.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A. R. Carpenter, right, chief executive of CSX, and Gerald T. Gates, a vice president, celebrating the 1998 acquisition of Conrail by CSX and Norfolk Southern. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CSX TRANSPORTATION, VIA WIECK PHOTO DATABASE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (87%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (74%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (67%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



662 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1882 words

HEADLINE: Bonus Money at Troubled A.I.G. Draws Heavy Criticism

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and PETER BAKER; Mary Williams Walsh contributed reporting from Washington and A.G. Sulzberger contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Obama administration officials and Republicans alike were nearly universal in condemning the $165 million in bonuses that the American International Group, which has received more than $170 billion in taxpayer bailout money from the Treasury and Federal Reserve, is to pay executives in the business unit that brought the company to the brink of collapse last year.
 ''There are a lot of terrible things that have happened in the last 18 months, but what's happened at A.I.G. is the most outrageous,'' said Lawrence H. Summers, President Obama's chief economic adviser, during an appearance Sunday on ABC's ''This Week With George Stephanopoulos.'' ''What that company did, the way it was not regulated, the way no one was watching, what's proved necessary -- is outrageous.''
 The bonus plan established for the financial products unit before the federal government stepped in called for $220 million in retention pay for 400 employees for 2008. About $55 million of that was paid in December and the remaining $165 million was paid on Friday. 
 The retention plan also calls for another $230 million in bonuses for 2009 that are due to be paid by March 2010. Combined with the 2008 bonuses, that would bring the total retention pay for financial products executives to $450 million. But in response to pressure from Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, A.I.G. agreed to reduce its 2009 bonuses for the financial products unit by 30 percent.
 The payments to executives in that unit are in addition to $121 million in previously scheduled bonuses for the company's senior executives and 6,400 employees across the sprawling corporation. Last week, Mr. Geithner pressured A.I.G. to cut the $9.6 million going to the top 50 executives in half and tie the rest to performance.
 The payment of so much money at a company at the heart of the financial collapse that sent the broader economy into a tailspin will almost certainly fuel a popular backlash against the government's efforts to prop up Wall Street.
 Word of the bonuses last week stirred such deep consternation inside the Obama administration that Mr. Geithner told the firm they were unacceptable and demanded they be renegotiated, a senior administration official said. But the bonuses will go forward because lawyers said the firm was contractually obligated to pay them.
 Austan Goolsbee, staff director of the president's Economic Recovery Advisory Board, on Sunday detailed Mr. Geithner's reaction.
 ''He stepped in and berated them, got them to reduce the bonuses following every legal means he has to do this,'' Mr. Goolsbee said on ''Fox News Sunday.'' ''I don't know why they would follow a policy that's really not sensible, is obviously going to ignite the ire of millions of people, and we've done exactly what we can do to prevent this kind of thing from happening again. 
 Mr. Summers suggested that the government's ability to require the bonuses be scaled back was restricted by preexisting contracts, even though he did not specify what those restrictions may be.
 ''We are a country of law,'' said Mr. Summers, one of several economic officials to hit the Sunday-morning talk show circuit. ''There are contracts. The government cannot just abrogate contracts. Every legal step possible to limit those bonuses is being taken by Secretary Geithner and by the Federal Reserve system.''
 Mr. Goolsbee explained it this way: ''I think the root of the problem has been some of the people have things written in their contract that say, 'Look, you sell this much life insurance, you get a bonus of X,' and it's in their contract and that part can't be changed.'' 
 Mr. Summers also appeared on CBS's ''Face the Nation,'' remaining consistent in his core message about the bonuses: ''It is outrageous. The whole situation at AIG is outrageous. What taxpayers are being forced to do is outrageous.''
 Sen. Mitch McConnell, the Republican minority leader, worried about the message the bonuses send to other companies receiving bailout money. ''If you're going to take the government as a partner, the message here, I'm afraid, to any business out there that's thinking about taking government money, is ''Let's enter into a bunch of contracts real quick, and we'll have the taxpayers pay bonuses to our employees,' '' he said on ''This Week.'' 
 But Mr. McConnell, a Republican from Kentucky, also criticized the Obama administration.
 ''For them to simply sit there and blame it on the previous administration or claim contract -- we all know that contracts are valid in this country, but they need to be looked at,'' he said. ''Did they enter into these contracts knowing full well that, as a practical matter, the taxpayers of the United States were going to be reimbursing their employees? Particularly employees who got them into this mess in the first place. I think it's an outrage.''
 A.I.G., nearly 80 percent of which is now owned by the government, has defended its bonuses, arguing that they were promised last year before the crisis and cannot be legally canceled. In a letter to Mr. Geithner, Edward M. Liddy, the government-appointed chairman of A.I.G., said at least some bonuses were needed to keep the most skilled executives.
 ''We cannot attract and retain the best and the brightest talent to lead and staff the A.I.G. businesses -- which are now being operated principally on behalf of American taxpayers -- if employees believe their compensation is subject to continued and arbitrary adjustment by the U.S. Treasury,'' he wrote Mr. Geithner on Saturday.
 Still, Mr. Liddy seemed stung by his talk with Mr. Geithner, calling their conversation last Wednesday ''a difficult one for me'' and noting that he receives no bonus himself. ''Needless to say, in the current circumstances,'' Mr. Liddy wrote, ''I do not like these arrangements and find it distasteful and difficult to recommend to you that we must proceed with them.''
 An A.I.G. spokeswoman said Saturday that the company had no comment beyond the letter. The bonuses were first reported by The Washington Post.
 The senior government official, who was not authorized to speak on the record, said the administration was outraged. ''It is unacceptable for Wall Street firms receiving government assistance to hand out million-dollar bonuses, while hard-working Americans bear the burden of this economic crisis,'' the official said.
 Of all the financial institutions that have been propped up by taxpayer dollars, none has received more money than A.I.G. and none has infuriated lawmakers more with practices that policy makers have called reckless.
 The bonuses will be paid to executives at A.I.G.'s financial products division, the unit that wrote trillions of dollars' worth of credit-default swaps that protected investors from defaults on bonds backed in many cases by subprime mortgages.
 The bonuses for the 400 employees range from as little as $1,000 to as much as $6.5 million. Seven executives at the financial products unit were entitled to receive more than $3 million in bonuses.
 Mr. Liddy, whom Federal Reserve and Treasury officials recruited after A.I.G. faltered last September and received its first round of bailout money, said the bonuses and ''retention pay'' had been agreed to in early 2008 and were for the most part legally required.
 The company told the Treasury that there were two categories of bonus payments, withthe first to be given to senior executives. The administration official said Mr. Geithner had told A.I.G. to revise them to protect taxpayer dollars and tie future payments to performance.
 The second group of bonuses covers some 2008 retention payments from contracts entered into before government involvement in A.I.G. Indeed, in his letter to Mr. Geithner, Mr. Liddy wrote that he had shown the details of the $450 million bonus pool to outside lawyers and been told that A.I.G. had no choice but to follow through with the payment schedule.
 The administration official said the Treasury Department did its own legal analysis and concluded that those contracts could not be broken. The official noted that even a provision recently pushed through Congress by Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat, had an exemption for such bonus agreements already in place.
 But the official said the administration will force A.I.G. to eventually repay the cost of the bonuses to the taxpayers as part of the agreement with the firm, which is being restructured.
 A.I.G. did cut other bonuses, Mr. Liddy explained, but those were part of the compensation for people who dealt in other parts of the company and had no direct involvement with the derivatives.
 Mr. Liddy wrote that A.I.G. hoped to reduce its retention bonuses for 2009 by 30 percent. He said the top 25 executives at the financial products division had also agreed to reduce their salary for the rest of 2009 to $1.
 Ever since it was bailed out by the government last fall, A.I.G. has been defending itself against accusations that it was richly compensating people who caused one of the biggest financial crises in American history.
 A.I.G.'s main business is insurance, but the financial products unit sold hundreds of billions of dollars' worth of derivatives, the notorious credit-default swaps that nearly toppled the entire company last fall.
 A.I.G. had set up a special bonus pool for the financial products unit early in 2008, before the company's near collapse, when problems stemming from the mortgage crisis were becoming clear and there were concerns that some of the best-informed derivatives specialists might leave. It locked in a total amount, $450 million, for the financial products unit and prepared to pay it in a series of installments, to encourage people to stay.
 Only part of the payments had been made by last fall, when A.I.G. nearly collapsed. In documents provided to the Treasury, A.I.G. said it was required to pay about $165 million in bonuses on or before Sunday. Under a deal reached last week, A.I.G. agreed that the top 50 executives would get half of the $9.6 million they were supposed to get by March 15. The second half of their bonuses would be paid out in two installments in July and in September. To get those payments, Treasury officials said, A.I.G. would have to show that it had made progress toward its goal of selling off business units and repaying the government. The financial products unit is now being painstakingly wound down.
 Senator Bob Corker, Republican from Tennessee, was one of the few officials on Sunday to temper his public reaction to the A.I.G. bonuses, saying he wanted more information.
 ''I do think it's important to know whether these are commission payments for products that brokers have sold, or whether this is, in fact, a bonus,'' he said on ''Fox News Sunday.'' ''And I think those are two very different things.''
 Mr. Corker added that the reaction to the bonuses might serve some good: ''These entities that are receiving government money, unfortunately receiving government money, our money -- I do think they have to play by a different set of rules, and hopefully that will cause institutions across this country not to want to take government money and quickly move away from us because of us getting under the hood like this.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BONUS PAY (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (78%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (70%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (79%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (59%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



663 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Cheney Says Obama Has Increased Risks

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
Former Vice President Dick Cheney said Sunday that President Obama had made the country less safe, asserting that the new administration's changes to detention and interrogation programs for terrorism suspects would hamper intelligence gathering. 
 Mr. Cheney said the moves suggested that terrorism was now being treated as a law enforcement problem. 
 ''He is making some choices that, in my mind, will, in fact, raise the risk to the American people of another attack,'' Mr. Cheney said of Mr. Obama in an interview on the CNN program ''State of the Union.'' 
 Since taking office, Mr. Obama has reversed many of the policies championed by Mr. Cheney in his eight years of serving under President George W. Bush. Mr. Obama has announced plans to close the detention camp in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, within the year, suspended military trials for terrorism suspects and prohibited the interrogation practice known as waterboarding. 
 But on Sunday, Mr. Cheney said those very policies had produced intelligence -- still classified -- that helped uncover specific plots.
 ''I think those programs were absolutely essential to the success we enjoyed of being able to collect the intelligence that let us defeat all further attempts to launch attacks against the United States since 9/11,'' Mr. Cheney said of Bush administration policies, echoing statements he made in an interview last month with the Web site Politico.com.
 ''I think that's a great success story,'' he said. ''It was done legally. It was done in accordance with our constitutional practices and principles.'' 
 Mr. Cheney said the Bush administration decided after the 2001 attacks to make fighting terrorism a function of the military rather than law enforcement.
 ''Up until 9/11, it was treated as a law enforcement problem,'' he said. ''You go find the bad guy, put him on trial, put him in jail. 
 ''Once you go into a wartime situation and it's a strategic threat, then you use all of your assets to go after the enemy. You go after the state sponsors of terror, places where they've got sanctuary. You use your intelligence resources, your military resources, your financial resources -- everything you can -- in order to shut down that terrorist threat against you.
 ''When you go back to the law enforcement mode, which I sense is what they're doing, closing Guantanamo and so forth, that they are very much giving up that center of attention and focus that's required, and that concept of military threat that is essential if you're going to successfully defend the nation against further attacks.''
 In what CNN promoted as his first televised interview since leaving office in January, Mr. Cheney touched on a number of other subjects, including the economy, his failure to persuade Mr. Bush to pardon his former aide I. Lewis Libby Jr. and the war in Iraq.
 ''We've accomplished nearly everything we set out to do,'' he said about Iraq. ''Now, I don't hear much talk about that, but the fact is, the violence level is down 90 percent. The number of casualties and Iraqis and Americans is significantly diminished. There's been elections, a constitution. They're about to have another presidential election here in the near future.'' 
 ''We have succeeded in creating in the heart of the Middle East a democratically governed Iraq, and that is a big deal,'' Mr. Cheney said. ''And it is, in fact, what we set out to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former Vice President Dick Cheney said the best approach was to treat terrorism as a military issue, not a law enforcement one. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN WOLF/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (73%); MILITARY COURTS (73%); CLOSINGS (69%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



664 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Senate Is Said To Seek More In Income Tax From Wealthy

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Democratic leaders in the State Senate will seek income tax increases on at least some affluent New Yorkers and a sales tax increase of a quarter of 1 percent to help balance the state budget, a Senate official with knowledge of the plans said in an interview over the weekend.
 ''The hole is too deep to dig ourselves out by cuts alone,'' said the Senate official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the details of the proposal were still being hammered out. ''The debate now is over where to start.'' 
 The move by Senate Democrats, who have a slim majority, will significantly increase pressure on Gov. David A. Paterson, who has said he would consider raising income taxes only as a last resort and only after the Legislature had agreed to steep cuts in state spending.
 Mr. Paterson's original budget blueprint called for increased sales taxes on specific items, including theater tickets and non-diet soda, though he backed away from many of them last week. 
 A spokeswoman for the governor declined comment on Sunday. 
 Democratic lawmakers, who hold a majority in both houses of the Legislature, broadly support new income taxes on high earners. 
 Assembly Democrats have held off on formally introducing their own budget legislation to avoid openly clashing with their Senate counterparts.
 But the Assembly, led by Speaker Sheldon Silver, twice passed legislation last year to raise income taxes on the wealthy and is almost certain to push for a similar measure again this year.
 The Senate official said discussion within the leadership had moved in recent days from whether such a tax was needed to what contours it would take. 
 Among the questions were the income level at which it would kick in, the amount of the tax and whether it would include a sunset provision.
 A blueprint known as the Fair Share tax plan, which has wide support among Senate Democrats, would create three new income tax brackets starting at annual incomes of more than $250,000, with the largest increase on those making more than $1 million a year. 
 A separate proposal, from Senator Jeffrey D. Klein, a Bronx Democrat who is deputy majority leader, would raise taxes on incomes of more than $500,000 and use some of the money to provide tax credits to homeowners.
 With New York facing an intense budget crunch and a calamitous economic slowdown, Mr. Paterson has sought to limit the state's long-term spending growth, which he and many outside experts view as dangerous and unsustainable. 
 But advocates for the income tax increase have argued that since middle- and working-class New Yorkers will bear the brunt of any budget cuts, the wealthy should contribute more tax revenue to state coffers.
 ''It's better to tax the rich than crucify the poor,'' said Dan Cantor, executive director of the Working Families Party, a union-backed group that has lobbied aggressively for higher taxes on the wealthy to help close the state's $14 billion budget gap. 
 ''The Senate is signaling that it needs to balance the budget in a balanced way, meaning smart cuts and fair taxes,'' Mr. Cantor said.
 The Senate official also said that the Democratic majority, led by Malcolm A. Smith, would resist some other key parts of Mr. Paterson's executive budget, including a proposal to raise the state tax on income earned by hospitals, known as the gross receipts tax, and a plan to merge the New York State Foundation for Science, Technology and Innovation into the Empire State Development Corporation, the state's main economic development agency.
 The Senate's forthcoming proposal will serve as a framework for negotiations among Mr. Paterson, Mr. Silver and Mr. Smith. 
 The three men said last week that they would try to put together much of the budget in private to avoid contentious public negotiations, which could pit the Democratic leaders against one another and undermine Mr. Smith's efforts to drive a consensus among Senate Democrats. 
 Democrats hold a bare 32-to-30 majority in the Senate, where Republicans uniformly oppose new income taxes. 
 Mr. Smith will ultimately need the votes of every member of his conference -- including those who have been wary of raising taxes on the wealthy -- to forge a final budget deal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX INCREASES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGETS (91%); SALES TAX (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FAMILY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); ALBANY, NY, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



665 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Chavez Tells His Navy To Take Over Key Seaports

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela 

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez ordered the navy on Sunday to seize seaports in states with major petroleum-exporting installations, part of his effort to assert greater control over infrastructure that had come under the dominion of political opponents in regional elections last year. 
 The move points to a spreading radicalization by Mr. Chavez, as he responds to a slowing economy and the gains made by his opponents. Economic growth slowed in the last quarter to its most sluggish pace in five years, 3.2 percent, weighed down by low oil prices.
 In recent weeks, Mr. Chavez's government announced the nationalization of an Irish-owned eucalyptus-tree plantation and a rice plant controlled by Cargill, the American agricultural giant. Last week, legislators loyal to Mr. Chavez approved a law shifting control of seaports, airports and highways from states to the central government. 
 Mr. Chavez announced on state television the takeover of the ports of Maracaibo, in Zulia State, and Puerto Cabello, in Carabobo State, and threatened to jail governors who opposed the move. He also referred to a plan to take control of the seaport and airport in the state of Nueva Esparta. 
 ''Go ask the gringo Fourth Fleet for help to defend your port,'' Mr. Chavez taunted the governor of Nueva Esparta, a political rival, referring to the United States Navy's Fourth Fleet. It was reactivated in the Caribbean last year after a six-decade hiatus, to the chagrin of several Latin American governments. 
 Opponents of Mr. Chavez won control in November of five states and several key cities, including parts of Caracas and Maracaibo, Venezuela's second-largest city. 
 But his followers have been seeking to restrict their opponents' authority and enhance the power of the president, who won approval of a measure last month abolishing his term limits. 
 On Sunday, Mr. Chavez said the takeover of the seaports was needed to bolster security after reports of cocaine trafficking on ships docking in Venezuelan ports. 
 Hinting at a looming economic adjustment that may accompany the spate of takeovers, however, he also spoke of subsidized gasoline, a generally taboo subject in his government. 
 Venezuela has some of the world's most inexpensive gasoline, selling for about 6 cents a gallon, a subsidized price that deprives the government of money for social welfare projects. The subsidy also feeds a thriving fuel-smuggling network into countries that export their own oil, including Brazil, as well as Trinidad and Tobago. 
 ''Someday these prices will need to be adjusted,'' Mr. Chavez warned. ''We are practically giving away our gasoline.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); SMUGGLING (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); NATIONALIZATION (75%); TERM LIMITS (74%); APPROVALS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); NAVIES (73%); AIRPORTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); COCAINE (61%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (54%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



666 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Bracing for a Bailout Backlash

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration is increasingly concerned about a populist backlash against banks and Wall Street, worried that anger at financial institutions could also end up being directed at Congress and the White House and could complicate President Obama's agenda.
 The administration's sharp rebuke of the American International Group on Sunday for handing out $165 million in executive bonuses -- Lawrence H. Summers, director of the president's National Economic Council, described it as ''outrageous'' on ''This Week'' on ABC -- marks the latest effort by the White House to distance itself from abuses that could feed potentially disruptive public anger. 
 ''We've got enormous problems that need to be addressed,'' David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior adviser, said in an interview. ''And it's hard to address because there's a lot of anger about the irresponsibility that led us to this point.''
 ''This has been welling up for a long time,'' he said.
 Mr. Obama's aides said any surge of such a sentiment could complicate efforts to win Congressional approval for the additional bailout packages that Mr. Obama has signaled will be necessary to stabilize the banking system. 
 As it is, there have already been moves in Congress to limit compensation to executives at banks and Wall Street firms that are receiving government help to survive.
 Beyond that, a shifting political mood challenges Mr. Obama's political skills, as he seeks to acknowledge the anger without becoming a target of it. A central question for Mr. Obama is whether his cool style -- ''in a time of crisis, we cannot afford to govern out of anger,'' he said in his address to Congress last month -- will prove effective when the country may be feeling more emotional.
 Even as Mr. Summers was denouncing A.I.G. for the bonuses, he suggested that there was little if anything the government could do to stop them, seconding the conclusion of Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner. But even if their reasoning was legally sound, they also risked having the administration look ineffectual in the face of what Mr. Summers said was the worst financial abuse of the last 18 months, since the economy began turning down in earnest.
 ''Never underestimate the capacity of angry populism in times of economic stress,'' said Robert Reich, a professor of public policy at the University of California, Berkeley, and labor secretary under President Bill Clinton. ''A big challenge for President Obama will be to maintain a rational and tactical public discussion in the midst of this severe downturn. The desire for culprits at times like this is strong.''
 In a further development, A.I.G. on Sunday named dozens of financial institutions that benefited from its huge rescue loan from the Federal Reserve last fall. The list included Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch and Wachovia.
 On Monday, the White House is expected to unveil proposals to help small businesses, an effort to make clear that the administration is not only focusing its attentions on Wall Street and big corporations like the automakers. 
 But the financial crisis is the most acute problem facing the administration, one it will not be able to play down. Christina D. Romer, the White House's chief economist, said Sunday on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC that the administration was close to unveiling details of its plan to remove the worst of the bad assets from the books of banks, a move sure to refocus attention on winners and losers from bailouts.
 The disclosure that A.I.G., which has received $170 billion in government assistance to remain afloat and avert a cascade of failures in the financial system, is paying bonuses to its executives is the latest in a series of episodes that Mr. Obama's aides said seemed to be feeding a resurgence of public anger. 
 The public responded angrily to previous disclosures of large bonuses on Wall Street, to auto executives who flew on corporate jets to Washington for Congressional bailout hearings, and to last week's face-off between Jon Stewart of ''The Daily Show'' and Jim Cramer, the CNBC financial commentator, over the network's reporting on the crisis.
 ''There's unquestionably a strong populist surge out there,'' said Joel Benenson, Mr. Obama's pollster, citing his own polls and focus groups. ''It's been brewing for close to four years. For the last two years, Americans were clearly indicating that they believe that one of the biggest obstacles to progress on America's toughest challenges -- notably health care and energy independence -- was the influence of special interests and corporate interests on the agenda in Washington.''
 A New York Times/CBS News Poll in February found that 83 percent of respondents said the government should cap the amount of compensation earned by executives of companies that are getting federal assistance.
 Mr. Obama's advisers argued that to at least some extent, this was a sentiment they could tap to push through his measures in Congress, including raising taxes on the wealthy. They pointed out that in his speech to Congress, Mr. Obama denounced corporations that ''use taxpayer money to pad their paychecks or buy fancy drapes or disappear on a private jet.'' 
 ''The president has been very clear about this,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''There is reason for anger, but we also have to solve the problem. We need a functioning credit system. That's our responsibility, and he intends to meet it.''
 Still, aides acknowledged the risks of a backlash as Mr. Obama tries to signal that he shares American anger but pushes for more bail-out money for banks and Wall Street. 
 For all his political skills and his capturing of the nation's desire for change in the 2008 election, Mr. Obama, a product of Harvard Law School who calls upscale Hyde Park in Chicago home, has shown little inclination to strike a more populist tone. The danger, aides said, is that if he were to become identified as an advocate for the banks and Wall Street, people could take out their anger on him.
 ''The change now is you have a free-floating economic anxiety that has expressed itself in a kind of lashing out at those being bailed out and people who are bailing out,'' Michael Kazin, a professor at Georgetown University who has written extensively on populism. ''There's not really a sense of what the solution is.''
 ''I do think there's a potential for a 'damn everybody in power' kind of sentiment,'' Mr. Kazin said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lawrence H. Summers on ''This Week'' called new bonuses at A.I.G. outrageous. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARIN COOPER/CBS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BONUS PAY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (65%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



667 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: From Ranks of Jobless, a Flood of Volunteers

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
Until November, Lisa Traina had a classic New York glamour job: organizing private parties in the Art Deco opulence of the Rainbow Room. Now she spends 10-hour shifts walking down gritty sidewalks trying to persuade homeless people to go to the Bowery Mission for food and shelter.
 ''I worked at the top of the world,'' she said. ''And the next day you're working down on Broadway and saying to somebody, 'Let me show you where you can get a bowl of soup for the night.' ''
 After being laid off, Ms. Traina, 50, enlisted in the growing army of the newly unemployed that have been marching into the offices of nonprofit organizations since the recession hit, looking to do some good, maybe network a little or simply fill the hours they used to be at the office. 
 They have searched for tasks on volunteernyc.org -- which last month had 30 percent more visitors than in February 2008 -- and forced New York Cares, an umbrella organization, to add extra new-volunteer orientations at a Whole Foods Market downtown that quickly booked solid an unheard-of three weeks in advance. In Philadelphia, Big Brothers Big Sisters has seen a 25 percent increase in inquiries from potential mentors over this time last year. And the Taproot Foundation, a San Francisco-based organization that places skilled professionals in volunteer positions, had more people sign up on one day earlier this year than in an entire month a year ago. 
 Many who run nonprofits have marveled at the sudden flood of bankers, advertising copywriters, marketing managers, accountants and other professionals eager to lend their formidable but dormant skills. The Financial Clinic, which counsels the working poor on economic matters, recently dispatched an M.I.T.-educated ex-Wall Street type to help people in Chinatown prepare their tax returns. 
 ''One person's trash is another person's treasure,'' said Elizabeth Mitchell, a marketing manager for the nonprofit organization Learning Leaders. 
 But others grumbled that the current love affair with volunteerism, encouraged by President Obama's nationwide call to public service, can be a mixed blessing. Smaller organizations, with staffs of fewer than 20 and no full-time volunteer coordinator, have struggled to absorb the influx, especially since many of them have simultaneously had to cut back on projects in the face of dwindling donations and government grants. 
 ''Can you make them stop calling?'' groused one nonprofit executive, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. ''Everybody's inspired by Obama,'' he said, adding: ''They also don't have jobs.'' 
 Lindsay Firestone, who manages pro bono projects for Taproot, said the organization had scaled back recruitment this year after attracting more volunteers than it could possibly accommodate. ''It's like a Greek tragedy,'' she said. ''We're thrilled to have all of these volunteers. But now organizations are stuck not being able to take advantage of it because they don't have adequate funding.'' 
 Bertina Ceccarelli, a senior vice president at the United Way in New York -- which partners with the mayor's office to run the volunteernyc.org matching service -- said the outpouring was similar to that after 9/11 -- except that the new volunteers have more time to fill.
 ''It's sad but true,'' Ms. Ceccarelli said, ''but the irony is that sometimes it's almost more work to find something for a volunteer to do than to just turn them away.'' 
 None of that has dimmed the volunteers' enthusiasm.
 Continuum Hospice Care, which assists New Yorkers at the end of their lives, has started a waiting list this year for volunteers. Allison Maughn, the interim president, said many of them were hoping that their unpaid work would eventually turn into a paid job, and have been raising their hands for the most menial tasks, like stuffing envelopes and data entry. ''They're even happy to sit at the reception desk and answer the phones,'' she said in amazement. 
 New York Cares had double the number of volunteers this February as last, and a survey the group conducted showed that a third of them were unemployed. At one of two packed orientation sessions on Thursday, aspiring volunteers scribbled notes as they listened to Dennis Tseng, a cheerful 27-year-old, speak rapid-fire for nearly an hour about the nuts and bolts. The session, held adjacent to a cafe in Whole Foods, was so full that latecomers had to stand and lean against a wall. 
 ''Right now, I could volunteer about five times a week,'' said Emily Jimenez, 29, who lives on Staten Island and was laid off last month from the Milford Plaza hotel in Midtown. ''If they'd want me to.'' 
 Katherine Howie, an out-of-work lawyer, wrote ''N/A currently'' under employment information on the orientation forms. ''I don't mind making a commitment,'' she said. ''I'm happy to work with children, or sports, or recreation. I just want something to fill my time.'' 
 Nini Duh, 29, was laid off from Lehman Brothers in September and now volunteers at any number of places -- an elementary school, a finance workshop in Chinatown -- nearly every day. It is a welcome change from her 100-hour weeks before her investment bank went bankrupt. 
 ''Now I get to wake up when it's light outside, and things start at 10 instead of 7 in the morning,'' said Ms. Duh, who lives in Flushing, Queens. ''Sometimes I think, 'If this was my job, this would be nice.' ''
 God's Love We Deliver, which provides food to the severely ill in their homes across New York City, has seen a record number of the recently laid-off among its 1,400-member volunteer corps, according to Karen Pearl, the organization's president and chief executive. Among them is Eryka Teisch, who saw her job disappear when her financial technology firm downsized in September. God's Love initially asked her for two hours a week. 
 ''I laughed,'' said Ms. Teisch, 39. ''I just said, 'That's great, but I kind of want to add a zero to that number.' '' 
 Ms. Teisch said the experience -- she works in the kitchen, the office, wherever she is needed -- has been a therapeutic tonic for her workaholic, Type-A personality. A bonus is the chance to bond with her fellow unemployed volunteers. 
 ''You try not to focus on the bitter side -- you know, 'I hated my company and I can't believe what they did to me,' '' Ms. Teisch said. ''At least we have something to wake up to in the morning, rather than focusing on getting another job in this very difficult economy.'' 
 Because the typical volunteer is still job-hunting on the side -- Ms. Teisch, for example, said she was looking ''aggressively'' -- some nonprofit executives are already bracing for when the economy picks up and the new army finds paid employment.
 ''My hope is when they decide it's time to do something else, they have fond memories of what they learned at United Way,'' Ms. Ceccarelli said. 
 After a pause, she added: ''Maybe they'll even become a donor. I'll tell you, there isn't an executive director in town who doesn't think that way.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eryka Teisch is job-hunting but volunteering 20 hours a week.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
 Lisa Traina, laid off from the Rainbow Room, now volunteers by helping the homeless. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); VOLUNTEERS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); HOMELESSNESS (77%); ARMIES (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); CIVIL SERVICES (65%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); PRO BONO LAW (50%)

COMPANY: WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS OF AMERICA (55%)

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (55%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



668 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. Lists Firms To Which It Paid Taxpayer Money

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH; Edmund L. Andrews and Jackie Calmes contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Amid rising pressure from Congress and taxpayers, the American International Group on Sunday released the names of dozens of financial institutions that benefited from the Federal Reserve's decision last fall to save the giant insurer from collapse with a huge rescue loan.
 Financial companies that received multibillion-dollar payments owed by A.I.G. include Goldman Sachs ($12.9 billion), Merrill Lynch ($6.8 billion), Bank of America ($5.2 billion), Citigroup ($2.3 billion) and Wachovia ($1.5 billion). 
 Big foreign banks also received large sums from the rescue, including Societe Generale of France and Deutsche Bank of Germany, which each received nearly $12 billion; Barclays of Britain ($8.5 billion); and UBS of Switzerland ($5 billion). 
 A.I.G. also named the 20 largest states, starting with California, that stood to lose billions last fall because A.I.G. was holding money they had raised with bond sales. 
 In total, A.I.G. named nearly 80 companies and municipalities that benefited most from the Fed rescue, though many more that received smaller payments were left out.
 The list, long sought by lawmakers, was released a day after the disclosure that A.I.G. was paying out hundreds of millions of dollars in bonuses to executives at the A.I.G. division where the company's crisis originated. That drew anger from Democratic and Republican lawmakers alike on Sunday and left the Obama administration scrambling to distance itself from A.I.G.
 ''There are a lot of terrible things that have happened in the last 18 months, but what's happened at A.I.G. is the most outrageous,'' Lawrence H. Summers, an economic adviser to President Obama who was Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration, said Sunday on ''This Week'' on ABC. He said the administration had determined that it could not stop the bonuses.
 But some members of Congress expressed outrage over the bonuses. Representative Elijah E. Cummings, a Democrat of Maryland who had demanded more information about the bonuses last December, accused the company's chief executive, Edward M. Liddy, of rewarding reckless business practices.
 ''A.I.G. has been trying to play the American people for fools by giving nearly $1 billion in bonuses by the name of retention payments,'' Mr. Cummings said on Sunday. ''These payments are nothing but a reward for obvious failure, and it is an egregious offense to have the American taxpayers foot the bill.''
 An A.I.G. spokeswoman said Sunday that the company would not identify the recipients of these bonuses, citing privacy obligations.
 Ever since the insurer's rescue began, with the Fed's $85 billion emergency loan last fall, there have been demands for a full public accounting of how the money was used. The taxpayer assistance has now grown to $170 billion, and the government owns nearly 80 percent of the company. 
 But the insurance giant has refused until now to disclose the names of its trading partners, or the amounts they received, citing business confidentiality.
 A.I.G. finally relented after consulting with the companies that received the government support. The company's chief executive, Edward M. Liddy, said in a statement on Sunday: ''Our decision to disclose these transactions was made following conversations with the counterparties and the recognition of the extraordinary nature of these transactions.''
 Still, the disclosure is not likely to calm the ire aimed at the company and its trading partners. 
 The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, appearing on ''60 Minutes'' on CBS on Sunday night, said: ''Of all the events and all of the things we've done in the last 18 months, the single one that makes me the angriest, that gives me the most angst, is the intervention with A.I.G.''
 He went on: ''Here was a company that made all kinds of unconscionable bets. Then, when those bets went wrong, they had a -- we had a situation where the failure of that company would have brought down the financial system.''
 In deciding to rescue A.I.G., the government worried that if it did not bail out the company, its collapse could lead to a cascading chain reaction of losses, jeopardizing the stability of the worldwide financial system. 
 The list released by A.I.G. on Sunday, detailing payments made between September and December of last year, could bolster that justification by illustrating the breadth of losses that might have occurred had A.I.G. been allowed to fail. Some of the companies, like Goldman Sachs and Societe Generale, had exposure mainly through A.I.G.'s derivatives program. Others, though, like Barclays and Citigroup, stood to lose mainly because they were customers of A.I.G.'s securities-lending program, which does not involve derivatives.
 But taxpayers may have a hard time accepting that so many marquee financial companies -- including some American banks that received separate government help and others based overseas -- benefiting from government money. 
 The outrage that has been aimed at A.I.G. could complicate the Obama administration's ability to persuade Congress to authorize future bailouts.
 Patience with the company's silence began to run out this month after it disclosed the largest loss in United States history and had to get a new round of government support. Members of Congress demanded in two hearings to know who was benefiting from the bailout and threatened to vote against future bailouts for anybody if they did not get the information. 
 ''A.I.G.'s trading partners were not innocent victims here,'' said Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who presided over one recent hearing. ''They were sophisticated investors who took enormous, irresponsible risks.''
 The anger peaked over the weekend when correspondence surfaced showing that A.I.G. was on the brink of paying rich bonuses to executives who had dealt in the derivative contracts at the center of A.I.G.'s troubles. 
 Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, implicitly questioned the Treasury Department's judgment about the whether the bonuses were binding.
 ''We need to find out whether these bonuses are legally recoverable,'' Mr. Frank said in an interview Sunday on Fox News. 
 Many of the institutions that received the Fed payments were owed money by A.I.G. because they had bought its credit derivatives -- in essence, a type of insurance intended to protect buyers should their investments turn sour. 
 As it turned out, many of their investments did sour, because they were linked to subprime mortgages and other shaky loans. But A.I.G. was suddenly unable to honor its promises last fall, leaving its trading partners exposed to potentially big losses. 
 When A.I.G. received its first rescue loan of $85 billion from the Fed, in September, it forwarded about $22 billion to the companies holding its shakiest derivatives contracts. Those contracts required large collateral payments if A.I.G.'s credit was downgraded, as it was that month.
 Among the beneficiaries of the government rescue were Wall Street firms, like Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan and Merrill Lynch that had argued in the past that derivatives were valuable risk-management tools that skilled investors could use wisely without any intervention from federal regulators. Initiatives to regulate financial derivatives were beaten back during the administrations of Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush. 
 Goldman Sachs had said in the past that its exposure to A.I.G.'s financial trouble was ''immaterial.'' A Goldman Sachs representative was not reachable on Sunday to address whether that characterization still held. When asked about its exposure to A.I.G. in the past, Goldman Sachs has said that it used hedging strategies with other investments to reduce its exposure. 
 Until last fall's liquidity squeeze, A.I.G. officials also dismissed those who questioned its derivatives operation, saying losses were out of the question. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: BENEFICIARIES OF A RESCUE: The American International Group on Sunday released the names of financial institutions that benefited last fall when the Federal Reserve saved it from collapse with an $85 billion rescue loan. The Fed paid A.I.G.'s obligations to the following companies, among others: (Source: A.I.G.) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); ACCOUNTING (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); EDWARD M LIDDY (58%); ELIJAH E CUMMINGS (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (76%); FRANCE (72%); SWITZERLAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



669 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: Government Scrutinizes G.M.'s Plan

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and BILL VLASIC. 
Bill Vlasic reported from Detroit.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Treasury officials and management experts hired by the Obama administration quietly began combing through General Motors' latest downsizing plan in Detroit last week, in a last-minute effort to assess whether more government aid could make the company viable, or whether the better choice was a managed bankruptcy. 
 President Obama faces a deadline of March 31 to decide the fate of G.M., and by extension its huge network of suppliers. In interviews, however, administration officials said they would not be bound by that date, when Mr. Obama is scheduled to visit London for a summit meeting on the global economic crisis. 
 During the weekend, administration officials said they expected the team of about two dozen Treasury officials to continue working in Detroit this week, even while G.M.'s two top executives traveled to Washington to meet the task force that is assembling Mr. Obama's options. 
 To judge whether G.M.'s reorganization plan is sufficient, the team has been delving into every aspect of the company's management, including its somewhat upbeat estimate of how the car market will look when the recession ends -- a market it projects at over 15 million cars annually, much higher than Chrysler's forecast -- as well as its designs for new products and its financial controls. 
 Administration officials said Sunday that the main standard they were using to measure the viability of G.M. was the probability of recovering additional taxpayer money used to help the company, should more aid be necessary. Asked about the mission of the team, a White House spokesman, Bill Burton, said: ''The auto team is working to assess long-term viability within the context of the existing loan agreements, while recognizing that the economy has deteriorated since September 2008 and that both companies are now asking for more money.''
 While administration officials say that no final decisions have been made, they appear to be giving more consideration than they were two months ago to a quick, managed bankruptcy. Mr. Obama has said he wants avoid that option, because it could further unnerve investors and radiate out through the company's network of suppliers and dealers.
 But the threat of a bankruptcy filing may be the only way to force concessions from bondholders, who hold $27 billion of the company's unsecured debt. So far, the bondholders have shown little willingness to negotiate over a G.M. proposal that would give them a fraction of the face value of the bonds -- as little as 16 cents on the dollar for some bonds in a deal that could leave them holding what may turn out to be worthless equity in G.M. The president's task force has added a bankruptcy lawyer, Matthew A. Feldman of Willkie Farr and Gallagher, to its team, though officials said that the timing was somewhat coincidental because they had been seeking Mr. Feldman's help for some time.
 The face-off with the bondholders has quickly become a high-stakes game of chicken. The bondholders appear to be betting that Mr. Obama is not willing to take the political risk of letting the company that once defined the American car industry go bankrupt, a step that could render their bonds worthless. 
 The administration has a strong interest in trying to persuade the bondholders' committee that if they have no other option for reorganizing the company, the government is willing to take that step. Senior administration officials who met with the United Automobile Workers union last week in Detroit say that while the meeting was cordial, the union was not ready to give any more concessions until it sees what happens with the investors who have lent G.M. billions.
 ''The union is wary of negotiating with themselves,'' said one senior official involved in the talks. ''They have been asked to give blood four times, and they want to see the bondholders give some before they do anything more.''
 Another senior administration official, who declined to speak on the record because he was not authorized to talk about the negotiations, described talks with the bondholders as ''the drama that will play out for the next two weeks,'' as each side waits for the other to blink. ''Is Obama willing to go the bankruptcy route?'' the official asked. ''He might be, if he thinks it's the best way to save the most jobs, but we don't know yet.''
 That decision may have as much to do with negotiation strategies as it does with economic fundamentals.
 ''It seems that the dispute between G.M. and its constituents will not be settled with an economic solution,'' said John Casesa, whose firm, Casesa Shapiro Group, advises auto companies. ''This is now in the realm of politics. Is it more politically palatable for G.M. to go into a government-sponsored bankruptcy than to be sustained by more loans?''
 The prospect of the bondholders taking huge losses is critical to the plan that G.M. submitted last month, in which it aimed to eliminate roughly two-thirds of its unsecured debt by March 31. Its other commitment was to reduce labor costs by the government-imposed deadline as part of the terms of the $13.4 billion in federal loans it already has. But with only two weeks to go, the company has been unable to get the union and its bondholders to agree on concessions to ensure G.M.'s long-term viability.
 The U.A.W. has agreed to givebacks on job security and work-rule provisions of their national labor contract. But the union's president, Ron Gettelfinger, has not yielded to pressure to accept G.M. stock in lieu of cash to finance 50 percent of a new health care trust for 391,000 U.A.W. retirees and surviving spouses.
 G.M. owes more than $20 billion to the health care trust, which will assume responsibility for billions of dollars in annual medical bills for U.A.W. retirees beginning next year. Mr. Gettelfinger recently reached a deal with the Ford Motor Company to accept company stock to finance half of Ford's health care trust.
 But Mr. Gettelfinger has vowed not to make a similar deal with G.M. unless the company's bondholders agree to swap their debt for equity in the company.
 The bondholders are being asked to take equity in exchange for reducing G.M.'s $27 billion in unsecured debt by two-thirds. So far, a bondholders' committee has resisted the debt-for-equity exchange, given G.M.'s depressed stock price and its uncertain future. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BONDS (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (68%)

COMPANY: WILLKIE FARR & GALLAGHER LLP (80%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (80%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (80%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009



670 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Falters Late in Trading Day

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Wall Street's four-day buying spree stalled on Monday as stocks gave up strong early gains and closed slightly lower.
Weakness in technology companies like Intel and Dell and banks whose names were not Citigroup or Bank of America dragged the broader markets lower in the last hour, halting a rally that lifted stock indexes about 10 percent last week.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which had been nearly 170 points higher at one point, closed down 7.01 points, at 7,216.97 while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 2.66 points, at 753.89. The Nasdaq composite index was 1.9 percent or 27.48 points lower at 1,404.02. 
The losses on Monday peeled back only a small part of last week's gains, but they offered a reminder that investors still face a minefield as the financial system struggles to get back on course and the economy weathers a protracted downturn. The Dow and S.& P. 500 sank to their lowest levels in about 12 years last Monday, before beginning a four-day surge.
''Whenever you have a crash like this it doesn't turn on a dime,'' said Bruce McCain, chief investment strategist at Key Private Bank. ''The bottoming process is a process that tends to stretch out over quite a while.''
While the broader financial sector finished lower, Bank of America gained 7.3 percent to close at $6.18 a share, while the beleaguered giant Citigroup was up 30.9 percent at $2.33 a share. Two weeks ago, shares of Citigroup dropped briefly below $1 as worries grew about the solvency of major banks and their ability to withstand more losses in the face of a shrinking economy.
But those black-and-blue chip stocks rebounded last week on a more hopeful tone from Washington and banking executives.
It was unclear whether Washington's less-dire tone was bolstering Wall Street, or whether the gains on Wall Street were encouraging optimism from the White House, but policy makers continued to offer more statements of measured optimism about one of the worst economic downturns since the Depression.
In an interview on the television program ''60 Minutes'' on Sunday, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said that the recession would probably end this year if the banking system recovered.
''We'll see recovery beginning next year. And it will pick up steam over time,'' he said.
William Rhodes, chief investment officer at Rhodes Analytics, said ''I don't know how long it could run.'' He said, ''Rallies like this do sometimes turn into real solid bottoms that are followed by real bull market moves.''
The moves on Wall Street followed a weekend meeting of global finance leaders in Britain to determine the best response to the global financial crisis.
Finance officials said they would take ''whatever action is necessary'' but did not announce any coordinated stimulus measures.
A government report on Monday that industrial production dropped 1.4 percent last month, worse than expectations, had little effect on the markets. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 17/32, to 98 8/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was 2.95 percent, up from 2.89 percent late Friday.
Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute by minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 The Favorites: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); TALKS & MEETINGS (62%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); INTEL CORP (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011



671 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: The Fall and Rise of the Right Whale

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

 BODY:
ST. SIMONS ISLAND, Ga. -- The biologists had been in the plane for hours, flying back and forth over the calm ocean. They had seen dolphins, leatherback turtles, a flock of water birds called gannets and even a basking shark -- but not what they were looking for.
Then Millie Brower, who was peering with intense concentration through a bubblelike window fitted into the plane's fuselage, announced ''nine o'clock, about a mile off.'' The plane made a stomach-churning lurch as the pilots banked left and began to circle. And there, below, were a right whale mother and her new calf, barely breaking the surface, lolling in the swells.
The researchers, from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Georgia Wildlife Trust, are part of an intense effort to monitor North Atlantic right whales, one of the most endangered, and closely watched, species on earth. As a database check eventually disclosed, the whale was Diablo, who was born in these waters eight years ago. Her calf -- at a guess 2 weeks old and a bouncing 12 feet and 2 tons -- was the 38th born this year, a record that would be surpassed just weeks later, with a report from NOAA on the birth of a 39th calf. The previous record was 31, set in 2001. 
''It's a bumper year for calves,'' Richard Merrick, an oceanographer for NOAA's fisheries service, said in an interview. ''That's a good sign.''
Actually, it's one of so many good signs that researchers are beginning to hope that for the first time in centuries things are looking up for the right whale. They say the species offers proof that simple conservation steps can have a big impact, even for species driven to the edge of oblivion.
North Atlantic right whales, which can grow up to 55 feet long and weigh up to 70 tons, were the ''right'' whales for 18th- and 19th-century whalers because they are rich in oil and baleen, move slowly, keep close to shore and float when they die.
They were long ago hunted to extinction in European waters, and by 1900 perhaps only 100 or so remained in their North American range, from feeding grounds off Maritime Canada and New England to winter calving grounds off the Southeastern coast.
Since then, the species' numbers have crept up, but very slowly. NOAA estimates that there are about 325, though scientists in and out of the agency suspect there may be more, perhaps as many as 400. It has been illegal to hunt the right whale since 1935, when the League of Nations put them under protection. Even so, researchers despaired of ever seeing a healthy right whale population here as long as ship strikes still maimed and killed them and fishing gear strangled them.
But ''over the last four or five months there's been a tremendous amount of good news,'' said Tony LaCasse, a spokesman for the New England Aquarium, a center of right whale research. For example:
Recent changes in shipping lanes, some compulsory and others voluntary, seem to be reducing collisions between whales and vessels.
The Bush administration agreed last year to lower speed limits for large vessels in coastal waters where right whales congregate.
Fishing authorities in the United States are beginning to impose gear restrictions designed to reduce the chances whales and other marine mammals will be entangled in fishing lines. Canada is considering similar steps.
In December, researchers from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration spotted an unusually large aggregation of right whales in the Gulf of Maine. A month later, a right whale turned up in the Azores, a first since the early 20th century.
And last year, probably for the first time since the 1600s, not one North Atlantic right whale died at human hands.
''We are seeing signs of recovery,'' Dr. Merrick said. He and others warn that it is far too soon to say the whales are out of danger. Calving seasons are known for their ups and downs. A single whale in the Azores does not prove the species is recolonizing its old haunts. Not everyone embraces the new shipping regulations. And so far this year, five whales have turned up entangled with fishing gear. Rescuers removed all or almost all of the gear from the five, including one whale freed last week after being successfully sedated for the process, a first.
Efforts to protect the whales are costly. Surveying alone costs hundreds of thousands of dollars a year, said Barb Zoodsma, a NOAA biologist who coordinates survey efforts in the Southeast. In 2003, three researchers and a pilot died when their plane went down off Amelia Island, Florida.
''It's a very expensive endeavor, and we are very cognizant of that fact,'' Ms. Zoodsma said. Some wonder if it is worth it. ''We have been pressured by some folks on the outside to say this is a lost cause,'' said Greg Silber, who coordinates whale recovery efforts for NOAA, which is charged with protecting marine mammals and endangered species like the right whale.
The whales are so few and distinct in appearance that researchers identify them not just by number but by nickname. The whales are identifiable by patterns of growths on their skin called callosities. These callosities are colonized by pale, licelike creatures in patterns discernable even at a distance.
When survey teams spot a right whale, they can enter its description in an online database maintained by the aquarium and accessible to researchers around the world.
Sightings offer important clues to the movements and habits of the creatures. When the pod of whales was sighted in December, in the Jordan Basin, about 70 miles south of Bar Harbor, the individual whales were well known. But no one had seen them hang out in the basin before. Now, researchers think it may be a previously unknown wintering ground or even a place where whales mate.
When researchers learn where whales are, they can work to keep shippers out of the way. That is what happened in July, when shipping lanes that cross Stellwagen Bank, a national marine sanctuary north of Cape Cod, were moved slightly to the north. ''One of the sanctuary staff had documented where the whale sightings were,'' Mr. LaCasse said. The lanes now run through a less frequented area. And the sanctuary sends thank-you notes to ships that steer clear of the whales.
A similar change occurred off Saint John, New Brunswick, a hub for shipping oil into the Maritime Provinces. Lanes going into the city were moved a few years ago, after negotiations with the International Maritime Organization. Voluntary lane changes are in effect in places like Boston, Dr. Silber said. ''The measured economic impact to mariners was minimal,'' he said. But the changes brought ''huge benefits'' to the animals.
''Compliance appears to be quite high,'' he said, adding, ''We are optimistic.''
Moira Brown, a senior scientist at the aquarium, said researchers working with Canadian officials designated ''an area to be avoided'' south of New Brunswick where right whales congregate in summer. ''Compliance there has been very good,'' Dr. Brown said.
But entanglements with fishing gear continue to be a big problem.
When the researchers spotted Diablo, for example, she had something white on her fluke and, for a few anxious moments, they thought she might be snagged on fishing gear. Instead, like an estimated 80 percent to 85 percent of adult right whales, she carried a scar from a previous entanglement.
Entanglements can be lethal for the whales, Ms. Zoodsma said, especially if lines get caught in whales' mouths or around their flippers. NOAA trains people to disentangle them, she said, but ''when you have a 40-ton animal in a stressful situation'' the work can be unpleasant and dangerous. And it is labor intensive. Last week's effort to sedate and free an entangled whale involved a spotter plane, four boats and multiple attempts, she said. That is why preventing entanglements ''is a first priority,'' Ms. Zoodsma said. New efforts center on new gear, like lines that lie along the ocean floor or marker buoys that sit at the bottom until a fishing boat finds them electronically and signals them to bob to the surface.
Dr. Brown said the United States was taking a first step in this direction with regulations going into effect this spring. She said discussions were under way with fishing authorities in Canada. Meanwhile, researchers continue efforts to discover as much as they can about where the animals spend their time, what they eat and what natural factors may affect their health. One of their most unusual efforts involved dogs trained to sniff whale scat, which the animals usually produce at the surface. The samples the dogs helped collect offered valuable information about what the whales were eating and where they were feeding. They can also offer hormone clues about whether females are pregnant. Researchers want this information because despite this year's baby boom, right whales are not reproducing as they should. The scientists want to know if the problem is impaired fertility, spontaneous miscarriage or some other issue.
In their book ''The Urban Whale'' (Harvard University Press, 2007), Scott D. Kraus and Rosalind M. Rolland, scientists at the aquarium, say they believe the last North American right whale deliberately hunted by people was a calf swimming with its mother off Palm Beach, Fla., in 1935.
But people will continue to kill right whales. Ship strikes ''are still going to happen,'' Dr. Merrick said. ''To totally eliminate them would mean we would have to eliminate shipping.''
In the end, Ms. Zoodsma said, the value of a species is something ''each individual has to sort that out for themselves.'' But if right whales were to vanish, she said, ''it would be a tremendous loss for future generations.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SUNNIER DAYS: A North Atlantic right whale and calf off Florida. The whale remains endangered, but its population has more than tripled in a century.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FLORIDA FISH AND WILDLIFE CONSERVATION COMMISSION/NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION)
STUDY: Scent detection dogs help researchers gather right whale scat.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSALIND ROLLAND/NEW ENGLAND AQUARIUM)(pg. D4) DRAWING: CAUGHT: A sketch of a right whale entangled in fishing gear. American authorities are beginning to impose gear restrictions to reduce entanglements.(DRAWING BY SCOTT LANDRY/PROVINCETOWN CENTER FOR COASTAL STUDIES)
MAPS: Steering Clear: The population of right whales in American and Canadian waters has slowly crept up from perhaps 100 in 1900 to an estimated 300 to 400 today.(Sources: Kerry Lagueux, New England Aquarium
Mike Thompson, NOAA Stellwagen Bank Sanctuary
 Collins Bartholomew) Chart details area of Florida. (pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE MAMMALS (92%); BIOLOGY (90%); OCEANOGRAPHY (90%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); OCEANS (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (77%); FISHES (77%); WHALING (74%); INTERVIEWS (64%); FISHERIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011



672 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: State Colleges Also Face Cuts In Ambitions

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
TEMPE, Ariz. -- When Michael Crow became president of Arizona State University seven years ago, he promised to make it ''The New American University,'' with 100,000 students by 2020. It would break down the musty old boundaries between disciplines, encourage advanced research and entrepreneurship to drive the new economy, and draw in students from underserved sectors of the state.
He quickly made a name for himself, increasing enrollment by nearly a third to 67,000 students, luring big-name professors and starting interdisciplinary schools in areas like sustainability, projects with partners like the Mayo Clinic and Sichuan University in China, and dozens of new degree programs
But this year, Mr. Crow's plans have crashed into new budget realities, raising questions about how many public research universities the nation needs and whether universities like Arizona State, in their drive to become prominent research institutions, have lost focus on their public mission to provide solid undergraduate education for state residents. 
These days, the headlines about Arizona State describe its enormous cuts.
The university has eliminated more than 500 jobs, including deans, department chairmen and hundreds of teaching assistants. Last month, Mr. Crow announced that the university would close 48 programs, cap enrollment and move up the freshman application deadline by five months. Every employee, from Mr. Crow down, will have 10 to 15 unpaid furlough days this spring.
''The New American University has died; welcome to the Neutered American University,'' the student newspaper editorialized last month the morning after the latest cuts were announced.
While Arizona State's economic problems have been particularly dramatic, layoffs and salary freezes are becoming common at public universities across the nation; the University of Florida recently eliminated 430 faculty and staff positions, the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, laid off about 100 employees, and the University of Vermont froze some administrative staff salaries, left open 22 faculty positions and laid off 16 workers.
''What's happening, everywhere, is what's happening to Michael Crow,'' said Jane Wellman, executive director of the Delta Project on Postsecondary Costs, Productivity and Accountability, an organization that studies spending by colleges and universities. ''The trend line is states disinvesting in higher education.''
The picture varies by state. Dozens of states, hit hard by the recession, made midyear cuts in their financing for higher education. And yet, budgets are largely intact at some leading research universities, like the University of Michigan.
Public universities everywhere are bracing for deep cuts in next year's budgets, but the federal stimulus package, providing billions for education and billions more for research, should ease the problem somewhat.
Despite the cuts, Mr. Crow said he was sticking to his priorities, protecting his new programs and his tenured and tenure-track faculty members. And he is hoping to expand research, with, for example, renewable-energy money from the stimulus package.
''I don't retreat very easily,'' he said. ''The economy is shifting faster than the university can adjust, but we're trying to protect students from the hurricane. We're protecting the core of the core.''
But not everyone is convinced that the Arizona State model makes sense.
''It may be that the idea of a 100,000-student research university was never very sustainable,'' said Patrick M. Callan, president of the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education, which promotes access to higher education. ''In this economy, the places that have been trying to claw their way up the ladder, the ones whose aspirations have exceeded their financial vision, are going to have the toughest time. They can't be all things to all people.''
But Mr. Crow thinks he can simultaneously broaden access for Arizonans, improve academic quality and increase research.
His university, he said, is an inclusive institution where there are 7,000 students with no family income at all and a growing population of American Indian students. Tuition in most programs is under $6,000 a year for state residents, in part because of a State Constitution provision that it be as ''nearly free'' as possible, which courts have interpreted to mean that its tuition must be in the bottom third of public universities nationwide.
Mr. Crow's record for improving quality is impressive, too. He has hired more than 600 tenured or tenure-track faculty members, and last year, for the first time, won a spot on the National Science Foundation's list of the top 20 research universities without a medical school, along with powerhouses like M.I.T. and the University of California, Berkeley.
But not every university can be in the top 20. And in a time of shrinking state budgets, undergraduates at public universities will most likely pay the price in higher tuition, larger classes and less interaction with tenured professors. So it is a real question how many public research universities the nation can afford, and what share of resources should go to less expensive forms of education, like community colleges.
''Universities aspire to prestige,'' Ms. Wellman said, ''and that is achieved by increasing selectivity, getting a research mission and having faculty do as little teaching as possible, not by teaching and learning, and taking students from Point A to Point B.''
Mark G. Yudof, president of the University of California, laments that it has become an article of faith that every depressed area needs a research university.
''Research universities are very expensive,'' Mr. Yudof said, ''and you can't have one in every county and every state. Your first obligation as a public university is to treat the undergraduates right. That's going to need a national attitude adjustment from leadership and boards of regents.''
California's three-tier higher-education system, which serves 3.3 million students, almost 20 percent of the nation's college population, is among the hardest hit by the current recession. This year, with hundreds of millions of dollars removed from their budgets, both the California State University system and the University of California are being forced to shrink their enrollment.
''We're trying as hard as we can to preserve the instructional program,'' Mr. Yudof said. ''But with the economy shrinking, and less money allocated to public universities, can I guarantee that the class that would have been 40 won't be 45? I can't.''
Finding the right balance between improving academic quality and serving state residents is not easy.
Case in point: merit scholarships. Arizona State University recruits National Merit Scholars nationwide with a four-year $90,000 scholarship, a package so generous that Arizona State enrolls 600 National Merit Scholars, more than Yale or Stanford. Through the cuts, Mr. Crow has kept that program, even while proposing to cut a scholarship for Arizona residents with high scores on state tests, a proposal the state regents turned down.
And even as his plans for expanding the university have slowed, Mr. Crow is trying to increase the enrollment of out-of-state students -- who pay triple tuition -- to as high as 40 percent next year.
When the latest cuts were announced, many Arizona State students said they believed Mr. Crow was doing his best to protect them but that, ultimately, the quality of their education could suffer.
''My African-American history professor said he thinks classes will be bigger next semester, and that's too bad,'' said Tierra Jenkins, a sophomore civil engineering student.
Many blame the Legislature for short-sightedness in failing to support the university when it plays such a key role in the state's economy and residents' upward mobility.
''It really takes a lot of wind out of the sails of this university,'' said Kyle Whitman, a senior and an economics major who works part-time in Mr. Crow's office. ''It's been on such a strong trajectory.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Great things were promised for Arizona State University in Tempe seven years ago, but that was before recession struck.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSS D. FRANKLIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Michael Crow (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PARAEDUCATORS (75%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (94%); MAYO CLINIC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011



673 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2313 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times: March 17, 2009

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
International
PAKISTAN CHIEF JUSTICE REINSTATED;
One Hard Fight Comes to a Close
Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry of Pakistan has been reinstated after two years of struggle, violence and oppression. Spirits and expectations were high among his supporters, who speculated on what his first move would be. Page A5
IRANIAN WITHDRAWS FROM RACE
Iran's reformist former president, Mohammad Khatami, has withdrawn from the presidential race in June. Close aides said was seeking to support a close political ally. Page A5 
A NEW PRESIDENT IN EL SALVADOR
As soon as he won the presidency in El Salvador, Mauricio Funes -- the leader of a party of former leftist guerillas -- reassured his opponents that he would not judge them and that his party would move forward in a spirit of national unity. That he makes reassurances at all is an indicator of just how much the country's 12-year civil war affects its politics. Page A5
IN MADAGASCAR, A SYMBOLIC SEIZURE
Soldiers broke into an unoccupied palace in Madagascar. The operation was a symbolic show of force after the opposition leader called on the military to arrest the president. Page A7
Appenzell Journal
The Hills Are Alive, With Nudity
Recently it has become fashionable for some hikers in the Swiss Alps to wear little more than a knapsack, hiking boots and sunscreen. It's given quite a turn to a local town, which worries that the trend may gather strength ... and numbers. Page A7
U.S. AND EUROPE DISCUSS DETAINEES
The Obama administration met with a delegation from the European Union in the first steps toward involving Europe in the closing of Guantanamo. The administration has promised to provide information on detainees when the time comes to ask for specific resettlements in Europe. Page A10
U.N. TAKES COMMAND IN CHAD
There has been a relative calm in Chad after the arrival of a European Union military force in the first test of its military capabilities. Now, the European Union has transferred command to the United Nations. Page A10
BOMBER KILLS 11 IN AFGHANISTAN
A police convoy in Afghanistan was hit by a suicide bomber on foot, killing 11 people and wounding 28. The convoy had been preparing to destroy opium-poppy fields; the narcotics trade has been helping to finance the insurgency. Page A11
National
A RACE TO BE THE FIRST
To Use Stimulus Money
With money from President Obama's stimulus bill beginning to reach states, there has been a rush among agencies across the country to claim their projects as the first to break ground or begin work. PAGE A14
LANDMARK CASE WITH LITTLE IMPACT
The Supreme Court's decision in District of Columbia v. Heller ruled for the first time that the Second Amendment protect an individual's right to own guns. But in examining the ways that courts have ruled since, it looks as if little has changed. Adam Liptak, Sidebar. PAGE A14
OBAMA SET TO NAME APPEALS JUDGE
President Obama is expected to name David F. Hamilton, a highly regarded federal trial court judge from Indiana, to the appeals court in Chicago -- his first candidate to an appeals court. Judge Hamilton is said by lawyers to represent some of his state's traditionally moderate strain. PAGE A14
STATE SENATOR CONVICTED OF FRAUD
Vincent J. Fumo, a 30-year veteran of the Pennsylvania State Senate, was found guilty on all 137 counts with which he had been charged, for defrauding the state and two nonprofit groups of $3.5 million and having state employees do political and personal tasks. PAGE A15
SENATOR SAYS PLEDGE WAS BROKEN
Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa says President Obama is violating a campaign promise by stating that he can bypass whistle-blower protections for executive-branch officials who give certain information to Congress. PAGE A17
OBAMA ON THE COUCH
President Obama will be a guest on ''The Tonight Show with Jay Leno'' on Thursday, in what NBC is billing as the first personal appearance by a commander in chief on a late-night television program. And the White House responded to criticism from former Vice President Dick Cheney with a dig of its own. The Caucus. PAGE A17
A SYMBOL OF WHAT WAS LOST
The globe that sits atop the headquarters of The Seattle Post-Intelligencer is regarded by many Seattleites as the city's finest landmark, even over the Space Needle. But even as the paper shutters its print edition, the globe will spin on. PAGE A18
Obituaries
ALAN W. LIVINGSTON, 91
As the president of Capitol Records, he declined three times to release singles by a British band, then little known in the United States, called the Beatles. He finally relented, and probably changed rock 'n' roll history in the process. PAGE A21
Metro
A TOLL PROPOSAL TO AID M.T.A.
Stalls in State Senate
A proposal to add tolls to bridges over the East and Harlem Rivers to help finance the beleaguered Metropolitan Transportation Authority appears to be dead in the State Senate, as the Democratic majority is preparing to offer a short-term alternative plan to bail out the authority. PAGE A19
A FEW LEADS IN ARROW CASE
The police were investigating in the Riverdale section of the Bronx after a woman was struck in the abdomen by an arrow. The woman, Denise Delgado Brown, 51, was recovering in St. Barnabas Hospital, where she had undergone emergency surgery. PAGE A19
Business
AFTER BAILOUT, GOLDMAN
Gives Workers a Windfall
Goldman Sachs, who accepted billions of taxpayer dollars last fall and was also a big beneficiary of the rescue of the American International Group, is offering to lend money to about 1,000 employees who have been squeezed by the financial crisis. PAGE B1
DOUBT CAST ON CHRYSLER'S SURVIVAL
Robert L. Nardelli, the chairman of Chrysler, which is asking the federal government for $5 billion in loans in addition to $4 billion it had already received, cast doubt on whether the struggling automaker could survive a government-sponsored bankruptcy reorganization. PAGE B1
CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY GAINS FAVOR
For years, scientists have been experimenting with ways to ''clean'' coal on a small scale. Now the allocation of $3.5 billion in the federal stimulus bill has encouraged Duke Energy and other companies to mount full-scale projects that could prove to be one of the most significant ways to tackle global warming. PAGE B1
BARCLAYS LOOKS TO SELL ASSET UNIT
Barclays said it was in talks to sell iShares, a part of its fund management business, as the bank seeks to increase its capital without surrendering a stake to the government. PAGE B3
PROGRAM FINDS USE BEYOND SEARCH
Hadoop, a free software program named after the creator's son's stuffed elephant, above, has made it easier than ever to analyze and access the unprecedented volumes of data churned out by the Internet. Now, three former engineers and a former executive from Oracle have announced a start-up called Cloudera, that will try to bring Hadoop's capabilities to industries as far afield as genomics, retailing and finance. PAGE B3
Arts
'SOPRANOS' CREATOR TO RETURN
To HBO With New Miniseries
David Chase, the creator of ''The Sopranos,'' is returning to HBO for a miniseries called ''Ribbon of Dreams,'' about the history of the movie industry. Neither Chase nor the network has released many details about the project. (Still no information on what happened to the Russian who escaped from Paulie and Chris, either.)
A WHITER TELEVISION LANDSCAPE
The cancellation of a number of television shows with black lead actors raises some questions about whether television actually made any progress last fall in better reflecting the audience it serves, and whether viewers will see a return to old, monochromatic ways in the coming season. PAGE C1
HUMANIZING A FIGHT FOR FREEDOM
''The Good Negro,'' a historical drama by Tracey Scott Wilson at the Public Theater, humanizes the civil rights organizers who are often reduced to several pages in history books and rendered devoid of foibles. A review by Charles Isherwood. PAGE C1
Architecture Review Boldly Rethinking Paris
France may be struggling with an economic collapse, but Nicolai Ouroussoff writes that the 10 new proposals for a master plan for metropolitan Paris may be just the kind of brazen idealism the world needs right now. PAGE C1
STANDOFF OVER DISPUTED WORKS
The Italian government has managed to negotiate the return of what it says are looted antiquities from American museums and private collectors, but the Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek, an art museum in Copenhagen, has not been as cooperative. PAGE C2
Works Inspired by Bees and Battles C7
Sports
COACH SAYS JUDGE THE TEAM,
Not Its Conference
Based on merit -- and numbers -- Memphis should have been a top seed in the N.C.A.A. tournament, ahead of Connecticut. But the Memphis coach, John Calipari, knew that would not happen, as his team does not play in one of the Bowl Conference Series leagues that make up most of the field this year. William C. Rhoden, Sports of The Times. PAGE B13
RETHINKING CHOICE TO TURN PRO
DeAndre Jordan's eye-popping athleticism caught the attention of N.B.A. scouts, and he bolted college after one year for professional riches. His decision to leave early has been heavily questioned after he was drafted much lower than expected and has languished on the Los Angeles Clippers' bench while his old college team prepares for the N.C.A.A. tournament. PAGE B14
UNDER A LONG SHADOW
Connecticut is indisputably the best team in women's college basketball this season, beating every opponent by double figures and finishing the regular season undefeated. But many people don't think they're the best team UConn has ever fielded, let alone one of the best teams of all time. PAGE B11
Science Times
AN OUTBREAK OF AUTISM,
Or a Coincidence?
A cluster of autism cases among Somali immigrants in Minneapolis has terrified parents in the community. But public health experts say it is hard to tell whether the apparent surge of cases is an actual outbreak, with a cause that can be addressed, or just a statistical fluke. PAGE D1
Basics
Knock-Knock.
Wait. Is That How It Goes?
Why are the best jokes often the hardest to remember? Take heart. It's not you, writes Natalie Angier, but a function of the quirky wiring in your brain, your three-pound throne of wisdom, complete with whoopee cushion. PAGE D1
EMPATHY THROUGH BIPOLAR DISORDER
Dr. Alice W. Flaherty, a professor of neurology at Harvard and director of the movement disorders fellowship at Massachusetts General Hospital, became bipolar after she delivered stillborn twins. She has used the racing mind of her manic phases to drive her ideas into forceful, highly personal treatments for her patients. PAGE C2
A STUFFY BARITONE
Why your voice becomes deeper when you have a cold. PAGE D2
DISCOVERING 'THE MONSTER'
Scientists have confirmed that they have found two partial skeletons of a gigantic new species of pliosaur, an extinct marine reptile that was at least 50 feet long and weighed 45 tons, which hunted the seas 150 million years ago in the Jurassic Period. The new species has no name yet, though scientists are calling it the Monster or Predator X. PAGE D3
DEBATING DROPLETS ON MARS CRAFT
Scientists at NASA are debating whether the droplets seen in photographs on the landing struts of the Phoenix Mars spacecraft are from water just below the planet's surface. PAGE D3
Health
Playing Nutritional Gatekeeper
More people are eating at home these days, but just how healthy the food they are eating depends on who's doing the cooking. Well, Tara Parker-Pope. Page D5
RISKS AFTER PREGNANCY
Pre-eclampsia, a condition that results in high blood pressure and leaky blood vessles, affects about 5 percent of pregnant women, and experts say that the temporary condition comes with lasting health risks, with studies showing that women who suffered from it have twice the risk of a later stroke or heart attack. PAGE D5
Editorial
THE GIFT THAT KEEPS ON GIVING
After four bailouts totaling some $170 billion, American International Group has finally answered some of the questions about where the money went. Unfortunately, the answers have only succeeded in raising many more questions. Page A22
PAKISTAN'S QUICK FIX
Pakistan's president, Asif Ali Zardari, made the right choice on Monday, agreeing to reinstate the independent-minded former Supreme Court justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry. Mr. Zardari will have to do a lot more to calm the political turmoil that threatens Pakistan's survival. Page A22
ON SIGNING STATEMENTS
Last week, President Obama outlined principles that would roll back the excessive powers Mr. Bush claimed for his presidency, but the new president quickly issued a signing statement of his own that made us wonder just how clean a break he intended to make. Page A22
Op-Ed
DAVID BROOKS
The United States was born as a commercial republic, addicted to the pace of commercial enterprise. After periodic pauses, the country inevitably returns to its elemental nature. The country is in one of those pauses today. Page A23
BOB HERBERT
The recession has worsened the already stagnant economy on the South Side of Chicago and its nearby suburbs. An airport project that would provide needed jobs can't seem to get off the ground. Page A23
LIFE UNDER PAKISTAN'S TALIBAN
In Op-Ed articles, Patrick French, the biographer of V.S. Naipaul, argues that the Pakistani government's deal with the Taliban over the Swat region was the worst sort of appeasement, while Kristen L. Rouse, an Army lieutenant, recalls her experiences at the sites of Taliban massacres of children in Afghanistan. Page A23
Correction: March 18, 2009, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A capsule summary in some copies on Tuesday for an article about Senator Charles E. Grassley's criticism of President Obama for saying his administration could bypass whistle-blower protections for executive branch officials who give some information to Congress misidentified the senator's home state. Mr. Grassley is a Republican from Iowa, not Ohio.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (pg. A2
 pg. A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); POLITICS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); LITIGATION (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); CIVIL WAR (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); HIKING (70%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (69%); MOUNTAINS (65%); OPIUM (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (61%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ALPS (74%) EUROPE (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); MADAGASCAR (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011



674 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Campaigns for Challenging Times Put Children and Mothers First

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THERE is a saying among marketers that in tough times, whatever merchandise consumers are still buying is purchased in this order: first, for the children; then for mom; next, for the pets; and finally, for dad.
That may be why advertisers selling products aimed at children and mothers seem to be staying the course or, in some instances, expanding efforts meant to maintain or increase market share. For example, Pepperidge Farm Goldfish, sold by the Campbell Soup Company, recently teamed up with the Cartoon Network cable channel, part of Time Warner, for a ''National Recess Week'' promotion, centered on encouraging school-age children to be more active.
And Mott's apple juice and apple sauce, sold by the Dr Pepper Snapple Group, are returning to television advertising after a 10-year absence in a campaign intended to convince mothers that those products are a good source of the fruit their children ought to eat daily. The campaign, by Laird & Partners in New York, features the actress Marcia Cross, a mother in real life who is also among the mothers of Wisteria Lane on the ABC series ''Desperate Housewives.'' 
Also indicative of the trend are a couple of agreements, to be announced on Tuesday, between the Walt Disney Company and two major marketers, the J. C. Penney Company and State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance.
The Penney deal covers a variety of media outlets, in what is known as a cross-platform advertising sales package. The agreement, centered on the popular ''Hannah Montana'' series on the Disney Channel, also includes Disney Online, Radio Disney and FamilyFun magazine.
A campaign also involves Disney units like the consumer products division; the Walt Disney Studios unit, for ''Hannah Montana the Movie,'' scheduled to be released on April 10; and Walt Disney Records.
The State Farm deal is focused on the Disney Channel and one of its stars, Selena Gomez, from the series ''Wizards of Waverly Place.'' The agreement, intended to help encourage safe driving among teenagers, also includes a section of the State Farm Web site (statefarm.com/teendriving) and the Disney Channel Web site (disneychannel.com).
''We feel it's important in this climate to not have a bunker mentality, to be out there showing new things to our customers,'' said Clark McNaught, senior vice president and general merchandise manager for the children's division at Penney in Plano, Tex.
''A stronger value message'' is also a part of the pitch, Mr. McNaught said, reflecting the realities of the recession, as Penney plays up what he called ''the great quality and good style'' of its girls' clothing.
At State Farm, said Mark Gibson, assistant vice president for advertising in Bloomington, Ill., the agreement represents the first time the company will advertise on the Disney Channel, which competes for young viewers against cable channels like Cartoon Network and Nickelodeon, owned by Viacom.
''The key here is to make sure our brand stays relevant to consumers,'' Mr. Gibson said, at a time when they are ''looking for value'' in a way that extends ''beyond price, to looking for a company they know and trust.''
The deal with the Disney Channel is part of a broader effort on safer teenage driving being sponsored by State Farm, which includes TV commercials; a remixed rock version of the song ''Sixteen Going on Seventeen'' from ''The Sound of Music,'' by a group called Modern Music, which can be downloaded from the teenage-driving section of the State Farm Web site; and the Steer Clear Program, offering discounts on car insurance to young drivers and their parents.
Ms. Gomez -- who is 16 and ''just got her learner's permit,'' according to Mr. Gibson -- appears in two commercials that State Farm will run on the Disney Channel. She is accompanied by her mother, Mandy Teefy, in the spots, which cover subjects like the importance of wearing seat belts, obeying speed limits and avoiding talking or sending text on cellphones while driving.
''What our clients are trying to achieve are two objectives: reaching children directly or reaching children and their moms,'' said Tricia Wilber, executive vice president for the Disney media advertising sales and marketing group in New York.
''Certainly, we're all seeing the challenges,'' Ms. Wilber said, referring to the economy, but the Disney Channel is fortunate in that it has few sponsors in hard-hit categories like automobiles and financial services.
Although retailers like Penney are under pressure in this environment, she added, they are continuing their presence on the channel.
Mr. McNaught at Penney described how ''in this economy,'' the company is being more selective with sponsorship deals, preferring they be ''focused with our major partners,'' rather than trying to ''do a little bit of everything.''
The Penney deal with Disney will promote a Go Hollywood sweepstakes, tied to the release of the Hannah Montana movie. The grand prize includes a trip to California for four and a prop from the film, a dress worn by Hannah (Miley Cyrus).
There will also be a commercial that promotes Penney's new status as a sponsor of the Disney Channel.
The Disney deal is among several recent initiatives from Penney to try to stimulate sales despite the sour retail climate. The company was a major sponsor of the coverage of the Academy Awards on Feb. 22, running commercials for several new lines of women's clothing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: State Farm's spots with Selena Gomez of the Disney Channel series ''Wizards of Waverly Place'' promote safe driving. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DISNEY CHANNEL)
 The J. C. Penney agreement with Disney covers various Disney media outlets, including FamilyFun magazine. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); YOUTH MARKET (78%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); SALES & SELLING (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); CABLE TELEVISION (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (74%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (73%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); ADOLESCENTS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (70%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (69%); EXECUTIVES (60%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (84%); WALT DISNEY CO (83%); STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (83%); CAMPBELL SOUP CO (83%); J C PENNEY CO INC (82%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (81%); DR PEPPER SNAPPLE GROUP INC (56%); DISNEY INTERACTIVE MEDIA GROUP (54%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (83%); CPB (NYSE) (83%); JCP (NYSE) (82%); DPS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (83%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (83%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (83%); NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (83%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (83%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (82%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (82%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (82%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (82%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (56%); SIC2087 FLAVORING EXTRACTS & FLAVORING SYRUPS, NEC (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: MILEY CYRUS (53%); MARCIA CROSS (53%); SELENA GOMEZ (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BLOOMINGTON, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011



675 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 480 words

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
FIRING BECOMES
 A Food Fight
 Whole Foods Market fired Ralph Reese for taking a tuna fish sandwich.
 But was it misconduct?
 It is a question that matters. Anyone fired for misconduct is denied unemployment benefits. 
 Whole Foods argued that Mr. Reese, 57, of Queens, tried to steal a sandwich at the end of his shift as a deli clerk at the Union Square store on Nov. 9. Under company policy, food must be paid for, though employees receive a 20 percent discount.
 ''I cannot comment specifically on this case, on this person and the conditions of his employment by Whole Foods,'' said Libba Letton, a spokeswoman for the company. But she did say there was a procedure for workers to sample food: They must ask their supervisor, the food is logged and servings are typically sample-size. 
 ''Any variation from this procedure would be taken very seriously,'' Ms. Letton said.
 Initially, New York State ruled that the episode was misconduct, based on Whole Foods' statement. In New York, employers' unemployment insurance rates are based on the amount of the benefits their former workers collect.
 Mr. Reese challenged the ruling in January. ''I knew what they said was wrong,'' said Mr. Reese, who earned $11.50 an hour.
 Whole Foods did not send a representative to court.
 His version of the story: He was throwing out 30 sandwiches at the end of the shift, and he put the tuna sandwich aside on a counter in plain view. When the supervisor confronted him about it, he said the sandwich was going to be thrown out and he was going to eat it.
 The supervisor then threw out the sandwich. Two days later, Mr. Reese was fired.
 Mr. Reese had worked at Whole Foods for two years. He had transferred to the deli from the grocery department, where his supervisor had allowed employees to take damaged food. ''They can't sell them,'' Mr. Reese said. ''That is why they throw them out. That is why they don't mind giving it to us.''
 The administrative law judge, William Badillo, ruled in February that Mr. Reese did not eat the food without paying for it or take the food out of the store. And given that Mr. Reese had no record of warnings, it was seen as an ''isolated instance of poor judgment which does not rise to the level of misconduct.''
 Mr. Reese, who is still unemployed, started receiving his benefits two weeks ago. ''All of this,'' he mused, ''over something that was going in the garbage.''
 JENNIFER 8. LEE 
 ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 VIDEO: Freedom Tower Rises: Follow the progress at ground zero with the first of many video reports on construction (and delays) over the next few years. 
 Madoff Victims Eat Free: Though victims of Bernard L. Madoff may never recoup their losses -- collectively estimated at $65 billion -- they can get a salve of free pork osso buco at Nino's 208, on 58th Street a few blocks from the Lipstick Building, where Mr. Madoff kept offices. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGELA JIMENEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID W. DUNLAP/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISCONDUCT (91%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); SHOPLIFTING (77%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (67%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (67%); JUDGES (65%)

COMPANY: WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (58%)

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (58%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



676 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: Getty Museum Facing 25 Percent Budget Cut

BYLINE: Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
The J. Paul Getty Trust, which operates the J. Paul Getty Museum at the Getty Center in Los Angeles, will cut its budget for the coming fiscal year by almost 25 percent, following drastic declines in its endowment, The Los Angeles Times reported. The Getty Trust's portfolio declined to $4.5 billion by a corresponding 25 percent, down from $6 billion, in the second half of 2008. James N. Wood, the president of the trust, told The Los Angeles Times that its core operating budget for the fiscal year would be $216 million, down from $284 million in the previous fiscal year. Mr. Wood said the Getty museum's stability could ''fall off a huge cliff'' if the institution did not make these cuts and its economic prospects worsened. The museum has been reducing staff and operating hours since the fall. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET CUTS (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



677 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: It's One Way to Get Your Hands on a Bit of New York Real Estate

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD

 BODY:
When even the Metropolitan Museum of Art is laying off staff members, what do you do if your financial base is less Fifth Avenue and more Queens Boulevard? 
 The Queens Museum of Art has come up with a creative way of weathering the downturn and its attendant drop in donations to cultural institutions: capitalizing on a unique piece of New York real estate.
 The museum's most famous asset is its 9,335-square-foot scale model of New York City, originally built for the 1964 World's Fair. The Panorama of the City of New York has 895,000 structures, replicating every street, bridge and skyscraper in the five boroughs. 
 It is the physical and sentimental centerpiece of the museum, located on the old fairgrounds in Flushing Meadows Corona Park, next to the Unisphere, the enormous stainless-steel globe that was also built for the fair and has become an unofficial symbol of Queens.
 Now, the museum is beginning an Adopt-a-Building program.
 Starting Monday, you can ''own'' an apartment in the tiny world of the model -- say, the one you live in -- for $50. A single-family house will cost $250. 
 And for $10,000, developers can have their brand-new glass-tower condo buildings added to the panorama -- no matter how many units are languishing on the market. ''Buyers'' will even be awarded their own deeds. 
 Until now, the panorama has represented a snapshot of New York, frozen in time. In 1992, workers updated 60,000 structures to reflect the city's constant churn of construction and demolition, but it has been untouched since then. 
 In this miniature world, the World Trade Center still stands, for instance, and the luxury towers now lining the Long Island City and Williamsburg waterfronts are nowhere to be seen.
 Now, the panorama will evolve gradually along with the city -- at least, for those who pay.
 The first taker was the New York Mets. In a ceremony on Monday morning, Claudia Ma, a City College architecture student, walked onto the panorama and, like a giant monster in a Japanese disaster film -- but with more finesse -- pulled the model of Shea Stadium from its foundation. She fastened the new Citi Field into place, mirroring the real-life replacement under way not far from the museum. (Those nostalgic for the old Shea can now visit the model in the museum's World's Fair exhibit.)
 In the audience was Helen M. Marshall, the Queens borough president, who donated $250 to adopt her house in East Elmhurst.
 Adopt-a-Building will raise funds dedicated to maintaining the panorama and the educational programs built around it, including tours for schoolchildren. The models are to be built by City College architecture students.
 The possibilities immediately raised a number of questions both selfish and civic-minded.
 First of all, what if you have the disappointing experience of locating your own corner but finding that your building -- a 12-story prewar apartment house in distinctive yellow brick with lion's head cornices -- is represented by a generic five-story tenement? (While viewers can delight in spotting precise details, like the green roof of the Carlyle Hotel and the steel-ribbed Unisphere, not every structure merits an exact replica.)
 ''We'd be happy to update it if your co-op board would like to get together and pool your money,'' offered David Strauss, the museum's director for external relations.
 But what if it's a rent-stabilized building?
 ''I'd have to boil down the price,'' Mr. Strauss said. But he warned jocularly that like stabilized rents, the price might rise by a fixed percentage each year.
 Seriously, though, ''There is always room for negotiation when working with the general public,'' he said. ''Like in the real estate market.'' 
 On a topic of more general importance for the urban psyche: If the museum starts updating post-2001 commercial projects like the Edge in Williamsburg, won't it be anachronistic to leave the twin towers standing?
 The museum will not put a hole at ground zero, Mr. Strauss said. Instead, once the new skyscrapers planned for the site are in place, a model of them will replace the model of the towers. 
 ''That's something that obviously we'd like the developer to take care of,'' Mr. Strauss added, hinting at the $10,000 donation. ''But we'd probably do it anyway, since it's such an important structure to the city.''
 But that decision is years away, with the ground zero project facing logistical delays and the challenges of the economic downturn, unless a tribe of enormous aliens comes up with an Adopt-a-Building program for the real city.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Properties are for ''sale'' in the Panorama of the City of New York at the Queens Museum of Art. David Strauss, director for external affairs, looms over the skyline.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Claudia Ma places a model of Citi Field in Queens after removing Shea Stadium. The Mets became the first to adopt a site.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THE QUEENS MUSEUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (84%); FUNDRAISING (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (68%); BASEBALL (61%); CHILDREN (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%); NEW YORK METS (59%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



678 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Computer Science Programs Make a Comeback in Enrollment

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
For the first time in six years, enrollment in computer science programs in the United States increased last year, according to an annual report that tracks trends in the academic discipline.
 The revival is significant, according to computer scientists and industry executives, who in the past have pointed to declining numbers of science and engineering students as a canary-in-a-coal-mine indicator warning about the nation's weakening ability to compete in the global economy.
 The number of majors and pre-majors in American computer science programs was up 6.2 percent from 2007, according to the Taulbee Survey, an annual survey conducted by the Computing Research Association following trends in student enrollment, degree production, employment and faculty salaries for computer science, computer engineering and schools of information in the United States and Canada. 
 ''This could be a sign that we are beginning to make headway as well as increased attention, increased interest and increased investment,'' said Andrew A. Chien, director of research at Intel, the world's largest manufacturer of semiconductors.
 The latest report uncovered a series of bright spots for an academic discipline that underwent a midlife crisis after the dot-com collapse beginning in 2000. After a wave of students came to the discipline during the Internet boom, there was an equivalent decline during the past eight years as the nation's college students decided en masse that the future lay in fields like investment banking and financial engineering.
 The Taulbee Survey, with data tables covering different time periods, also found that the number of new undergraduate majors in computer science increased 9.5 percent and that the rate of decline in new bachelor's degrees improved to 10 percent, from 20 percent in the previous report. Total Ph.D. production grew to 1,877 for the period July 2007 to June 2008, a 5.7 percent increase over the previous period.
 ''The most compelling story for our community is that interest in computer science appears to have turned the corner,'' said Peter Harsha, director of government affairs at the Computing Research Association, an organization representing 200 North American academic departments of computer science, computer engineering and related fields; 26 industrial research labs; and 6 affiliated professional societies. ''We think this bodes well for efforts to change the perception about careers in computing.''
 In recent years the computer science community has done a good deal of hand-wringing over fears that students increasingly saw the field as one of drudge work involving sitting at computer monitors and writing endless lines of code. Now, say Mr. Harsha and others who are following student interests, there is a sense that computing science skills are increasingly being seen as a toolkit for pursuing a number of modern careers.
 ''We're seeing amazing increases in enrollment,'' said Eric Roberts, a computer scientist at Stanford University. ''It's not that people have forgotten about the offshoring of jobs, but our competition isn't what it was. There are fewer places to go, and we don't have Lehman Brothers, Bear Sterns and Citibank to compete with.''
 He noted that seven or eight years ago, few students would think about the possibility of a computer science graduate education, and that it was all about wealth.
 ''The ability to make a billion dollars by the time you are 30 years old is a huge motivation,'' he said.
 The latest survey was not entirely optimistic. The study, which for the first time included data from schools of information, indicated that diversity in computer science programs continued to remain poor. For example, the fraction of bachelor's degrees awarded to women remained steady at 11.8 percent in 2008.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SCIENCE (95%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TRENDS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (89%); COMPUTATIONAL RESEARCH (88%); ELECTRONICS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); INVESTMENT BANKING (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (54%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL TECHNICAL SYSTEMS INC (92%); INTEL CORP (58%)

TICKER: NTSC (NASDAQ) (92%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (92%); NAICS541380 TESTING LABORATORIES (92%); SIC8734 TESTING LABORATORIES (92%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



679 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Offers Loans To Stretched Employees

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Goldman Sachs got its bailout. Now some of its bankers, those aristocrats of Wall Street, apparently need a bit of a bailout too.
 Goldman, which accepted billions of taxpayer dollars last fall and, as learned Sunday, was also a big beneficiary of the rescue of the American International Group, is offering to lend money to more than 1,000 employees who have been squeezed by the financial crisis. The loans, offered via e-mail last week, could range from a few thousand dollars to hundreds of thousands. 
 Working at Goldman has long been regarded as a sure path to riches. But Goldman's employees are losing money on their personal investments -- particularly in Goldman's own elite investment funds, which have been considered one of the perks of working at the bank. 
 Now these funds have stumbled, and some Goldman employees who financed their gilded lifestyles by borrowing in good times are suddenly short on cash needed to meet commitments to their personal investments in the funds. ''It's a problem with the culture of spending,'' said Gustavo Dolfino, the president of Whiterock Group, a Wall Street recruitment firm. ''No matter how much you have, you spend like you have a lot more.''
 The development comes at a tumultuous time for Goldman Sachs, which is struggling to recapture its former glory -- and profits -- since it became an old-fashioned bank holding company. Goldman is one of the eight banks that were told to accept taxpayer money, and it is trying to pay that money back soon. 
 At least one of the vehicles, in a group known as the Whitehall funds, sank more than 50 percent last year. Another let its investors withdraw their money this year -- at a significant loss. 
 With a focus on real estate and private equity investments, the funds -- which also include Goldman Sachs Capital Partners -- have traditionally performed extremely well, sometimes increasing sevenfold in a few years. Goldman even promoted its employee participation in the funds as a selling point to outside investors.
 Some Goldman employees got rich before the markets collapsed, allowing them to invest several million dollars in the funds, often on a leveraged basis. Only three years ago, Goldman paid more than 50 employees more than $20 million apiece. In 2007, its chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, collected one of the biggest bonuses in corporate history -- nearly $70 million. 
 But one former Goldman partner estimated that a quarter of the bank's roughly 100 partners are now worth $5 million or less because of losses on their company stock and other investments. Last year, the bank's seven top executives received no bonuses. One of them, Jon A. Winkelried, resigned from his position as co-president a few weeks ago, saying he wanted to spend more time with his family. His estate on Nantucket is on the market. 
 It is unclear how many Goldman bankers and traders will take up the bank's offer. The funds periodically require investors to add more money, and late last year, Goldman's most senior management and board began to realize some employees might have trouble living up to this obligation after receiving low bonuses, according to a person briefed on the situation.
 Employees in the funds are contractually obligated to meet requests for more capital. Several funds have such capital calls scheduled for April. Employees who fail to make the payments risk losing their jobs, according to a person familiar with the situation.
 The new loans at Goldman are being offered to help employees meet capital demands from the internal funds and cannot be used for other personal needs, according to people familiar with the matter. 
 A spokesman for Goldman Sachs confirmed the existence of the loan program but declined to elaborate. The funds that are the most troubled were raised right before the financial crisis. Goldman raised $20 billion in its most recent private equity fund and some $9 billion in the Whitehall real estate funds in 2007 and 2008. 
 About a third of the money in the funds typically comes from Goldman and its employees, and since 1991, the bank and its employees have accounted for $7.5 billion of the $26 billion in the Whitehall funds.
 Some employees now wish they had not invested. Properties like the Helmsley building, which Goldman helped purchase in 2007, have nose-dived in value. Stuart Rothenberg, the former head of Goldman's real estate group, warned just before he retired last year about Goldman's real estate exposure and said Goldman became ''for all intents and purposes, almost an enlarged hedge fund,'' according to Reuters. 
 Beyond the drop in the stock market, there are various reasons cash is tight for some Goldman employees. Some traders, for instance, are facing tax bills for bonuses paid in early 2008. They already spent that money, and their bonuses early this year were too small to foot the bill. 
 Others who borrowed against their stock holdings have been forced to sell at losses or put up more collateral against their loan. Goldman is one of many banks that has issued margin calls on its employees.
 The employee loans, of course, may not turn out to be a good investment for Goldman, though Goldman can take employees who do not pay to court or seize money from their brokerage accounts.
 To some, the development underscores how many wealthy Wall Streeters got in over their heads. 
 ''Most people investing in Whitehall thought this was a sound and probably even a conservative investment,'' said Janet Hanson, a former Goldman employee who is the founder of 85 Broads, an organization for women that takes its name from the address of Goldman's headquarters. ''No one saw the entire thing collapsing.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 18, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about Goldman Sachs's offer of loans to some employees under pressure to meet their obligations to the firm's investment funds misstated, in some editions, the relationship of Janet Hanson, a former Goldman employee, to 85 Broads, a professional networking organization for women. She is its founder, not its president. The article also misstated the organization's financial structure in some editions. It is a for-profit group -- not a nonprofit one.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jon A. Winkelried, who recently resigned as a Goldman Sachs co-president, is trying to sell his estate in Nantucket, Mass.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN FICKIES/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman's chief executive, received almost a $70 million bonus in 2007 before the market turned down.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); EXECUTIVES (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (74%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (66%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (94%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); GOLDMAN SACHS CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (94%); AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



680 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Senate Said to Be Mulling Short-Term M.T.A. Rescue

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and WILLIAM NEUMAN; Nicholas Confessore reported from Albany and William Neuman from New York.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
A proposal to add tolls to bridges over the East and Harlem Rivers to help finance the beleaguered Metropolitan Transportation Authority appears to be dead in the State Senate, as the Democratic majority is preparing to offer on Tuesday a scaled-back, short-term alternative to bail out the authority, two people briefed on that plan said.
 Long the third rail of interborough politics in New York City, the tolls were at the heart of a comprehensive plan drafted by Richard Ravitch, a former authority chairman, to stave off severe service cuts and fare increases for the city's subways and buses. 
 But after weeks of debate and deliberation, several Democratic senators from Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx remain adamantly opposed to the tolls. And with Democrats holding a bare 32-30 majority in the Senate, and Republicans refusing to provide any votes for the plan, the Senate majority leader, Malcolm A. Smith, has been forced to come up with an alternative plan that could win enough support to pass in his chamber, said one of the two people briefed on the plan. The two people insisted on anonymity because the proposal was not complete. 
 The Senate proposal, which was presented privately to Democratic Senators on Monday afternoon, includes a 4 percent fare increase, half of what Mr. Ravitch had proposed. It would also impose a tax of 25 cents on every $100 of payroll on employers within the 12 counties served by the authority. That is significantly less than the 34 cents that Mr. Ravitch had proposed. 
 ''The immediate impact would be, all service cuts are restored, fare increases would be cut in half, and there would be no tolls,'' said one of the two people briefed on the plan.
 Democratic staff members reviewed some of the authority's finances in recent days and concluded that a scaled-back plan would suffice in the short term. But the Senate proposal would require the transportation authority to submit to a deeper forensic auditing, a step lawmakers from both parties have demanded as a condition of laying out more taxpayer money for the authority, long dogged by waste and corruption. 
 Senate staff members have not finished calculating how much revenue their plan would generate. However, it would be far less than Mr. Ravitch's plan, requiring lawmakers to return to the issue again within months. But one of the two people who were briefed said that since the authority's capital spending plan was already financed through the end of this year, Senate Democrats believed there was time to return later to find a more comprehensive solution. 
 Mr. Ravitch has insisted that any short-term or stopgap solution would only exacerbate the authority's fiscal woes and create a bigger budget hole next year. In an interview last week, Mr. Ravitch said that the defeat of his plan would be ''disastrous to the economy and the people of the M.T.A. region.'' Mr. Ravitch declined to comment Monday night on the Senate's counterproposal, saying he did not know the details.
 H. Dale Hemmerdinger, the transportation authority's chairman, said on Friday that a 23 percent increase in fares and deep service cuts would soon be on the way if lawmakers did not come up with a full rescue plan by March 25, when the authority's board will meet for a vote.
 Gov. David A. Paterson also did not appear ready to accept the Senate plan. He is scheduled to hold a news conference with transit advocates on Tuesday, when he is expected to call for passage of the full Ravitch plan. 
 The Ravitch plan was designed to spread the fiscal pain by requiring financial contributions from several groups. Businesses would pay a payroll tax. Riders would pay an 8 percent fare increase. And drivers would pay new bridge tolls. 
 The rationale was that all three groups should pay because they all benefited from the transit system, including drivers, who would find roads heavily congested without it. Mr. Ravitch hoped his plan would command wide support and head off critics who might complain that one group or another was being singled out. 
 But while that approach won support from some business groups, including the Partnership for New York City, which represents the city's large corporations, it did not win much favor in the Capitol.
 Last month, Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, proposed an alternative to Mr. Ravitch's plan that included $2 tolls on the East River and Harlem River bridges -- less than what Mr. Ravitch wanted, but the same price as the subway fare. He also advocated adopting the full payroll tax proposed by Mr. Ravitch.
 That compromise, however, did not win many more converts in the Senate than Mr. Ravitch's plan. 
 It was not clear how the Senate plan, with the payroll tax and without the tolls, would fare in the Assembly, where there is also opposition to tolls.
 Each 1 percent increase in fares and tolls brings about $50 million a year in additional revenue to the authority. Therefore, if the authority imposed an 8 percent fare increase on June 1, it would raise an additional $233 million during the remainder of this year and $399 million next year. 
 On Monday morning, at the opening ceremony for the new South Ferry subway station in Lower Manhattan, Mr. Paterson said he had been working with Mr. Smith to build support for the Ravitch plan in the Senate. 
 ''I'm not making any trades with legislators,'' Mr. Paterson said. ''I think that the issue is serious and is important on its own value and for that reason that the Legislature's got to come forward, got to come forward now.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); FORENSICS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



681 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: The Physics of Money

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re: ''They Tried to Outsmart Wall Street'' (March 10): While quantitative finance uses theory and mathematical equation to better understand the behavior of people in the marketplace, why is it that by the final calculation there is only regard for the behavior of the market and no mention of the people within it? 
 How quickly people forget that markets composed of and organized around ordinary human beings are not primed to survive over the long term if they require genius and complexity in order to run. 
 Lee H. Igel New York
 To the Editor: 
 ''Quants'' are trying to join with economists, traders and investors to figure out the puzzle of Wall Street. The puzzle should not just be viewed by investors; the quants can offer a unique perspective different from the traditional point of view of an investor. 
 More perspectives that attempt to solve the puzzle may add confusion to how to invest in the market, but they can also possibly lead to a breakthrough in how risk and investment potential are viewed. 
 If physicist and economist can work together and combine their different views of the stock market, it may lead to less risky and increased return on investment in the future. This position goes against the view that ''more risk leads to increased return,'' but why does that view have to be the norm of investing?
 Brennen Volbeda Grand Rapids, Mich.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICS (78%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



682 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: In a Salvadoran Leftist's Victory, a Pledge to Govern as a Moderate

BYLINE: By BLAKE SCHMIDT and ELISABETH MALKIN; Blake Schmidt reported from San Salvador, and Elisabeth Malkin from Mexico City.

DATELINE: SAN SALVADOR 

 BODY:
Almost as soon as Mauricio Funes won the presidency as the standard-bearer for the party of El Salvador's former leftist guerrillas, he set about trying to reassure his opponents. 
 ''I have said it, and I repeat it,'' Mr. Funes, who will be El Salvador's first leftist president, told cheering supporters on Sunday night. ''My government will be moved by a spirit of national unity, and this demands that from now, from this very instant, confrontation, revenge must be put to one side.'' 
 The fact that Mr. Funes has had to disavow any plans to judge his party's enemies from the country's civil war shows how much the war's aftermath infuses politics in this country. 
 Although he has pledged to govern as a moderate, he will face pressure from inside his party to move to the left. His opponents on the right have promised to work with the new government, though they may push back against measures that pare back 20 years of conservative policies, whether on human rights or taxes.
 Mr. Funes's party, the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front, known as the , is led by many of the same commanders who laid down their weapons with the 1992 peace agreement and entered politics. Although the F.M.L.N. has managed to win legislative seats and town halls, the presidency has eluded it until now. 
 The right-wing Nationalist Republican Alliance, known as Arena, has won four successive presidential elections since 1989. Backed by the business elite, Arena pushed for a hard line against the guerrillas during the civil war, in which some 75,000 people died and an estimated 8,000 disappeared, mostly at the hands of right-wing death squads and the military, which was supported by the United States.
 Mr. Funes, a former television journalist who was never a guerrilla, was himself touched by that violence. His brother was killed by security forces leaving a 1980 protest. ''We don't want revenge,'' said Hato Hasbun, a close adviser who was at that demonstration. ''We want forgiveness and the truth.'' 
 The governments of Latin America have each sought to find a way to settle accounts after the wars of the 1970s and 1980s. Truth commissions and amnesties have been employed to strike a balance between respecting the victims on both sides and preventing unrest in the military that could be unleashed by a broad pursuit of the leaders involved in the violence. 
 Mr. Hasbun said the new government would not repeal an amnesty law passed in 1993.
 With the F.M.L.N.'s victory, El Salvador joins a growing number of Latin American countries that have elected leftist governments this decade. In part, the left's success is a response to disappointment with the failure of free-market policies promoted by Washington in the 1990s to generate economic growth and reduce the region's yawning inequality. 
 But the left in Latin America can no longer be described in a single phrase. In Venezuela, President Hugo Chavez combines economic populism with authoritarianism, while governments in Brazil and Chile have adopted investor-friendly policies closer to those of European social democrats. 
 Mr. Funes has promised ''safe change'' and says he will lead in the mold of Brazil's president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. He has sought to allay fears that the F.M.L.N. would nationalize important industries, as occurred in Venezuela and Bolivia. Advisers have said they do not plan new taxes, just better enforcement of the existing tax law. Mr. Funes has said he will keep El Salvador in the Central American Free Trade Agreement and retain the dollar as the country's currency. 
 He has also sent a strong message that he intends to continue El Salvador's close relationship with the United States. He met with the charge d'affaires at the United States Embassy, , shortly after his victory speech Sunday night. 
 ''He said all along that he wants to build a close relationship with the United States, and we've said all along that we'll work to build a constructive relationship with whoever was elected,'' Mr. Blau said after the meeting.
 Mr. Funes defeated his Arena opponent, Rodrigo Avila, a former national police chief, getting 51.3 percent of the vote compared with Mr. Avila's 48.7 percent, with 99 percent of the votes counted Monday. His immediate concern will be strengthening El Salvador's tiny economy to withstand the buffeting of the global economic recession. 
 Remittances sent by the estimated one-quarter of Salvadorans working in the United States make up 18 percent of its gross domestic product, but their rate of growth has slowed as unemployment in the United States has risen.
 Carlos Caceres, a banker and an adviser to Mr. Funes, said the F.M.L.N. would have to build investor confidence and negotiate lines of credit. ''We'll confront the financial crisis and make our best effort to make sure the most vulnerable aren't sacrificed,'' he said. 
 But he also suggested that the Funes government, which takes office June 1, would not forget its main constituency: the more than half of Salvadorans who are poor. ''The state has to play a role to redistribute the country's wealth,'' he said. 
 Even for Latin America, El Salvador's wealth distribution is abysmal. The share of income held by the top 10 percent of the population is more than 57 times higher than the share held by the bottom 10 percent, said Mark Weisbrot, of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a research group in Washington.
 Mr. Funes's election creates high expectations for his supporters, said Alvaro Artiga, a political scientist at Central American University.
 At the same time, Mr. Funes will have to negotiate with the right, which has enough allies in Congress to hold a voting majority. That means sending a signal of conciliation, Mr. Artiga said. ''Yesterday, he wasn't arrogant. He's handling it well.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A poster of Mauricio Funes, right, and his running mate. With their party's victory, El Salvador joins a number of Latin American countries that have elected leftist governments this decade.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL LECLAIR/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); POLITICS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CIVIL WAR (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); LEGISLATION (67%); AMNESTY (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EL SALVADOR (95%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



683 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: The Commercial Republic

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Over the centuries, the United States has been most conspicuous for one trait: manic energy. Americans work longer hours than any other people. We switch jobs more frequently, move more often, earn more and consume more. 
 This energy was first aroused by abundance, by the tantalizing sense that dazzling wealth was available just over the next hill. But it has also been sustained by a popular culture that celebrates commercial ambition. From Benjamin Franklin and Alexander Hamilton, through Horatio Alger and Norman Vincent Peale, up until Donald Trump and Jim Cramer, popular figures have always emerged to champion the American gospel of success, encouraging middle-class people to strive, risk and make money.
 This gospel gets dented during each of the nation's financial crises, but it always returns with a vengeance. The late 19th century was a time of economic turmoil. Yet it was also a time when this commercial creed was preached most fervently. Andrew Carnegie published ''The Gospel of Wealth.'' Elbert Hubbard published ''A Message to Garcia,'' which celebrated industriousness and ambition and sold nearly 40 million copies. The Baptist minister Russell Conwell traveled the country delivering his ''Acres of Diamonds'' sermon to rapturous audiences more than 6,000 times. 
 ''I say that the opportunity to get rich, to attain unto great wealth, is here now within the reach of almost every man and woman who hears me speak tonight!'' Conwell thundered to his audiences. ''I say that you ought to get rich, and it is your duty to get rich ... Money is power, and you ought to be reasonably ambitious to have it. You ought, because you can do more good with it than you could without it.''
 The Great Depression suppressed economic activity, but not the commercial spirit. In the middle of it, Dale Carnegie published ''How to Win Friends and Influence People,'' which promised imminent success and went on to sell more copies than any other book to that point but the Bible. The stagflation of the 1970s didn't discredit capitalism. It gave rise to the supply-side movement and the apotheosis of the entrepreneur. 
 In short, the United States will never be Europe. It was born as a commercial republic. It's addicted to the pace of commercial enterprise. After periodic pauses, the country inevitably returns to its elemental nature.
 The U.S. is in one of those pauses today. It has been odd, over the past six months, not to have the gospel of success as part of the normal background music of life. You go about your day, taking in the news and the new movies, books and songs, and only gradually do you become aware that there is an absence. There are no aspirational stories of rags-to-riches success floating around. There are no new how-to-get-rich enthusiasms. There are few magazine covers breathlessly telling readers that some new possibility -- biotechnology, nanotechnology -- is about to change everything. That part of American culture that stokes ambition and encourages risk has gone silent. 
 We are now in an astonishingly noncommercial moment. Risk is out of favor. The financial world is abashed. Enterprise is suspended. The public culture is dominated by one downbeat story after another as members of the educated class explore and enjoy the humiliation of the capitalist vulgarians. 
 Washington is temporarily at the center of the nation's economic gravity and a noncommercial administration holds sway. This is an administration that has many lawyers and academics but almost no businesspeople in it, let alone self-made entrepreneurs. The president speaks passionately about education and health care reform, but he is strangely aloof from the banking crisis and displays no passion when speaking about commercial drive and success.
 But if there is one thing we can be sure of, this pause will not last. The cultural DNA of the past 400 years will not be erased. The pendulum will swing hard. The gospel of success will recapture the imagination.
 Somewhere right now there's probably a smart publisher searching for the most unabashed, ambitious, pro-wealth, pro-success manuscript she can find, and in about three months she'll pile it up in the nation's bookstores. Somewhere there's probably a TV producer thinking of hiring Jim Cramer to do a show to tell story after story of unapologetic business success. Somewhere there's a politician finding a way to ride the commercial renaissance that is bound to come, ready to explain how government can sometimes nurture entrepreneurial greatness and sometimes should get out of the way. 
 Walt Whitman got America right in his essay, ''Democratic Vistas.'' He acknowledged the vulgarity of the American success drive. He toted up its moral failings. But in the end, he accepted his country's ''extreme business energy,'' its ''almost maniacal appetite for wealth.'' He knew that the country's dreams were all built upon that energy and drive, and eventually the spirit of commercial optimism would always prevail. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (75%); RELIGION (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (66%); MUSIC (60%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



684 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: They've Seen the Future And Dislike the Present

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
Two hours into Z-Day, the educational forum associated with the online movie ''Zeitgeist,'' Peter Joseph, the film's director and the evening's M.C., stepped out from behind his lectern and walked forward earnestly on the stage. 
 In his goatee and mustache and tieless in a brown suit, Mr. Joseph had been lecturing for nearly 90 minutes on the unsustainable nature of the money-based economy on cyclical consumption, planned obsolescence, corporate malfeasance and piles of poisonous waste. ''It's time that we wake up,'' he intoned, speaking solemnly through a wireless clip-on mike. ''The doomsday scenario, the big contraction, might be happening right now. The system of monetary exchange is -- in the face of advancing technology -- completely obsolete.'' 
 This drew wild applause from the sold-out crowd, a patchwork of perhaps 900 people who paid $10 a head on Sunday night to sit in a packed auditorium at the Borough of Manhattan Community College on Chambers Street near the West Side Highway. Z-Day events were taking place from New England to New Zealand, but this was the big one: the marquee happening with the marquee names. 
 There, in the crowd, was Jacque Fresco, an industrial designer and the engineering guru of what people unironically called ''the movement.'' Mr. Fresco, an elfin 93-year-old, sat beside his partner, Roxanne Meadows, smiling self-effacingly. 
 Mr. Joseph, back on stage, waited patiently as some of the crowd, still cheering, refused to leave their feet.
 If the election of Barack Obama was supposed to denote the gradual demise of churlish, corporate governance and usher in a new, sustainable era of visionary change, there was little sign of it at the second annual meeting of the Worldwide Zeitgeist Movement, which, its organizers said, held 450 sister events in 70 countries around the globe. 
 ''The mission of the movement is the application of the scientific method for social change,'' Mr. Joseph announced by way of introduction. The evening, which began at 7 with a two-hour critique of monetary economics, became by midnight a utopian presentation of a money-free and computer-driven vision of the future, a wholesale reimagination of civilization, as if Karl Marx and Carl Sagan had hired John Lennon from his ''Imagine'' days to do no less than redesign the underlying structures of planetary life.
 In other words, a not entirely inappropriate response to the zeitgeist itself, which one young man, a philosophy student in a roomy purple blazer, described before the show began as ''the world as we know it coming to an end.'' As the evening labored on with a Power Point presentation, a panel talk with Mr. Fresco and a spirited question and answer session, some basic themes emerged: modern economics is a fraud; global debt will crush the planet; society itself is dying from the profit motive; and people ought to wise up to the fact that more than legislation -- or presidential administrations -- needs to change. 
 Though they were never actually shown -- as most in attendance had seen them several times -- Mr. Joseph's two films, ''Zeitgeist, the Movie'' (released in 2007) and ''Zeitgeist: Addendum'' (released last fall), were the subtext of the evening: online documentaries that have been watched, he says, by 50 million people around the world. 
 The former may be most famous for alleging that the attacks of Sept. 11 were an ''inside job'' perpetrated by a power-hungry government on its witless population, a point of view that Mr. Joseph said he has recently ''moved away from.'' Indeed, the second film, the focus of the event, was all but empty of such conspiratorial notions, directing its rhetoric and high production values toward posing a replacement for the evils of the banking system and a perilous economy of scarcity and debt.
 That's where Mr. Fresco came in, an author, lecturer and former aircraft engineer at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio who has spent the last six decades working on the Venus Project, a futuristic society where (adjust your seatbelts, now) machines would control government and industry and safeguard the planet's fragile resources by means of an artificially intelligent ''earthwide autonomic sensor system'' -- a super-brain of sorts connected to, yes, all human knowledge. 
 If this sounds vaguely like a disaster scenario out of ''2001: A Space Odyssey,'' Mr. Fresco did not seem worried in the least. Machines are unemotional and unaggressive, unlike human beings, he told the crowd during the question-and-answer phase. ''If you took your laptop and smashed it in front of 50 other laptops, trust me, none of them would care.''
 The audience -- white, black, young, old, baseball caps and business suits alike -- received such words like a tonic, and the questions kept coming: What would family life be like in the future? What would happen if the automated system decided that a person had to die? Mr. Fresco and Ms. Meadows are planning the production of a major feature film to bring the Venus Project to a wider, global audience. Before the night began, Mr. Fresco, a small man with a V-neck sweater and a hearing aid, sat signing books and answering questions from a dozen or so college students gathered like acolytes at his feet.
 As the evening came to a close, someone finally asked: So what would it take to actually put such a program into action? A grassroots movement, Mr. Joseph said.
 ''We already have a quarter-million members,'' he insisted from the stage. ''At the rate things are going, this will be at Madison Square Garden next year.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Peter Joseph, the director of two online ''Zeitgeist'' movies, was applauded after criticizing the global system of monetary finance.
 Before the forum started, Jacque Fresco, 93, the futurist, talked with young admirers in the audience about his Venus Project.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (70%); MISCONDUCT (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (70%); VENUS (51%) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

TITLE: Zeitgeist (Movie); Zeitgeist (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



685 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Seats Are Cheap Now, But Discounts Won't Last

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WORRIED about filling seats, airlines have hit the panic button. Amazing air fare sales are breaking out all over. Actually, the sales are breaking out mostly on routes where the competition is heavy or business travel has really plummeted.
 Not only is the extent of the discounts extraordinary -- $158 for a round-trip ticket between Denver and Houston on a sale announced Monday by Frontier Airlines; $548 on Delta between New York and Dublin; $598 round trip between Los Angeles or New York to Australia in Qantas. The time frame is often extraordinary as well. Fare sales like these are usually limited to slack travel periods in winter. Many of these extend into the summer.
 I sort these fares on the major travel aggregator sites like Kayak, TripAdvisor, Fly.com and FareCompare, which make comparison shopping easy. If you're flexible (Saturday night stay requirements are often tucked into these fares to make them unattractive to business travelers), shop around and have a ball. It's a great time for cheap travel. 
 And it's not going to last.
 Two fundamental shifts in air travel are under way. One is that airlines are horrified at the falloff in passenger traffic and are scrubbing flights, dropping routes and parking more planes in the desert to shrink capacity, even beyond announced reductions, to keep planes flying full. 
 And two, the ''unbundling'' of services that began with charges for snacks and checked bags is emerging as the new economic model for the shrunken air travel system.
 Forget about the guy from Ryanair who recently got all that publicity by speculating about installing pay toilets on planes. Instead, look at the methodical way that the domestic airlines are planning for a future in which booking a flight will be a little like ordering from a Chinese takeout menu. That is, it will be efficient, user friendly and full of a la carte choices.
 ''Three or four years ago, airlines got fed up with their tickets being priced like bushels of wheat on a commodities exchange, so they set out a strategy for how to make prices less transparent,'' said Rick Seaney, the chief executive of FareCompare.com. 
 The strategy was based on imposing extra fees on an increasing number of amenities and services -- not just checked bags and in-flight pillows, but an expanding range of add-ons like exit row seats, priority seating and boarding, in-flight entertainment or Wi-Fi, and on and on.
 These fees raise cash for the airlines. But they annoy customers, who are having a hard time figuring out what a trip costs once they make their choices. Usually, they find out when they arrive at the airport or on board the flight. As I said last week, TripAdvisor.com added a useful feature to its flight search site that lets you click on the thousands of itinerary options, including fee-based services, so you can get the actual price.
 The airlines are aware that customers shop around online and that they hate trying to figure out fees. So they are currently working with other ticket distributors on a complex system that Mr. Seaney said will expand the fee checklists and allow all distributors, whether an airline itself or an online travel agency, to be more uniformly precise in just what a customer is ordering.
 ''They'll present a base ticket price in three or four categories, and then you'll have a bunch of things you can add,'' Mr. Seaney said. ''You'll get a base price quote, and then you'll have a bunch of columns with choices that add something to the ticket. You going to see a whole new slew of amenities that you pay for in advance.''
 Mr. Seaney is on an ''optional services'' committee formed by the Airline Tariff Publishing Company, the global leader in collecting and distributing airline fare data. 
 The committee is evaluating the universe of fee-based extra services, and drawing up lists of uniform codes to make it easier to ''compare apples to apples,'' Mr. Seaney said.
 Among the items on that growing list are the usual things like prepaid checked bag (code 0AA), snack (0AT), aisle seat exit row (0A5), beverage (0AX), video games (0AF), passenger assistance (0BY) and wheelchair (0AH)
 Wait, ''wheelchair'' has an optional services code? OMG!
 E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIR FARES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (88%); AIRPORTS (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (69%); COMMODITIES TRADING (66%); WHEAT MARKETS (66%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (61%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (58%); TRIPADVISOR INC (56%)

TICKER: RYAAY (NASDAQ) (58%); RYA (LSE) (58%); TRIP (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



686 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: 240 Laid Off at Hospital That Serves Central Brooklyn

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
A hospital in central Brooklyn laid off 240 doctors, nurses and other workers on Monday, signaling growing financial weakness in the hospital industry.
 Officials at the hospital, Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center, which serves Brownsville, East New York and Canarsie, blamed the bad economy for the layoffs. ''The general economic downturn has not spared the community served by Brookdale hospital,'' said Ole W. Pedersen, a hospital spokesman, in a written statement. 
 Mr. Pedersen said that the layoffs affected union and nonunion workers, physicians and some managers. But he said the hospital, which has nearly 4,000 employees covering 530 hospital beds, a nursing home and clinics, expected to be able to continue to operate.
 Ken Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, said that the Brookdale layoffs, which followed the closing last month of two hospitals in Queens -- St. John's Queens Hospital and Mary Immaculate Hospital, both run by Caritas Health Care Inc. -- was an ill omen for New York City hospitals. He estimated that 2,700 health care jobs were being eliminated, and said that Gov. David A. Paterson's proposed budget would cost $1 billion in Medicaid cuts and new taxes (including $32 million at Brookdale). 
 ''The health care system is in extremely fragile condition,'' Mr. Raske said. ''Facing the budget that's being proposed in Albany, this will be the first of a chain car reaction.''
 George Gresham, president of 1199 S.E.I.U. United Healthcare Workers East, which represents 3,400 workers at Brookdale, including 178 of those who received layoff notices, echoed Mr. Raske's concern, saying: ''Hospitals are hanging by a thread.''
 In their statement, Brookdale officials complained that the hospital had been hurt in payment disputes with insurance and managed care companies. The hospital says that insurers have a history of often denying payment for necessary medical treatment, leaving the hospital to absorb the costs.
 The hospital also said it had been hurt by rising drug, energy and malpractice costs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (93%); LAYOFFS (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (71%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); INSURANCE (62%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



687 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Teammates Become Rivals, and Vice Versa

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The United States is struggling to stay in contention. Sounds familiar to Kasey Keller. 
 Keller can remember other nations firing shots at his goal in the World Cup, trying to send the Yanks home in a hurry. He can surely relate to the current anxiety of the American baseball squad, which is in danger of being eliminated in the World Baseball Classic. 
 ''It gives a lot of guys a feel for what we go through,'' Keller said, definitely not whining as he referred to the mixture of pride and pressure in representing his country. 
 The American baseball team will be eliminated if it loses Tuesday night to Puerto Rico in Miami Gardens, Fla. Keller has been there, too. ''It's one thing to play for your club. It's another thing to get knocked out internationally, and feeling, that's it, you underachieved,'' Keller continued. ''I think the U.S. team found that out last time, and they're taking it a little bit more serious this time.''
 Keller has been watching the Classic from afar. From Seattle, that is to say. At 38, he has come home from Europe to make his debut with the expansion Seattle Sounders F.C. on Thursday night against the Red Bulls. 
 The Sounders are one of the great stories in the current economic hard times, having sold a rather amazing 22,000 season tickets for their first season in Major League Soccer.
 Meanwhile, in the American Sun Belt, baseball squads from around the world have been playing in the second round of the 2009 Classic. Keller knows all about the Americans' humbling sendoff in the second round of the first Classic, in 2006, and how they are once again in danger of not reaching the semifinals next weekend. 
 In his own sport, Keller has been part of four World Cups. He would not say it, but the expectations are much lower for soccer in the United States than for baseball. 
 Soccer players like Keller get the feel of international competition during their teens, standing at attention with their flag flying and their anthem being played. 
 American baseball has always emphasized its national leagues, daring to call its championship the World Series. Now, American stars are getting a feel of international play. 
 Before he injured an abdominal muscle last weekend, Dustin Pedroia of the Red Sox was saying how much he enjoyed getting to know Derek Jeter of the Yankees, his opponent in tense intradivisional races.
 Both agreed that when the regular season began, they fully expected their fans to loudly proclaim that the other guy stinks. 
 Keller totally gets that. After being a hired gun in crack leagues of England, Germany and Spain, he has come home to Washington, retired from the national team (although available in emergency, he subtly noted). 
 He played in the first two games of the 1998 World Cup, losses to Germany and Iran, and was the regular in the 2006 World Cup, when the United States lost to the Czech Republic and Ghana, and in between, he made several magnificent saves during the dramatic 1-1 draw with Italy, when the Italians were down to 10 players and the Yanks down to 9 because of expulsions. 
 Itinerant soccer players also learn at an early age that their best buddy on the national squad may soon be a rival in league play. This was the case with Keller and his national-team roommate, Brian McBride, two mature college guys, Keller from the University of Portland, McBride from St. Louis University. 
 Family friends. Wives. Kids. Shared meals when they were playing for different Premier League teams in London. 
 ''Brian scored against me on his debut for Everton, and then he scored on me with his debut for Fulham; it just works that way sometimes,'' Keller said. 
 He was recalling how he played for Tottenham of London in 2003, and McBride joined Everton of Liverpool and scored within 12 minutes of coming on the field, but Keller and Spurs went on to win, 4-3. 
 Then on Jan. 31, 2004, McBride, now with Fulham of London, plunked in a rebound past Keller that led to a 2-1 victory over Spurs. 
 The two American families were supposed to go out for dinner that weekend, but a snowfall canceled their plans. Just as well, Keller joked at the time. He might have poisoned his buddy.
 ''It's always a tough situation, but you have to do the best thing for your team,'' Keller said. He noted that top European and Latin American players were accustomed to the musical chairs in which Saturday's club teammate is Wednesday's international rival. 
 The most recent example was in the 2006 World Cup, when the melodramatic Cristiano Ronaldo of Portugal lured the combustible Wayne Rooney of England into a mindless meltdown during a quarterfinal match &#151; the two of them teammates at Manchester United. Rooney was sent off, and Portugal beat England.
 Fast forward to last week's Champions League match when Rooney fed Ronaldo for a game-clinching header against Inter Milan -- and the two of them embraced giddily. The American baseball players will explore the kaleidoscope of friendships -- if they can stay alive in the Classic, that is.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SOCCER (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



688 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: In Downturn, China Exploits Path to Growth

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: GUANGZHOU, China 

 BODY:
The global economic downturn, and efforts to reverse it, will probably make China an even stronger economic competitor than it was before the crisis.
 China, the world's third-largest economy behind the United States and Japan, had already become more assertive; now it is exploiting its unusual position as a country with piles of cash and a strong banking system, at a time when many countries have neither, to acquire natural resources and make new friends.
 Last week, China's prime minister, Wen Jiabao, even reminded Washington that as one of the United States' biggest creditors, China expects Washington to safeguard its investment. 
 China's leaders are turning economic crisis to competitive advantage, said economic analysts. 
 The country is using its nearly $600 billion economic stimulus package to make its companies better able to compete in markets at home and abroad, to retrain migrant workers on an immense scale and to rapidly expand subsidies for research and development. 
 Construction has already begun on new highways and rail lines that are likely to permanently reduce transportation costs. 
 And while American leaders struggle to revive lending -- in the latest effort with a $15 billion program to help small businesses -- Chinese banks lent more in the last three months than in the preceding 12 months.
 ''The recent tweaks to the stimulus package indicate a sharper focus on the long-term competitiveness of Chinese industry,'' said Eswar S. Prasad, a former China division chief at the International Monetary Fund. ''Higher expenditures on education and research and development, along with amounts already committed to infrastructure investment, will boost the economy's productivity.''
 The international economicslowdown is also doing some things that Chinese authorities had tried and failed to do for four years: slow inflation, reverse what had been an ever-growing dependence on exports and pop a real estate bubble before it could grow even bigger.
 The recession in most of the large economies in the world is inflicting real pain here -- causing a record plunge in Chinese exports, putting 20 million migrant workers from within China out of their jobs and raising the potential for increased and sustained social unrest. But as President Hu Jintao told the National People's Congress last week, ''Challenge and opportunity always come together -- under certain conditions, one could be transformed into the other.''
 To that end, Chinese companies are shopping for foreign businesses to acquire. The commerce ministry announced late Monday that it was greatly easing the government approval process for Chinese companies seeking permission to make foreign acquisitions.
 The ministry is now leading its first mergers and acquisitions delegation of corporate executives to Europe; the executives are looking at companies in the automotive, textiles, food, energy, machinery, electronics and environmental protection sectors.
 The government initiatives coincide with some immediate benefits of the slowdown for China. For instance, air freight and ocean shipping costs have plunged by as much as two-thirds since last summer as demand has fallen.
 Blue-collar wages, which had doubled in four years in some coastal cities, have fallen for many workers this winter, causing personal pain but reviving China's advantage in labor costs. 
 Unemployment has pushed down the piece rates that factories pay for each garment sewn or toy assembled. Overtime has practically disappeared.
 Lao Shu-jen, a migrant worker from Jiangxi province who works at a blue jeans factory here, said that he earned $350 a month late last year but would be lucky to earn $220 a month this spring.
 ''There are a lot of blue jeans'' piling up in the back of the factory with no sign of buyers, he said.
 Highly qualified middle managers, in acutely short supply a year ago, are now widely available because of layoffs. They are likely to stay that way -- although white-collar unemployment could pose a threat of social unrest. Limited job opportunities contributed to the Tiananmen Square protests 20 years ago.
 Some jobs are still available now. Four days after a shoe factory closed here for lack of orders, laying off several hundred workers, there were four ads on the factory's front gate from other shoe factories seeking to hire skilled workers.
 Unskilled laborers face the greatest difficulty finding jobs. But with subsidies from Beijing, provincial governments have embarked on large-scale vocational training programs of the sort that the United States has discussed but not actually tried.
 Guangdong province alone, here in southeastern China, is quadrupling its vocational training program this year to teach four million workers engaged in three-month or six-month programs.
 The main comparable program in the United States, under the Workforce Investment Act, has been training fewer than 250,000 a year, although President Obama's stimulus program provides funding that could double the number of American workers in training programs.
 The Guangdong training programs are half in the classroom and half in the factory, usually the business that plans to employ the trainees. By increasing productivity, training programs can hold down corporate labor costs per unit of production for years to come.
 China's huge training programs may also help preserve social stability by keeping the unemployed off the streets, although Chinese officials deny that is their intention.
 Multinationals are cutting back less in China than elsewhere -- and some are even expanding.
 Intel is shutting down semiconductor production lines sooner than previously planned at older, smaller operations in Malaysia and the Philippines as it opens a large, new factory in Chengdu in western China.
 IMI Plc., the big British manufacturer of items as diverse as power plant valves and brewery equipment, has just announced an accelerated shift of operations to China, India and the Czech Republic, after cutting its global work force by 10 percent since December.
 And Hon Hai, the 600,000-employee Taiwanese company that is one of the world's largest contract manufacturers of products like the Apple iPhone and Nintendo Wii game console, has just increased employment by nearly 5 percent in China even as it cuts overall employment by 3 to 5 percent.
 Yet China's economy still has weaknesses. Little is being done to shift the economy away from a heavy reliance on capital spending and toward greater consumption. The social safety net of pensions, health care and education barely exists, so Chinese families save heavily.
 Strict government policies on labor and the environment, intended to address serious shortfalls in both and imposed a year ago when China felt more confident of its economic strength, are prompting low-tech industries like toy manufacturing to move to other, less stringent countries.
 Top labor officials insisted during the National People's Congress that they would resist suggestions from some Chinese executives that the new standards be relaxed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers at job fair in Changzhi on Sunday. China is providing subsidies for large-scale vocational training programs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS)(A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); RECESSION (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MERGERS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MIGRANT WORKERS (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (72%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); APPROVALS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (58%); WEN JIABAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (58%) SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); SHANXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



689 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Stifling An Opportunity

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 I asked Jesse Jackson Jr., a Democratic congressman whose district includes much of the South Side of Chicago, why he had become so committed to the creation of a third Chicago-area airport several miles south of his district.
 The short answer was jobs. He noted that the O'Hare airport had opened to commercial traffic more than a half-century ago and was still growing. 
 ''An airport is a very different public-works project than a bridge or a road,'' he said. ''The jobs that come with the development of an airport range from construction to taxicab drivers, to the hotel and motel industry, to Avis and Hertz, which buy cars by the fleet, to Federal Express and DHL, and all those others who staff and manage the airport. Corporate headquarters frequently locate near an airport.
 ''In terms of employment, it's the gift that keeps on giving.''
 When Mr. Jackson first took his seat in Congress in the mid-1990s, he formed a friendship with Henry Hyde, a Republican congressman whose district included O'Hare, which is on Chicago's northwest side. ''I went on a tour of his district,'' said Mr. Jackson, ''and you could see every conceivable industry in the world out there. The airport was an economic engine, a magnet.''
 He said that Mr. Hyde, who died in 2007, would always be looking for tax cuts for his constituents on the North Side and the northwest suburbs, while the elected representatives from the South Side and its suburbs were often in search of additional safety-net resources -- more unemployment compensation, for example, or food stamps.
 ''I was looking for something that would change that dynamic,'' Mr. Jackson said. ''There was no economic magnet comparable to O'Hare bringing jobs to the people of the South Side.''
 The current recession has only worsened the economic plight of the South Side and the nearby suburbs, which also have been struggling for years. The desire for a generator of jobs is greater than ever.
 It has long been understood that a third airport was needed in the Chicago metropolitan area. Midway Airport, which is plagued by short runways, and O'Hare, which is undergoing yet another expansion, seem always to be straining to meet demand. Flying in and out of Chicago can be hellish for travelers.
 The Federal Aviation Administration said last year that Chicago would need a new airport -- or a vast expansion of one of the existing airports (beyond the current expansion at O'Hare) -- to meet the demand of the next few decades.
 From the moment he set foot in Congress, Mr. Jackson has been trying to bring about the construction of an airport near the South Side and the South Chicago suburbs that would, in one swoop, so to speak, expand the region's air traffic capacity and create thousands of desperately needed jobs.
 It is much, much easier said than done.
 Mr. Jackson is the driving force behind the Abraham Lincoln National Airport Commission, a public-private partnership that is ready and eager to build an innovative new airport in the open spaces just south of the suburbs. The state already has purchased half of the land for the project, which the sponsors say will yield 1,000 construction jobs and 15,000 permanent jobs when the airport opens.
 The project would be financed and built by two firms that normally compete with one another: LCOR, which owns and operates International Terminal 4 at Kennedy Airport in New York, and SNC-Lavalin, which has financed and operates airports in many parts of the world, including Europe and Canada.
 The airport would serve low-cost carriers using economical ''common-use'' gates and has been creatively designed to be able to start small and to grow easily as demand expanded.
 No one that I've spoken with has found fault with the plan or its financing, which relies primarily on private capital. But there has been a palpable coolness to the project by some of the major political players in Chicago and in the state capital of Springfield. They have created a long-term behind-the-scenes bottleneck for the project.
 Airports are generally patronage goldmines for well-situated officeholders. But this one would be different. The politicians would not control the jobs and the contracts. The commission's board would be appointed by municipalities from the surrounding counties and by the governor. But the airport would be run by its private investors, with the board providing oversight to keep the airport's operations transparent.
 The goal from the beginning has been to keep the proposed airport out of the clutches of Chicago's notorious ''pay-to-play'' tradition. 
 That is the most likely reason that this project, with its potential to unleash so many jobs, has taken so long to get off the ground. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LODGING (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (67%)

PERSON: JESSE L JACKSON JR (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



690 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Output Records A Decline for a 4th Month

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The government said on Monday that the nation's industrial output fell for a fourth consecutive month in February as the factory operating rate dropped to the lowest level in more than a half-century of recordkeeping. 
 The Federal Reserve reported Monday that industrial output dropped 1.4 percent last month, slightly worse than the 1.2 percent decline that economists had expected.
 The weakness included a 0.7 percent decrease in manufacturing output, which pushed the operating rate at the nation's factories down to 67.4 percent of capacity last month, the lowest level in records that go back to 1948.
 The drop in manufacturing output occurred even though production at the nation's auto plants rose sharply from the previous month, when the factories were in extended shutdowns.
 Output in the mining industry, a sector that includes oil and gas drilling, was off by 0.4 percent and utility plant production plunged 7.7 percent, reflecting warmer-than-normal weather in February, which cut into demand.
 Production at auto plants and auto parts manufacturers rose 10.2 percent in February after four consecutive months of decline, including a sharp 24.7 percent drop in January.
 Even with the rebound, the auto industry remains under tremendous pressures given the fact that consumers, facing the longest recession in a quarter-century, are not in a mood to make big-ticket purchases of autos or many other goods.
 The overall operating rate for manufacturing, mining and utilities fell to 70.9 percent of capacity in February, matching a record low set in December 1982, a month when the country was just beginning to pull out of the severe 1981-82 recession.
 Factories are being battered not only by falling demand in the United States but also in crucial overseas markets as the recession that began in the United States spreads overseas.
 The government reported Friday that the trade deficit narrowed to a six-year low of $36 billion in January, but that improvement came because imports fell by a larger amount than exports did. The January decline was the sixth month in a row that exports, once one of the few bright spots in the economy, have fallen.
 Economists predicted that the woes of exporters would add to the troubles of an economy that plunged at an annual rate of 6.2 percent in the fourth quarter, the biggest drop in a quarter century. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Industrial Production: Index of total industrial production, 2002 = 100, seasonally adjusted.
 Capacity Utilization: Total industrial output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); MINES & MINING (73%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); OIL EXTRACTION (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



691 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: An Asset Sale Is Possible As Barclays Seeks Capital

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Barclays, the British banking giant, said on Monday that it was in talks to sell iShares, a part of its fund management business, as the bank seeks to increase its capital without surrendering a stake to the government.
 Barclays said that it ''held discussions with a number of potentially interested parties'' but that ''no decision regarding the disposal of any business has been taken by the board of Barclays.''
 The bank also continues to negotiate with the British government about joining an asset protection arrangement that helped its rivals Royal Bank of Scotland and the Lloyds Banking Group limit losses from toxic assets but made the government the majority stakeholder in the banks. 
 Barclays would need cash to participate without ceding a stake to the government, a move that management has repeatedly rejected.
 Shares in Barclays rose 21 percent in London on Monday after the bank said its businesses had a ''strong start to 2009'' and analysts valued iShares, which is based in San Francisco, at about $3 billion. But some analysts were at a loss to identify potential buyers. 
 ''These are difficult markets for any sellers of financial assets,'' said Sandy Chen, an analyst at Panmure Gordon in London. He said that Barclays would be ''selling one of the core parts of their core assets.''
 A sale of the unit, which manages exchange-traded funds and is part of Barclays Global Investors, would allow the bank to pay the fee for the government's asset protection program in cash and improve its capital ratio, which is set to fall below that of the banks that signed up to the program. A larger rival, HSBC Holdings, which also avoided government help so far, plans to raise $:12.5 billion or $17.5 billion in a rights issue this year.
 But some analysts warned that a sale of the business, which is among the Barclays' least capital-intensive, could hurt the sustainability of earnings. That could add to earnings concerns ignited by the revelation that Barclays was among the beneficiaries of the Washington bailout of the American International Group last year when it received $7.9 billion for collateral settlements on some credit derivatives.
 In the meantime, lawsuits against banks as a result of the financial crisis are piling up. A class-action suit filed by a handful of investors in Federal District Court in Manhattan claimed that HSBC Holdings and Bank of New York Mellon failed to protect about $1.6 billion in collateral during the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy. The Bank of New York Mellon said it ''had no involvement in the structuring or selling'' of the products. 
 HSBC said it did not comment on litigation and had not seen the lawsuit. It added that ''HSBC stands by its fair lending and consumer protection practices, and we are confident that we have treated our customers fairly and with integrity.''
 The law firm Coughlin Stoia Geller Rudman & Robbins is working on a class-action lawsuit on behalf of some R.B.S. investors, who claim that the bank ''falsely reassured investors'' between June 2007 and January 2009 that it was well capitalized. 
 Cherie Blair, a lawyer and the wife of former Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, was hired to work on the lawsuit against the partly government-owned bank. A spokesman for R.B.S. declined to comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (92%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (66%); CLASS ACTIONS (65%); FAIR LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (71%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTORS NA (54%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (85%); RBS (NYSE) (71%); RBS (LSE) (71%); RBS (AMS) (71%); AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



692 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths DAVIDSON, WILLIAM

 BODY:
DAVIDSON--William. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society mourn the loss of William Davidson of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., a visionary supporter of the Technion. Mr. Davidson was a transformational industrialist and philanthropist. Chairman and president of Guardian Industries Corp., he was one of the largest private investors in Israeli enterprise. Following his belief that education and good management are the best tools for promoting economic growth, Mr. Davidson established the William Davidson Faculty of Industrial Engineering and Management and the William Davidson Chair in that faculty at the Technion. Among the most generous ATS supporters, Mr. Davidson was a Technion Guardian who had reached the highest level of support. He was an honorary life member of the Technion International Board of Governors. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his wife Karen and the entire Davidson family. American Technion Society Joan Seidel, President Stephen A. Laser, Chairman of the Board of Directors Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (88%); EXECUTIVES (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%)

COMPANY: GUARDIAN INDUSTRIES CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR TECHNION-ISRAEL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS327215 GLASS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING MADE OF PURCHASED GLASS (72%); SIC3231 GLASS PRODUCTS MADE OF PURCHASED GLASS (72%)

PERSON: WILLIAM DAVIDSON (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



693 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus Money Puts Clean Coal Projects on a Faster Track

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: EDWARDSPORT, Ind. 

 BODY:
Near the middle of a dusty construction site here stands a patch of land, about the size of two football fields, notable because it is empty. 
 Duke Energy has high hopes for this two-acre plot: If all goes right, and there is a happy convergence of technology, money and federal energy policy, the construction project could become the first environment-friendly coal-fired power plant in the nation.
 The company is studying a method for capturing the carbon dioxide produced by using coal and storing the gas underground, preventing it from entering the atmosphere. Machines to separate carbon dioxide from other elements in the coal may someday stand on the empty land.
 For years, scientists have been experimenting with ways to ''clean'' coal, a carbon-heavy fuel that countries around the world increasingly rely on. But the technology for carbon capture and storage has been tried only on a small scale. Governments have not required companies to do what Duke is proposing here, in part because costs were so uncertain. 
 The allocation of $3.4 billion in the federal stimulus bill for carbon capture and sequestration, as carbon storage is often called, however, has allowed Duke Energy and other companies to consider mounting full-scale projects. 
 The federal money is the latest sign of a growing interest worldwide in clean coal technologies, which backers believe could prove one of the most significant ways to tackle global warming. The projects are being watched closely by environmentalists, engineers and energy officials.
 The Duke effort, said John Thompson, a coal expert at an environmental group, the Clean Air Task Force, ''may be the first commercial carbon sequestration site in the United States.''
 If Duke is successful, the plant could be capturing about 18 percent of its carbon dioxide emissions within four or five years, and an additional 40 percent a few years after that. Carbon dioxide is the main heat-trapping gas linked to global warming.
 Duke already received some money under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to build a $2.35 billion coal-burning power plant, the largest new construction project in Indiana. The site here is already crawling with workmen and heavy machinery.
 The new plant will differ from conventional coal plants in significant ways, cooking the coal into a fuel gas rather than burning it as a powder, and then thoroughly cleaning the gas and burning it in a jet engine, similar to that used to burn natural gas. Emissions of conventional pollutants, like sulfur, soot and smog-forming nitrogen, will be extremely low.
 Two other such ''gasification'' plants already operate, in Florida and Indiana. Duke's first addition would be to use a machine to strip the carbon dioxide out of the fuel gas. 
 Duke is conducting a $17 million study of that idea, and has asked permission from its regulators to study a second step, to capture an additional 40 percent or so of the carbon dioxide produced at a later stage. The carbon would then be stored in a deep well on the site or sent by pipeline to an old oil field, where it would stimulate oil production. Part of the test is meant to demonstrate that carbon dioxide can safely stay put underground.
 Other companies around the country also are exploring carbon capture and storage projects. According to a recent report by Emerging Energy Research, a consulting firm, Illinois has passed legislation that could require its utilities to buy electricity from plants that sequester their carbon. And six other states are considering legislation to help pay for carbon capture or ease the way for carbon storage.
 There are several competing technologies for approaching the problem -- more than the money in the stimulus bill can pay for. And experts say that before new methods can be commercialized, projects need three to five years of planning and construction, followed by eight to 10 years of actual pumping of carbon dioxide into the ground. 
 ''We need to get off the dime with this and build some full scale projects to demonstrate this technology at scale,'' said Edward S. Rubin, a professor of environmental engineering at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, ''but the price tag per project is $800 million to $1 billion.''
 The Edwardsport venture might prove a little cheaper. The first step, capturing the carbon dioxide created when coal is turned into a fuel gas, would add 5 percent to 15 percent to the initial $2.35 billion cost, according to W. Michael Womack, vice president of Duke Energy in charge of the project. 
 In the second stage, one of the components of the fuel gas, carbon monoxide, is mixed with water to make hydrogen, for fuel, and carbon dioxide, for sequestration. The cost of that is ''a little fuzzier,'' he said, and probably higher than the cost for the first step. 
 Until the beginning of last year, the Energy Department had backed a more ambitious effort, the FutureGen gasification plant in Mattoon, Ill., that would have sequestered 90 percent of its carbon dioxide, compared with a maximum of less than 60 percent at Edwardsport. Companies from the United States, Britain, China and Australia were to contribute. 
 But in January 2008, the Bush administration decided that the price for FutureGen had grown too high and withdrew financing, proposing instead to finance add-ons like the ones contemplated at Edwardsport. Last week, a report by the federal Government Accountability Office found that because of a math error, the Energy Department had greatly overestimated the cost increase for FutureGen.
 At Peabody Energy, one of the FutureGen partners, Fred Palmer, a spokesman, said that the $1 billion in the stimulus bill that seems directed toward a project like FutureGen is not enough to finish that project, but that the partners could seek another appropriation in a couple of years.
 An independent expert, Sarah Forbes, head of the carbon capture and storage project at the World Resources Institute, an environmental group, said that FutureGen had a tremendous strength, demonstrating the integration of capture and of storage at a large scale. But the project was so big, she said, that it could squeeze out others. ''Perhaps it's smarter to do four rather than one,'' she said.
 Proponents of smaller projects hope that there is enough money left in the stimulus bill for them. For example, Babcock & Wilcox has a different approach for capturing carbon: remove all the nitrogen from the air going into the boiler, so the output is nearly pure carbon dioxide. 
 A project that captured 92 percent of its carbon dioxide would cost nearly $1 billion, and the company is hoping the government will pay half, said Donald C. Langley, vice president and chief technology officer of Babcock & Wilcox. The company will make an announcement soon about its deal with a Western utility to partner in the project. 
 Later this year, American Electric Power will begin capturing carbon dioxide from 2 percent of the smokestack gases from its mammoth Mountaineer plant, in New Haven, W.Va., by using ammonia, and injecting the gas into a $4.2 million well nearly two miles deep. 
 If the ammonia works well, and if the carbon dioxide flows underground as expected, the company will try using the method to treat about 20 percent of the plant's smoke and seeking government help to do it. The approach is important because it is intended for old plants. 
 Some environmentalists oppose carbon capture from coal under any circumstances. Greenpeace argues that the energy required to capture the carbon, pressurize it and pump it underground is too large and the risks of underground storage too high. The effort, thegroup says, would divert money from more promising alternatives. Others argue that making coal safe to burn would simply encourage damaging mining, like mountaintop removal. 
 But energy experts predict that countries around the world are certain to keep using coal, so someone had better find a safer way. 
 ''With a big lump of money, the No. 1 priority is moving out with urgency,'' said Ernest J. Moniz, a professor at M.I.T. and a former under secretary of energy. ''If we want sequestration to have a serious market share in managing the climate problem by 2040, we have to start yesterday,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Duke Energy's coal gasification plant in Edwardsport, Ind., could be the first of its type.(PHOTOGRAPH BY A. J. MAST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
 Work on Duke's Edwardsport project is being closely watched by environmental interests.(PHOTOGRAPH BY A. J. MAST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); COAL MINING (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (76%); SMOG (76%); PARTICULATE MATTER (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%)

COMPANY: DUKE ENERGY CORP (84%)

TICKER: DUK (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



694 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: In Seattle, a Newspaper Loses Its Paper Routes

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY and RICHARD PEREZ-PENA; William Yardley reported from Seattle, and Richard Perez-Pena from New York.

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
The Seattle Post-Intelligencer will produce its last printed edition on Tuesday and become an Internet-only news source, the Hearst Corporation said on Monday, making it by far the largest American newspaper to take that leap.
 But The P-I, as it is called, will resemble a local Huffington Post more than a traditional newspaper, with a news staff of about 20 people rather than the 165 it had, and a site with mostly commentary, advice and links to other news sites, along with some original reporting.
 Other newspapers have closed and many more are threatened. But the transition to an all-digital product for The P-I will be especially closely watched in an industry that is fast losing revenue and is casting around for a new economic model. 
 For one thing, the closing may end up putting greater pressure on the surviving and financially struggling Seattle Times, because of the end of a joint operating agreement between the two papers. It may even bring closer the day when Seattle has no local paper at all. 
 And the way The P-I is changing might hint at a path for future newspaper closings. To some extent, in shifting its business model, it will enter a new realm of competition. It will compete not just with the print-and-ink Times, but also with an established local news Web site, Crosscut.com, a much smaller nonprofit organization that focuses on the Northwest. The move shows how some newspapers, in the future, may not vanish but move the battle from print to the digital arena. 
 ''The bloodline will live on,'' Roger Oglesby, the paper's publisher and editor, told the employees Monday morning in the newsroom. The Web site will remain at the paper's address, SeattlePI.com, and assume its new form on Tuesday. 
 Under the decades-old joint operating agreement, The Times handled all non-newsroom operations for both, like printing, delivery, advertising and marketing. Hearst executives said they were dissolving that agreement, but it was not clear how that would affect the money-losing Times. It will no longer have to share revenue with Hearst, but it will also be unable to share expenses -- the same situation The Denver Post found itself in after its rival, The Rocky Mountain News, folded late last month. 
 For their part, Times executives said that the end of The P-I was a short-term challenge, but a potential lifeline in the long run. ''Had Hearst not made this decision, the survival of The Times was unlikely,'' said Jill Mackie, vice president for public affairs at The Times. 
 The new P-I site has recruited some current and former government officials, including a former mayor, a former police chief and the current head of Seattle schools, to write columns, and it will repackage some material from Hearst's large stable of magazines. It will keep some of the paper's popular columnists and bloggers and the large number of unpaid local bloggers whose work appears on the site. 
 Among those survivors is Monica Guzman, 26, who writes The Big Blog, which she describes as tapping into ''the conversation about news in Seattle, whatever stories are getting buzz, whatever people seem to be most interested in talking about.'' 
 Sitting at her desk surrounded by departing reporters who packed boxes quietly or sipped whiskey, Ms. Guzman said it was ''more than this hunk of paper'' that she would miss, but her colleagues and their encyclopedic knowledge and instincts. ''To go on without some of that, it's a little scary,'' she said.
 The P-I lost $14 million in 2008. Hearst announced in January that if it could not find a buyer, it would cease printing. Few people expected a buyer to emerge.
 Hearst hopes to capitalize on the healthy Web traffic The P-I already has, about 1.8 million unique visitors a month, according to Nielsen Online. It usually outranks the online readership of The Times, despite much smaller print circulation, 118,000 on weekdays last year, compared with 199,000 for The Times.
 ''We clearly believe we are in a period of innovation and experimentation, and that's what this new SeattlePI.com represents,'' said Steven R. Swartz, president of Hearst's newspaper division. ''We think we'll learn a lot, and we think the Seattle market, being so digitally focused, is a great place to try this.''
 The new P-I will be led by Michelle Nicolosi, executive producer of the site since 2005, who has been an editor and prize-winning reporter. David McCumber, the managing editor, and Mr. Oglesby will not stay with The P-I, but will remain with Hearst in some capacity, executives said.
 Hearst said it would offer severance packages to about 145 employees. Because the newspaper has had no business staff of its own, the new operation plans to hire more than 20 people in areas like ad sales.
 Among the new columnists, Hearst said, will be Norm Rice, a former Seattle mayor; Maria L. Goodloe-Johnson, who heads the city's public schools; John McKay, a former United States attorney; and two former governors.
 David Brewster, the publisher of Crosscut, praised Hearst for ''creating new journalism,'' rather than completely shutting down The P-I. ''There's definitely room,'' he said. ''Seattle will be quite a vital place.''
 Ruth Teichroeb, an investigative reporter who was among those who lost their jobs, said she worried about what would be lost. ''The thing that's always been closest to my heart is The P-I's coverage of the underdog, people who are invisible,'' she said. ''Those people who have the least voice in society are losing access to another part of the mainstream media.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Roger Oglesby, right, of The Seattle Post-Intelligencer, announced the paper's final print edition.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN DeLONG/SEATTLE POST-INTELLIGENCER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); WEB SITES (76%); PUBLISHING (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); POLICE FORCES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (96%); DENVER POST CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (96%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (96%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%)

PERSON: ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (96%) WASHINGTON, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



695 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: OBAMA IN EFFORT TO UNDO BONUSES GRANTED BY A.I.G.

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and JACKIE CALMES; Contributing reporting were Helene Cooper in Washington and Mary Williams Walsh, Michael J. de la Merced and Louise Story in New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama and his top economic advisers scrambled to calm a nationwide furor on Monday over bonuses paid at the American International Group, even as administration officials acknowledged they had known about the issue for months.
 One day after the economic advisers insisted that their hands had been tied by contracts requiring the payments, Mr. Obama ordered the Treasury Department to ''pursue every single legal avenue to block these bonuses'' and make the American taxpayers whole.
 ''In the last six months, A.I.G. has received substantial sums from the U.S. Treasury,'' Mr. Obama said. ''How do they justify this outrage to the taxpayers who are keeping the company afloat?''
 But as anger from lawmakers escalated and criticism of the retention bonuses overshadowed other news for a second consecutive day, White House and Treasury officials offered only a general sense of how they would carry out Mr. Obama's order and few explanations for why they had not acted earlier. 
 White House officials said the Treasury would recapture the bonus money by writing new requirements into a $30 billion installment of government aid scheduled to go soon to the ailing insurance conglomerate. The government has already provided $170 billion in taxpayer assistance to keep A.I.G from failing and now owns nearly 80 percent of the company. 
 But administration officials conceded that almost all of the most recent round of bonuses, totaling $165 million, had been paid last Friday, one day before the Treasury publicly acknowledged that it had reluctantly approved the payouts. The officials said that people who received the bonuses would probably be able to keep them.
 By seeking to link repayment of the bonus money to the coming $30 billion in assistance, the administration seemed to leave open the possibility that the company would effectively be repaying taxpayers with taxpayer money. A Treasury official disputed that taxpayers would be repaying themselves, but could not specify how else the company would give back the money. 
 Increasing the pressure on the company, Andrew M. Cuomo, the New York attorney general, said he would subpoena A.I.G. for the names, job descriptions and performance evaluations of the employees receiving the bonuses. 
 ''You could argue that if taxpayers hadn't bailed out A.I.G., the contracts wouldn't be worth the paper they were signed on,'' Mr. Cuomo said.
 For all of the furor since details of the bonuses became public over the last several days, the issue of retention payments to A.I.G. employees globally has been percolating publicly since A.I.G. was bailed out in mid-September. About $1 billion in retention payments for 2008 and 2009 are in question, but the controversy involves about half of that, about $450 million over two years, that was intended for employees of A.I.G.'s financial products unit. That unit was the source of the financial derivatives blamed for the near-collapse at the heart of the economy's downturn.
 The Treasury and Federal Reserve officials said they had known about the bonus program as far back as last fall. The program has provoked public protests from a handful of critics and at least one Democratic lawmaker in Congress -- Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, a member of the House Committee on Government Oversight, who demanded without success in December that A.I.G. provide information about the bonuses.
 Mr. Cummings said he had been communicating regularly with A.I.G.'s chief executive, Edward M. Liddy, about the bonuses ever since December. Mr. Cummings said he was particularly concerned that the bonuses were supposed to be paid by March 15, adding that he assumed Treasury officials had the same worries. 
 ''I assumed that they were well aware of it and would take appropriate action'' before the March 15 deadline, Mr. Cummings said. ''In light of the biggest quarterly loss in history, you would think that A.I.G. and Mr. Liddy would have been able to convince folks who were supposed to be getting these retention payments, based at least in part on performance, that they might want to voluntarily not take all or part of them.''
 Treasury and Fed officials said they knew that A.I.G. paid $55 million in bonuses in December.
 But administration officials said that the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, did not personally become aware until last week that an even bigger round of payments was due on March 15. Administration officials said Mr. Geithner learned of the deadline early last week, when the Federal Reserve Bank of New York alerted him that the bonus payments were coming due.
 Mr. Geithner, according to Treasury officials, insisted that the bonus plan was ''unacceptable'' and called Mr. Liddy on Wednesday to demand changes.
 A.I.G. executives said they would never have proceeded with the bonus payments before getting approval from the Treasury and the Federal Reserve. 
 ''We would never make any important business decisions without discussing them with our government managers and owners,'' said one executive, who did not want to be identified because of the sensitivity of the matter.
 A.I.G. has so far declined to identify the employees receiving the bonuses, some of whom are thought to be foreigners who worked out of offices in London.
 The tangle over bonuses highlighted a broader confusion over who actually controls the insurance conglomerate. The Treasury and the Federal Reserve have both pumped vast amounts of money into the company, but the two agencies have never made it clear which of them is in charge. 
 Both agencies have insisted that neither of them ''owns'' A.I.G., or controls its management decisions, even though the federal government owns almost 80 percent of the company. As a result, the Treasury and Fed officials have repeatedly resisted forcing the company to disclose more about how A.I.G. was spending taxpayer money.
 It was only on Sunday, after Democratic lawmakers had criticized the Fed and Treasury for weeks for being too protective of the company, that A.I.G. released the names of the companies that it had repaid with money it received from the government.
 Since November, A.I.G.'s financial products unit has been led by Gerry Pasciucco, a former vice chairman of Morgan Stanley who was brought in by Mr. Liddy with instructions to wind down the unit. Company executives said they faced a need to keep skilled professionals in the business unit, which traded trillions of dollars worth of financial derivatives, because it would take great expertise to shut down the business in an orderly manner and without causing more turmoil. 
 Christina Pretto, a spokeswoman for A.I.G., said Mr. Pasciucco was traveling on Monday and was unavailable. But she said that since his arrival, the company had reduced the volume of its financial positions by more than 25 percent, starting with the ''complex and difficult-to-manage positions.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama told Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner to ''pursue every single legal avenue to block these bonuses.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16) CHART: Bailouts, Bonuses and Outrage: On Monday, President Obama vowed to try to prevent the American International Group from paying bonuses to employees in the company's financial products unit. This team was heavily involved in complex financial transactions like credit-default swaps that led to billions of dollars in losses.(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); BONUS PAY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); JOB DESCRIPTIONS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (60%); SUBPOENAS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (59%); ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



696 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: Aide Says Obama Will Try to Stop A.I.G. Bonuses

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama has told the Treasury secretary Timothy F. Geithner to take all legal measures to block hefty bonuses awarded to employees of AIG, the insurance company that received up to $180 billion in bailout money, a White House adviser said Monday. 
 ''The president told Secretary Geithner ... to take every legal means that he has to push back against this, to figure out who put this in the contracts and when, and to make sure this doesn't happen again,'' Austan Goolsbee, a member of Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, told Reuters Financial Television.
 ''Obviously we're not going to break the law, but there are a number of legal means that we have to push back, and the president instructed Secretary Geithner to do so,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



697 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: The Goal: Improve America's Schools

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Ending the 'Race to the Bottom' '' (editorial, March 12):
 Although I share President Obama's desire to improve America's schools, I think he is moving forward on bad advice. He'd do better to ask teachers and parents how to make their schools more effective.
 I would tell him that if the federal government wants to reward school success, it should split those rewards among all those who have contributed: parents; the whole school faculty, including the principal; and the students themselves. The government might also reward the community that gave its schools financial and moral support. 
 I'd also tell him that if innovation is desirable, all schools should be allowed to innovate, not just charter schools. Why not free public schools from the straitjackets of state textbooks, externally written curriculums and one-size-fits-all instruction?
 Finally, I'd tell him to lose the words ''achievement'' and ''rigor,'' which have no connection to the inquisitiveness, determination, creative thinking and perseverance students need for genuine lifelong learning.
 Joanne Yatvin Portland, Ore., March 12, 2009
 The writer is a former teacher, principal and superintendent.
 To the Editor:
 President Obama's financing of initiatives for performance pay for teachers will accelerate the race to the bottom. Studies show that performance pay in other areas has damaging effects. 
 Doctors receiving performance pay stopped treating the riskiest and sickest patients. Performance pay in sports has been accompanied by athletes' use of banned drugs. And performance pay in the finance industry has transformed us into the Enron nation. 
 In education, research on performance pay shows no substantive gains in student achievement, and all Mr. Obama's policy will do is reinforce the ill-conceived notion that low-level standardized tests are a valid measure of student achievement. Instead, pay teachers a salary that signals teaching as a profession.
 Jacqueline Ancess New York, March 12, 2009
 The writer is co-director of the National Center for Restructuring Education, Schools and Teaching.
 To the Editor:
 President Obama wants more charter schools. This is devastating for small school districts, for whom charters are an unfunded mandate. The public schools in Albany, with 9,000 students, have been hit hard by nine charter schools.
 The Albany public schools have paid more than $100 million to charters, a gigantic loss for a small district. The result is a lack of resources for the majority of Albany's kids who still attend the public schools. We don't need more charters in Albany; we need a moratorium.
 Mark S. Mishler Albany, March 12, 2009
 The writer is co-president of the Albany City P.T.A.
 To the Editor:
 After reading your editorial ''Ending the 'Race to the Bottom,' '' and hearing President Obama's proposals for fixing America's public schools, I have a suggestion, a question and a challenge for our decision makers.
 My suggestion is that our leaders, both economic and political, consider sending their children to public schools. 
 My question is why we accept a two-tiered educational system: rich kids over there (private), poor kids over here (public). If memory serves, we have already decided that separate but equal does not work. 
 My challenge for President Obama, and all those in the halls of power, is to invest time and energy in those public schools down the street. If you cannot send your children, send yourselves. Do not dictate from above, but lead from within.
 Paul Clifford Portland, Me., March 13, 2009
 The writer is an eighth-grade social studies teacher.
 To the Editor:
 Re '' 'No Picnic for Me Either,' '' by David Brooks (column, March 13):
 Mr. Brooks is exactly right: great teachers build strong relationships with students on whom they impose high standards.
 Mr. Brooks is also correct in saying that we need to know who these teachers are, and which schools develop high achievement in their students and which do not. Yes, we need data. We need to know, not to guess or hope.
 However, Mr. Brooks's faith in the standardized tests by which we gather data strikes me as naive. I taught English for years and have been an educator since 1957 and have yet to discover a better method of assessing my students' progress in learning how to write than reading their compositions closely, with a red pencil, usually at least twice. If I could have substituted a standardized test for that process, I could have gone to bed a lot earlier each night.
 Could it be that our faith in standardized testing is based on the fact that it costs much less than assessing real work?
 One reading of Mr. Brooks's column tells me more about his excellence as a writer than a thousand standardized tests.
 Stephen Davenport Oakland, Calif., March 13, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VIVIENNE FLESHER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); MERIT PAY (89%); WRITERS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (88%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); CURRICULA (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (76%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (72%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



698 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Cisco Pushes Into Server Computer Market

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif. 

 BODY:
With the release of a footrest-size product, Cisco Systems has disrupted the political ties among the world's largest technology companies and thrust itself into a new, hostile market. 
 On Monday, Cisco ended months of speculation by revealing its first server computer at the company's headquarters here. The product encroaches on the turf of Cisco's traditional partners like Hewlett-Packard, I.B.M. and Dell, which have sold billions of dollars of computers over the years that flank Cisco's core networking hardware, routers and switches. But John T. Chambers, the chief executive at Cisco, insisted the time was right for the company to turn more aggressive. 
 ''What we are really talking about here is catching the next market evolution,'' Mr. Chambers said, during a news conference. 
 The New York Times reported Cisco's plans in January. 
 Mr. Chambers said the rise of virtualization software has created the need for new types of server computers. Virtualization software, made popular by VMware, lets businesses run more software applications on each physical server, helping them save on capital costs. 
 Virtualization also muddies the boundaries between servers, storage systems and networking equipment, which must now deal with more fluid virtual applications rather than dedicated software. 
 With its Unified Computing System, Cisco bundles server, storage and networking systems in a single product. Cisco says it can run hundreds of virtual servers on a single machine. 
 Analysts said the product is the biggest strategic shift in the server market to occur in years. ''This is definitely a transformative play,'' said James Staten, an analyst at Forrester Research, who attended the Cisco news conference. ''This is war and a direct frontal assault on I.B.M. and H.P.''
 Analysts expect that the major server makers will release similar products soon. 
 While servers are far less profitable than networking equipment, Cisco has worked with software makers like VMware and BMC to sell software and hardware together in order to command some of the highest profit margins in the server industry. 
 H.P. has already responded to Cisco's actions by increasing its investment in networking equipment, Cisco's core business, and refining its virtualization technology.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Chambers, center, chief of Cisco, describing the new product via a videoconference.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARKETWIRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); NETWORK SERVERS (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); NETWORK STORAGE TECHNOLOGY (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%)

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (97%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); VMWARE INC (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (97%); HPQ (NYSE) (90%); VMW (NYSE) (55%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (97%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



699 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: The Gift That Keeps on Giving

 BODY:
After four bailouts totaling some $170 billion, the American International Group has finally answered some of the questions about where the money went. Unfortunately, the answers have only succeeded in raising many more questions.
 On Saturday, Americans learned that A.I.G. planned to pay $165 million in bonuses to executives and employees in the very division that caused the problems that led to the federal bailouts. Taxpayers have every right to be outraged, and President Obama was right to acknowledge that outrage on Monday, when he vowed to try to stop the payments.
 Mr. Obama's tough talk, however, contrasted with comments made by his top economic adviser, Lawrence Summers, and by the Treasury Department. They had already expressed dismay but said that legally they could do nothing to stop the bonuses, which, in fact, had already mostly been paid on Friday. 
 It is frustrating enough for Americans to try to figure out which part of that mixed message reflects the administration's true position. But the bigger issue is that the bonuses are something of a distraction. Seen by themselves, the payments are huge, but they are less than one-tenth of 1 percent of the money already committed to the A.I.G. bailout. 
 Which brings us to the second disclosure of recent days. It was common knowledge that most of the A.I.G. bailout money had been funneled to the company's trading partners -- banks and other financial firms that would have lost big if A.I.G. were allowed to fail. On Sunday, after much prodding by Congress and the public, A.I.G. finally released the partners' identities, along with amounts paid thus far to make them whole. 
 The largest single recipient was Goldman Sachs ($12.9 billion). The amount -- hardly chump change even by Wall Street standards -- appears to contradict earlier assertions by Goldman that its exposure to risk from A.I.G. was ''not material'' and that its positions were offset by collateral or hedges. If so, why didn't the hedges pay up instead of the American taxpayers? 
 Other recipients include 20 European banks that received a total of $58.8 billion and Merrill Lynch ($6.8 billion), Bank of America ($5.2 billion) and Citigroup ($2.3 billion).
 Altogether, the disclosures account for $107.8 billion in A.I.G. bailout money. Which leaves us wondering about the rest of the money. Another $30 billion was added to the A.I.G. bailout pot this month and must be accounted for as soon as it is spent. That leaves some $32 billion unaccounted for. Where did it go? 
 Taxpayers also need to be told the precise nature of the banks' dealings with A.I.G. Appearing on ''60 Minutes'' on Sunday, Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, described A.I.G. as a company ''that made all kinds of unconscionable bets.'' Well, on the other side of those bets are the banks that received the bailout money. It is possible that one side of a bet is acting unconscionably and that another side is acting in good faith. But it's also possible that both sides are trying to play an unseemly game to their own advantage. 
 Congress must investigate, and the new disclosures give them enough to get started. Untangling all the entanglements is not only essential to understanding how the system became so badly broken, but also to restoring faith in the government that it is up to the task of fixing it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (77%); BONUS PAY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (54%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%); GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%); BEN BERNANKE (55%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



700 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Obama Acts To Aid Small Businesses

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration said on Monday that it would try to ease a credit squeeze afflicting small businesses by buying up to $15 billion of securities that are linked to small-business loans.
 Speaking to an audience of small-business owners at the White House, President Obama said the actions would encourage lenders to make more money available to entrepreneurs and spur renewed economic growth in a vital sector of the economy.
 ''Today, too many entrepreneurs can't access the capital to start, operate, or grow their business,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Too many dreams are being deferred or denied by a form letter canceling a line of credit.'' 
 On a day when his administration was trying to head off any political damage from the news of bonuses being paid to executives of American International Group, the announcement provided Mr. Obama a platform to stress that the government is helping mom-and-pop operations as well as giant financial institutions and corporations.
 The administration's plan included provisions increasing loan guarantees for small business to 90 percent of the loan value to encourage banks and other lenders to extend credit, and waiving the Small Business Administration's loan fees and requiring banks that received federal bailout money to report each month how much small-business lending they did.
 Mr. Obama said the small-business credit squeeze was linked to the overall credit crisis, which, he said, ''began when some banks bundled and sold mortgages in complex ways to hide risk and avoid responsibility.''
 ''The collapse of these mortgage-backed securities and other complex financial instruments froze the credit markets, including the markets that help small businesses access loans to cover payroll, to purchase supplies, or to expand in ways that create new jobs,'' he said.
 The White House said in a statement that the Obama administration believed that the country's ''economic recovery will be driven in large part by America's small businesses'' and noted that small companies had generated some 70 percent of net new jobs annually over the last decade. 
 Administration officials said that by the end of March the Treasury Department would begin making direct purchases of securities backed by loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration. Even small businesses with good credit histories had lost the ability to borrow, administration officials said.
 The initiatives are intended to encourage new lending to creditworthy small companies by making loans more attractive. In addition, the administration wants to ease the secondary market for loans backed by the Small Business Administration, which has been frozen since last fall. 
 During a conference call with reporters, administration officials said they expected that most of the $15 billion would be used to buy newly issued securities, at prices high enough to attract sellers, but not so high that taxpayers would be overcharged. Officials played down fears that taxpayers could end up rescuing small businesses that might be better left to sink. A senior administration official said that delinquencies among small businesses would decrease when the economy turned around. 
 As part of the administration's small-business initiative, the I.R.S. announced Monday that small businesses with deductions exceeding their income in 2008 could use a new net operating loss tax provision to get a refund of taxes paid in prior years. The provision, enacted as part of the economic recovery plan, enables small businesses with a net operating loss in 2008 to elect to offset this loss against income earned in up to five prior years, instead of the usual two-year limit. 
 ''The new net operating loss provisions could throw a lifeline to struggling businesses, providing them with a quick infusion of cash,'' said the I.R.S. commissioner, Doug Shulman, in a statement. ''We want to make it as easy as possible for small businesses to take advantage of these key tax benefits.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, meeting with small-business owners and lenders on Monday, announced moves he said would make more credit available to entrepreneurs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (92%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (92%); CREDIT CRISIS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (55%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



701 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: When Is First First? When It's a Shovel

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Emotions were running high on Monday in the San Bernardino National Forest. The first shovel, held in the hands of the first set of workers, made its way into the first bit of ground broken for the ''first project'' financed by the federal stimulus bill. 
 Well maybe not the first project -- that was claimed by Missouri for work on a dilapidated bridge. And people in Nebraska and Maryland insist that they received the first official approval to patch up some roadways. 
 But the California Conservation Corps gets first dibs on the implement. ''Our project is definitely the first one to use shovels,'' said Jimmy Camp, a spokesman for the agency, which on Monday had 18 workers tackling trail work in the San Bernardino National Forest, about 70 miles east of here. 
 Americans love a first; historical, scandalous or banal. Now cities and states are rushing to be first in using the stimulus money -- press release in hand -- even for projects long in the making, with workers more or less standing by, pick axes akimbo, waiting for the check to clear so they can claim their title.
 In early March, Representative Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, announced that his state's $2.1 million worth of road resurfacing in Montgomery County was ''the first project in the nation approved by the Federal Highway Administration.''
 But on Feb. 17, the very day the stimulus bill was signed into law by President Obama, work on a bridge a near Tuscumbia, Mo., began, with a competing claim of first.
 ''Within a few minutes of President Obama signing the bill,'' said Shane Peck, a spokesman for the Missouri Department of Transportation, ''the highway department approved that project, and construction started on the project.'' 
 Backhoe, not shovel, but take that, Old Line State!
 Not to overlook the claim in Nebraska, where state officials insist that they were first to put out requests for bids on seven road projects. ''We did let our bids first,'' said Mary Jo Oie, a spokeswoman for the Nebraska Department of Roads. ''Before the president had even signed, we were looking at our deliverable projects.''
 Part of the confusion, to the extent that it exists, centers on the definition of ''first.''
 ''The concept of 'shovel ready,' which is neither a legal term nor a term of art in road construction, means projects ready to be started as soon as money becomes available,'' said Jim Berard, a spokesman for the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. 
 While the committee keeps no official tabs, that definition leads to one conclusion, Mr. Berard said. ''I think Missouri has the best claim to the title,'' he declared. 
 On that bit of news, Ms. Oie did her version of a phone shrug: ''We're excited any which way you look at it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The California Conservation Corps said Monday that the state had become the first to put stimulus money to work, in the San Bernardino National Forest.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Gov. Jay Nixon of Missouri awarded a stimulus contract just after the president signed the bill.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KELLEY MCCALL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (67%); CONSTRUCTION (62%)

COMPANY: MISSOURI DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (54%)

PERSON: JAY NIXON (56%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (55%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEBRASKA, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



702 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: A White House Dig At a Former No. 2

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
Say goodbye to all that inauguration good will.
 In a caustic reply on Monday to criticism of the Obama administration's national security and economic policy by former Vice President Dick Cheney, the White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, likened Mr. Cheney to the king of right-wing radio, Rush Limbaugh, and said it would be the ''best possible outcome'' for Americans to ignore Mr. Cheney's advice on the economy. 
 ''I guess Rush Limbaugh was busy, so they trotted out the next most popular member of the Republican cabal,'' Mr. Gibbs told reporters when asked to respond to Mr. Cheney's assessment.
 In an interview on Sunday, Mr. Cheney criticized President Obama's decision to close down the military prison at Guantanamo Bay. Mr. Cheney told CNN that Bush administration counterterrorism policies were ''absolutely essential'' to prevent a repeat of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
 ''President Obama campaigned against it all across the country,'' Mr. Cheney said. ''And now he is making some choices that, in my mind, will, in fact, raise the risk to the American people of another attack.''
 Mr. Gibbs took umbrage at the press briefing on Monday. ''The president has made quite clear,'' he said, ''that keeping the American people safe and secure is the most serious job that he has each and every day.''
 Mr. Gibbs refused to back down from the Limbaugh line after a reporter asked him whether he meant to sound so sarcastic, given that he was talking about a former vice president. ''I hope my sarcasm didn't mask the seriousness of my answer,'' he said. ''For seven-plus years, the very perpetrators that the vice president says he's concerned about weren't brought to justice.'' 
 HELENE COOPER 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRISONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TERRORISM (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); ARMED FORCES (54%); COUNTERTERRORISM (53%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



703 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 428 words

 BODY:
A MORE ASSERTIVE POWER China is becoming a more assertive and capable rival of the United States as it exploits its unusually flush position and strong banking system while much of the rest of the world wallows in a financial crisis. 
 A CRASH-PRONE WORKHORSE More than a third of Predators, the unmanned planes the military uses for reconnaissance and attacks, have crashed in either Iraq or Afghanistan. Nevertheless, they have become one of the military's favorite weapons despite that and other deficiencies. [A1.] 
 NO SPECIFICS Administration officials offered only a general sense of how they would carry out President Obama's order to find a way to block the bonuses to be paid to workers at American International Group but had little to say when asked why they didn't act sooner. [A1.] 
 Should the federal government really be looking for ways out of bonus contracts at A.I.G.? DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [B1.]
 CLOSELY WATCHED SWITCH When the Seattle Post-Intelligencer shifts to an online-only, it will be closely watched by the newspaper industry, which is looking for a new economic model. [A1.]
 BARCLAYS MAY SELL ISHARES Barclays Bank is in talks to sell iShares, a part of its fund management business to raise capital. [B3.]
 GOLDMAN OFFERING LOANS Goldman Sachs, a big beneficiary of the rescue of A.I.G. and a firm where employment has long been regarded as a sure path to riches, is offering to lend money to more than 1,000 employees squeezed by the financial crisis. [B1.]
 HELP FOR SMALL BUSINESSES The Obama administration will try to ease a credit crisis for small businesses by buying up to $15 billion in securities that should encourage more loans to a segment of the economy known for creating jobs. [B1.]
 REDEMPTION FOR NARDELLI? Robert L. Nardelli has been putting in long hours to help revive Chrysler and with it, his reputation. [B1.]
 POSSIBLE WAY TO CLEANER COALDuke Energy is studying a method for capturing the carbon dioxide produced by using coal and storing the gas underground, preventing it from entering the atmosphere. [B1.]
 TRAVELING FOR THE BIRDS Business travel to destinations that many would find unappealing can be especially alluring to those who pack binoculars and field guides. [B5.]
 GET 'EM WHILE THEY'RE HOT It's a great time for cheap air travel, but you'll need to hurry and order your tickets to take advantage of these deals. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [B5.]
 CHASING MRS. MADOFF'S ASSETS Federal prosecutors plan to seek the forfeiture of property owned largely by Bernard L. Madoff's wife. [B6.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); ASSET FORFEITURE (76%); JOB CREATION (74%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (60%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (57%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (70%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (70%); 8685 (TSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (57%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); BOB NARDELLI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



704 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Fighting for Time

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting.

DATELINE: AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 

 BODY:
In his office at Chrysler's world headquarters, Robert L. Nardelli, the chairman, works standing at an elevated desk. He thinks better on his feet, he said, even when he uses his computer. 
 But with the automaker Chrysler on the brink of insolvency, his legs must be getting sore. 
 Just two weeks remain before a presidential task force is scheduled to decide whether to save Chrysler and endorse its viability plan, and Mr. Nardelli has been putting in long hours to help save the company. 
 He prefers to wave off any discussion about his role as a central player in those efforts. ''It's not about Bob,'' he said Monday in an interview. ''If we're able to do this, it's because these people here have put together a plan we believe in.'' 
 But, as the executive in charge, it inevitably is about Mr. Nardelli and his reputation. After his abrupt departure as chairman of the retailer Home Depot, Mr. Nardelli was viewed by many in the auto industry as a short-term chief executive when he was installed by Cerberus Capital Management after the private equity firm bought Chrysler in August 2007. Industry observers expected him to streamline Chrysler so Cerberus could sell it.
 But in the 19 months since, Mr. Nardelli has become a passionate leader of Chrysler. Like Lee Iacocca in the 1980s, Mr. Nardelli, 60, is trying to make the case that the American auto industry is better off with Chrysler than without it.
 ''Quite honestly, we are in a survival mode,'' he said. The company needs an additional $5 billion in government loans to survive, on top of the $4 billion it has received.
 Chrysler's updated restructuring plan, filed Feb. 17 with the Treasury Department, asserts that, if it receives an additional loan, it can stabilize its finances and grow beyond its core North American market. President Obama's task force is now weighing that argument. 
 No major automaker suffered more last year than Chrysler when a weak economy and tight credit slashed industry sales in the United States. While industry sales fell 18 percent, Chrysler's sales plummeted 30 percent.
 The company also lost $8 billion and nearly ran out of money before receiving its first infusion of government loans.
 Mr. Nardelli has already stripped down Chrysler's operations, cutting 32,000 jobs and shedding 1.2 million units of annual production capacity since 2007. He also vigorously sought partners to help Chrysler to expand its product lineup and its tiny presence in international markets.
 He cut deals on product sharing with foreign manufacturers like Nissan and Volkswagen. Last fall, Chrysler entered merger talks with General Motors, only to have G.M. pull out because of its own financial problems.
 With Chrysler's finances in a free fall, it seemed unlikely that Mr. Nardelli could find another car company willing to join forces. But in January, he reached an agreement in principle for a global alliance with the Italian automaker Fiat. The deal would give Fiat a 35 percent stake in Chrysler in exchange for providing it with small cars, engines, and technology.
 Fiat's chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, said at the time that Chrysler could benefit greatly from sharing products, technology and parts with his company.
 ''I think Chrysler has all the prerequisites to survive,'' he said in an interview last month.
 Mr. Nardelli said Monday that Chrysler could make it on its own with more federal loans.
 ''Chrysler is viable as a stand-alone business, but Fiat significantly enhances that viability,'' he said.
 Not everyone agrees. 
 Senator Bob Corker, a Republican from Tennessee, has been an ardent foe of bailout money for Chrysler.
 ''I have not seen a way that Chrysler makes it as a stand-alone entity,'' Mr. Corker said in an interview Monday. 
 Linking with Fiat, he said, does not appear to solve Chrysler's problems. ''It's really a merger of two weaker entities, though I think it's better than Chrysler being on its own,'' Mr. Corker said.
 Mr. Nardelli bristled at the notion that Fiat could not help Chrysler. He said Fiat's small-car programs, engines and other expertise were worth $8 billion to $10 billion, and that the alliance would save 5,000 Chrysler manufacturing jobs in the United States.
 The alliance would also allow Chrysler to almost immediately begin exporting its Jeeps and other products to Fiat dealerships in Europe and South America.
 ''They have what we don't, and they are where we aren't,'' Mr. Nardelli said of Fiat.
 Task force members, including the top advisers Steven Rattner and Ron Bloom, met with Mr. Nardelli last week, and toured a Chrysler truck plant in Warren, Mich. Mr. Bloom and Mr. Rattner asked ''great questions,'' Mr. Nardelli said. But he added that he had no sense of what the task force would decide.
 ''I would say it's been a very good relationship, not a strained relationship,'' he said. ''But certainly you could say that all options are still on the table.''
 One option that Mr. Nardelli says he fears is a government-managed bankruptcy.
 In its restructuring plan, Chrysler said it would require up to $25 billion in debtor-in-possession financing from the government during a bankruptcy reorganization. However, Mr. Nardelli said he worried that consumers would shun Chrysler vehicles if the company filed for bankruptcy.
 ''I hope I'm wrong, but I don't have a lot of confidence in today's environment that we can emerge from bankruptcy,'' he said.
 In an interview with The Detroit Free Press, Mr. Rattner was quoted Monday saying that bankruptcy ''is not our goal'' for G.M. or Chrysler. ''It is never a good outcome for any company, and it's never a first choice,'' he added.
 Mr. Nardelli showed little patience for rehashing his departure from Home Depot, where he doubled sales but was criticized by investors for what they called his blunt management style and his high compensation.
 He left in 2007 with a severance package estimated at more than $200 million -- and landed at Chrysler, where he now takes a salary of $1 a year, though he is believed to have an undisclosed financial interest in the company.
 If Chrysler gets its loans, Mr. Nardelli will have a chance to become the savior of the 84-year-old American industrial giant. But without more federal aid, he will be remembered as its last chief executive.
 Everything is riding on its restructuring plan. ''If I didn't believe in it,'' Mr. Nardelli said, ''I wouldn't have put my name on it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert Nardelli, chief executive of Chrysler, has spent long hours campaigning for more bailout aid.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
 Robert Nardelli, who has served as Chrysler's chief for 19 months, says that he fears a government- managed bankruptcy and that the company needs an additional $5 billion to avert it.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MERGERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); RETAILERS (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (65%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (93%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



705 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1550 words

HEADLINE: Whoopie! Cookie, Pie or Cake, It's Having Its Moment

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
FOR generations, vacationers in Maine and visitors to Pennsylvania's Amish country have found a simple black and white snack in restaurants and convenience shops and on nearly every gas station counter: whoopie pies.
They were found in other pockets of the country, too, from New England to Ohio. But in most of the United States, people could be forgiven for not knowing that the whoopie pie is not, in fact, a pie at all. (It is sometimes described as a cookie, but that is not quite right, either. The closest description may be a cake-like sandwich, or perhaps a sandwich-like cake.)
Now whoopie pies are migrating across the country, often appearing in the same specialty shops and grocery aisles that recently made room for cupcakes. Last fall, they even cracked the lineup at Magnolia Bakery in Manhattan, which helped turn cupcakes into a national craze thanks to the bakery's exposure on ''Sex and the City.'' Under the name ''sweetie pies,'' heart-shaped whoopie pies showed up in the February catalog from Williams-Sonoma. Baked in Maine with local butter and organic eggs, they sell for $49 a dozen. 
In their traditional round form, whoopie pies can be found at Trader Joe's supermarkets, at Whole Foods in Manhattan and at small bakeries like Kim's Kitchen in Evanston, Ill., outside Chicago.
Kim's Kitchen (soon to be renamed Fraiche) was an early adopter, first offering its hockey-puck-size pies seven years ago. The cakes come in chocolate and pumpkin, which remains a popular flavor long after the autumn leaves are gone, according to the shop's owner, Susan Friedman.
''If we took them away after it stopped being fall, there would be a riot outside,'' Ms. Friedman said.
Whoopie pies have been on the rise for several years, and nobody can pinpoint the reason they finally broke into the national consciousness. But the snacks evoke a more homespun era that seems to provide some comfort amid the economic gloom. ''Pure edible nostalgia,'' the Williams-Sonoma catalog calls them.
''Especially now, when people are so stressed out, they are going back to whoopie pies,'' said Emily Isaac, owner of Trois Pommes Patisserie in Park Slope, Brooklyn.
Ms. Isaac had never heard of whoopie pies before she was asked to make them as wedding favors three years ago. Entranced at first taste, she put them on the menu at her bakery when it opened in May 2007.
There are dozens of variations on the shape, flavors and fillings. Trois Pommes serves what seems to be the classic version: two round mounds of chocolate cake, about three inches across, with French vanilla cream filling.
The whoopie pie sold since last fall at Zingerman's Bakehouse, in Ann Arbor, Mich., sports a chocolate glaze on its dense chocolate cake and is filled with Swiss buttercream filling.
The basic elements of the whoopie pie turn up in many other snacks that might be considered its far-flung relatives. Amy Emberling, a partner at Zingerman's Bakehouse, grew up in eastern Canada eating a similar cookie called a Jos. Louis. Oreo sells a whoopie pie look-alike called the Oreo Cakester, while the Hostess Suzy Q is a square version that vies for space on some store shelves with whoopie-esque Little Debbie snack cakes.
Food historians believe whoopie pies originated in Pennsylvania, where they were baked by Amish women and put in farmers' lunchboxes.
Tired from a morning's work, the farmers purportedly would shout ''Whoopie!'' if they discovered one of the desserts in their lunch pails, Ms. Emberling said.
In parts of Pennsylvania, whoopie pies remain a celebrated sweet. The annual Whoopie Pie Festival at the Hershey Farm and Inn in Strasburg, Pa., features a whoopie pie eating contest and the coronation of the Whoopie Pie Queen.
The whoopie pie would probably be Maine's state dessert, if the state had one. The filling is generally of one of two types: a thick, sweet frosting made from Crisco shortening combined with confectioners' sugar, or, more conveniently, a dollop of Marshmallow Fluff.
The cake itself is typically not especially sweet, and is often on the dry side, since the frosting lends plenty of sugar and a gooey consistency, said Sandra Oliver, a food historian and columnist in Islesboro, Me.
How the cookies traveled to Maine is a mystery, however.
One theory holds that whoopie pies were brought north during the Great Depression through the Yummy Book, a recipe pamphlet first published in 1930 by Durkee-Mower, the Massachusetts company that makes Fluff.
Don Durkee, whose father co-founded the firm, discredits that notion. After checking the company's collection of pamphlets, the earliest appearance of whoopie pies he found was during the 1970s. ''I'm baffled,'' he said.
Leslie Land, a Maine writer, said her research showed that the recipe might have been popularized by one of the many local radio programs aimed at housewives during the 1930s.
No matter how they arrived, they have been eaten by Maine residents for at least eight decades, said Ms. Oliver, who publishes Food History News, a monthly newsletter. Labadie's Bakery, in Lewiston, Me., which sells whoopie pies as big as 16 inches across, claims to have sold them since 1925.
Many of the whoopie pies sold in Maine come sheathed in plastic wrap. Generally sold for less than $2, they can be found stacked next to cash registers, the dry cake growing moister by the hour. ''If you peel the Saran off and half the cookie doesn't come away, it's not a real whoopie pie,'' Ms. Oliver said.
Ms. Friedman, in Evanston, agreed that her whoopie pies have a rustic image rather than a luxury one, although they sell for $3 each.
''They're not as perfect as a lovely cupcake that has a beautiful swirl of icing on top,'' she said. ''They're a little more handmade looking.''
At Magnolia Bakery, maple-cream icing is sandwiched between two brown-sugar cakes. Sina Clark-Murphy, the head baker, said that the whoopie pie's humble appearance may help it come across as less of a dietary threat than a frosting-piled cupcake or a serving of banana pudding. Unfortunately, they are no less caloric.
At the other end of the simplicity scale are the heart-shaped versions baked by the Cranberry Island Kitchen in Maine, which supplies Williams-Sonoma. The pies wound up in the catalog after a friend of one of the company's food buyers sampled them at Bob's Clam Hut in Kittery, Me., and recommended that the catalog stock them, said Carol Ford, one of Cranberry Island's owners.
Cranberry Island's whoopie pies, which start at $28.75 for six, are made with chocolate cake or vanilla and are available in shapes like scallop shells and pumpkins. Filling flavors include rum, peppermint, Cointreau, raspberry and espresso.
To Ms. Oliver, the food historian, that upscale approach misses the point.
''It's like making a peanut butter and jelly sandwich with almond butter,'' she said. ''It's not meant to be fine cuisine.''
Recipe: Whoopie Pies
Adapted from Zingerman's Bakehouse, Ann Arbor, Mich.
Time: 1 hour
FOR THE CAKES:
1/4 pound (1 stick) butter, at room temperature
1 cup light brown sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon sea salt
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup cocoa
1 cup buttermilk
FOR THE BUTTERCREAM FILLING:
3 large egg whites
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 pound butter (2 sticks), at room temperature
3/4 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon sea salt.
1. For the cakes: Preheat oven to 350 degrees. In a mixing bowl, cream together the butter and brown sugar. Add the egg and vanilla extract and beat until light and creamy. In a separate bowl, whisk together the baking soda, salt, flour and cocoa. Add dry ingredients to butter mixture in three parts, alternating with buttermilk, and combining well after each addition.
2. Using an ice cream scoop or a spoon, scoop out 12 1/4-cup mounds of batter and place about 6 inches apart on a parchment-lined baking sheet. Bake until tops are puffed and cakes spring back when touched, 12 to 14 minutes. Remove from oven and cool completely before filling.
3. For the buttercream filling: For best results, follow directions carefully, paying attention to required temperatures. Fill bottom half of a double boiler (or a medium saucepan) with an inch or two of water, and bring to a boil over high heat. In top half of double boiler (or a metal bowl), combine egg whites and sugar. Place over simmering water and whisk just until sugar is dissolved and temperature reaches 180 degrees on an instant-read thermometer.
4. Using a whisk attachment on a heavy-duty mixer, whisk egg whites and sugar on high until they double in volume and become thick and shiny. Continue to whisk until cool. Reduce speed to medium and begin to add butter about 1/2 tablespoon at a time, until all the butter is incorporated. Add vanilla and salt. If mixture looks curdled, continue to whisk until it is smooth. Increase speed to high and whisk for 1 more minute. Use immediately or place in an airtight container and chill for up to 3 days, whisking buttercream again before using.
5. For assembly: Using an ice cream scoop or spoon, place 1/4 cup buttercream on flat side of each of 6 cakes, spreading it to edges. Top filled half with another cake to sandwich the buttercream. Store in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 3 days, or wrap individually and freeze for up to 3 months.
Yield: 6 pies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCESCO TONELLI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D1)
INVASIVE SPECIES: Emily Isaac, left, makes whoopie pies at Trois Pommes Patisserie in Park Slope. Quinci Huston, above, digs in. (PHOTOGRAPHS ABOVE BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 FOR $3, JOY: Pumpkin-flavored whoopie pies sell well at the bakery in Evanston, Ill., owned by Susan Friedman, far right(PHOTOGRAPHS ABOVE AND CENTER RIGHT BY MICHELLE LITVIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); BAKERIES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (89%); RETAIL BAKERIES (89%); CONVENIENCE STORES (89%); ORGANIC FOODS (78%); COOKWARE & KITCHEN STORES (78%); TABLE EGGS (66%)

COMPANY: TRADER JOE'S CO (55%); ZINGERMAN'S BAKEHOUSE INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (55%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (50%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MAINE, USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011



706 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Omnivorous Company Has Its Staff for Lunch

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
It's not a great time for sitcoms, but there is no more apt moment to pillory big business. ''Better Off Ted,'' which begins on ABC on Wednesday, is a charmingly offbeat comedy that brings some of the inspired lunacy of ''Arrested Development'' and ''30 Rock'' to the offices of a giant multinational corporation.
Ted (Jay Harrington) is the head of R&D for Veridian Dynamics, a highly diversified company with a hand in everything from baby food and office chairs to weapons systems, cryogenics and cloning. And perhaps the most amusing parts of the show are the introductory mock ads for Veridian Dynamics, parodies of the warm, fuzzy ''we bring good things to life'' campaigns for General Electric. In one, a montage of Kodak moments accompanies a soft, soothing voice-over: ''Veridian works for every member of your family, even the dead ones. And we are working to bring them back, and copy them, in case you lose them again.'' 
Portia de Rossi, who played Lindsay, a spendthrift social climber, on ''Arrested Development,'' here rules the workplace as Ted's driven, robotic boss, Veronica, a woman who when asked to keep an eye on Ted's visiting 7-year-old daughter, Rose, hands her a leather-bound copy of Sun Tzu's ''Art of War.'' When Rose pushes it back at her, saying she doesn't want to read it, Veronica replies, ''Trust me, your enemies are reading it.''
Victor Fresco, whose previous credits include ''My Name Is Earl'' and ''Andy Richter Controls the Universe,'' is the creator of ''Better Off Ted. '' It is a contemporary sitcom, taped with a single camera and without a laugh track. Ted is the show's narrator, wryly describing his so-called office life. And it's a workplace comedy well suited to bad economic times and paranoia around the water cooler.
The American version of ''The Office'' began on NBC in 2005, when the Dow Jones was over 10,000 and real-estate prices seemed unshakable; even at the slow-poke, low-tech offices of Dunder Mifflin in Scranton, Pa., employees are ill-supervised slackers who waste company time and money with little fear of consequences. Veridian Dynamics is an amoral, tyrannical corporation that forces employees to work nights, weekends and major holidays and keeps vigilant track of their personal phone calls and coffee-creamer quotas. The personnel office is in India.
Sometimes, employees are even expected to take dangerous risks. Phil (Jonathan Slavin), a meek if brilliant scientist, is tapped by the company to be frozen for a year to test a breakthrough technology that worked on lab animals. Assured by Ted that he will be paid throughout (''Technically, it's work''), Phil agrees. But later, Ted, who is a decent man, has second thoughts and tells Phil he has the right to refuse. ''They can't force employees to participate in human experiments,'' Ted explains. ''They lost the court case.''
Phil's lab partner is Lem (Malcolm Barrett), who is just as brilliant but slightly, and only slightly, more socially adept. Ted, who is a divorced single father, also supervises Linda (Andrea Anders), a free-spirited but slightly neurotic manager in the testing department who is not as brainwashed by the corporate ethos as the others. (She doesn't think that the prototype for an uncomfortable office chair should be marketed as ''the focus master.'')
Linda and Ted share a mutual attraction, but Ted resists getting involved with Linda since he has already used up his official allotment of office affairs -- one.
At its best, ''Better Off Ted'' is like some of the better new comedies on NBC and CBS, shows that blend mordant satire with odd, endearing characters that viewers want to keep watching. Ms. Anders in particular is a very funny, appealing actress who makes even dull patches of dialogue amusing; Mr. Slavin and Mr. Barrett bring comic heft to their small roles.
The corporate setting is new, but ''Better Off Ted'' is not really an original work; it's very much of the same comic bent and structure as ''30 Rock,'' ''The Office'' and ''Scrubs.''
It takes awhile for comedies to succeed, and success can be determined only partly by ratings. If ABC gives ''Better Off Ted'' a chance to develop its voice and build an audience, then viewers will be better off.
BETTER OFF TED
ABC, Wednesday night at 8:30, Eastern and Pacific Times; 7:30 Central time.
Created by Victor Fresco; writer and executive producer, Mr. Fresco; Skip Beaudine, producer; Marc Solakian, co-producer; and Lisa Iannone, associate producer.
WITH: Jay Harrington (Ted Crisp), Portia de Rossi (Veronica Palmer), Andrea Anders (Linda Zwordling), Jonathan Slavin (Phil Mymen) Malcolm Barrett (Lem Hewitt) and Isabella Acres (Rose Crisp).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Better Off Ted: Jay Harrington plays the title role in a new sitcom shown Wednesdays on ABC. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON TOM/ABC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (72%); OFFICE FURNITURE (70%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (55%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (51%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (72%)

TITLE: Better off Ted (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011



707 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Obama Tries To Draw Up An Inclusive Energy Plan

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
After gasoline prices rose above $4 a gallon last summer, Republican cries of ''drill, baby, drill'' forced candidate Barack Obama into a rare retreat. Under pressure, he said he would support some expansion of offshore oil drilling, while still emphasizing conservation and renewable energy.
Now, as the Obama administration outlines its energy plans, it is caught between oil companies, who are reminding the president of his campaign pledge, and environmental groups, who are demanding a reinstatement of the drilling ban that Congress lifted in September.
The renewed fight over offshore drilling comes amid efforts by the White House to map out an ambitious new energy policy for the country. For the first time since the Carter administration, an American president is putting energy at the center of his domestic agenda.
Mr. Obama must decide what strategies are most likely to achieve his goals of diversifying the nation's fuel supplies, developing alternative energy sources, reducing oil consumption, and curbing carbon emissions that contribute to global warming. 
Part of that equation is what role the administration sees for domestic supplies. Since taking office, it has scrapped rules issued in the final days of the Bush administration that would have opened up vast new areas for offshore drilling well into the next decade.
At the same time, the administration is allowing the Interior Department to go ahead on Wednesday with a long-planned auction of leases in the Gulf of Mexico that includes 4.2 million acres that had been off limits since 1988.
For the moment, the offshore debate has been eclipsed by the economic crisis and the sharp fall of oil prices. Gasoline now sells for less than $2 a gallon on average, and oil has fallen about 70 percent from its summer peak.
But the magnitude of the nation's energy challenge is not growing smaller. While the United States is the world's top oil consumer, its output has been falling since 1971. Oil imports now make up more than 60 percent of the nation's daily consumption of 19 million barrels.
Yet for more than 30 years, drilling off most of the American coastline has been forestalled by opposition from coastal states and environmental groups. The skeptics insist that the nation cannot drill its way out of oil dependency and that expanded drilling poses an environmental threat to coastlines. About 85 percent of the nation's coasts are now off limits, including most of the Pacific and Atlantic seaboards and the western coast of Florida.
Yet considerable untapped oil may lie offshore. Around the world, deepwater exploration has been the most dynamic source of petroleum growth in the last decade, in places like West Africa and Brazil.
American waters in parts of the Gulf of Mexico where drilling is allowed have been the biggest source of growth in domestic oil production since the 1990s, because of deepwater discoveries and technological advances that have allowed drilling in ever-deeper waters. As a result, estimated reserves in the Gulf of Mexico have grown sevenfold in the last 30 years.
The Interior Department estimates that undiscovered oil reserves total 86 billion barrels, four times the nation's official proven reserves. The bulk of that potential oil, nearly 68 billion barrels, is in areas that are already accessible to drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and Alaska.
Based on decades-old surveys, the Interior Department estimates that an additional 18 billion barrels may be found in the coastal zones that were off limits until recently. But the oil industry thinks that could be a serious underestimate given the lack of exploration.
Since Mr. Obama's inauguration, petroleum executives have used every opportunity to press their case for more domestic production. With fewer places to drill around the world, the biggest oil companies, including Exxon Mobil, Chevron and Shell, argue that more domestic oil production is not incompatible with the administration's goals of lowering imports and using energy more efficiently.
In hearings before Congress, at analyst meetings and petroleum conferences, and in television advertising, oil companies and their main trade group, the American Petroleum Institute, have highlighted the sector's contribution to jobs and revenue for the government, and argued that oil and gas would be needed for decades, even with the development of alternative fuels.
They also say that energy prices could rise sharply once the economy comes back to life, and that without more supplies, the world risks another energy shock.
''The need to make more oil and natural gas available for Americans is clear,'' Tim Cejka, Exxon's president of exploration, recently told the House Committee on Natural Resources. ''The United States' continued economic growth and prosperity depend on access to reliable and affordable supplies of energy.''
On the other end of the spectrum, environmental groups are pressing Congress to reinstate a moratorium on offshore drilling, which alarmed Democrats allowed to lapse when prices surged last year. For some of these groups, the oil industry's position is wrongheaded at a time when the nation is embarking on a drive to reduce emissions from fossil fuels.
''We now have an opportunity to take a much more balanced approach to our energy system,'' said Wesley Warren, the director of programs at the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''But the oil industry is not saying anything new here, which is very disappointing.''
The battle over offshore drilling is being renewed as relations between the new administration and the oil industry, which enjoyed a cozy relationship with the Bush administration, have soured.
The president's budget would increase taxes on oil companies and would raise the cost of fossil fuels in order to pay for alternative energy sources. The industry has also objected to being stripped of tax credits, which it claims will harm production in the long run.
Charles T. Drevna, the president of the National Petrochemical and Refiners Association, said the new administration ''looks at the oil and refining industry as a piggy bank to fund other energy programs.''
Since taking office, the administration has rolled back many of President Bush's energy policies, including ''midnight rulings'' that opened up oil and shale developments in Utah and Colorado, and greatly expanded leasing in the outer continental shelf, as offshore waters are known.
The administration has made clear that it does not want to be rushed about offshore drilling. The Interior Department plans to hold a series of public meetings in April before drawing up a five-year plan for exploration within the next six months.
In the meantime, it is seeking to increase renewable power sources. On Tuesday, the Interior Department resolved a two-year standoff with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on which department has authority to issue offshore wind permits. The disagreement had forestalled the development of alternative energy offshore.
''The outer continental shelf will have its niche place in our energy policy,'' Ken Salazar, the secretary of the interior, said in an interview. But he added that offshore oil supplies ''should be looked at in the context of a comprehensive energy policy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ken Salazar, interior secretary, said offshore oil supplies should be viewed in the context of a comprehensive energy plan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. DAVID AKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B5) MAP: Offshore Oil: Last year, Congress lifted a ban on offshore oil drilling, leaving the Obama administration to decide whether to allow expanded exploration off the coasts. The official estimate is that areas that were previously off limits contain about 18 billion barrels of undiscovered oil. But oil executives argue that this underestimates the potential, because exploration has been curtailed in these areas for three decades.(Source: Minerals Management Service, U.S. Department of the Interior) Chart details estimated offshore oil reserves. (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL & GAS LEASES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); CONSUMPTION (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR (72%); MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); KEN SALAZAR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011



708 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2031 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: March 18, 2009

 BODY:
International
OBAMA TO TAP RETIRED GENERAL
As Special Envoy to Sudan
President Obama plans to appoint Maj. Gen. J. Scott Gration, a close adviser and retired general, to be his special envoy to Sudan as the administration ratchets up pressure against the government in Khartoum for expelling humanitarian relief organizations from the ravaged region of Darfur, administration officials said. Page A6
MADAGASCAR PRESIDENT STEPS DOWN
President Marc Ravalomanana of Madagascar resigned and handed control of the government over to the military, which then handed power to a political rival of Mr. Ravalomanana's, Andry Rajoelina. Page A6 
Pingyao Journal
A Faded Hub of Banking Lore
Pingyao was home in the 19th century to the first banks in China. Money flowed and so did the loans. But then the system collapsed and the town crumbled. The current financial crisis harkens to a sense of nostalgia over Pingyao, which is also one of the nation's best-preserved medieval towns. The memories of that long-gone golden age linger in the buildings. Page A7
HERO TO PAKISTANI WOMEN MARRIES
The plight of female rape victims in Pakistan is grim and often fatal; many commit suicide. So when Mukhtar Mai, who was gang-raped in 2002, successfully faced her attackers in court, she became a symbol for victimized and oppressed women. Ms. Mukhtar is now married to a police constable who guarded her after the attack. Page A8
OLMERT REFUSES HAMAS DEMANDS
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel has said he would not grant all of Hamas's demands for the release an Israeli soldier who was captured in 2006. Page A8
RUSSIA PROMISES TO REARM
President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia said that his country would begin a large-scale rearming in 2011. In a speech before generals in Moscow, he cited encroachment by NATO as a reason. Page A9
U.N. OFFICIAL LASHES OUT AT WEST
Miguel d'Escoto Brockmann of Nicaragua, the president of the United Nations General Assembly, said that the West, and the United States in particular, had been unfair in its treatment of Iran's president and that the indictment of the Sudanese president was racist. Page A10
POPE SAYS CONDOMS NOT ANSWER
In the first stop on Pope Benedict XVI's weeklong trip to Africa, he said that condoms were not the solution to Africa's fight against the spread of H.I.V. Page A110
National
OUTRAGE GREETS KILLER'S ARRIVAL
In New Hampshire Town
Residents of Chichester, N.H., have been on edge since they received word that Raymond Guay, a man who was recently released from prison after 35 years for killing a child, was staying with a local minister. But the minister housing Mr. Guay defended him, saying that the felon was a changed man. PAGE A11
A DELICACY FOR THE HARDY
The annual International Comstock Mountain Oyster Fry in Virginia City, Nev., brings together harried cooks hoping to impress with their recipes for the not-for-the-faint-of-heart culinary tradition. Mountain oysters, a delicacy made from the testicle of gelded calves and lambs, have long been a staple of Western ranching culture. ''Everybody is going to tell you they taste like chicken,'' said one attendee. ''That's a lie.'' PAGE A11
BLAST WOUNDS CITY TO ITS CORE
A large natural gas explosion Bozeman, Mont., two weeks ago killed one woman and leveled five historic buildings that contained thriving businesses. The blast also delivered a deep psychic blow to the business district, which has been struggling as the economy declines. PAGE A12
Agency Faulted on Health Care A12
CONDEMNING A PRISON PROPOSAL
Religious organizations and civil liberties groups joined to oppose a proposed ban on materials in penitentiary libraries ''that could incite, promote, or otherwise suggest the commission of violence or criminal activity'' on the grounds that the rule would prohibit some religious texts. PAGE A13
New Earmark Rules, Old Problems A14
PUSHING HARD ON BUDGET
The White House's full-throated effort to push President Obama's $3.6 trillion budget through Congress has echoes of the fall campaign. PAGE A14
Senator Wants Remorse From C.E.O.'s A15
CALLS TO OVERHAUL VISA POLICY
A coalition of academic and civil liberties groups is calling on the Obama administration to break with the Bush administration's policies on blocking visas of some foreign scholars, writers and activists. PAGE A16
Obituaries
JACK LAWRENCE, 96
He left podiatry to write lyrics for songs, some of which became big hits for Frank Sinatra and Rosemary Clooney. PAGE A20
New York
LEAPING ONTO THE TRACKS;
Saving a Life, Catching a Train
Chad Lindsey joined the storied ranks of New York's subway heroes when he rescued a man who had fallen onto the tracks at Penn Station, before hurrying to catch his own train. Mr. Lindsey gave an account of the events and explained why his role as an actor might have made him uniquely suited for it. Page A19
THE MEN BEHIND MASS TRANSIT
The future of mass transit in New York City and the region rests in the hands of two men, but neither seems to be able to drum up the requisite support to get the job done. Jim Dwyer, About New York. Page A19
Business
PLANS ON ENERGY HIT OBSTACLE: OFFSHORE DRILLING
President Obama is finding himself in a tricky situation. He is caught between oil companies pressing him on offshore drilling and environmentalists who are demanding a reinstatement of the ban on the practice, which was lifted in September. This fight has landed in his lap just as the White House sits down to map out a new energy plan. Page B1
CHANGES FOR MUTUAL FUNDS
If regulators agree to a set of changes proposed by leaders of the mutual fund industry, investors would be offered greater security but at lower yields. Page B1
Economic Scene
Beneath a Rock on Wall Street
Retention pay, David Leonhardt writes, is one of the greatest excuses for showering executives with money no matter their level of performance. And almost nothing else highlights the fiction of performance-based pay quite so well as retention pay does. Page B1
I.R.S. POLICY FOR MADOFF VICTIMS
The Internal Revenue Service said it would allow investors in Bernard L. Madoff's investment scam to claim a tax deduction based on their losses. Page B3
IT'S A DEAL. WHAT'S THE PROBLEM?
Commercial space in a new building, located on a major train line and available nearly for free for 10 years. This kind of deal is made possible by the Urban Transit Hub Tax Credit program, which applies to properties within a half-mile of rail centers in New Jersey cities. But none of the projects have actually landed a tenant, nor begun instruction. Page B7
Sports
EXCLUSIVITY AND PRIVILEGE ARE FINE,
But There Are Still Bills to Pay
The country club: A world of privacy, exclusivity and privilege. The economic crisis may have ended that. Scores of people have either suspended or given up their memberships, causing clubs to offer deals and bargains to attract members. Page B10
BRODEUR SETS RECORD FOR VICTORIES
Martin Brodeur set a National Hockey League record by winning the 552nd game of his 15-year career, stopping 30 of 32 shots in the Devils' 3-2 victory over the Chicago Blackhawks. PAGE B11
ARTS
BILL SEEKS TO REGULATE
Museums' Art Sales
Selling parts of a collection to cover museum operating costs would be illegal under a bill drafted by Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky in collaboration with the New York State Board of Regents and the Museum Association of New York and introduced in the New York State Legislature. PAGE C1
Art Review
Show for Creator of Obama Poster
The surprise of Shepard Fairey's retrospective, at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Boston, is that almost everything Mr. Fairey does, from his abstracted images of Andre the Giant to his famous Obama Hope poster, is visually arresting. A review by Ken Johnson. PAGE C1
IN AUSTIN, MESSAGES ARE THE MEDIA
Twitter is now the dominant platform at South by Southwest, the annual music festival in Austin, Tex. Feedback begins before events, with people critiquing stage setups and anticipating who might say what. At times, it seems to have overtaken actual conversation. PAGE C1
Television Review
The Office Sitcom Goes Corporate
''Better Off Ted,'' which begins this week on ABC, is a charmingly offbeat comedy that brings some of the inspired lunacy of ''Arrested Development'' and ''30 Rock'' to the offices of a giant multinational corporation, Alessandra Stanley writes. PAGE C1
TV'S ROAD TO DIVERSITY
The recent discontinuations of television programs that featured black hosts or had mostly black performers raises questions about how much progress television has made in better reflecting the audience it serves. (This capsule summary was published in error on Tuesday. The article did not appear in any editions of that day's paper.) PAGE C1
Dining
DON'T CALL IT A COMEBACK,
They've Been Here for Years
They've kept cash registers in convenience stores company from New England to Ohio. An unassuming little black-and-white circle of taste, the whoopie pie has been making its way into more upscale environs. But as bakers and fans of the little dessert will tell you, try to dress it up too much and you miss the point. Page D1
IS OPTIMISM TO BLAME?
Chefs, restaurant owners and workers say they can't remember a time when business was this bad. The economy is to blame, of course, but some say it is also a result of a decade of expansion that was not sustainable. A few contend that the industry was due for a pruning and that this slump will be good for chefs and diners. Page D1
Critics Notebook
Food: The Remix
The entirety of Bazaar by Jose Andres can be summed up by the olives, Frank Bruni writes. The liquid olives are to be eaten in one bite, held together as they are by a thin membrane protecting a liquid center of olive essence. Mr. Andres's avant garde approach to cooking distills and amplifies old favorites, like caipirinhas made with liquid nitrogen or foie gras cotton candy. Page D1
Food Stuff
Much More Than a Dried Bean D2
The Cupcake as Morsel D2
Spring Balanced on a Fork D2
The Minimalist
Bringing New Flavor to a Roast
Cooking the roast can be as simple as sticking a hunk of meat into the oven, writes Mark Bittman, but it does not have to be. One option is to core a hole through the roast with a wooden spoon and stuff the cavity with figs. Page D3
A Good Appetite
Cake? Um... Yes.
As if the eating of cake weren't excuse enough to make it, there is the chance to use that cake stand that's been collecting dust, Melissa Clark writes. Page D3
Wines of the Times
Spanish Wines and Contemplation
Wines from the Bierzo region in Spain have emerged in the larger industry in the last 10 years. They're doing well, Eric Asimov writes, and show how an ancient and isolated region makes a product that attracts the attention of the world. Page D6
Restaurants
Feta and Olives at Kefi - D8
$25 and Under
The Longshoreman Vs. the Diplomat D8
Editorial
STILL BROKEN
In last year's presidential election, as many as three million registered voters were not allowed to cast ballots, and millions more chose not to because of lines with waits of many hours and other frustrating obstacles. More than eight years after the Florida voting debacle, Congress must finally deliver on its promise of electoral reform. PAGE A22
THE POPE ON CONDOMS AND AIDS
Pope Benedict XVI has every right to express his opposition to the use of condoms on moral grounds, in accordance with the official stance of the Roman Catholic Church. But he deserves no credence when he distorts scientific findings about the value of condoms in slowing the spread of the AIDS virus. PAGE A22
Op-Ed
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
If you didn't like reading about A.I.G. bankers getting millions in bonuses after the company reported the biggest quarterly loss in the history of the Milky Way Galaxy, you're really not going to like the bank bailout plan to be rolled out soon by the Obama team. PAGE A23
A NUCLEAR WASTE
President Obama has made clean and efficient energy a priority, and Congress has obliged with billions of dollars in stimulus money. In an Op-Ed article, Stephanie Cooke, author of the forthcoming ''In Mortal Hands: A Cautionary History of the Nuclear Age,'' argues that Mr. Obama will not be able to achieve his energy goals until the Department of Energy is freed from the nuclear weapons establishment. PAGE A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (pg.A2
 pg.A3) DRAWING (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); FELONIES (71%); SEX OFFENSES (71%); INDICTMENTS (70%); HAMAS (69%); SUICIDE (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); J SCOTT GRATION (73%); EHUD OLMERT (58%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) SUDAN (98%); MADAGASCAR (95%); AFRICA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011



709 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: 418 Got A.I.G. Bonuses; Outcry Grows in Capital

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and LOUISE STORY; Jackie Calmes reported from Washington, and Louise Story from New York. Edmund L. Andrews and David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The bonuses that the American International Group awarded last week were paid to 418 employees and included $33.6 million for 52 people who have left the failed insurance conglomerate, according to the office of the New York attorney general.
The company paid the bonuses, including more than $1 million each to 73 people, to almost all of the employees in the financial products unit responsible for creating the exotic derivatives that caused A.I.G.'s near collapse and started the government rescue to avoid a global financial crisis.
A.I.G. has received nearly $200 billion in federal bailout funds.
The information adds to the firestorm confronting the Obama administration and Congress since the weekend disclosure that A.I.G., almost 80 percent owned by the government, paid out $165 million in bonuses. 
Even before the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, divulged the new data on bonus payments in a letter to Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat and chairman of the Financial Services Committee, the White House and Congress separately were rushing to get out in front of the mounting public furor. Officials and lawmakers condemned A.I.G., pointed fingers at each other and promised speedy action to recoup the taxpayers' money.
The outcry will probably find an outlet on Wednesday, when Edward Liddy, the A.I.G. chief executive who took over after the bailout for $1 a year, testifies before a subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee.
New York's efforts against A.I.G. have overshadowed those of the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, the official who is responsible for the financial bailout, along with the Federal Reserve. The White House and Treasury have been besieged by questions about why Mr. Geithner did not know sooner about the bonus payments due this month, and whether he could have done more to stop them, prompting White House officials to assert President Obama's continued confidence in Mr. Geithner.
''He more than has the president's complete confidence,'' said Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff. As angry as the president is at the news about A.I.G., which he learned Thursday, Mr. Emanuel said, ''his main priority is getting the financial system stabilized, and he believes this is a big distraction in that effort.''
The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, on Tuesday asked three committee chairmen, including Mr. Frank, to come up with legislation to recoup the bonus money, and suggested the House might pass a measure as early as this week.
But the reaction of another of the chairmen, Representative Charles B. Rangel of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, underscored the legal and political complexities facing Democrats as they scramble for a solution. Mr. Rangel, a Democrat from New York, objected to one of the most popular ideas being floated -- a confiscatory income tax on the recipients. The tax code is not ''a political weapon,'' he told reporters.
A.I.G. has refused to identify the current and former employees on privacy grounds, including one who received $6.4 million, but Mr. Cuomo is seeking to obtain and publicize their names.
The employees took salaries of $1 in exchange for receiving the bonuses, which were supposed to keep them from leaving A.I.G., according to Mr. Cuomo's office. That, he suggested, undercuts A.I.G.'s claims that it could not renegotiate the bonus contracts agreed to early in 2008, and that the payments were ''retention'' bonuses.
''The only justification they had for this was, well, we needed to keep these people, but there are 50 people who left anyway or who they decided they didn't need to keep,'' Mr. Cuomo said in an interview.
A spokeswoman for A.I.G., Christina Pretto, declined to confirm the number of people reported to have received retention bonuses before leaving the financial products unit. She said it was common knowledge that A.I.G. was eliminating jobs in that division.
Late Tuesday, Mr. Geithner and White House officials sent a letter to Congress seeking quick action on legislation to give the government more power to intervene and wind down companies like A.I.G., which are huge players in the financial system, but are not regulated the way banks are.
The administration had planned to seek such regulatory powers as part of a broad revamping of financial regulations, but it is expediting this piece in response to the A.I.G. uproar.
In the letter, Mr. Geithner confirmed that the government would subtract $165 million -- the amount of the bonuses -- from the latest $30 billion loan to A.I.G. that would bring the total loans to $200 billion, from the original $85 billion.
Mr. Geithner reiterated the Treasury position that lawyers inside and out of government had agreed that ''it would be legally difficult to prevent these contractually mandated payments.''
That position was being questioned at the Capitol. Congressional Republicans, eager to implicate Democrats, initially blamed Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who heads the banking committee, for adding to the economic recovery package an amendment that cracked down on bonuses at companies getting bailout money, but that exempted bonuses protected by contracts, like A.I.G.'s.
Mr. Dodd, in turn, responded Tuesday with a statement saying that the exemption actually had been inserted at the insistence of Treasury during Congress's final legislative negotiations.
While the administration has been mostly on the defensive, the competing expressions of outrage in Congress throughout Tuesday belied the fact that a few less-prominent Democrats had tried to draw attention to the A.I.G. retention bonuses since last November. Except for their condemnations last December, response has been sparse on A.I.G.'s disbursement of an initial $55 million in retention payments.
While House leaders were calling for immediate legislation to recoup payments, Senate Democrats sent a letter to Mr. Liddy demanding that A.I.G. renegotiate the employees' compensation contracts and return the bonuses. The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, and other Democratic leaders proposed new taxes, some as high as 91 percent, on the bonuses. But some of the A.I.G. employees are thought to be foreigners based in offices abroad, and not liable for United States taxes.
Congressional Republicans, despite the Bush administration's role in setting the terms of the A.I.G. bailout six months ago, blamed the Obama administration for lax oversight. Senator Richard Shelby, a Republican of Alabama, seemed to hint that Mr. Geithner should resign.
''This is just another example of where he seems to be out of the loop,'' Mr. Shelby said. ''Treasury should have let the American people know about this.''
David Axelrod, senior adviser to the president, dismissed such talk, citing the financial mess that Mr. Geithner had inherited. ''He has been confronted with a situation and challenges that are unparalleled in modern history, and to put it all on his shoulders is not fair and not right,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''He's a brilliant and committed guy with a great deal of experience in this area, and we're standing with him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Barney Frank was among the politicians charged with creating legislation to recoup the bonus money at A.I.G. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A17) CHART: Taking Their Share: The employees in the financial products division of the American International Group received bonuses to get them to stay. Of the 418 employees receiving bonuses, 52 have left the company, including 11 who received more than $1 million. (Source: New York State Attorney General) (pg.A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BONUS PAY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (58%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (73%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (73%); EDWARD M LIDDY (58%); ANDREW CUOMO (57%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); NANCY PELOSI (54%); CHARLES B RANGEL (54%); RAHM EMANUEL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011



710 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Investor Optimism Said to Rise in Germany

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
Investors are taking a less dim view of prospects for the German economy, Europe's largest, according to data released Tuesday by a research institute. 
 The ZEW Center for European Economic Research, based in Mannheim, Germany, said its economic-sentiment index was minus 3.5 points, improving from minus 5.8 points in February. The March reading in the survey of 290 analysts and investors, predominantly in Germany, was the highest since July 2007. The consensus of economists surveyed by Reuters had been for a decline in the index to minus 7.4. 
 The institute said the improvement in its index, which seeks to track expectations of how the economy will perform over the next six months, suggested that investors were growing more hopeful about economic developments. It credited the easing of monetary policy by the European Central Bank for the change, as well as falling prices for raw materials and food.
 The euro has risen and global stocks have clawed back some lost ground over the last week, amid some signs of progress by governments in grappling with the worst recession since World War II. Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, predicted in a television interview on Sunday that the United States economy would begin to recover by the end of 2009.
 The euro, which fell to a recent bottom at $1.2530 on Feb. 18, was trading Tuesday at $1.2944. ''According to the financial market experts, the economic slowdown is gradually phasing out,'' the ZEW president, Wolfgang Franz, said in a statement. ''The bottom of the recession is likely to be reached this summer.'' 
 Jennifer McKeown, an economist in London with Capital Economics, described the data as ''modestly encouraging.'' In a research note, she noted that the German economy shrank 2.1 percent in the last quarter of 2008, and that a ZEW index that measures the current economic situation dropped by 3.2 points from February to minus 89.4 points. 
 That, she said, suggested that the economy has continued to contract sharply. ''We still expect German G.D.P. to fall by around 4 percent this year,'' she added. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); EURO (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); MONETARY POLICY (68%); WORLD WAR II (52%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) MANNHEIM, GERMANY (73%) GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



711 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: Post Office Delays Release of Stamps

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Postal Service said economic woes were forcing it to delay the release of several new stamps scheduled for this year. The Postal Service lost $2.8 billion last year and is facing even larger losses this year, despite a rate increase -- to 44 cents for first-class mail -- scheduled to take effect May 11. A spokesman, Roy Betts, said the fourth set of the ''Flags of Our Nation'' series had been postponed until 2010. The set includes the flags of Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York and North Carolina. It was not clear if the flag stamps originally planned for 2010 will also be delayed. In addition, a stamp honoring the painter Edward Hopper and a holiday stamp featuring an angel playing a lute have been dropped from the 2009 plans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); POSTAL SERVICE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (53%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (53%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



712 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G.'s Bailout Priorities Are in Critics' Cross Hairs: Covering Foreign Institutions Further Upsets Some in U.S.

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
Every day, insurance companies sell policies to homeowners to cover the cost of damage in the case of fire. Why would those companies agree to pay out in full to a policyholder even if a fire had not occurred?
 That is the type of question being asked about the federal government's bailout of American International Group in which the insurance company funneled $49.5 billion in taxpayer funds to financial institutions, including Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch. The payments, which amount to almost 30 percent of the $170 billion in taxpayer commitments provided to A.I.G. since its near collapse last September, were disclosed by the company on Sunday.
 The company had resisted identifying the recipients of the taxpayers' money for months, citing confidentiality agreements. 
 But instead of quieting the controversy, the disclosure of the amounts paid to A.I.G.'s customers has created still more questions and unease over the insurer's rescue, arranged by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the United States Treasury. 
 Critics argue that the government's decision to pay buyers of A.I.G. credit insurance in full and across the board was an inappropriate use of taxpayer money. In addition, these people say, options not pursued by the government could have allowed taxpayers to benefit from future gains or at least have done a better job of limiting the potential for losses.
 The criticism surrounds the action taken by the government on credit insurance that A.I.G. had written and sold to large and sophisticated investors, mostly financial institutions. The banks that did business with A.I.G. bought credit insurance to protect against possible defaults on debt securities they held or had underwritten. 
 But when A.I.G.'s credit rating was cut last year, the company was required to post collateral on these insurance contracts. The need to quickly deliver cash that it did not have created the downward spiral that brought it to the brink. 
 What upsets some people is that the government paid the counterparties in full even though the underlying securities had not experienced widespread, or perhaps even any, defaults. 
 ''It is inappropriate to be giving money to A.I.G. for them to give it out to their counterparties equally,'' said Robert Arvanitis, chief executive of Risk Finance Advisors in Westport, Conn., and an expert in insurance. ''If we decide that another bank will be in trouble because A.I.G. fails, then we should decide explicitly that the bank should be supported. We should not simply give everybody 100 cents on the dollar.'' 
 When the government bought the underlying securities to cancel the insurance, the taxpayer became the owner of these pools of debt issues. Because the government chose to pay par or 100 percent of the face value, the taxpayer has downside risk if the securities lose value but virtually no upside. 
 Even if none of the debt securities in the pools experience a default, the taxpayer is likely to receive no more than par -- what the government paid -- when they mature. 
 Had the government negotiated for a lower price, say 75 cents on the dollar, the taxpayer might have been able to reap gains down the road. 
 The top three recipients of money from the government related to the credit insurance A.I.G. had written are Societe Generale, a French bank, at $11 billion; Goldman Sachs, at $8.1 billion; and Deustche Bank, at $5.4 billion. 
 A.I.G.'s disclosure of payments to its counterparties did not provide any details of how the government arrived at the prices it paid for the underlying securities. If it overpaid, the taxpayer is at greater risk of loss and the recipients may have received more than they were due. 
 Another troubling aspect to some is that so many of the counterparties are foreign institutions. Indeed, of the 22 institutions that have received either collateral from the government or cash payments to close out credit insurance deals, 16 are foreign. 
 ''I find it impossible to understand why we as taxpayers are bailing out foreign banks,'' said Thomas H. Patrick, a founder of new Vernon Capital and a former top executive at Merrill Lynch. ''If the shoe was on the other foot and major U.S. institutions were exposed to those banks, would the U.K. or the E.U. tax their citizens to pay off JPMorgan? There has to be some explanation of why we decided to do that.''
 The decision to protect foreign institutions from losses in an A.I.G. collapse may reflect how interrelated the global financial markets have become. That is the view of Adam Glass, a partner at Linklaters in New York and co-head of the firm's structured finance and derivatives practice. 
 ''It is an interconnected world,'' Mr. Glass said. ''If UBS or these French banks collapsed, it is not just their problem. It is our problem because world economic activity would have been further impaired.''
 Even though A.I.G. finally disclosed the names of the institutions that received so much of the government money that was thought to be going to A.I.G., the idea that it took six months still rankles some market participants. 
 ''The system was undermined by asking the American people, under the veil of secrecy, to bail out one company when in fact they wanted to bail out someone else,'' said Sylvain R. Raynes, an authority in structured finance and a founder of R & R Consulting, a firm that helps investors gauge debt risks. ''The prospectusfor the bailout was not delivered to the people. And it was not delivered because if it had been, the deal would not have gone through.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: American International Group reluctantly released the names of bailout counterparties.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Edward M. Liddy was appointed chief executive of American International Group by the federal government last fall when it effectively nationalized the troubled insurance company.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WOODY WU/REUTERS)(pg. B4) CHART: The Biggest A.I.G. Counterparties: Between the billions of dollars the government used to save the American International Group and billions more that the Federal Reserve used to wipe away the worst of the company's credit default swaps, nearly $40 billion was passed on to just 10 financial institutions who had been counterparties.(Source: A.I.G.) Chart details bar graph.(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); CREDIT INSURANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL CREDIT INSURANCE (89%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (63%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

PERSON: EDWARD M LIDDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



713 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 718 words

BYLINE: By LAUREN SILVA LAUGHLIN and MARTIN HUTCHINSON

 BODY:
Goldman's Risks In Lending Offer 
 To protect its business model, Goldman Sachs is risking ''TARP rage,'' the special wrath that taxpayers and lawmakers reserve for potentially questionable actions by those that receive money under the Troubled Asset Relief Program.
 The bank is providing loans to up to 1,000 employees so they can meet capital calls related to their investments in funds that Goldman manages. Doing so after taking TARP money, rather than using the government largess to increase lending, sounds like a recipe for a public relations disaster. But it may be essential if Goldman is to make sure that other investors in its funds follow through on their commitments. 
 Like investors everywhere, some of Goldman's finance gurus are having money problems. Because in-house investors typically account for up to a third of the equity in a Goldman buyout fund, for instance, that's a big problem in the making. Having its own employees unable -- or unwilling -- to meet their commitments could set a precedent for outside investors. Big pension funds, for example, have lost money across the board, are short of cash and are keen to get out of the promises they made to invest more in funds like Goldman's. They might like a justification for walking away. 
 So Goldman's commercial banking group will give employees loans collateralized by their assets in the fund concerned. The firm has taken a fairly hard line: employees who eventually refuse to make good on their commitments put their jobs in peril. 
 Of course, if Goldman's fund managers invest wisely, the employees will easily pay off the loans, and they'll get a return on their fund investment juiced by leverage. But even if the funds just slog along, the firm needed to spur its employees to put up what they've committed. There's little chance its funds' already reluctant outside investors will tolerate a double standard.
 Mexico's New Tariffs
 Tariffs imposed on Monday by Mexico on $2.4 billion of imports from the United States are both modest and permitted under the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement. But they run two risks: that protectionists both sides of the border will use them to pick apart Nafta, and that resulting economic problems could further stoke anti-American feeling in Mexico and harm relations.
 The tariffs, which are likely to include levies on politically delicate items like farm products, were planned in 2001 after a panel of judges approved them in retaliation for the United States' reluctance to opening its roads fully to Mexican trucks, as Nafta requires. But Mexico held off on the tariffs after a 2007 pilot program was agreed upon, which allowed up to 500 Mexican trucks to operate across the border.
 That program was opposed by American unions and abolished in the $410 billion Omnibus Spending Bill signed by President Obama last week, thus leading to the tariffs. Mr. Obama has indicated support for a replacement program, but hasn't offered details.
 Because United States trade with Mexico totaled $368 billion in 2008, the Mexican tariffs represent a minor protectionist step. The danger is that with both countries' economies in recession, such small steps may precipitate bigger trade clashes. Nafta has provided considerable benefits to both sides; more important, it has bolstered substantial segments of the Mexican economy. 
 Increased protectionism is economically perilous for both parties, but more so for Mexico. It raises the danger of an anti-American and antimarket reaction similar to those that have brought hard-left governments to power in Bolivia, Ecuador, Nicaragua and El Salvador. Indeed, the hard-left candidate Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador lost the Mexican presidency by only 0.6 percent of votes cast in the 2006 election.
 While no presidential election is due until 2012, Congressional elections in July could produce a majority with just such a protectionist outlook. That could further impoverish Mexico and harm cooperation between the neighbors on already thorny issues like the drug trade. Both sides should show restraint to ensure these tariff pebbles don't threaten to set off a protectionist avalanche.
 LAUREN SILVA LAUGHLIN and MARTIN HUTCHINSON
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A program that allowed Mexican trucks to operate across the border was ended.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GUILLERMO ARIAS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (87%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (85%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (66%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (55%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



714 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Fatal Blast Wounds a City to Its Core

BYLINE: By JIM ROBBINS

DATELINE: BOZEMAN, Mont. 

 BODY:
In the struggle to keep its historic core viable, this city, with throngs of college students, Yellowstone-bound tourists and wealthy second-home owners, has defied the trend of declining downtowns. Main Street is a bustling place.
 But a natural gas explosion nearly two weeks ago ripped a hole in the heart of Bozeman's downtown, killing a woman, leveling five historic buildings that contained thriving businesses and damaging several more whose condition will not be known for some time. Dozens of plate glass windows on Main Street were blown out.
 Concern about the future of the historic downtown, a five-block stretch of Main Street and a block on either side, grew last week when investigators said the cause of the explosion was a leak in a gas line to one of the destroyed businesses, Montana Trails Gallery. The line was more than 70 years old. The woman who died, Tara Bowman, the gallery director, was working when the explosion occurred. City officials say that no estimate of damages has been released. 
 Beyond the obvious destruction, the blast delivered a deep psychic blow to the business district, which was already going through some difficulty because of the declining economy. 
 ''The explosion has significantly rocked this community,'' said Chris Pope, a commercial real estate agent and the owner of a severely damaged building. ''People are holding their breath. The stark realities of doing business in 2009 is in the front of everybody's mind. There will be businesses that leave downtown.'' 
 The accident comes as the economy here, as in so many other places across the country, has been hit hard. Bozeman though, with the likes of the media mogul Ted Turner and Tim Blixseth, developer of the super-rich Yellowstone Club, has seen more of a boom than other parts of the state and so is feeling the impact more deeply. 
 ''We're not immune to the recession,'' said Chris Kukulski, the city manager. ''And to have a hole in the ground and all the businesses that brought people downtown gone is going to be felt.''
 Just a year ago, the aura could not have been brighter in Bozeman, which had a population of about 27,500 in the 2000 census and is the home of Montana State University. New businesses could not open on Main Street because shops were full. But at least eight have failed since then.
 Bozeman has also been the headquarters for elite megadevelopments that have been built or planned in southwestern Montana. Perhaps the most sumptuous, the Yellowstone Club, a ski and golf resort for some of the wealthiest people in the United States, located less than an hour away, is in bankruptcy and undergoing reorganization. 
 Another high-end gated community, Ameya Preserve, a half-hour out of town near Livingston, had agreements with the chef Alice Waters, the violinist Joshua Bell and the soprano Renee Fleming, among others, to own homes there. They planned to sell other lots to high-end buyers wanting the opportunity to spend time in the Rockies among the cultural elite. That plan has been mothballed, according to its owner and developer, Wade Dokken.
 Several other large developments have been canceled. Matthew J. Crocker, the son of the Yellowstone Club's current owner, Edra Blixseth, planned his own 1,100-unit high-end condominium and retail development on the edge of town. The project has apparently collapsed, and the Federal District Court in Denver has issued an arrest warrant for Mr. Crocker and Ms. Blixseth on charges that they defaulted on the loan for the development. 
 ''There's going to be carnage in that part of the market,'' said Jonathan Weber, the publisher of Newwest.net, an online publication. ''The very high-end second-home market is going to be a long time returning.''
 All of that affects Bozeman's downtown business district. ''Since last fall we've seen planned projects come to a halt,'' said Mark Hufstetler, chairman of the city's Historic Preservation Advisory Board. ''I don't think we'll see a parking lot in the middle of downtown Bozeman,'' he said, but a replacement building ''won't be constructed as readily because of the economy.''
 The explosion has taken an emotional toll, as well. 
 ''People have a lump in their throat,'' said Laura Ryan, an owner of Barrel Mountaineering, across the street from the blast site. ''I didn't cry for me or for my store, but I cried for the buildings that are gone and for downtown. Here's where I based my life, and it's gone and it hurts.''
 Ms. Ryan's store survived, but two of its large plate glass windows were blown out and much of the inventory ruined. 
 Residents worry about the potential for other gas line problems. A leak a year and half ago closed part of downtown for one day. The fire department is fielding four to six calls a day from worried residents; most are false alarms, but three more gas leaks have been found. 
 Still, some downtown business owners insist Bozeman will recover. ''It's going to be long and hard, but this town will not let downtown die,'' Ms. Ryan said. ''It's a gorgeous little downtown.'' 
 For now, people still seem to be coming to grips with what happened. ''It's still a very fresh wound for a lot of people,'' Ms. Ryan said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A fatal explosion destroyed five buildings in Bozeman, Mont., on March 5. Stephanie Davison, top, of Bozeman viewed the damage last week. Boodles, center, was a popular restaurant. Jalal Neishabouri displayed an apple that had been on his desk.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANNE SHERWOOD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Emergency personnel responding to the blast in Bozeman. The cause was a leak in a gas line that was more than 70 years old.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SEAN SPERRY/THE BOZEMAN DAILY CHRONICLE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (77%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (75%); RESORTS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); GOLF (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (65%); CENSUS (64%); SKIING (63%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (51%); SKIING FACILITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



715 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (Discovery) GLOBAL WARMING: THE NEW CHALLENGE WITH TOM BROKAW In this follow-up to his Emmy Award-winning 2006 program, ''Global Warming: What You Need to Know With Tom Brokaw,'' Mr. Brokaw (above right, with Michael Oppenheimer, a climate scientist), interviews experts about what Americans should be prepared for in the coming years and how climate change is shaping the inner workings of the nation, from New York City to Yellowstone National Park and the Everglades. The program also looks at promising scientific, technological and economic advances in the fight against global warming.
 11 A.M. (NBC) THE MARTHA STEWART SHOW It's dogs today with Martha. There will be a dog show and new pet products, and training questions will be answered. 
 8 P.M. (13) THE STATE OF THE PLANET'S OCEANS This latest installment of ''Journey to Planet Earth'' investigates the health and sustainability of the world's oceans, particularly marine preserves, fisheries and ecosystems. Matt Damon narrates.
 8 P.M. (ABC) SCRUBS Turk (Donald Faison) tries to restore a paralyzed teenager's ability to walk, using a risky procedure he dreamed up while watching ''SportsCenter.''
 8 P.M. (CBS) THE NEW ADVENTURES OF OLD CHRISTINE Christine (Julia Louis-Dreyfus) and Richard (Clark Gregg) help Marly (Tricia O'Kelley) and Lindsay (Alex Kapp Horner) through labor and remember the birth of Ritchie (Trevor Gagnon). And suddenly their romance is alive again.
 8 P.M. (CW) AMERICA'S NEXT TOP MODEL Miss J and two former contestants instruct the women in runway etiquette. Then it's off to a Jill Stuart fashion show and a photo shoot aboard a sightseeing bus.
 8 P.M. (Fox) LIE TO ME When an old friend (D. W. Moffett) hires him to find a corporate spy at a pharmaceutical company, Lightman (Tim Roth, right) is embroiled in a conspiracy surrounding a new drug that could threaten the lives of thousands. Meanwhile, the State Department retains the team to help with negotiations for the release of two American citizens imprisoned in Yemen.
 8 P.M. (NBC) THE CHOPPING BLOCK The teams unveil their restaurants' names and decor before hosting private parties attended by artists, designers and a food critic.
 8:30 P.M. (ABC) BETTER OFF TED Jay Harrington plays Ted, the successful head of research and development at a morally questionable corporation who is starting to have doubts. He's also trying to resist his colleague Linda (Andrea Anders), who likes to rebel by stealing the company's creamer packets, and trying to forget about his fling with his boss, Veronica (Portia de Rossi). 
 9:30 P.M. (FUSE) THE MADONNA CHRONICLES: ROCK AND ROLL HALL OF FAME SPECIAL EDITION A timeline of Madonna's music video oeuvre.
 9:30 P. M. (HGTV) INCOME PROPERTY Brad and Nikki live in an upscale neighborhood and subsidize their mortgage with rental income from a basement apartment in their home; they're asking for help in making the now shabby apartment competitive with other rentals in the area. 
 10 P.M. (CBS) CSI: NY Ashley Simpson-Wentz and her husband, Pete Wentz, guest star as a Bonnie and Clyde-like couple in this episode, which finds a former medical examiner murdered and a suspicious white powder at the scene. Turns out it's made from human bodies. Left, Hill Harper as Dr. Sheldon Hawkes investigates.
 10 P.M. (TruTV) THE ATOCHA ADVENTURE In 1969 Mel Fisher, who calls himself the world's greatest treasure hunter, began his search for the Nuestra Senora de Atocha, one of 28 ships that left Havana on Sept. 4, 1622, carrying gold, silver and emeralds to Spain. Two days later eight of the ships were sunk by a hurricane in the Florida straits, their treasures scattered from the Marquesas Keys to the Dry Tortugas. This program follows crews from Mel Fisher's Treasures and its partner Blue Water Ventures as they search for the last vestiges of the Atocha and the Santa Margarita, a sister ship, about 35 miles off the coast of Key West.
 11 P.M. (Spike) TOUGHEST COWBOY The final four cowboys ride in Chicago for the deed to a Wyoming ranch. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 20, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An entry in the ''What's on Today'' television highlights on Wednesday misspelled the given name of the singer and actress who was a guest star with her husband on ''CSI: NY'' on CBS. She is Ashlee Simpson-Wentz, not Ashley.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); DOGS (74%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); NATIONAL PARKS (70%); PETS (69%); OCEANS (68%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (66%); FASHION SHOWS (63%); PHOTOGRAPHY (62%); FASHION & APPAREL (62%); RESTAURANTS (60%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (68%); MATT DAMON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) EARTH (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); YEMEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



716 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Some Positive News on Housing and Wholesale Prices as the Fed's Meeting Begins

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
An unexpected rise in housing starts and a more moderate increase in wholesale prices offered some brighter economic news on Tuesday as the Federal Open Market Committee gathered for its scheduled two-day meeting. 
 Economists expect that the Fed, in a statement to be released Wednesday afternoon, will restate its expectation that low interest rates will continue. It is also expected to recommit itself to the programs to loosen credit markets and restore confidence in lending. 
 The Fed has already lowered interest rates to nearly zero and expanded its balance sheet as it tries to stem the pain of the financial crisis. Analysts expect the Fed to leave the target rate unchanged at the range of 0 to 0.25 percent. 
 It has flirted with the idea of buying up long-term Treasury debt to help lower mortgage rates, but economists said the Fed was unlikely to take that step at this point. ''This is like the last major arrow in their quiver,'' said Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist at Mizuho Securities. ''It's a very simple, easy thing to do. And you might want to hold off until you really need it.''
 On Tuesday morning, the government offered some positive reports on the health of the sagging economy.
 Construction of new homes rose by an unexpected 22.2 percent in February from a month earlier, the Commerce Department reported, largely because of an increase in condominium construction. Housing starts over all rose to an annual pace of 583,000, and construction starts for single-family homes rose slightly from January.
 ''Many are interpreting the February data on starts and permits as signs that a bottom is forming in the housing market,'' Richard F. Moody, chief economist at Forward Capital, said in a note to investors. ''This is more a case of wishful thinking than a reflection of reality.''
 Despite the monthly gains, housing starts in February were down 47.3 from a year earlier, reflecting how homebuilders halted new projects as lending dried up and demand for housing dwindled.
 The government also reported that wholesale prices in the United States edged up slightly in February, but flatter energy prices and the continuing economic downturn kept price increases minimal.
 The Labor Department reported that its Producer Price Index rose by a less-than-expected 0.1 percent last month compared with January. The so-called core index, which excludes volatile food and energy costs, rose 0.2 percent, slightly more than economists had expected.
 It was the second consecutive month of increases in producer prices. The 0.1 percent gain, after the 0.8 percent leap in January, could help ease policy makers' fears about the downward spiral of lower prices, lower wages and economic stagnation known as deflation.
 Still, economists said that price weakness farther down the line of production presaged more declines in what producers received for finished goods, and what consumers paid at the cash register.
 ''We're seeing some big declines in things like synthetic fibers, lumber, phosphates, organic chemicals -- the things that are used to make these products are decreasing,'' Anika Khan, an economist at Wachovia, said. 
 Analysts said that those weaknesses suggested that deflation would remain a concern -- if not a cause for panic -- as the economy continued to contract. 
 The price of intermediate goods excluding food and energy fell 0.6 percent in February, the fifth month of declines, and economists said prices for raw goods had collapsed since last year. 
 For the year, producer prices were down 1.3 percent from last February, their sharpest decline of the last three months. 
 The modest increase in producer prices in February was largely the result of a slower rise in energy and gasoline prices. Energy prices, which rose 3.7 percent in January, were up 1.3 percent last month, and gasoline prices were up 8.7 percent in February compared with a 15 percent jump in January.
 Food prices were also sharply lower, falling 1.6 percent in February from the previous month on lower costs for things like eggs, vegetables, fresh fruits, dairy products and cooking oil.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Housing Construction: Seasonally-adjusted housing starts rose slightly in February, mostly because of growth in buildings with multiple homes.(Sources: Commerce Department
 U.S. Census) Chart details bar graphs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%)

COMPANY: MIZUHO SECURITIES CO LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



717 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: Golf Clubs Feel Pinch Of Economy

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

 BODY:
Behold the golf country club, a place of privacy, exclusivity, privilege and markdown bargains.
 Bargains? Markdowns?
 Although many restrictive private country clubs traditionally recruit members by invitation only, this month, the private Glenwood Country Club in Old Bridge, N.J., is advertising on the New York sports-radio station WFAN to promote memberships with no initiation fee and no monthly spending limits. The club is raffling off a free membership online and has advertised on billboards in New Jersey, inviting member applications.
 In eastern Massachusetts, the resplendent Golf Club of Cape Cod opened two years ago with an attention-grabbing initiation fee of $85,000. Late last year, the club announced it would accept affiliated members who did not have to pay the fee for about three years. When that time period ends, the affiliated members will have to decide whether to remain and pay the full fee or to resign from the club -- perhaps to look for another deal from another club.
 In Arizona, the Anthem Golf & Country Club, about 35 miles north of Phoenix, is offering this month to pay the golf dues for new members through November. Anthem is also pursuing what is becoming a common strategy among private clubs, aggressively chasing the family market with a host of low-cost, nongolf programs and attractions. 
 ''There are definitely bargains out there,'' said Dana Garmany, the chairman and chief executive of Troon Golf, which manages 200 golf facilities, including 50 that are private. ''It's just like buying a car or a house right now. You just have to have the guts to pull the trigger.''
 Scores of people across the country have relinquished their country club memberships to save money, and thousands have suspended their memberships for a year. Many private clubs, attempting to maintain their high levels of service and hefty operating budgets amid the recession, have responded by discounting, delaying or waiving initiation fees. Annual dues, often in the range of $10,000 to $20,000, are being restructured or offered in installment packages, and senior members are being solicited for short-term loans to keep some clubs financially stable.
 The nation's best-known and most selective country clubs have been the least affected, and private clubs offering discounted fees might be in the minority over all. But at least 500 clubs nationwide are scrambling to raise their cash flow, according to a recent survey by the National Golf Foundation. As many as 15 percent of the roughly 4,400 private clubs reported serious financial challenges. 
 Membership at these at-risk clubs, as the foundation termed them, is down about 30 percent, and 90 percent of them reported that they had tried recruiting new members with discounted initiation charges. Even among clubs that described themselves as financially healthy, about half said that they, too, had at least experimented with discounts.
 The Metropolitan Golf Association represents about 500 clubs in the New York City area, about half of them private. It recently asked its private clubs how much they expected their membership to decrease this year. Nearly a quarter reported a drop of 30 or more members. Half said the number of requests for a leave of absence, which is usually a one-year suspension of club privileges, had doubled.
 Industry analysts are predicting that some struggling private clubs will close in the next year or two. But it may not be a significant number because many of those will instead become public enterprises, or semiprivate clubs that accept nonmembers for play at certain times, like weekdays.
 ''In the last 10 years, we've only seen 39 private courses close in America, but we've seen 400 open their doors a little, or a lot,'' said Joe Beditz, the president and chief executive of the National Golf Foundation, a trade association. ''For a golfer, there couldn't be a better time. But the private club isn't going away. In 10 years, there will be about 4,000 private clubs and about 12,000 other golf facilities, just like we have now.''
 Already, far more people play golf at public courses than private ones. Of the estimated 28 million golfers in the United States, about 2.1 million belong to private clubs.
 Membership has traditionally meant access to a high-level golf course, which is usually far less crowded than a public facility -- not an inconsequential benefit on weekends in populated areas like the Northeast. A private club's grounds often include a clubhouse, a pool and tennis courts. These enticements remain the primary perks of membership, but the typical private club now faces cultural forces that began undermining its appeal even before the economic crisis.
 Two-income families with hectic schedules, which include weekends chock full of youth sports games or music lessons or karate classes, do not have the time to spend a day playing golf or tennis followed by a leisurely lunch or formal dinner.
 ''The vestiges of the 1950s or 1960s country club experience have already begun to wither and die,'' said David Shaw, the president of Country Club Advisor, a consulting company for private clubs. ''The demographic has shifted, and now people want fitness centers, junior programs, casual dining and programs that engage the whole family.''
 The Anthem Golf & Country Club, for example, has not one but two state-of-the-art fitness centers. The club has a variety of dining options and also offers hiking excursions, children's cooking classes, complimentary golf clinics, happy-hour pricing in its lounge and ''dive-in movies'' for children and adults in its pool.
 ''Deciding whether to spend the money to join a club has become a family decision,'' said Susanne Wegrzyn, the president and chief executive of the National Club Association. ''So clubs had best be targeting spouses and family members. The driving force in the decision is not the male in the household.''
 Even as golf clubs adjust, many of them are confronted with another challenge to their prosperity: a glut of golf courses. 
 Overbuilding in the 1990s, when it was not uncommon for 300 new courses to open annually, has left states like Florida, Texas, Arizona and South Carolina crowded with golfing options.
 ''New courses were opening across the street from each other,'' said Tom Stine, a co-founder of Golf Datatech, which monitors many golf industry statistics. ''And they weren't being built for golf, but to sell houses sitting next to the golf courses.''
 When the real estate market collapsed, the sales of homes that were supposed to buttress a golf course, and make a profit for the developer, never materialized. Some of these private clubs are now converting to public courses, or, if zoning laws allow, eventually turning the fairways into more homes or strip malls.
 In most municipalities, however, open-space regulations prohibit courses from being developed. Officials in Union County, N.J., announced this month they would not be reopening one of three county-owned courses, the Oak Ridge Golf Course. The 80-year-old course, which cannot be developed, may become a park.
 Last year, 34 more golf courses closed than opened, according to the National Golf Foundation. Golf rounds in 2008 were down by 1.8 percent, although the number of rounds in January increased by 8.5 percent over January 2008. 
 ''The economy will likely drop the number of golf rounds over all in 2009 by 3 to 5 percent,'' Beditz, of the golf foundation, said. ''Still, golf, which is a $400 billion industry, is doing pretty well. Detroit wishes car sales were only off 3 to 5 percent.''
 Charles Passios, the chief operating officer at the Golf Club of Cape Cod, said his club would weather the current economic climate. Of the offer to delay initiation fees, Passios said: ''It has brought a lot of interest; we've had good traction on it. We have a great club but in times like these, you have to be creative.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 20, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the impact of the recession on country clubs misquoted Joe Beditz, the president and chief executive of the National Golf Foundation, who said the sport was doing relatively well. He described golf as ''a $40 billion industry,'' not ''$400 billion.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Union County, N.J., recently closed Oak Ridge Golf Course.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON)
 Glenwood Country Club in Old Bridge, N.J., is offering a chance to win a membership.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



718 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; WINES OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2048 words

HEADLINE: Ancient Spaniards for Modern Cellars

BYLINE: By ERIC ASIMOV

 BODY:
THREE years ago the wine panel reviewed reds from the Bierzo region of Spain for the first time. We were enchanted with the haunting, complex aromas of the mencia grape, which is used to such wonderful effect only in northwest Spain.
 Since Bierzo has emerged to the rest of the world as a wine region only in the last 10 years or so, we thought it was worth checking in to see how things were evolving. Not to keep you in suspense, things in Bierzo are going quite well, with a few qualifications.
 Before I elaborate on that answer, though, let me explain why I think the question is so fascinating.
 Because of its relative isolation, and because its significant grape is so different, Bierzo offers an unusual opportunity to observe how an ancient wine region takes its place in the modern world of wine commerce. 
 As with any emerging region, Bierzo faces multiple pressures as it tries to interest the rest of the world in its wines and turn itself into a desirable brand. Does it take the historical traditions that make its wines distinctive and try to persuade the world to embrace something new? Does it carefully study what is already popular and try to modify its wines to appeal to those built-in desires? Or does it do a little of this and a little of that?
 The answer, of course, is all of the above. 
 Tasting through 25 bottles of Bierzo, we found some wines that offer the mencia largely unadorned, in all its exotic fruit, wildflower and mineral glory. These wines tend to be light-bodied and refreshing. Others we found to have benefited from aging in oak barrels and other modern winemaking techniques, which gave the wines structure and intensity without tasting overtly oaky or compromising their Bierzo integrity. And yes, we did find some wines that seemed too far from home, having lost any sense of regional identity.
 For the tasting, Florence Fabricant and I were joined by Ron Miller, general manager of Solera, a Spanish restaurant on the East Side of Manhattan, and by Lydia Tillman, wine director at Casa Mono near Gramercy Park.
 One of the wines that seemed to play it down the middle was our No. 1 bottle, the 2004 Villa de Corullon from Descendientes de Jose Palacios, the producer that spearheaded the Bierzo revival. Clearly, this was an ambitious wine with great depth to it. It was dense and tight, yet with such expressive potential that I felt as if I could taste the iron in the earth beneath the old hillside vineyards from which the grapes come. It was also the most expensive wine in our tasting. 
 Certainly, this particular bottling seems to have evolved. Three years ago we gave the 2001 vintage of this wine a hesitant two and a half stars, recognizing its quality but finding it jammy and oaky. The winemakers thankfully seem to have pulled back a bit.
 Our No. 2 bottle, the 2005 Dom Bueno from Bodega del Abad, had a similar iron-mineral quality along with pleasing fruit, yet it was just $14, among the cheapest bottles in the tasting. Needless to say, it was our best value.
 The No. 3 wine, the 2006 Pucho from Herederos de Martinez Fuente, seemed to represent the essence of the mencia grape, with its lovely, exotic aromas that can't help but pull you in. 
 By contrast, our No. 10 bottle, the 2004 Cepas Viejas from Dominio de Tares, had all the earmarks of a polished modern wine in the international style, with its flavors of vanilla and cherry cheesecake. Even so, the underlying floral and mineral aromas found a way to emerge.
 We generally aim to taste 25 bottles in a sitting, but scouring the shops three years ago we were able to corral only 16 bottles of Bierzo, with one producer, Palacios, accounting for 5 of them. This time, we were able to find our full complement of 25 bottles. They came from 20 different producers, well up from the 9 who accounted for all the bottles last time. Clearly, more Bierzo wines are reaching this country.
 But we encountered some of the commercial hiccups that can occur when a little-known wine region is in the process of introducing itself. These hiccups can interrupt what should be an orderly flow in the stores of one vintage after another. 
 While three years ago we tasted the 2003 Tilenus Pagos de Posada from Bodegas Estefania, this year we had the 2001 vintage of the same wine. 
 What does this mean? Well, because people generally need a reason to buy wines from a region they don't know, it's not uncommon to encounter older vintages of such wines that have been on the shelves for a while. This can be bad if dusty bottles sit in the heat and light, but if storage conditions are right, it can be a good opportunity to taste a wine with some aging. 
 We liked the wine well enough -- it was delicious, in fact. I include it not to suggest that this particular vintage will be easy to find, but to give a sense of the unexpected bottles that may be out there in the marketplace.
 Whether Bierzo ultimately succeeds in creating a niche for itself is anybody's guess. It has plenty of competition, not least from the other emergent regions in Spain, like its neighbor, Ribeira Sacra, which also makes wines from the mencia grape. The economy will also make it difficult to sell the more expensive bottles. On the other hand, if distinctive wines are an advantage, Bierzo may have a good hand to play.
 Some of the less expensive wines on our list might be especially attractive, like the Abad, the 2006 from Bodegas Peique, and the 2006 Petalos from Palacios, which narrowly missed making the top 10. 
 It may be that, like me, you'll develop a taste for Bierzo that won't go away.
 Tasting Report: Haunting Complexity From Old-World Reds
 Descendientes de Jose Palacios Bierzo Villa de Corullon 2004
 $75
 *** 1/2 
 Still tight, but lovely and complex with wild fruit aromas and distinct minerality. (Importer: The Rare Wine Company, Vineburg, Calif.)
 BEST VALUE
 Bodega del Abad Bierzo Dom Bueno 2005
 $14
 *** 
 Dense and structured, with complex fruit and mineral flavors. (Frontier Wine Imports, Dover, N.J.)
 Herederos de Martinez Fuente Bierzo Pucho 2006
 $18
 *** 
 Vibrant and perfumed with exotic aromas of wild cherry, herbs and minerals. (De Maison Selections, Chapel Hill, N.C.)
 Bodegas Gancedo Xestal Bierzo Mencia 2003
 $29
 *** 
 Big and tannic with balanced flavors of fruit, smoke and minerals. (Quality Wines of Spain, New York)
 Viticultores Bercianos Bierzo Gran Riocua 2001
 $17
 ** 1/2 
 Elegant and expressive with aromas of wild cherry, flowers and spices. (Maja Imports, Milford, Conn.)
 Bodegas y Vinedos Paixar Bierzo Mencia 2004
 $65
 ** 1/2 
 Closed at first, but with time in the glass lovely aromas of violets and herbs emerge. (Grapes of Spain, Lorton, Va.)
 Bodegas Estefania Bierzo Tilenus Pagos de Posada 2001
 $28
 ** 1/2 
 Juicy and spicy with bright floral aromas and earthy fruit flavors. (Spain Wine Collection, Congers, N.Y.)
 Bodegas Peique Bierzo Seleccion Familiar Mencia 2003
 $52
 ** 
 Tannic with earthy wild-cherry flavors. (Vinos & Gourmet/Jose Pastor Selection, Richmond, Calif.)
 Bodegas Peique Bierzo Mencia 2006
 $13
 ** 
 Flavors of fruit, earth, flowers and minerals. (Vinos & Gourmet/Jose Pastor Selection)
 Dominio de Tares Bierzo Cepas Viejas 2004
 $24
 ** 
 Polished veneer of vanilla and cherry cheesecake cannot conceal Bierzo personality. (Classical Wines, Seattle)
 Recipe: Pairings Chicken with Morcilla and Peppers
 As I tasted the reds from Bierzo, I wanted food that was dark, rich and earthy. Why not morcilla -- Spanish blood sausage? A plate of nicely seared morcilla, or French boudin noir, would be enough alongside these wines. 
 But in this dish of chicken on a bed of cannellini beans, the morcilla provides just an accent, albeit forceful, like a spoonful of horseradish on boiled beef. Another kind of sausage -- or none at all -- could be used, though it would change the dish's character and color.
 I cooked the beans separately to guarantee their tenderness. Canned beans provide an acceptable shortcut. For six servings, I used chicken breasts, thighs and wings, briefly seared. With one chicken cut up, double the amount of sausage. Some guests may be delighted. 
 Time: 1 1/2 hours plus optional overnight soaking and cooking beans
 3 chicken breast halves, with wings, skin and bones
 6 chicken thighs with skin
 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
 1 teaspoon smoked paprika
 Salt and freshly ground black pepper
 4 cups cooked cannellini beans, starting with 1 1/2 cups dry beans, or 2 cans, rinsed
 1 tablespoon sliced garlic
 3 red bell peppers, cored, seeded, in half-inch-wide vertical strips 
 2 medium-size sweet onions, in eighths
 12 ounces morcilla (Spanish blood sausage) or boudin noir, sliced 1 inch thick 
 1 cup dry red wine
 2 stems fresh rosemary, leaves only.
 1. Separate wings from breasts. Cut each breast in half. Dry all chicken pieces. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a 12-inch skillet. Add chicken, skin side down, and cook over medium-high heat, just until skin is golden. Do not turn pieces; cook in stages if they do not all fit in pan at once. 
 2. Place chicken in a bowl and rub with paprika, salt and pepper. Toss beans with garlic, season with salt and pepper, and spread in a large, shallow casserole that can hold chicken in a single layer. Place chicken, skin side up, on bed of beans. Heat oven to 400 degrees.
 3. Heat remaining oil in skillet, add peppers and onion chunks and saute until starting to brown. Scatter around chicken. Add sausage to skillet, saute, stirring, a couple of minutes until just starting to sizzle. Tuck sausage pieces into casserole. Pour wine in skillet, deglaze pan and pour over ingredients in casserole. Scatter rosemary on top. Place in oven and bake 45 minutes, basting chicken with juices once or twice. Serve.
 Yield: 6 servings.
 Recipe: Pairings Chicken with Morcilla and Peppers
 As I tasted the reds from Bierzo, I wanted food that was dark, rich and earthy. Why not morcilla -- Spanish blood sausage? A plate of nicely seared morcilla, or French boudin noir, would be enough alongside these wines. 
 But in this dish of chicken on a bed of cannellini beans, the morcilla provides just an accent, albeit forceful, like a spoonful of horseradish on boiled beef. Another kind of sausage -- or none at all -- could be used, though it would change the dish's character and color.
 I cooked the beans separately to guarantee their tenderness. Canned beans provide an acceptable shortcut. For six servings, I used chicken breasts, thighs and wings, briefly seared. With one chicken cut up, double the amount of sausage. Some guests may be delighted. 
 Time: 1 1/2 hours plus optional overnight soaking and cooking beans
 3 chicken breast halves, with wings, skin and bones
 6 chicken thighs with skin
 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
 1 teaspoon smoked paprika
 Salt and freshly ground black pepper
 4 cups cooked cannellini beans, starting with 1 1/2 cups dry beans, or 2 cans, rinsed
 1 tablespoon sliced garlic
 3 red bell peppers, cored, seeded, in half-inch-wide vertical strips 
 2 medium-size sweet onions, in eighths
 12 ounces morcilla (Spanish blood sausage) or boudin noir, sliced 1 inch thick 
 1 cup dry red wine
 2 stems fresh rosemary, leaves only.
 1. Separate wings from breasts. Cut each breast in half. Dry all chicken pieces. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a 12-inch skillet. Add chicken, skin side down, and cook over medium-high heat, just until skin is golden. Do not turn pieces; cook in stages if they do not all fit in pan at once. 
 2. Place chicken in a bowl and rub with paprika, salt and pepper. Toss beans with garlic, season with salt and pepper, and spread in a large, shallow casserole that can hold chicken in a single layer. Place chicken, skin side up, on bed of beans. Heat oven to 400 degrees.
 3. Heat remaining oil in skillet, add peppers and onion chunks and saute until starting to brown. Scatter around chicken. Add sausage to skillet, saute, stirring, a couple of minutes until just starting to sizzle. Tuck sausage pieces into casserole. Pour wine in skillet, deglaze pan and pour over ingredients in casserole. Scatter rosemary on top. Place in oven and bake 45 minutes, basting chicken with juices once or twice. Serve.
 Yield: 6 servings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); WINERIES (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); RESTAURANTS (73%)

PERSON: RONALD H MILLER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (52%) SPAIN (90%); UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



719 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Here the Messages Are the Media (Tweet, Tweet)

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex. 

 BODY:
Welcome to Austin, a city where, for the time being, everybody is famous, the economy is rocking, and the grid is groaning under an influx of the digitally interested.
 Once only a much-praised music festival stood here, but organizers of South by Southwest have expanded their event laterally over the years, moving into film and interactive media with a vengeance.
 The parties and panels at the festival's interactive conference are jammed with optimistic, blue-sky thoughts and plans. On Monday night The Onion, the satirical newspaper and Web site (theonion.com), took over the Mohawk, a honky-tonk on Red River Road. More than 1,000 people jammed in, listening to the indie rock of the Lemurs and swilling free beer, while constantly checking their iPhones to make sure that something more amazing wasn't jumping off at another location. 
 In Austin this week -- the interactive and film elements give way to music on Wednesday -- information is not only free, but also comes at a breakneck pace, often accompanied by some measure of hype and excitement. The weather is hot, the barbecue amazing, and the person standing next to you might be a recent college graduate or the chief executive of a startup like Foursquare -- or both. Just as likely, she is a blogger with tens of thousands of followers.
 On Tuesday Rex Sorgatz, a social-network impresario who blogs at Fimoculous.com, blew a whistle via e-mail and suggested that folks sneak up to the roof deck of the Omni hotel. Few partygoers were actually staying there, but dozens gathered in the sun, which had finally arrived after a few uncharacteristically cloudy days. 
 The looks have changed in geekland: instead of backpacks and duct-taped glasses, it was tattoos and bikinis. The pool was full of sun-dappled bathers, most of whom were either ignoring or swimming against broader economic currents. 
 ''I didn't even come last year, but this year we dropped the whole team in, I guess as a way of saying that we mean business,'' said David Karp, the 23-year-old chief executive of Tumblr, the popular short-form blogging tool. ''We're mostly having fun, doing a few meetings and enjoying seeing old friends. It would probably be a better use of my time to be back home staying up till 4 in the morning and just crushing it to come up with one more application, but this is more fun.'' 
 Attendance for the music festival is expected to be off slightly this year, and flat for the film program. But the organizers say that the number of participants at the interactive event will be up 20 percent or more, to more than 10,000. Where is the money that's paying for attendance and potential deals coming from?
 ''You got me,'' said Louis Black, the editor of The Austin Chronicle, a newsweekly, and a founder of the 23-year-old festival. ''On elevators, in line and at the bars you can hear people from the interactive program talking, and they are either looking for a deal here, have one in hand, or are already rolling.''
 ''I guess there still must be some funding left for what is really new and could be a winner,'' he continued, adding, ''I thought that kind of stuff was over.''
 The combined attendance of the film and interactive programs now approaches that of the music festival, but they are very different crowds. Some bands will still gain notice in Austin by actual word of mouth, and their next gig here will mushroom. But at the Web conference, feedback begins before events, with people criticizing stage setups and anticipating who might say what. 
 Twitter entered the lexicon two years ago here when it was the darling of the conference, and it is now the event's dominant platform, seeming to overtake actual conversation. Why talk when you can tweet? Outside the main ballroom at the conference center, a map of Austin is annotated with tweets from specific locations, suggesting that a given panel is worth skipping, or that the line for a particular movie looks insurmountable.
 ''The growth of location-based approaches has been very big this year,'' said Hugh Forrest, event director of South by Southwest Interactive. ''And if you look at what people are saying here on Twitter and elsewhere, there is a lot of optimism, in spite of what is happening elsewhere.''
 AT&T apparently did not anticipate the onslaught. The sheer volume of iPhone users nearly pulled down the grid by Monday, with frustrated users screaming about outages on Twitter and elsewhere.
 ''It's one thing for AT&T to drop random calls, but when it starts to put your hookup in jeopardy, well, that's crossing the line,'' tweeted 7daysageek. AT&T responded to the hailstorm of complaints with a chastened news release and increased capacity on Monday. 
 In this alternative electronic universe there is a sense of the possible, but the brutal math remains. During the keynote session on Tuesday, Chris Anderson, the editor of Wired, spoke about finding a sustainable business model in a world that seems free of user revenues, a model that might involve the few paying for specific things, while the many ride free. The declining audience for mainstream media has all sorts of antecedents. But it was obvious after a few days here that the people formerly known as the audience were too busy making content to consume much of it, unless it came from their friends. The medium is not the message; the messages are the media.
 All this can become insular, and fast. On Monday Nick Douglas and Melissa Gira Grant, two veteran bloggers, hosted a session called the ''Sex Lives of the Microfamous.'' The two were involved once, and broke up on Tumblr, or so the story goes. 
 But here in the offline world, they were back together and led a discussion with about 50 people that gradually revealed that everyone in the room was famous, at least to some other people in the room, and that coming to terms with living transparently was going to take some doing. 
 One participant said he had some very firm boundaries. If a first date goes well, and he is interested in seeing the person again, he sets out the rules of engagement.
 ''You can blog about me or you can date me, but you can't do both,'' he said to audible approval.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Teach me to Twitter: a woman at South by Southwest uses her cellphone in the old-fashioned way, for talking, a rarity here. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); POP & ROCK (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



720 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Powerful Incentives, but No Takers

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
It seems like an offer a big office tenant could not refuse: space in a new building on a major train line, available for essentially next to nothing, for up to 10 years. That is the equation for any tenant deciding to lease at least 200,000 square feet in a planned 25-story glass tower that would rise in Trenton.
 Under the terms of an innovative Urban Transit Hub Tax Credit program that applies to properties within a half-mile of a rail center in nine New Jersey cities, the effective rent for tenants of the Trenton Vista Center would be ''roughly zero,'' according to Joe Sarno of Cushman & Wakefield, the broker marketing the project. 
 The program, which began last year and has generated developers' proposals in Newark, Hoboken and New Brunswick in addition to Trenton, provides tax credits to developers of commercial space who make a capital investment of at least $75 million. The developers can pass on the credit to tenants of a certain size: those that occupy about a third of the building and employ 250 people there.
 The break on taxes can be combined with other state incentive programs benefiting businesses that locate in urban areas. For a tenant of the Vista Center, that could mean ''potentially eliminating net rental costs'' of $35 to $40 a square foot annually, according to Mr. Sarno.
 In Hoboken, where SJP Properties has received state approval to award tax credits to large tenants of the planned third structure at its Waterfront Corporate Center, the developer Steven J. Pozycki said the effective annual rental would probably be reduced to below $20 a square foot. Tenants at two existing buildings pay an average rent in the low $40s a square foot, according to Mr. Pozycki. 
 Still, none of the projects that have been planned to take advantage of the tax-credit program have actually landed a tenant yet, and certainly none of the developers are willing to build speculatively in a recessionary market. So no actual earthmoving is taking place. 
 The program is a ''terrific incentive, certain to spur meaningful development,'' said Joseph S. Taylor, who heads the Matrix Development Company and also leads Gov. Jon S. Corzine's Real Estate Advisory Board.
 But, he conceded, ''companies are not taking any offers at all right now.''
 James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers, concurred on both counts. ''The tax-credit program provides the strongest incentives the state has ever made,'' he said. ''But the extraordinarily high level of economic uncertainty has frozen most of the decision making at large companies concerning capital investment.'' 
 That leaves New Jersey ''packing a mighty weapon in the arsenal and forced to wait for the battle to re-begin,'' he said.
 The tax-credit program roared out of the Legislature just as New Jersey and Pennsylvania development officials were locked in intense competition to attract the new offices of BlackRock, an investment management firm that had said it wanted to move to a site near a rail hub. 
 Currently based in Plainsboro, a suburb of Princeton, BlackRock was considering competing bids from developers for sites in Philadelphia and New Brunswick, according to Mr. Pozycki, who said he was one of those talking with BlackRock. Last September, however, as financial markets spiraled downward, BlackRock said it was postponing any decision.
 Last fall, there were also several other large companies -- ''household names, among the finest in New Jersey'' -- that were taking serious looks at projects that could take advantage of the program, according to Mr. Taylor, whose company has qualified sites in Newark and New Brunswick. Mr. Sarno said a couple of companies have ''active interest'' in the Trenton project, being developed by Capital Real Estate Group, which is based in the capital city.
 Mr. Pozycki was less sanguine. ''They're not even slow-dancing right now,'' he said of corporate tenants with sizable space needs. ''They are pretty much sitting down, and waiting to see what happens next.''
 Meanwhile, developers and state officials have not stopped trying to sweeten the inducements to large companies willing to locate in state-designated urban transit hubs -- which also includes sites in Jersey City, Camden, East Orange, Elizabeth and Paterson.
 The Legislature is contemplating revisions that would extend eligibility for the tax credits. Currently, the developer of an approved project is eligible for tax credits of up to 100 percent of the amount of capital investment. A tenant can apply the transferred credit against taxes on corporate business, insurance premiums or gross income. Up to 10 percent of the total credit can be used each year, for a period of 10 years. 
 Lawmakers are now considering lowering eligibility requirements to include projects costing $50 million and companies with 150 employees. In addition, the time period may be extended to 20 years. 
 ''Even these revisions may not be enough to secure tenants and jump-start projects, unless the economy improves,'' Mr. Taylor said. 
 The Vista Center in Trenton is planned to have 700,000 square feet of commercial space as well as ground-floor retail space, a parking garage and a public plaza. The designer of the structure, which is to have ''platinum'' energy and environmental ratings, is the Princeton architecture firm RMJM Hillier. 
 At SJP's Waterfront Corporate Center in Hoboken, where two buildings with more than a million square feet are fully occupied, a third 14-story office building with 525,000 square feet of office space and ground-floor retailing is planned.
 The Tucker Development Corporation has also made a proposal in Newark for Liberty Plaza, a 22-story office and retail tower next to the Broad Street train station. Strongly backed by city officials, it would become the first new commercial development in the downtown area in more than 15 years.
 ''We continue to see the Urban Transit Hub Tax Credit as an enormously potent tool, even during economic uncertainty,'' said Stefan Pryor, Newark's deputy mayor for economic development.
 Newark has driven the effort, backed by a coalition of municipalities, to have the Legislature reduce the eligibility requirements for the tax-credit program. ''That is because we are in active negotiations with major industrial tenancies, which may be just shy of the threshold,'' Mr. Pryor said. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS: A rendering of the proposed Trenton Vista Center.(DRAWING BY RMJM)
 The Waterfront Corporate Center III, at right in a rendering, with 525,000 square feet, is proposed for Hoboken. For large tenants, the effective rental would be below $20 a square foot.(DRAWING BY HLW ARCHITECTS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%)

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (56%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (77%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



721 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
An article on Saturday about the recession's effect on patients' decisions to defer or speed up elective surgery misidentified the site of a Caterpillar plant that has had huge layoffs. It is in Peoria, Ill., not Elkhart, Ind. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (85%) ILLINOIS, USA (85%); INDIANA, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



722 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: Too Many Cooks, Too Few Pots

BYLINE: By JULIA MOSKIN

 BODY:
JAMES LENZI, a chef who is opening a restaurant near Columbia University, recently posted an ad on Craigslist for an assistant. Salary: $25,000 a year with no benefits. 
 ''The resumes started pouring in,'' he said. ''Hundreds of them. Chefs, managers, people who've worked at the best restaurants in New York.'' 
 Nine of the 300 applicants had Ph.D.'s., he said. ''I can't stop thinking about what's going to happen to them.''
 In New York City, chefs, owners and workers say they cannot remember a time when so many restaurants were closing or struggling, so many restaurant workers were looking for jobs and so few places were hiring. According to the New York State DepartmentricaLabor, after adding 50,000 jobs in less than seven years, the New York City restaurant business lost more than 10,000 jobs between October 2008 and January 2009. 
 The economy is obviously a factor, but some in the business say they're also seeing the results of a decade of exuberant, possibly unsustainable expansion. 
 ''Suddenly the restaurant business looks not so different from the financial and real estate markets,'' said Joseph Bastianich, a co-owner of 12 restaurants in New York and nationwide. ''When expansion is fueled by unfounded optimism, you get a balloon that doesn't exist in reality.'' 
 In September 2007 the chef Fabio Trabocchi was brought in from suburban Washington with much publicity to take over Fiamma in SoHo. Its handmade pastas were praised to the skies, and Frank Bruni gave it three stars in The New York Times that November. In January its owner closed it. 
 ''A boom is exciting, and it raises the level of the food for everyone,'' Mr. Trabocchi said. ''It's too soon to say if it was a bubble, but at the end there is only a certain number of people to eat in your restaurants.''
 Fiamma is one of the few high-end closings in New York, but owners say business is down 10 to 30 percent. 
 In just the last five years, Jimmy Haber and his chef and partner, Laurent Tourondel, have opened 14 BLT restaurants, 5 of them in Manhattan. 
 ''Everybody was out there celebrating life,'' Mr. Haber said. Now, he said, business is down 10 to 20 percent from its peak in 2007. 
 Many restaurateurs suspect there may have been too much celebration. 
 ''People with euphoria and momentum and money stepped into the business,'' said John McDonald, an owner of Lever House and Lure Fishbar. ''Landlords thought they could charge crazy rents anywhere in Manhattan.'' 
 Soon, he said, many restaurants with 200 seats to fill each night and $20,000 in rent to pay each month will be in trouble. ''I am just hoping to hold on to my best people and hunker down until business gets better,'' he added. 
 Bad times aren't confined to Manhattan. Federal Labor Department figures show the restaurant industry has cut more than 100,000 jobs nationally since September; in the same time a year before, the industry added almost 50,000 jobs.
 In the last decade, the luxury restaurant boom went national, as hotels expanded and brought in prestigious chefs like Daniel Boulud, Eric Ripert and Tom Colicchio. Across the country, the contraction has already begun. Gordon Ramsay recently sold his share in his restaurant in Los Angeles after less than a year of operation.
 Joachim Splichal, the chef of the Patina Restaurant Group, which runs more than 30 restaurants in the United States, said people like him were the reason for the boom in high-end restaurants in places like Las Vegas and New York. 
 ''I was one of the celebrity chefs who started opening more and more restaurants, and now we are totally overbuilt,'' he said, referring to the industry.
 ''People are coming to L.A. from Las Vegas looking for work,'' he added. ''They are leaving here to go to the Midwest, they are going from the Midwest to Florida. The business is going to look completely different after this.'' 
 Elizabeth Blau, who worked with Steve Wynn to bring many top chefs to Las Vegas and is a partner in four restaurants there, said that with restaurant business plunging since September, the market is being tested. Michelin-starred chefs, she said, are not the draw that they were a year ago. 
 ''Las Vegas is like the subprime mortgage market of restaurants,'' she said. ''This may be a healthy correction.''
 New York restaurants are not yet feeling as much pain as those in Las Vegas, but even people with jobs here are sending out resumes.
 Timothy Reardon was a sous-chef at L'Atelier de Joel Robuchon in Midtown when he ''saw the writing on the wall'' after a round of layoffs last fall. ''I knew I was next,'' Mr. Reardon said; he began actively looking for a job, and landed one as executive chef at the Core Club in Midtown. ''It's not Robuchon, but it's my own kitchen,'' he said. 
 Some of New York's most experienced restaurant workers are taking work that might have been considered beneath their abilities a year ago. Nicole Kaplan, who was the top pastry chef at Eleven Madison Park and Del Posto -- and, briefly, at the Plaza -- is working as a part-time cooking instructor. ''An executive pastry chef is an investment that a lot of people don't want to make right now,'' she said.
 Colin Alevras, who was the chef and owner for 10 years of the Tasting Room in the East Village, and a branch in NoLIta, has closed his restaurants and decided to seek more stable work within the industry. He is pouring wine at DB Bistro Moderne in Midtown, part of the chef Daniel Boulud's empire.
 ''We have a family to support, so I was happy to accept the reduction in ego in exchange for stability,'' Mr. Alevras said of himself and his wife, Renee. Johnny Iuzzini, the pastry chef at Jean Georges, said he had never received so many offers from experienced cooks to do unpaid internships in his kitchen. ''A lot of people are using unemployment as an educational opportunity, and of course to build their resume,'' he said. ''I've never seen anything like this.''
 Even those willing to work for free are having a hard time. ''Everybody's on the edge, and I don't need people hanging around my kitchen messing with the morale of the paid guys,'' said Michael White, the chef and an owner of Alto and Convivio and, soon, Marea. ''Let them go to Italy, learn to make pasta, and wash their clothes in a bucket like I did for seven years.'' 
 Alexandra Raij, a chef and co-owner of Txikito, a tapas bar in Chelsea, said that it used to be impossible to find skilled cooks who wanted to work in her tiny, two-electric-burner kitchen. Now, she said, the situation is so desperate that cooks push resumes through the security gate late at night. 
 Chefs say they are willing to try anything to hang on in the industry. On a recent snowy Sunday morning, a record number of applicants waited on the sidewalk in front of CraftSteak in the meatpacking district to try out for the next season of the culinary-competition show ''Top Chef.'' 
 The line, which grew to more than 150 people, started to form at 5 a.m., five hours before the auditions began. There was a Culinary Institute of America graduate overwhelmed by student loan debt and working as a barista; a line cook laid off from three successive New York hotel kitchens in the last nine months; and Caroline McDaniel, who has cooked in New York for more than 30 years and who said she had never wanted to cook on television before. 
 ''At this point all of us would do anything to protect our jobs,'' she said, gesturing to her fellow cooks. Until the end of last year, she said, she earned enough by catering parties and private dinners. But after Election Day, she said, $28,000 in the holiday bookings she counts on were canceled by nervous clients.
 Cutting the staff can be a last resort, said Josh DeChellis, the chef at the new La Fonda del Sol in Midtown. ''If you want to maintain quality,'' he said, ''there is a threshold that can't be crossed.'' 
 Yet some chefs are quietly jubilant that layoffs put top talent on the market. 
 Terrance Brennan, the chef and an owner of Artisanal and Picholine, said that a year ago he was ''dismayed'' by the quality of cooks applying for junior positions in his kitchens. ''Now I'm overwhelmed by it,'' he said. 
 Andrew Carmellini, who is opening a restaurant with the actor Robert DeNiro, said the best cooks used to be spread too thinly. ''When I moved to New York in 1991, there were maybe 10 restaurants with brigades of serious cooks,'' he said. ''Now there are 50 -- but not all of them will survive.''
 He said he has 100 high-quality candidates to choose from for his brigade. 
 ''Our kitchen is going to be sick,'' he said -- fantastic in chef parlance. 
 Michael White said the New York restaurant scene was due for a ''cleansing.''
 ''This is a good time for those of us who are serious about cooking, and a good time for those who are serious about eating,'' Mr. White said. ''Now the cream will rise to the top.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 25, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Wednesday with an article about layoffs in New York City restaurants misspelled the surname of a chef shown working at La Fonda del Sol in Midtown with Josh DeChellis, another chef. He is Eli Kulp, not Culp.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A SHOW, BUT ALSO A JOB: With thousands of restaurant jobs lost in New York the past few months, cooks are looking for other paths. Some 150 applicants for the next season of ''Top Chef'' lined up, above, earlier this month downtown. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D1)
HOLDING ON: The chef Josh DeChellis, top right, working with Eli Culp at La Fonda del Sol, said restaurants cannot cut staff too much or quality suffers. Would-be contestants on ''Top Chef,'' right, waited in a long line to apply in New York recently. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BELOW, OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); REAL ESTATE (74%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (71%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); CRAIGSLIST INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



723 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; PINGYAO JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Ghosts of a Faded Gilded Age Haunt a 19th-Century Chinese Banking Hub

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: PINGYAO, China 

 BODY:
It was a time of new wealth, a gilded age in which entire families came into fortunes overnight. 
 To move the money, businessmen here in this city in northern China opened banks, the first in the nation's history. Soon branches sprang up across the country, and they began making loans. Money flowed this way and that.
 Then, as quickly as it started, the entire system crumbled. The banks shut down and the city fell into ruin. 
 So went the history of China's first banking capital, which bloomed here in dusty Shanxi Province in the mid-19th century, during the Qing dynasty. With the global economy now reeling from the banking crisis that began in the United States, and as the explosive economic growth of China begins to slow, the rise and fall of Pingyao could be read by some as a cautionary tale. 
 But the present-day financial crisis has reinforced the sense of nostalgia surrounding Pingyao, which with its 33-feet-tall Ming dynasty walls is one of the best-preserved medieval towns in the country.
 ''The banks tell a history of Chinese financial development, like how China started to transform from feudalism to capitalism,'' said Ruan Yisan, a retired professor from the architecture department of Tongji University in Shanghai who has been instrumental in the restoration of Pingyao. ''The staffs of the banks were trained to be objective and highly responsible to the accounting of the banks. Now, corruption is common and people don't place much value in moral qualities.''
 Today, the old center of Pingyao is a place of 40,000 people crammed into narrow alleyways and courtyard homes hidden behind decrepit wooden doors. The surrounding countryside is a dry patchwork of millet and corn fields covered with the fine yellow silt found across the Loess Plateau, one of the most erosion-prone places on earth.
 At Pingyao's height, 22 banks here thrived on the flourishing trade in Shanxi Province, as silk and tea moved north to Mongolia and Russia from southern China, and wool went south. 
 Compared with the excesses of today, scholars say, the early days of banking were a time of solid business ethics. There were no toxic mortgages, no opaque financial instruments. Trust among businessmen was so strong that the banks were able to start a system of remittances, credit and check writing, the first of its kind in China. Currency was in silver ingots.
 Yet, some of the banks' practices might raise eyebrows today. 
 Still visible in the two-story courtyards of the defunct banks here are opium dens and mah-jongg tables, as well as rooms where prostitutes hired by the banks plied their trade to win over potential customers. 
 When the banking system collapsed before the Communist Revolution in 1949, it was not because of greed or incompetence on the part of the bankers, Mr. Ruan and other scholars say. More important, they say, was the overthrow of the Qing dynasty in 1911 and the country's subsequent descent into warring chaos, as well as growing competition from well-financed foreign banks allowed to do business in China.
 Pingyao's plunge into poverty left the town frozen in time. 
 The local government had no money to modernize. So the Ming-era walls remained standing even as ancient walls in other Chinese cities, including the ramparts around Beijing, were torn down by the Communists. Within the walls here, families continued living in old courtyards -- some within the once thriving banks. (Imagine the headquarters of Lehman Brothers converted into a commune.)
 ''The older people of the town were sad and upset,'' said Yao Minlin, 48, a native of Pingyao who led a couple of foreign visitors through the alleyways one recent afternoon. ''They didn't want to see the banks close because then they would no longer have income. Everyone here depended on the banks -- merchants, guards, restaurateurs.'' 
 Prodded by preservationists like Mr. Ruan, local officials began restoring parts of Pingyao in the 1980s, giving the town a second life as a tourist attraction. 
 The first bank in China, called Rishengchang, or Sunrise Over Prosperity, is now a museum in the town center, as are four other banks. 
 So great is the mystique around the banks that Chinese leaders have made pilgrimages here from Beijing. Framed photographs in Rishengchang show visits by Hu Jintao, the current Chinese president; Jiang Zemin, his predecessor; and Zhu Rongji, the former prime minister. Their visits were more relaxed than that of Emperor Guangxu, who slept in one of Pingyao's banks while fleeing invading European and Japanese troops in 1900.
 To the people of Pingyao, today's leaders can learn from the old ways of doing business.
 ''Until the end of the Qing dynasty, Pingyao's banks had confidence, trust and good manners,'' said Li Yuerong, an aide to the manager of the museum in Rishengchang, which receives about 2,000 visitors a day. ''This has a lot of benefits for management and financial development.'' 
 Ms. Li pointed out that the first manager of Rishengchang, Lei Lutai, was 53 when he started working at the bank. These days, she said, powerful businesspeople lack the wisdom of age. ''They want to become rich very fast,'' she said. ''They can't go step by step. They're in a hurry.'' 
 It is a myth, of course, that business dealings of that era were free of deceit and theft. 
 The cold, dark rooms of the old banks show the paranoia that grew as piles of silver accumulated. The treasuries of the banks were vertical pits dug beneath raised platform beds. Sleeping mats covered the pits. Two or three bank employees would sit or sleep atop the mats around the clock, said Mr. Yao, who has a relative who once worked as a clerk at Rishengchang.
 Fear gave birth to Chinese versions of Wells Fargo companies that protected the silver as it was transported from one city to another. The guards were trained in martial arts and armed with halberds, maces and battle axes. Today, on weekends a master still teaches kung fu to children on the grounds of one of the old martial arts schools. 
 The memories of former glory linger in other buildings. At a temple one afternoon, crowds of local residents clutching incense sticks bowed in front of an altar to the god of wealth. The families of Pingyao know all too well this old saying, ''Wealth does not last for more than three generations.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The financial crisis has reinforced the sense of nostalgia surrounding Pingyao, one of China's best-preserved medieval towns. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHIHO FUKADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Pingyao thrived on the booming trade in Shanxi Province. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING IN CHINA (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BUSINESS ETHICS (78%); HISTORY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); CORRUPTION (64%); ETHICS (64%); EROSION (57%); OPIUM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SHANXI, CHINA (88%); EAST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); EARTH (71%) CHINA (98%); ASIA (88%); MONGOLIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



724 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 536 words

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
WHERE DANCE
 Meets Disability
 Not everyone is ready for a dance company that calls itself Gimp, with members whose bodies are beset by physical challenges, including undeveloped or amputated limbs. 
 Not everyone is ready for the way the muscular dancer throws around the tall, skinny guy with cerebral palsy as if he is engaged in pro wrestling, not modern dance.
 Not everyone is ready for the production's spoken portion, which opens with that skinny guy, Lawrence Carter-Long, 42, telling the audience a joke that starts, ''So, three cripples walk into a bar.'' 
 There is a reason the Gimp dancers present the unexpected onstage. Even the name Gimp is meant to be an in-your-face confrontation of common notions of disability and dance. 
 ''The goal is to honor each person's really specific ways of moving, really specific, unique personalities,'' said Heidi Latsky, the dancer and choreographer who founded Gimp, which is performing Thursday through Saturday at the Abrons Arts Center, at the Henry Street Settlement in Manhattan.
 So the jaunty rhythm of Mr. Carter-Long's offbeat stride is featured. So is the vertical linearity of Catherine Long, who was born without a left arm, as she stretches to the sky with her right, Statue of Liberty-style. And so is the intriguing asymmetry of Lezlie Frye, 29, who has one arm shorter than the other, as she windmills both arms while bending at the waist, up and down.
 Jeremy Alliger, a producer for Gimp, says that far from being limited by these dancers, Ms. Latsky ''is like an artist who has just had new colors added to the palette.''
 After rehearsing the other day at a studio in the Actors Temple on West 47th Street in Manhattan, Mr. Carter-Long sat with Ms. Latsky and her associate director, Jeffrey Freeze (the muscular dancer who tosses him around).
 ''This is no safe prearranged marriage of dance and disability,'' Mr. Carter-Long said. ''This is a collision. This is two worlds coming together that ain't supposed to co-exist.''
 Gimp members say dance helps them with both physical control and expression. And performing in public helps them -- and the audience -- address the discomfort of encountering physically challenged people: Onstage, they are inviting the public to stare.
 The first evening of Gimp is dedicated to the Wounded Warrior Project, a nonprofit group that seeks to raise awareness and enlist the public's aid for the needs of severely injured men and women from the armed forces. Ms. Latsky, who used to perform with the Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane Dance Company, said she hoped to work next with veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 COREY KILGANNON VIDEO: On the blog: video of the troupe's rehearsal.
 ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 Eight Big Projects Carry On: Amid the recession, a new exhibit takes an optimistic view of development in the city, from the long-awaited Second Avenue Subway to the Croton Water Filtration Plant in the Bronx. 
 SLIDESHOW: A New Ferry Terminal: A slide show of the floating Port Authority ferry terminal off the Battery Park City bulkhead, which is to greet its first commuters from Hoboken, N.J., on Wednesday. Millions of dollars over budget, the project was originally scheduled to open in 2006.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Gimp troupe rehearsal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COREY KILGANNON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (92%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CEREBRAL PALSY (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); DISABLED PERSONS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); WRESTLING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%); AFGHANISTAN (65%); IRAQ (65%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



725 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: In Chicago, Real Estate and Race as a Volatile Mix

BYLINE: By DWIGHT GARNER

 BODY:
FAMILY PROPERTIES
 Race, Real Estate, and the Exploitation of Black Urban America
 By Beryl Satter
 Illustrated. 495 pages. Metropolitan Books. $30.
 When Beryl Satter's father, the Chicago lawyer Mark J. Satter, died in 1965, his obituary in The Chicago Daily News said, ''Satter was the kind of man who made enemies -- big and comfortable ones, not poor and weak ones.'' 
 Mr. Satter was a caustic, charismatic figure, a pioneering civil-rights attorney who waged a lonely crusade on behalf of black families victimized by greedy real-estate speculators and by racist Chicago housing laws. Another newspaper called him the ''Clarence Darrow of the Bankrupt.'' 
 Mr. Satter's story is a vivid one; he was a brawler who seems to have popped fully formed from a Nelson Algren or a Meyer Levin novel. It's a sad story, too. Mr. Satter lost more cases than he won, and his obsessive work took a toll. He died of heart failure at 49, when his daughter, Beryl, was 6. By the end of his life he was broke, and the rental buildings he owned in Chicago ghettoes led some to accuse him, wrongly, of being a slumlord himself. 
 This is rich material, so much so that in her new book, ''Family Properties: Race, Real Estate, and the Exploitation of Black Urban America,'' all Beryl Satter really had to do was get out of the way and let her father's story tell itself.
 To her credit, she has done a great deal more. ''Family Properties'' leaps from the particulars of one man's story to become a panoramic retelling of the Chicago real-estate wars during a period when, after the postwar migration of Southern blacks, that city was the most segregated in the North. 
 Among the outsize combatants who swagger across this book's electrifying pages are the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Chicago Mayor Richard J. Daley, the community organizer Saul Alinsky, the newspaper columnist Mike Royko, Msgr. John J. Egan and even, in a bit role, the science writer David Quammen as a college-age organizer. 
 Ms. Satter, chairwoman of the history department at Rutgers University, balances personal stories, including moments of great bravery, with painstaking legal and historical research. She persuasively and devastatingly argues (turning conventional wisdom on its head) that the true cause of black ghettoes in Chicago was financial exploitation -- not the ''culture of poverty'' or white flight. She goes further, linking this kind of financial exploitation to today's subprime mortgage crisis, an earlier example of greedy lenders pushing people ''to take on more debt than they could handle'' and charging inflated interest rates. 
 The historian and the storyteller in Ms. Satter are never at war with each other. ''Family Properties'' is so packed with the horrors visited upon black families in Chicago from the 1940s through the 1970s that you will want to walk outside every 15 pages or so and simply scream in outrage. Yet her tone throughout is dispassionate. She is at heart a historian, not a memoirist. And she is a vertiginously good one. Her book is transfixing from its first sentence, which is, ''When an elderly woman erupts into shouts of rage at the mere mention of events now 40 years past, you know there is a story there.'' 
 The story related in ''Family Properties'' begins when her father starts to understand how the real-estate racket in Chicago and other cities worked. Neighborhoods that contained more than a few black residents were redlined -- that is, the Federal Housing Administration refused to insure mortgage loans there. So even white residents who wanted to sell to blacks were discouraged by the government. 
 In this climate so-called contract sellers preyed on black home buyers, offering them overpriced houses that could be had with very little money down. These sellers would then, if the buyer missed a single payment, take the house away and quickly resell it. 
 ''While contract sellers became millionaires, their harsh terms and inflated prices destroyed whole communities,'' Ms. Satter writes. ''Because black contract buyers knew how easily they could lose their homes, they struggled to make their inflated monthly payments. Husbands and wives both worked double shifts. They neglected basic maintenance. They subdivided their apartments, crammed in extra tenants, and, when possible, charged their tenants hefty rents. Indeed, the genius of this system was that it forced black contract buyers to be their own exploiters.'' 
 Mr. Satter fought these practices in speeches, essays, radio and television appearances and court cases, to the dismay of his fellow Chicago lawyers. But he wasn't merely fighting contract sellers -- he was fighting federal housing policies as well as the Chicago machine, which wanted to placate blacks but keep them in their place. 
 After her father's death, Ms. Satter's narrative follows the details of this fight through Martin Luther King's Northern campaign, when he moved into a Chicago slum and led an extended series of marches and protests. King was ultimately outmaneuvered by Mayor Daley, who cannily promised anything to make the protests stop, then did virtually nothing when they ended. 
 Ms. Satter moves on to chronicle the attempts by Monsignor Egan and a young community organizer named Jack Macnamara, who banded citizens together and, among other things, led payment strikes and picketed contract-seller's homes. Mr. Macnamara's group also filed important class-action lawsuits. 
 Among the more amusing characters in ''Family Properties'' is the wily Saul Alinsky, who mutters about lawsuits in general: ''If it's in the hands of the lawyers, it's out of the streets.'' 
 The class-action lawsuits were lost, but reforms did eventually arrive. Not that all is perfect in Chicago today. ''Prospective black home buyers are still 'steered' away from white neighborhoods,'' Ms. Satter writes. The saddest echo of the bad old days, she adds, is that ''between 2004 and 2006 the American city with the most residents holding subprime loans was -- Chicago.'' 
 Ms. Satter's book has a bit of faulty wiring. Its second half is weighed down by perhaps too much minutiae about federal court cases. And there is some awkward writing. One man is described as ''an all-star football athlete in college.'' 
 But the pleasures here are deep and resonant ones. ''Family Properties'' feels like something close to an instant classic.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Beryl Satter (PHOTOGRAPH BY RACHEL ELIZA GRIFFITHS)
 A crowd thwarts an eviction attempt in Chicago in 1970. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHICAGO SUN-TIMES, FROM ''FAMILY PROPERTIES'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (89%); WRITERS (89%); HISTORY (86%); FAMILY (79%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Family Properties (Book); Family Properties (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



726 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Official Attacks Western Policies on Iran and Sudan

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS 

 BODY:
Miguel d'Escoto Brockmann, the president of the General Assembly, lashed out at the West in general and the United States in particular on Tuesday, saying that Iran's president had been maligned and that the indictment of Sudan's president was racist. 
 Mr. d'Escoto has made controversial remarks periodically since assuming the presidency in September, but rarely so many in a single day. 
 His comments drew a rebuke from several Security Council ambassadors and even from the 33-member Latin American bloc that had nominated him. ''He confuses his personal opinions sometimes with those of the General Assembly,'' said Heraldo Munoz, the ambassador from Chile. Mr. Munoz credited Mr. d'Escoto with trying to make the General Assembly relevant by focusing attention on matters like the global financial crisis and reform of the Council. 
 Mr. d'Escoto was speaking at a news conference to mark the end of a world tour. He said that he had been struck by the ''great respect'' shown to Iran by its neighbors and that its president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, had been unfairly ''demonized'' in the West. 
 He said the International Criminal Court's indictment of Sudan's president, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, on war crimes charges was lamentable because it would undermine Darfur peace talks. A request by the African Union and the Arab League for the Security Council to suspend the indictment for a year should be respected, he said. The indictment ''helps to deepen a perception that international justice is racist'' because the case is the third to be brought against Africans, Mr. d'Escoto said.
 Ruhakana Rugunda, the Ugandan ambassador and a Security Council member, said, ''I do not consider that decision racist.'' He said Africans supported a deferral to allow more time for talks. 
 Mr. d'Escoto supported Secretary General Ban Ki-moon's criticism of the United States for falling about $1 billion behind in its United Nations dues. Describing the United States' attitude toward the Council, Mr. d'Escoto said, '' 'You either give me the green light to commit the aggression that I want to commit, or I shall declare you irrelevant.' '' 
 Mark Kornblau, the spokesman for the United States Mission, said, ''It's hard to make sense of Mr. d'Escoto's increasingly bizarre statements.''
 Several ambassadors said they had found Mr. d'Escoto poorly informed at meetings. At the news conference, he denied ever having heard that Mr. Ahmadinejad had called for Israel to be erased, nor did he know anything about the case of Roxana Saberi, an Iranian-American reporter arrested in Iran. He did not mention the plight of Darfur civilians, nor the United Nations' effort to persuade Sudan to reverse the evictions of many humanitarian groups. 
 Mr. d'Escoto tends to draw support from countries at odds with Washington, while Western nations accuse him of being stuck in a leftist, Sandinista mind-set. Mr. d'Escoto, a Roman Catholic priest, was Nicaragua's foreign minister from 1979 to 1990.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); WAR CRIMES (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%); PEACE PROCESS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (55%); AFRICAN UNION (54%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (54%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%); BAN KI-MOON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); AFRICA (93%); ISRAEL (79%); UGANDA (79%); CHILE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



727 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Letters: Healthful Agenda

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Michelle Obama's Agenda Includes Healthful Eating'' (March 11):
 Mrs. Obama's efforts in focusing the nation's home chefs toward more healthful, locavore or home-grown diets are very welcome. There is nothing more important to the well-being of our communities and our country. Good nutrition is absolutely the foundation for a productive citizenry. 
 I look forward to the day when all food is simply ''food,'' not organic versus conventional or expensive versus cheap, and is grown in a sustainable way.
 I also look forward to the policies that will come from the White House table to further this goal. If the White House is eating this way, shouldn't we all be able to?
 Anastasia Hopkins Folpe Rochester, Minn.
 To the Editor:
 It is encouraging to see our first lady covered for her beliefs and not just her wardrobe. 
 As noted, the United States faces an obesity epidemic while we face an economic crisis. More households than ever are turning to emergency feeding programs. We're grateful that Mrs. Obama is bringing attention to these programs and the need to provide them with healthful food.
 While it may be tempting to fill bare shelves with cheap but empty calories, we must do otherwise. City Harvest is focused on sourcing nutritious food like fresh produce. This year we will provide feeding programs in New York City with 23 million pounds of food, 13 million of it in the form of fresh fruits and vegetables. 
 With all the hard choices families must make, no one should have to choose poor health. I agree with Michelle Obama: accessible, affordable and nutritious food belongs in all communities. 
 Jilly Stephens New York
 The writer is the executive director of City Harvest Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUTRITION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (86%); FOOD CHARITIES (76%); OBESITY (73%); WRITERS (73%); FAMILY (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (52%); EPIDEMICS (52%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (90%); BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



728 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G.'s Bonus Blackmail

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE A. CUNNINGHAM. 
Lawrence A. Cunningham is a professor at George Washington University Law School.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 PRESIDENT OBAMA on Monday instructed the Treasury Department to ''pursue every single legal avenue'' to recover $165 million in bonus payments the insurance giant A.I.G. recently made to nearly 400 employees in its financial products unit. A.I.G. has, of course, received $170 billion in bailout funds and yet continues to incur extraordinary losses -- some $62 billion last quarter alone. 
 A.I.G. insisted it was legally obligated to make the bonus payments and that failure to pay would breach its contracts with employees and expose it to penalties under state employee protection laws. The company also warned that breaching the agreements would amount to defaulting on numerous other business contracts, at staggering cost. 
 Amid this standoff, there has been an explosion of outrage against perceived excessive compensation to those who precipitated the financial crisis. Some lawmakers have threatened to impose a 100 percent tax on the A.I.G. bonuses and Senator Chuck Grassley, Republican of Iowa, even wildly suggested that the company's executives consider suicide for their culpability. But moral outrage and public rebuke do not provide legal grounds for backing out of a contract. 
 If the government is serious about finding a legitimate basis for abrogating these payments, officials must look to basic legal principles. And if A.I.G. is serious that it is legally bound to pay these bonuses, it must do more than say nonpayment would expose it to damages or penalties. Nor is it enough to invoke the sanctity of contracts, because our legal and business system recognizes plenty of valid excuses from contractual duty and even justification for breaching. 
 There are numerous issues both sides must contend with to evaluate whether A.I.G. was bound to or excused from its payment duties. First, the specific promises that employees made or conditions stated in their agreements must be examined. Determining what promises exist requires only reading the contracts; identifying conditions (which will likely offer more wiggle room in A.I.G.'s duty to pay) requires both reading the contracts and understanding any negotiations that preceded them. 
 Subpoenas issued by Andrew Cuomo, the New York attorney general, have put much of this vital information into the hands of government officials. Those officials would do well to compare the provisions in these contracts to the job performance of the employees who received bonuses. If employees did not meet stated performance goals, they would be in breach of contract and A.I.G. would not have to pay. 
 Likewise, A.I.G. has stated that these agreements expressly state that if employees are terminated for cause, they are not entitled to any bonus payments. It follows then that the contracts may preserve the company's power to deny bonuses to employees who could be terminated for cause but have not yet been.
 Apart from specific contractual terms, there are other reasons A.I.G. might rescind these bonuses. They include the nondisclosure of important material information -- for instance, if an employee failed to be absolutely candid about the size and risk of trading positions taken on the company's behalf.
 Findings of fraud on the part of an employee would certainly also excuse A.I.G.'s duty to pay. This isn't to say that any A.I.G. employee engaged in such activity. But given the scale of problems that A.I.G. has confronted, and credible allegations of serious misconduct within the organization, it's worth investigating. 
 There is also at least some chance, given A.I.G.'s functional insolvency and the government takeover, that these agreements may be rescinded either on the basis of impracticability or by virtue of unforeseeable and uncontrollable circumstances. A credible fact supporting both excuses is precisely the company's huge loss last quarter. Courts excuse contract duties when governmental action essentially destroys the original purpose of a contract -- and the taxpayers' 80 percent stake in A.I.G. is a more extreme sort of governmental action than usually appears in such cases. 
 A final potential legal basis for rescinding these payments is fraudulent conveyance law. This generally limits the right of a financially troubled company to transfer property to favored claimants on sweetheart terms when doing so would hurt the interests of other claimants, like lenders and shareholders -- in this case, perhaps even taxpayers. Again, this is not to say that these payments violate this doctrine, but it is a relevant question for the government to probe.
 Without reading the contracts, understanding their background and learning about employee performance, one cannot say whether A.I.G. is legally bound to pay or legally excused from paying these bonuses. But we won't resolve this question by simply trading nebulous assertions and hysterical threats.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONUS PAY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONTRACTS LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (77%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); SUICIDE (52%); SUBPOENAS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (52%); ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



729 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: A Nuclear Waste

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE COOKE. 
Stephanie Cooke is the author of the forthcoming ''In Mortal Hands: A Cautionary History of the Nuclear Age.''

DATELINE: Kensington, Md. 

 BODY:
 PRESIDENT OBAMA has made clean and efficient energy a top priority, and Congress has obliged with more than $32 billion in stimulus money mostly for conservation and alternative energy technologies like wind, solar and biofuel. Sadly, the Energy Department is too weighed down by nuclear energy programs to devote itself to bringing about the revolution Mr. Obama envisions.
 Today, the department's main task is managing the thousands of facilities involved in producing nuclear weapons during the cold war, and the associated cleanup of dozens of contaminated sites. Approximately two-thirds of its annual budget, which is roughly $27 billion, is spent on these activities, while only 15 percent is allocated for all energy programs, including managing the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and researching and developing new technologies. 
 The department, after all, has nuclear weapons in its DNA. It is essentially an offshoot of the Atomic Energy Commission, a civilian-run agency established in 1946 to continue the work of the Manhattan Project and to investigate the possibility of developing civilian nuclear energy. In 1974, Congress voted to abolish the commission, turning over the weapons activities to a new Energy Research and Development Administration and setting up the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The former was disbanded three years later and replaced by the Department of Energy. 
 Given the department's origins, it is not surprising that nuclear programs have won out over other energy technologies. Of the $135.4 billion spent on energy research and development from 1948 to 2005 (in constant 2004 dollars), more than half, or $74 billion, went to nuclear energy, while fossil-fuel programs received a quarter, or $34.1 billion. The leftovers went for alternatives, with renewables getting $13 billion, or 10 percent, and energy efficiency $12 billion, according to a Congressional Research Service report written in 2006. 
 That historical pattern of spending continues to this day. This year nuclear energy research is receiving $1.7 billion, including for a weapons-related fusion program being touted for its supposed energy potential. Nuclear weapons programs are getting $6.4 billion, with an additional $6.5 billion allocated to environmental cleanup. Millions more are spent on efforts to reduce the risk of weapons proliferation, and recovering nuclear and radioactive materials from around the world. 
 Against this background, alternative energy solutions are but an afterthought: in the current fiscal year, for example, all of $1.1 billion is apportioned for programs falling under this category, not including the stimulus money. 
 The stimulus package, intended to be spent over two years, places huge demands on Secretary of Energy Steven Chu. But if Mr. Chu wishes to avoid getting dragged down by the nuclear undertow, the Energy Department must be relieved of duties that aren't related to energy.
 The good news is that some in Washington already recognize this need. President Obama's new Office of Management and Budget director, Peter Orszag, has put on the table moving the National Nuclear Security Administration, which oversees a significant chunk of the Energy Department's nuclear weapons activity, into the Defense Department.
 Not surprisingly, Mr. Orszag faces stiff opposition, not least from Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico. As chairman of the Senate energy committee, Mr. Bingaman may be trying to fill the shoes of Pete Domenici, who for years dominated the panel and helped ensure a steady flow of money to the weapons labs, including Los Alamos in New Mexico. 
 But such detractors must recognize that the cold war is over, and global warming and the need for energy independence require bold initiatives that today's Energy Department is simply not equipped to take. The department needs a major reorganization along the lines of the one that took place in 1974, when the old Atomic Energy Commission was split up. Shifting the nuclear security administration to the Pentagon is just one option. The administration could also be converted to a standalone civilian agency.
 Washington could also follow the example of France and Britain and establish a national body to handle the problem of nuclear waste. Britain's Nuclear Decommissioning Authority, for example, a public body established in 2004, oversees the cleanup of Britain's nuclear legacy, including research facilities, reactors and a huge plutonium production site. 
 In his Inaugural Address, President Obama said, ''We will harness the sun and the winds and the soil to fuel our cars and run our factories.'' That is a hopeful image and a lofty aim, but it cannot happen until the Department of Energy is freed from the nuclear weapons establishment.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDRE da LOBA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); WIND ENERGY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ENERGY RESEARCH (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BIOMASS (89%); BIOFUELS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); NUCLEAR WASTE (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); COLD WAR (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); STEVEN CHU (59%); PETER ORSZAG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



730 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Effort on Budget Echoes Fall Campaign

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Old campaigns never die, and they may not even fade away. 
 The White House has begun a full frontal assault to get President Obama's first budget through Congress. During an appearance on Tuesday at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, Mr. Obama took a swipe at Republican critics of his $3.6 trillion budget and its agenda for health care, energy, taxes and economic recovery. 
 ''If there are members of Congress who object to specific policies and proposals in this budget, then I ask them to be ready and willing to propose constructive, alternative solutions,'' Mr. Obama said. '' 'Just say no' is the right advice to give your teenagers about drugs. It is not an acceptable response to whatever economic policy is proposed by the other party.'' 
 The strong words were the latest in a push that has come to resemble elements of the two-year-long presidential campaign. Mr. Obama may hold his second prime-time news conference as president, perhaps as early as next week, to talk up the budget. 
 On Wednesday and Thursday, he is taking his budget show on the road to California, where he will hold two town-hall-style meetings and will even try to talk about the economy on Thursday on ''The Tonight Show with Jay Leno.'' 
 Supporters of Mr. Obama's presidential campaign have been receiving a barrage of e-mail urging them to call their Congressional representatives to voice support of Mr. Obama's economic recovery plans. 
 MoveOn.org, the influential liberal advocacy group, has been urging its members to send scripted e-mail messages to their friends about Mr. Obama's ''ambitious, amazing and unapologetically progressive'' budget. 
 The Democratic National Committee has been putting up advertising on Web sites rebutting Republican criticism of the budget. And Mr. Obama's advisers have been coordinating with interest groups to rally support for his agenda.
 Last week, Mr. Obama's campaign manager, David Plouffe, e-mailed millions of Mr. Obama's campaign supporters, similar to the e-mail that sought support during the presidential campaign.
 ''In the next few weeks, we'll be asking you to do some of the same things we asked of you during the campaign -- talking directly to people in your communities about the president's ideas for long-term prosperity,'' Mr. Plouffe wrote.
 Mr. Obama's advisers have made no secret of their plan to use the huge campaign apparatus assembled over two years, along with the millions of names and e-mail addresses acquired, to mobilize his supporters during his presidency. 
 The idea is centered on the premise that the traditional ways of communicating with voters and motivating them are giving way to new channels such as Facebook built around social networking. 
 Mr. Obama met Tuesday morning at the White House with the chairmen of the House and Senate Budget Committees, Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina and Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, to discuss how to proceed. 
 Congressional and administration officials said the chairmen assured Mr. Obama that they would deliver a spending plan that reflected his priorities on health care, energy, education and fiscal discipline but that it would require some adjustments from his original plan.
 Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said Tuesday that he expected the House and Senate Budget Committees to draft and debate their proposals next week before votes by the full House and Senate the following week. A final budget would then have to be negotiated between the chambers in April. 
 Mr. Reid also encouraged his colleagues to ''choose sound policy over sound bites.''
 ''We may not agree on everything,'' he said, ''but I know that we can agree that after eight long years of irresponsibility, we must pass a budget that puts the American people first.''
 Opponents of the plan were unleashing their own concerted attack on the budget Tuesday, with Senate Republicans criticizing the tax elements and saying that the energy proposals would drive up costs for all consumers.
 ''Even though the president talks about only taxing the wealthy and giving everybody else a tax cut, the reality is that his budget proposals will vastly increase the burden on American families,'' said Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate.
 Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, the senior Republican on the Budget Committee, warned Democrats against using procedural tactics that could bar filibusters against budget-driven proposals on health care and energy. Mr. Gregg said using such tactics would undermine the nature of the Senate.
 ''You're talking about running over the minority, putting them in cement and throwing them into the Chicago River,'' said Mr. Gregg, referring to the waterway in Mr. Obama's (and Al Capone's) hometown. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama met Tuesday with Senator Kent Conrad, left, and Representative John M. Spratt Jr. to discuss the budget.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (69%); SOCIAL MEDIA (67%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); KENT CONRAD (58%); JOHN SPRATT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



731 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: No Boiled Carrots

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 Barack Obama even needs a teleprompter to get mad.
 On St. Patrick's Day, the president spoke a bit of Gaelic, dyed the White House fountains green and talked about his distant relatives in the tiny Irish town of Moneygall, aptly named since money and gall are the two topics now consuming him.
 But Mr. Obama is still having trouble summoning a suitable flash of Irish temper at the gall of the corrupt money magicians who continue to make our greenbacks disappear into their bottomless well. He's got to lop off some heads. 
 As he watches the fury of ordinary Americans bubble up at those who continue to plunder our economy, he should keep in mind one of my dad's favorite Gaelic sayings: ''Never bolt the door with a boiled carrot.''
 His lofty team of economic rivals is looking more like a team of small forwards and shooting guards. At the White House on Monday, the president read reporters some tough talk from the teleprompter about the chuckleheads at A.I.G., accusing them of ''recklessness and greed.''
 But it was his own boiled carrots who acted shocked at bonuses that they should have known were coming, and should have dismantled before handing A.I.G. another $30 billion two weeks ago. It is bad enough that the billions are being laundered through A.I.G. to the likes of bailout double-dippers Goldman Sachs, Citigroup and Bank of America, not to mention foreign banks. 
 Mr. Obama belatedly tried to stop the tumbrels that began rolling toward the Potomac after Larry Summers went on Sunday talk shows to assert that there was nothing the administration could do about the blood-sucking insurance monstrosity's venal payout.
 Summers, who inspires lusty dreams of A.I.G. tormentor Eliot Spitzer, asserted that the government ''cannot just abrogate'' contracts with financial vampires. It seems as though it would be pretty easy to upend a bonus contract that must read something like: ''If you ruin the world economy, we'll pay you an extra million.''
 As Andrew Cuomo pointed out on Tuesday, 11 of the A.I.G. executives who received retention bonuses of $1 million or more including one who received $4.6 million -- were not even retained. They're no longer working at A.I.G. Bonuses were paid to 52 people who have left the company.
 At first, on the nutty bonuses, Team Obama thought it could get away with the same absurd argument used to justify the nearly $8 billion in unnecessary earmarks it allowed Congress to jam into this year's overdue spending bill: It was written last year; we're just signing off on it; we'll do better in the future.
 What President Obama should have said to the blood-sucking bums at A.I.G., many of them foreigners who were working at the louche London unit, was quite simple: ''We stopped the checks. They're immoral. If you want Americans' hard-earned cash as a reward for burning up their jobs, homes and savings, sue me.''
 He also should have saved a dollar a year and fired Ed Liddy. There must have been ways to avoid rewarding the perpetrators of our financial crisis and Liddy seems to have seriously explored none of them. 
 Barney Frank told reporters: ''I think the time has come to exercise our ownership rights ... and then say as owner, 'No, I'm not paying you the bonus. You didn't perform. You didn't live up to this contract.' ''
 Cuomo, who seems far more intent on transparency than Mr. Obama, and Tim Geithner, the Treasury secretary who reluctantly signed off on the bonuses, issued subpoenas for the names of the bonus babies. Cuomo started an investigation of whether the payments were fraudulent because the company knew it did not have the funds to cover them.
 The president needs to brush back the arrogant, greedy creeps who kneecapped capitalism, rather than cosseting Wall Street for fear of looking like an avatar of socialism. 
 Geithner, who comes from the cozy Wall Street club, and Liddy believe it's best to stabilize the company and keep on board the same people who invented the risky financial tactics so they can unwind their own rotten spool.
 Isn't that like giving bonuses to the arsonists who started a fire because they alone know what kind of accelerants they used to start it? 
 ''Their mythology starts with the false premise that these are irreplaceable geniuses,'' says Cuomo. 
 Boiling mad that A.I.G. made more than 73 millionaires in the unit that felled the firm, Cuomo called the company's counsel on Monday to demand that she stop payment on the checks. Cuomo was informed that the money had already been direct-deposited in the accounts of the derivative scoundrels with the push of a button. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CORRUPTION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); BAILOUTS (74%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); BONUS PAY (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (66%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%); GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (59%); ELIOT SPITZER (50%); ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



732 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Medvedev To Bolster Military In Russia

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY; Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
President Dmitri A. Medvedev said Tuesday that Russia would begin a ''large-scale rearming'' in 2011 in response to what he described as continuing threats to the country's security.
 In a speech before generals in Moscow, Mr. Medvedev cited encroachment by NATO as a primary reason for bolstering the armed and nuclear forces.
 Mr. Medvedev did not offer specifics on how much the budget would grow for the military, whose capabilities deteriorated significantly after the fall of Soviet Union. 
 Russia has increased military spending sharply in recent years, but with the financial crisis and the drop in the price of oil, the country's finances are under pressure, suggesting that it will be hard to lift these expenditures further.
 Even so, Mr. Medvedev's timing was notable. He is expected to hold his first meeting with President Obama in early April in London on the sidelines of the summit gathering of the Group of 20, which comprises industrialized and developing countries and the European Union.
 He has said recently that he is looking forward to the meeting, and both he and Russia's paramount leader, Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, have expressed measured optimism about improving relations with the United States under the new administration.
 The Obama administration played down the significance of Mr. Medvedev's remarks, with the White House spokesman, Robert Gibbs, saying they were ''largely for domestic consumption.'' He added that ''NATO and the United States have worked and will continue to work with Russia on issues of mutual concern, specifically in areas like terrorism and proliferation.'' 
 Nevertheless, Mr. Medvedev's comments on Tuesday indicated that the Kremlin did not want the United States and its NATO allies to presume that Russia was coming to the table in London from a position of weakness. 
 ''An analysis of the military and political situation in the world shows that there are a range of regions where there remains serious potential for conflicts,'' Mr. Medvedev said. ''Threats remain that can bring about local crises and international terrorism. NATO is not halting its efforts to widen its military infrastructure near the borders of our country. All of this demands a quality modernization of our armed forces.''
 Mr. Medvedev emphasized that Russia would not be deterred in this plan by the financial crisis.
 The announcement underscored how the Kremlin has offered the new administration a calculated mix of positive pronouncements about relations and policies that could be described as unfriendly.
 The day after Mr. Obama won the election in November, Mr. Medvedev declared that Russia would deploy missiles on its western border aimed at Europe if the United States proceeded with an antimissile system proposed for Poland and the Czech Republic by the Bush administration.
 Mr. Medvedev later seemed to soften the threat, though he did not withdraw it. Last month, apparently at the urging of the Kremlin, the former Soviet republic of Kyrgyzstan in Central Asia announced that it would close an important American air base that is used to assist NATO forces in Afghanistan.
 But the Kremlin said it would allow NATO to transport non-lethal supplies by railroad across Russian soil to Afghanistan. And last week Mr. Medvedev said, ''We have every possibility of opening a new page'' in relations when he meets with Mr. Obama.
 Mr. Medvedev's announcement on Tuesday comes as the Kremlin has already begun an effort to overhaul the operations of the armed forces, which are still run largely according to Soviet-style dictates.
 While Russia's far larger military easily triumphed over Georgia's in the conflict in August, the fighting exposed what many experts described as flaws in training, weapons and equipment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); CONSUMPTION (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); TERRORISM (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); POLAND (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



733 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 858 words

PERSON: Claude S. Brinegar 

HEADLINE: Claude S. Brinegar, a Transportation Secretary, Dies at 82

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Claude S. Brinegar, the transportation secretary in the Nixon and Ford administrations who helped finance mass transit, restructure railroads in the Northeast and institute a national 55-mile-an-hour speed limit, died Friday in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 82.
 He died of natural causes, his daughter Claudia Brinegar Berglund said. 
 Mr. Brinegar (rhymes with vinegar) was a former Democrat who had never met President Richard M. Nixon when Nixon appointed him to be the nation's third secretary of transportation. The department began in 1967 with the mission of coordinating more than a dozen transportation agencies and developing overall transportation policies.
 When Nixon appointed him in December 1972, Mr. Brinegar was a senior vice president with the Union Oil Company of California. Environmentalists were outraged, pointing to Union Oil's support of the successful fight in 1968 to defeat a proposition to require that 25 percent of California's gasoline taxes be used to pay for mass transit and reduce air pollution.
 Mr. Brinegar responded that he had had no involvement in the political activities of Union Oil and intended to examine policies impartially. He had honed an analytical precision in earning a doctorate in economics. His bent for statistics made him a calm presence during the tangled transportation debates that raged during his two-year tenure.
 His first crisis came in 1973 when the Penn Central Railroad threatened to shut down if it did not receive government aid. In the face of Congressional efforts to nationalize Penn Central and six other Northeastern railways, Mr. Brinegar led a task force in producing a plan to change their freight lines into a streamlined system known as Conrail.
 Conrail steadily gained financial strength under federal control until 1987, when Washington transferred ownership to private hands in what was then the largest initial public stock offering in United States history.
 As gasoline prices surged after the Arab oil embargo of October 1973, Mr. Brinegar used his oil industry expertise to help the Nixon administration develop polices on gasoline refining and marketing. He also led the way in formulating legislation for the nationwide 55-mile-an-hour speed limit, which President Nixon signed into law on Jan. 2, 1974. A 1995 law ended the federal speed limit, giving states the authority to regulate speed limits.
 In December 1973, Mr. Brinegar signaled that the Nixon administration was willing to consider subsidies for mass transit from the Federal Highway Trust Fund, a reversal of policy. In December 1974, President Gerald R. Ford, who had succeeded Nixon that August, signed an $11.8 billion bill to aid mass transit. The 35-cent New York City subway fare was temporarily preserved.
 Claude Brinegar was born as Claude Rawles Stout on Dec. 16, 1926, in Rockport, Calif., a small lumber town. Ms. Berglund said that his father abandoned the family, and his mother married Butler Brinegar, who traveled around northern California working for various government agencies. Claude attended a different school each year. He legally changed his name in 1951.
 After serving in the Army Air Forces from 1945 to 1947, Mr. Brinegar earned bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees from Stanford. He joined Union Oil in 1953, worked in ever-higher executive positions, and returned to the company after resigning as transportation secretary in December 1974.
 Mr. Brinegar was one of the first members of Nixon's cabinet to criticize the Watergate break-in and subsequent cover-up, saying in a speech to the National Press Club in May 1974 that he was ''shocked, offended and discouraged'' by the ''mess.''
 A year earlier, he had demanded the firing of Egil Krogh Jr. as undersecretary of transportation after Mr. Krogh admitted that he was a leader of the ''plumbers'' who had burglarized the office of the psychiatrist of Daniel Ellsberg, the critic of the Vietnam War.
 Mr. Brinegar's marriage to the former Elva Jackson ended in divorce in the early 1980s. His second wife, the former Mary Katharine Potter, died in 1993. He is survived by his wife, Karen Bartholomew, whom he married in 1995; three children from his first marriage, his daughters Claudia Berglund and Meredith Cross and his son, Thomas; and four grandchildren.
 In 1980 and 1981, Mr. Brinegar headed President-elect Ronald Reagan's transportation transition team. In the 1990s, he returned to the Democratic Party.
 He loved Mark Twain first editions and fast cars, and his board memberships included the International Speedway Corporation. His Porsche 911E Targa had been a pace car at the Daytona Speedway.
 Some things were slower. In 1974, Mr. Brinegar announced a $50 million federal grant to help finance the $1.3 billion cost of the Second Avenue subway in Manhattan, which had been approved in 1929 at a projected cost of $98.9 million. A fiscal crisis halted construction the next year.
 In November 2007, Mary E. Peters, transportation secretary, announced $1.3 billion in federal funds to help resume construction of the line. It is now expected to cost more than $16 billion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); SPEED LIMITS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); LEGISLATION (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); NATIONALIZATION (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); GASOLINE (74%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); FUEL TAX (69%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (67%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (62%); AIR POLLUTION (52%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (50%); PRICE INCREASES (50%)

RICHARD NIXON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



734 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Adding Pressure to Sudan, Obama Will Tap Retired General as Special Envoy

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
President Obama plans to appoint a close adviser and retired general to be his special envoy to Sudan as the administration ratchets up pressure against the government in Khartoum for expelling humanitarian relief organizations from the ravaged region of Darfur, administration officials said Tuesday.
 Mr. Obama will tap Maj. Gen. J. Scott Gration, a Swahili-speaking retired Air Force officer who grew up in Africa as the son of missionaries, to take on one of the most delicate diplomatic missions of his presidency, according to three administration officials, who were not authorized to discuss the selection before the official announcement on Wednesday. 
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton escalated the administration's oratory on Tuesday, vowing to hold President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan responsible for the expulsion of aid groups. 
 ''This is a horrendous situation that is going to cause untold misery and suffering for the people of Darfur, particularly those in the refugee camps,'' she told reporters. ''The real question is what kind of pressure can be brought to bear on President Bashir and the government in Khartoum to understand that they will be held responsible for every single death that occurs in those camps.''
 The sharper tone and the appointment of General Gration come after criticism from activists who once saw Mr. Obama and his team as allies in the struggle to save the people of Darfur. During the presidential campaign, Mr. Obama lamented the ''stain on our souls'' left by the mass death in Darfur and vowed ''never again.'' Mrs. Clinton called for a no-flight zone. And Susan E. Rice, a top Obama adviser, even envisioned a bombing campaign to save victims.
 But with the first major new humanitarian crisis on Mr. Obama's watch, advocates complained that the urgency of the campaign trail had given way to inertia, infighting and inaction. More than one million Darfuris are at risk while the new administration debates what to do, the advocates said. ''Why is there a disconnect?'' asked Jerry Fowler, the president of the Save Darfur Coalition, an umbrella organization, recalling Mr. Obama's strong words as a candidate. ''We need presidential engagement and we need it now.''
 The latest crisis in Darfur represents an early foreign test for a new president consumed by economic strife at home. Advocates and policy makers said the administration appeared to be locked in a struggle over who would take charge of the issue and how it should be approached. Rather than taking firmer action now, they said, the administration is still waiting for a comprehensive review of Sudan policy.
 ''If the president believes the rhetoric he used, and I think he does, he's being ill advised by not moving on this,'' said Richard S. Williamson, the last United States special envoy to Sudan. ''Drift works in the favor of those who are committing atrocities.''
 Administration officials rejected the criticism, pointing to what they called quiet diplomacy, working with governments from France, Britain, Uganda and Egypt to put pressure on Sudan to reverse the expulsion of the aid groups. The more muscular tactics they advocated before joining the government, they said, are still on the table for the broader review of Sudan policy, but would not be effective in the current humanitarian crisis.
 ''I feel as a former activist and current official that we have focused on the right thing here, which is trying to save lives,'' Ms. Rice, now the ambassador to the United Nations, said in an interview. ''The notion that we haven't been active -- it is just false, downright false. Quite the contrary. What we haven't done is a lot of bluster and public threats.''
 The latest crisis began March 4, when the International Criminal Court in The Hague charged Mr. Bashir with seven counts of war crimes and crimes against humanity stemming from the slaughter of 300,000 people in Darfur, the first such indictment of a sitting head of state by the tribunal.
 Mr. Bashir then expelled 13 nongovernmental organizations, including Doctors Without Borders, CARE, Oxfam Great Britain and Save the Children, accusing them of spying for the court. Some groups had offices broken into and equipment seized. 
 As a result, relief groups said, more than one million people are without adequate food, clean water and health care as a meningitis outbreak looms. United Nations workers remain, but Mr. Bashir said Monday that he wanted all foreign relief organizations out within a year. The Obama administration denounced the expulsions. After a meeting with Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, Mr. Obama called the Darfur crisis one ''that we care about deeply'' and said it was important ''to send a strong, unified, international message that it is not acceptable to put that many people's lives at risk.''
 Mr. Obama came to office with a team particularly versed on Darfur. Aside from Mrs. Clinton and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., both of whom dealt with the issue in the Senate, Mr. Obama installed Ms. Rice, a vocal advocate for tougher action on Darfur, at the United Nations. Analysts said Mr. Bashir was trying to stare down Mr. Obama and get the indictment suspended.
 John Norris, executive director of the Enough Project, an antigenocide group, said the administration must decide whether to force Sudan's government to let the relief agencies back in. ''Or is it going to be willing to accept talking about the situation and seeing if that's enough?'' he asked. ''There's a real decision moment for a new president.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); AIR FORCES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); REFUGEES (73%); BOMBINGS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); SUSAN RICE (58%); J SCOTT GRATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (90%) SUDAN (99%); AFRICA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



735 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Real Test

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
When you hear a sitting U.S. senator call for bankers to commit suicide, you know that the anger level in the country is reaching a ''Bonfire of the Vanities,'' get-out-the-pitchforks danger level. It is dangerous for so many reasons, but most of all because this real anger about A.I.G. could overwhelm the still really difficult but critically important things we must do in the next few weeks to defuse this financial crisis.
 Let me be specific: If you didn't like reading about A.I.G. brokers getting millions in bonuses after their company -- 80 percent of which is owned by U.S. taxpayers -- racked up the biggest quarterly loss in the history of the Milky Way Galaxy, you're really not going to like the bank bailout plan to be rolled out soon by the Obama team. That plan will begin by using up the $250 billion or so left in TARP funds to start removing the toxic assets from the banks. But ultimately, to get the scale of bank repair we need, it will likely require some $750 billion more. 
 The plan makes sense, and, if done right, it might even make profits for U.S. taxpayers. But in this climate of anger, it will take every bit of political capital in Barack Obama's piggy bank -- as well as Michelle's, Sasha's and Malia's -- to sell it to Congress and the public.
 The job can't be his alone. Everyone who has a stake in stabilizing and reforming the system is going to have to suck it up. And that starts with the brokers at A.I.G. who got the $165 million in bonuses. They need to voluntarily return them. Everyone today is taking a haircut of some kind or another, and A.I.G. brokers surely can be no exception. We do not want the U.S. government abrogating contracts -- the rule of law is why everyone around the world wants to invest in our economy. But taxpayers should not sit quietly as bonuses are paid to people who were running an insurance scheme that would have made Bernie Madoff smile. The best way out is for the A.I.G. bankers to take one for the country and give up their bonuses.
 I live in Montgomery Country, Md. The schoolteachers here, who make on average $67,000 a year, recently voted to voluntarily give up their 5 percent pay raise that was contractually agreed to for next year, saving our school system $89 million -- so programs and teachers would not have to be terminated. If public schoolteachers can take one for schoolchildren and fellow teachers, A.I.G. brokers can take one for the country.
 Let's not forget, A.I.G. was basically running an unregulated hedge fund inside a AAA-rated insurance company. And -- like Madoff, who was selling phantom stocks -- A.I.G. was selling, in effect, phantom insurance against the default of bundled subprime mortgages and other debt -- insurance that A.I.G. had nowhere near enough capital to back up when bonds went bust. It was a hedge fund with no hedges. That's why taxpayers have had to pay the insurance for A.I.G. -- so its bank and government customers won't tank and cause even more harm.
 Unfortunately, all the money we have already spent on A.I.G. and the banks was just to prevent total system failure. It was just to keep the body alive. That's why healing the system will likely require the rest of the TARP funds, plus the $750 billion the administration warned Congress in the new budget that it could need.
 Best I can piece together, the administration's recovery plan -- due out shortly -- will look something like this: The U.S. government will create a facility to buy the toxic mortgages off the balance sheets of the major banks. They will be bought by a public-private fund or funds in which taxpayers will, in effect, be partners with hedge funds and private equity groups. The hedge funds will be there to provide expertise in pricing and trading the assets. The taxpayers will be there to guarantee -- gulp -- that the hedge funds won't lose money if they take the early risks and to also lend them money to make some of the purchases. Taxpayers will benefit from any profits these partnerships make.
 Once the banks sell their toxic assets, many will need capital, because, while they may be carrying these assets on their books at 85 cents on the dollar, they initially may have to sell them for less. So, the government will probably have to inject capital into more banks to maintain their solvency, but once the banks begin to clear their balance sheets of those toxic assets, they will likely attract the private capital they need and relieve the government of having to put in more. 
 Will it work? We can only hope. But I know this for sure: unless the banks are healed, the economy can't lift off, and that bank healing is not going to happen without another big, broad taxpayer safety net.
 The only person with the clout to sell something this big is President Obama. The bankers and Congress will have to help; every citizen will have to swallow hard. But ultimately, Mr. Obama will have to persuade people that this is the least unfair and most effective solution. It will be his first big leadership test. It is coming soon, and it is coming to a theater -- and a bank -- near you. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (86%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (84%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); SUICIDE (73%); CHILDREN (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BERNARD MADOFF (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILKY WAY GALAXY (56%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



736 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: Senate Scraps Automatic Raise

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Senate voted Tuesday to scrap the system that awards members of Congress an automatic cost-of-living raise every year. 
 But the move, which came on a voice vote, does not mean that the raise is dead. 
 Earlier Tuesday, the No. 2 Democrat in the House, Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland, came out in opposition to the bill. ''I'm not for it, so I'm not going to commit to bringing it to the floor,'' Mr. Hoyer said.
 Still, with the economy in a recession, pressure is certain to build on the House to vote on the measure.
 Congress has raised its own pay in standalone bills more than two dozen times, according to the Congressional Research Service. But in 1989, it passed a law providing for annual cost-of-living adjustments unless Congress votes otherwise.
 Lawmakers voted to skip their annual raises for several years in the 1990s and in 2007. They voted to forgo the pay increase for 2010 because of the recession.
 The latest raise, of $4,700, took effect in January and brought Congressional salaries to $174,000.
 In the Senate, Tuesday's action was orchestrated by the majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada. He had promised the move as a result of a dispute last week with Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, who had wanted to attach the provision to a $410 billion spending bill. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); COST OF LIVING (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (56%)

PERSON: STENY HOYER (73%); HARRY REID (58%); DAVID VITTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009



737 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: They Didn't Love Lucy

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
SEATTLE
IT was not the expansive new mural depicting evolutionary history that brought Sandy McKean down to the Pacific Science Center on a rainy winter weekday. Nor had he come to linger over the elegant displays about Ethiopian culture.
The reason Mr. McKean paid the $20.75 admission fee for ''Lucy's Legacy: The Hidden Treasures of Ethiopia'' was because he wanted to see the bones. They are 3.2 million years old but, for him, electric with urgency. This was the first American exhibition tour of the famous Lucy fossils, 47 skeletal fragments of a female hominid whose discovery one day in 1974 altered the study of human history.
''This is like a dream come true for me, to see the actual skeleton,'' said Mr. McKean, 64, who is retired from a job in computers. ''I can't think of a more amazing and interesting thing than to study human beings and our ancestors.'' He added, ''I would think people would be lining up and down the block.''
Yet as the exhibition prepared to close on March 8, six months after it opened amid the freefalling economy, lines had been rare. Attendance had been less than half of what was projected. 
Instead of being a boon for the Pacific Science Center, the kind of premium-priced blockbuster that would help cover its losses in other areas, the show stands to lose about $1.25 million, according to officials at the science center.
But the sour economy does not seem to explain all of Lucy's troubles. A rare December snowstorm played a role, and Bryce Seidl, the center's president and chief executive, has suggested less intuitive reasons like the feverish focus this liberal city had on the election of President Obama and his transition to office.
In addition, an Ethiopian organizer of the show has raised questions about how effectively the science center presented and marketed the show. Ethiopian leaders have long viewed Lucy, and the American exhibition tour in particular, as a way to improve perceptions about their country, and to make money.
''Ethiopia has an image problem,'' said Gezahgen Kebede, thehonorary consul general at the Ethiopian Consulate in Houston and one of the leading proponents of bringing Lucy to the United States. He said his country was still defined by the famine of the 1970s, and this exhibition offered a broader view. ''The bigger thing in my opinion is to teach people about Ethiopia,'' he said.
Although many museums nationwide are struggling, laying off employees and scaling back exhibition plans, the recession has not hurt every blockbuster that has opened over the last year. Since it opened in October at the Dallas Museum of Art, the show ''Tutankhamun and the Golden Age of the Pharaohs'' has broken all of the museum's attendance records. At the Field Museum in Chicago, an exhibition called ''The Aztec World,'' which opened in October, has also been a success. The general adult entrance fees on those shows are higher than admission was to Lucy.
Yet at the end of its six-month run in Seattle, the second stop on what is supposed to be a multicity, multiyear tour of the United States, Lucy had drawn only about 100,000 people. The exhibition has no confirmed next destination, and at least one museum that had considered hosting the show in the future, the Field, has decided against it. But Mr. Kebede said negotiations were under way for the show to open in New York this summer.
Lucy opened in Seattle in early October, just as the breadth of the collapse in the financial markets was becoming clear. ''We opened at a time when people were shutting their wallets,'' Mr. Seidl said. ''Then you add the weather to it.''
In a city that gets little snow, several days of significant snowfall paralyzed streets right in the middle of the holiday season. The weather also inspired parents to push their homebound children, a crucial target audience for the exhibition, out onto sleds rather than downtown to a museum.
Mr. Kebede acknowledged the economy and the weather as challenges but said he had been told by contacts in Seattle that the museum had done a poor job of planning for the show.
''The Seattle people, they just flunked it because they really didn't do their homework in terms of solid advertising and how to penetrate the demographics,'' said Mr. Kebede, who had not seen the exhibition in Seattle. ''There are people in Seattle who didn't know this exhibit was there.''
Mr. Seidl said the science center had spent more promoting Lucy than it had on previous large shows. He noted that an exhibit about the Dead Sea Scrolls in 2005, when the economy was stronger, drew twice as many people in half the time.
Disputes over exhibiting Lucy began long before Seattle. When the show's organizers, the Houston Museum of Natural Science and the Ethiopian government, first agreed to bring Lucy to the United States, several museums and scientists said the fossils should not leave Ethiopia except for scientific purposes. Some accused the Ethiopian government of seeking profit at the risk of damaging Lucy.
''The one thing you heard a lot is that it was too fragile,'' said Joel A. Bartsch, the president of the Houston Museum. ''Is it important? Absolutely. Is it irreplaceable? Absolutely. But it is not too fragile.''
Lucy spent about a year on exhibit in Houston before going to Seattle. The show drew about 210,000 people over 12 months, Mr. Bartsch said, and was regarded as a success.
''My understanding is they had gone with a younger demographic, a lot of kids,'' Mr. Bartsch said of the Seattle show, which he had not seen. ''We kind of did a higher-end more adult demographic. You're trying to explain an idea. Lucy the object and artifact is phenomenal, but really what she's about is the idea she represents, that she's an ancestral cousin to the human line.''
Yet Donald C. Johanson, the paleoanthropologist who plucked Lucy out of an Ethiopian ravine 35 years ago and is one of few people close to Lucy who has seen both exhibits, said, ''I enjoyed the Seattle presentation much more than I did the Houston one, because I think Seattle put an enormous amount of effort into placing Lucy's species, Australopithecus afarensis, in a broader framework.''
Mr. Johanson said he particularly liked the display of prehuman skulls that suggested a kind of evolutionary ascendance on the way to the exhibit's focal point, the Lucy fossils. He also noted a lighter feature he liked, a display that used soda bottles, filled with varying amounts of fluid, to show the difference in brain capacity between humans and Lucy.
Those enhancements cost money. The Pacific Science Center paid a fee of about $500,000 to the show's organizers, Mr. Seidl said, then spent almost $2 million more to renovate its exhibition spaces, add an audio tour and enlarge the exhibition's section on Ethiopia, including the country's role in farming coffee. Admission also included tickets to an Imax film about the Nile River.
''This is never a business that's comfortable,'' Mr. Seidl said. ''Our job is not to build big bank accounts. It's to serve underserved people, inspire kids, that sort of stuff.'' The science center, in addition to several other museums nationwide, is not planning any exhibitions that charge premium ticket prices. Future shows -- like ''G.P.S. Adventures,'' an exhibition about ''geocaching'' opening March 28; ''Animal Grossology,'' opening May 23; and ''Animation,'' opening Oct. 3 -- are ''real family-friendly, right for the economy,'' Mr. Seidl said. Mr. Kebede, of the Ethiopian consulate, said he hoped Lucy would travel to New York this summer in an arrangement with Running Subway Productions, which has helped host huge shows like ''Body: The Exhibition,'' the controversial exhibit about human anatomy. A spokeswoman for Running Subway said it was too early to comment on any plans.
''This is going to be a big thing,'' Mr. Kebede said. Next year, he said, he hopes Lucy will travel to China for an exposition in Shanghai.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BUST: Clockwise, from top, Sandy McKean observing fossils at the ''Lucy's Legacy'' exhibit at Seattle's Pacific Science Center
Lucy's 3.2-million-year-old skeleton
 visitors looking at displays about the famous female hominid, which failed to draw crowds.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); HISTORY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%) ETHIOPIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



738 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: The Good Stuff in the Back Room

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
THE poet Clayton Eshleman recently asked the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston to see the Mayan vessels that are in its extensive collection but not on public display. He couldn't read the inscriptions on them from pictures on the museum Web site, he said.
''We told him he would have to pare down his list, but we are trying to help,'' said Elliot Bostwick Davis, chairwoman of the art of the Americas department at the museum. ''After all, who knows, he may be the next John Keats.''
Most museums own far more art than they can display. And while they try to accommodate requests from scholars, art-world professionals and families of artists in their collection -- and in rare instances, the public -- such viewing is made difficult by space, staff and security constraints.
The Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, for example, owns two million objects and displays only tens of thousands at a time. At the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, 18,000 objects are on display at any one time, of 450,000 in inventory. 
But now, one unanticipated effect of the economic downturn has been to motivate museums to display more pieces from their collections.
''In the past, blockbuster shows have brought in big attendance, but no one has the money to do those shows now, so museums are looking to show how deep and rich their own collections are,'' said Susan Weber, head of the Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts, Design and Culture in Manhattan.
That view is echoed by Ms. Davis in Boston. ''Museums are going to look to showcase their private collections,'' she said. ''They are getting more collaborative with other museums in doing small exchanges.''
Ms. Davis will open a show in late April devoted to John Singer Sargent's mural decorations, originally painted for the museum. Now the museum is culling from storage Sargent's oil sketches and preparatory drawings for the murals, as well as related paintings.
And not every museum is in full contraction mode. The Art Institute of Chicago and the Museum of Fine Arts are building galleries -- with money raised in better times -- that will let them display far more of their holdings. ''Most museums show between 2 and 4 percent of a collection,'' Ms. Davis said. ''When the new wing is down, we will be able to show 30 percent.''
Of course, many museums increasingly post pictures of their holdings on the Web, providing an invaluable index of what is behind closed doors.
But for many people, that's not enough. ''Photographs just don't do it,'' said Jasper Gaunt, curator of Greek and Roman art at the Michael C. Carlos Museum at Emory University in Atlanta. ''Art is what gets lost in reproduction.''
So beyond creating exhibitions at the Carlos, he said, he tries to satisfy requests to see undisplayed work when he can.
At the Art Institute of Chicago, visitors can make appointments to see photographs, prints and drawings. Some are not shy about asking.
Otto D'Olivo, a music teacher in Chicago, studied photography at the institute's school in the 1960s, and starting in 1990, asked to see the museum's collection to ''better understand what photography is.'' He added, ''It took me about a decade because I took notes on each photographer.'' He still visits the museum to look at some of the collection of 17,000 photographs, of which about 120 are on display.
Generally, it is far easier for visitors to see drawings, textiles and photographs than paintings in storage. But many museums are not accommodating. The Museum of Modern Art, for example, approves requests to view undisplayed work only from curators, scholars and auction house professionals, a policy common among museums.
At the Asian Art Museum of San Francisco, Forrest McGill, the chief curator, acknowledges that it is difficult to see objects that are not on display. ''It's a matter of having to go into storage cabinets where the bronzes and ceramics are kept,'' he said. ''There are security issues. We can't have everybody knowing how the locks work and where the security cameras are.''
So some museums are exploring other ways to get more work before the public. One is ''open storage,'' allowing visitors to see work without the niceties of an arranged exhibition.
At the Metropolitan Museum in New York, administrative offices overlooking the Leon Levy and Shelby White Court were converted to exhibition space. ''The bulk of the collection was last seen in its entirety in 1949,'' said Carlos Picon, curator of the Greek and Roman collections. Much of it is now available in what is effectively open storage.
The Henry Luce Foundation has underwritten open storage galleries at four museums: the New-York Historical Society, the Metropolitan, the Brooklyn Museum and the Smithsonian American Art Museum in Washington. They show thousands of pieces each from their American collections that had once been in storage.
Not everything is labeled, said Ellen Holtzman, program director for American art at the Luce foundation, but at least it is all in the open.
The New-York Historical Society, for example, houses 40,000 objects in a sprawling display that takes up 21,000 square feet and includes the Beekman Coach, which was used by the Beekman family to transport friends, including George Washington, around New York City.
There are also 65 paintings currently on display, including Francis Guy's ''Tontine Coffee House'' and a William-Adolphe Bouguereau that was part of the highly regarded Robert L. Stuart Collection.
Museums also rely on rotating collections to display more work. Some art is regarded as too fragile to spend years exposed to strong lighting, so it is exchanged regularly for pieces in storage.
At the Asian Art Museum, many paintings are displayed for only six months every five years, putting 10 paintings into a single viewing slot over that period.
While some pieces come out of storage into a museum's own galleries, others are displayed elsewhere. The Bard Graduate Center, for example, displays some of the Metropolitan Museum's little-seen collections. Currently Bard is showing '' 'Twixt Art and Nature,'' an exhibition of English needlepoint.
''Bard can do exhibits in galleries with greatly reduced light that would be harder at the Metropolitan,'' said Ms. Weber of the Bard center. ''The objects are fragile and light sensitive. Heavy lights would make them fade.''
Other collections travel farther afield. Last year the Carlos Museum, in Atlanta, offered ''Lost Kingdoms of the Nile: Nubian Treasures from the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.''
''Only a small fraction of the Nubian material in Boston is on display,'' said Peter Lacovara, who was an assistant curator in Boston before going to the Carlos as senior curator of ancient Egyptian, Nubian and Near Eastern art. ''The sarcophagus of Aspelta, for example, the largest and most beautiful royal sarcophagus ever found in the Nile Valley, is stuck in a basement corridor'' in the Boston museum.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN STORAGE, ON DISPLAY: The Henry Luce Foundation has underwritten ''open storage'' galleries at four museums, where thousands of items normally out of view can be displayed. At the New-York Historical Society, the new space made room for some 40,000 articles, including paintings, silver and Tiffany lamps.
 CHANCE TO BE SEEN: The Bard Graduate Center shows some of the Metropolitan Museum's little-displayed collections, like fragile English needlepoint and a woman's embroidered linen jacket, circa 1616.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); PAINTING (89%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



739 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1634 words

HEADLINE: Wish You Were Here

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
SOME 150 yoga fanatics, mats in hand, gathered in the second-floor atrium of the Museum of Modern Art one recent Saturday morning. They were there to ''Put the oM in MoMA,'' as the invitation read.
Assembled in a circle, the group practiced poses while on the walls surrounding them flowed giant images of budding tulips, slithering worms and a pig in a verdant meadow biting into a juicy apple, all part of the Swiss artist Pipilotti Rist's monumental video installation ''Pour Your Body Out (7354 Cubic Meters).'' The free 75-minute class was such a success that there is talk of holding another in the museum's sculpture garden.
''In these difficult times we want to hit as many buttons as we can,'' said Glenn D. Lowry, director of the museum. ''We're doing everything possible to connect with people.''
So is the Hammer Museum, part of the University of California, Los Angeles. The artist Lisa Anne Auerbach has organized a bike night at the museum for April 16, during which bicyclists can ride into its courtyard. 
''We will have valet parking for the bikes,'' said the museum's director, Ann Philbin. ''In a city like Los Angeles, people are finding excuses to get together without going to expensive restaurants.'' The gathering will include cocktails and a screening of the movie ''Breaking Away.''
Yoga classes and bicycle get-togethers may not be your typical museum fare, but in these rough economic times, anything goes.
The downturn has hit museums hard, with plummeting endowments, dwindling donations, fewer tourists and the decline of the corporate museum party, once a steady revenue stream. Museums have been forced to freeze hiring or lay off staff members, close satellite shops and make other cutbacks.
But lean times are bringing out a pioneering spirit as museum officials strive to develop creative strategies for what is undeniably a new world.
''This is a good moment to refocus and reinvigorate,'' said Thomas P. Campbell, who took over the helm from the legendary director Philippe de Montebello at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in January. ''We want people to know we're here and have been for 138 years. We're a place of infinite experiences. Last year there were something like 20,000 different events from lectures to tours. A tour leaves every 15 minutes. It's really quite phenomenal.''
Beneath all the upbeat talk lies the same kind of fear and uncertainty that is being felt throughout the business world. As reports of layoffs and budget cuts stream in from museums across the country, directors are struggling to do more with less. To reach new and bigger audiences, many are revamping their presence on the Web or trying new forms of marketing.
Most, if not all, are also expanding their public programs. More than before, institutions big and small have adopted the same mission: to transform once-hushed museums into vibrant cultural centers where the activities go far beyond what's hanging on the walls.
''We can't just be about art anymore,'' Ms. Philbin said. ''Museums are the new community centers.''
Whether visitors come to see a movie or listen to poetry, take in an art exhibition or attend a lecture, it doesn't matter as long as they come.
''The better we are at serving our audiences, the more we will be appreciated,'' Ms. Philbin said. ''And people will want to give us money.''
With falling tourism, some of the larger (and richer) museums are starting ambitious advertising campaigns aimed at local -- and younger -- audiences. In New York, for example, both the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art are delivering not-so-subtle messages about their permanent collections.
A billboard near Times Square shows a couple kissing in front of Rodin's sculpture ''Eternal Spring,'' accompanied by the tag line ''It's Time We Met.'' The photograph, taken by Laura P. Russell of her parents, Gene and Cindy, is one of about a dozen being used in the marketing campaign. They were chosen from thousands of snapshots taken by Met visitors with works of art at the museum and posted on the photo-sharing site Flickr.
Each ad carries the name of the photographer (who will be paid $250 per photograph and receive a one-year membership to the museum), and the date and time the photograph was taken. ''In the 19th century people would make a sketch in the galleries,'' Mr. Campbell said. ''Now they take pictures and upload them.''
The campaign is splashed on the sides of Manhattan buses, in the subways, on train platforms, on Web sites and even on the construction fence outside the museum's Fifth Avenue entrance.
''For years our advertising was focused around special exhibitions,'' Mr. Campbell said. ''But in this time of gloom and doom we want to show people we're a haven, a place to explore, discover and find inspiration.''
In a campaign that ended this month, the Museum of Modern Art plastered a Brooklyn subway station with reproductions of 58 works from the museum's permanent collection. The Atlantic Avenue-Pacific Street station's tiled walls and columns and even the arms of the turnstiles were covered with images of iconic works in the MoMA collection, including Warhol's Campbell's Soup cans, Monet's waterlilies and Duchamp's bicycle wheel. The campaign, which was seen by an estimated 50,000 commuters a day, was intended to remind New Yorkers of the riches that make up the museum's holdings.
With costly blockbusters on the wane, in fact, promoting permanent collections has become a priority. Last year, MoMA mounted two shows centered on important paintings in its collection, and the museum has plans for a similar effort in September -- an exhibition based on the Monet waterlilies.
The Walker Art Center in Minneapolis is in the middle of a major reinstallation of its permanent collections. Plans include rotating it as often as three or four times a year. ''Our permanent collection has not been as visible as it should be,'' said the center's director, Olga Viso. She also will invite artists to create a work of art using something in the collection as inspiration. ''The point is to show that our collection is a living and dynamic resource that we draw from,'' Ms. Viso said.
Making the Art Institute of Chicago the cultural hub of the city is the No. 1 priority for James Cuno, its director, as he gears up for the opening of its new modern wing on May 16. Designed by the Italian architect Renzo Piano, the 264,000-square-foot space will house the institute's 20th- and 21st-century art collection. Its exhibitions, lectures and educational programs will include local partners like the Lyric Opera of Chicago and the Goodman Theater.
''Each exhibition has a set of lectures, poetry readings and a chamber music series that relate to one another,'' Mr. Cuno said. ''We are also reaching out to graduate programs in the city with a series of influential art historians and professors that will be lecturing for students as part of the curriculum.''
It is also holding free lunchtime concerts planned in cooperation with consulates including Spain, China, India, Germany, Croatia, South Korea and Poland, and readings by international poets. ''We want to get repeat visitors and build up a sustained relationship to the community,'' Mr. Cuno said.
In Los Angeles, Michael Govan, director of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, is gearing programs to local communities. In June, for example, the museum is presenting Twelve Contemporary Artists From Korea as a way of appealing to the city's large Korean population.
Museums are seeking younger audiences through social networking sites. Nearly every museum has a page on Facebook. The Brooklyn Museum recently introduced a new tier of membership using social networking sites like Facebook, Flickr and the microblogging site Twitter to lure 20- and 30-somethings.
Some institutions are also using the Internet to give an exhibition an added dimension. At the Walker, for example, a traveling show called ''Worlds Away: New Suburban Landscapes'' has its own Web site, which includes a lexicon of terms related to suburbia. Visitors can add their own terms and can also post their personal suburban stories on YouTube, 16 of which were included in the show when it was on view at the Walker last summer. (The exhibition, which was also at the Carnegie Institute in Pittsburgh last fall, opened at the Yale School of Architecture on March 2.) It's just one example of many ways the Walker is trying to ''merge on-site with online,'' as Ms. Viso explains it.
The Art Institute's Web site even has an online book club where curators select readings related to exhibitions and create downloadable discussion guides. There are also interactive components including curator-led discussion groups and readings at the museum. Since it began a year ago it has attracted nearly 700 members.
The Hammer's new site has a podcasting component that has already caught on. ''It makes us international,'' Ms. Philbin said. This month the Museum of Modern Art rolled out a new version of moma.org that is not only more viewer friendly but more communicative, too. Highlighted on the site are blogs as well as links to places like Flickr and Twitter.
Some efforts to increase visitorship are decidedly less high-tech. To capture more New Yorkers, the Museum of Modern Art has decided to add a second late night. In addition to staying open until 8 on Fridays, it will be open till 8:45 on one Monday a month. ''This is targeted for local people who want to be able to go to the museum on their way home from work,'' said Mr. Lowry, the director.
The Walker Art Center is planning a first this summer: to be open on July 4, with a selection of free programs that are family focused. ''Typically we're closed that day,'' Ms. Viso said. ''But we recognize that many people will not be traveling this year.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO OPPORTUNITIES: At top, visitors to the Met photographing ''The Little Fourteen-Year-Old Dancer,'' by Edgar Degas. From left, photos from the ''It's Time We Met'' campaign, chosen from thousands taken by Met museumgoers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ELLEN WRIGHT VIA FLICKR)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATE LUZOD VIA FLICKR)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID A. PALATSI VIA FLICKR) (F1)
SOARING: The new modern art wing at the Art Institute of Chicago.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AYNSLEY FLOYD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
INTERLUDE: A quartet playing at the Art Institute of Chicago, which is holding free lunchtime concerts.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AYNSLEY FLOYD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
STRETCH: A yoga class at MoMA surrounded by a video installation by the Swiss artist Pipilotti Rist.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEUM OF MODERN ART)
ALIENS: ''Slow Walking Color Takers'' at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.(PHOTOGRAPH BY [COPYRIGHT]MACHINE PROJECT)
 PARTICIPATORY: Visitors to ''Worlds Away: New Suburban Landscapes'' at the Walker Art Center can share personal stories on YouTube.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CAMERON WITTIG/WALKER ART CENTER)(F31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); YOGA (89%); FILM (78%); SCULPTURE (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); BUDGETS (68%); LAYOFFS (67%); CYCLING (66%); RESTAURANTS (64%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); BUDGET CUTS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



740 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: At A.I.G.'s Helm, Facing the Storm

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY and CARL HULSE; Louise Story contributed reporting.

 BODY:
When the government made its stunning takeover of American International Group in September, it turned to Edward M. Liddy, a hard-charging insurance executive, to salvage the enterprise that had become a symbol of all that was broken in the American financial system.
Now, in the minds of many, Mr. Liddy has become the personification of A.I.G.'s disaster.
On Wednesday, Mr. Liddy, 63, the man who was tapped for his behind-the-scenes financial savvy found himself at the center of public wrath of the President Obama, the Congress, and the American public, after revelations that he had approved the payout of lucrative bonuses to the very employees thought to have driven A.I.G. to its knees.
At the Congressional hearing, a horde of cameras and reporters awaited Mr. Liddy, subjecting him to the sort of limelight usually reserved for major felons or celebrities after an unfortunate night out. 
But Mr. Liddy, who chatted with protesters as he entered the hearing room to testify before members of a House Financial Services subcommittee, repeatedly tried to make clear that he was not responsible for getting A.I.G. into this mess.
''Six months ago I came out of retirement to help my country,'' said Mr. Liddy, 63, a former chief executive at Allstate insurance. ''At the government's request I've had the duty and extraordinary challenge of serving as chairman and chief executive officer of American International Group, or A.I.G.''
Mr. Liddy has no doubt questioned that decision on more than one occasion.
By many accounts, Mr. Liddy's background is one of a competent manager and a solid insurance man with the wherewithal to oversee a corporate makeover of A.I.G. His strategy is to sell off assets to pay back the billions of dollars the company received in bailout from the government and shrink A.I.G. into a more sustainable, though much smaller company.
''He has one of the toughest jobs in corporate America,'' said Donald Light, senior analyst at the research firm Celent. ''It's got a whole lot tougher in the last four to five days. Unfortunately for him, A.I.G. has become the focus for a lot of anxiety on a lot of issues.''
As the longtime head of Allstate, he combed through a hidebound culture and raised the insurer's profitability, in part by firing 6,000 workers. The insurance agents sued Allstate and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission sued Allstate twice. Mr. Liddy fought, and Allstate won. He expanded into new businesses, and introduced new technologies. When the company was badly hit by Hurricane Andrew in the early 1990s, he rolled back the company's exposure to catastrophe insurance.
He was known then as a fair-minded, practical negotiator, according to executives who knew him at the time. Philip J. Purcell, the former chief executive of Morgan Stanley, knew Mr. Liddy since the 1980s. They both worked at Sears managing opposite sides of Sears's split from Dean Witter/Discover in the early 1990s.
During those negotiations, Mr. Liddy showed characteristic objectiveness and balance, Mr. Purcell said, even as they disagreed over which part of the company would get the lower-interest rate debt and how they would divide the company's pension fund.
''You could sit down in things like that with Ed and work through them,'' Mr. Purcell said. ''His banditos were saying he was giving away the ship, and my banditos were saying I was giving away the ship, but we got it done.''
Another analyst, who met Mr. Liddy on several occasions in his time at Allstate, said, ''He turned a company that was quite mediocre into one of the best personal insurance companies.'' The analyst requested anonymity because he did not wish to be associated with the furor over A.I.G.
Henry M. Paulson Jr., the former Treasury secretary who put Mr. Liddy in the A.I.G. job, also tapped him for the board at Goldman Sachs. Mr. Liddy also worked at the Ford Motor Company before joining G.D. Searle & Company in 1981, when Donald H. Rumsfeld was the chief executive.
Now Mr. Liddy, who has held a number of directorships in addition to his chief executive role, will probably face unceasing questions about his own corporate record; his own bonuses and compensation have raised eyebrows in the past.
In an opinion piece published Wednesday in The Washington Post, Mr. Liddy said that he would not have approved A.I.G.'s retention bonuses had he been heading the enterprise. But critics point out he did just that during the reorganization at Allstate in 2000.
According to data compiled by Bloomberg, Mr. Liddy's 2007 pay package at Allstate totaled $20.26 million, including salary, stock and options awards and other compensation. He also was paid about $1 million -- mostly in the form of stock -- for serving as a director of Goldman, 3M and Boeing.
In coming out of retirement to take the job at A.I.G., Mr. Liddy agreed to the nominal salary of $1. A spokesman for A.I.G. said Mr. Liddy was entitled to no further compensation like stock, stock options, bonuses or severance fees.
Mr. Purcell suggests that Mr. Liddy was more interested in doing a job that was good for his country than in his own wallet.
When Mr. Liddy told him that he had decided to leave retirement to take the job, Mr. Purcell said he told Mr. Liddy he was a ''great American,'' but warned him that taking on A.I.G. would be ''a monstrous problem.''
At no time was that more evident than under the glare of the spotlight Wednesday.
Given the rising political liability of A.I.G. and its bailout, however, nothing Mr. Liddy could say was going to mollify lawmakers who have been inundated with calls from constituents who have lost their savings, their jobs, their homes and their confidence, and are demanding to know why executives of a company that ran the economy into the ground are still riding high.
''This is like the captain and the crew of the ship reserving the lifeboats saying to hell with the passengers,'' Representative Stephen F. Lynch, Democrat of Massachusetts, said. To Mr. Liddy, who repeatedly sought to make clear that he was not responsible for creating the mess at A.I.G., Mr. Lynch's observation was one criticism too far. ''I take offense, sir,'' Mr. Liddy responded, reminding lawmakers that he was not in charge when the bonuses were arranged but believed he was legally bound to pay them.
''Well, offense was intended,'' Mr. Lynch retorted. ''So you take it rightfully, sir.''
That may be only the beginning of what is surely to be a contentious period for A.I.G., which was built into a colossus by Maurice R. Greenberg. Mr. Greenberg focused on big acquisitions that took A.I.G. into areas considered unusual at the time, like insurance against kidnappings and environmental spills.
Mr. Liddy maintains a difficult relationship with Mr. Greenberg, who remains the company's largest shareholder after the government, and they are at odds on a strategy for the company.
Mr. Liddy must now take the company in a different direction from Mr. Greenberg -- and prove that he is the man to do it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Edward M. Liddy, chairman and chief executive of American International Group, arriving to testify before the House capital markets subcommittee.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Before he testified in the House on Wednesday, Edward M. Liddy, the chief executive of A.I.G., talked with protesters.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); CATASTROPHE REINSURANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (73%); FELONIES (73%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); HURRICANES (71%); APPROVALS (70%); BONUS PAY (69%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (63%); TROPICAL STORMS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (93%); ALLSTATE CORP (85%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (93%); 8685 (TSE) (93%); ALL (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (85%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (85%)

PERSON: EDWARD M LIDDY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



741 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: Tributes to Motown and Southern Soul

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
MOTOWN and Stax. Say the names and a music lover's head instantly fills with melodies, like ''Dancing in the Streets,'' by Martha and the Vandellas, or ''(Sittin' on) The Dock of the Bay,'' by Otis Redding.
Now, half a century after each was founded, the labels live on in their hometowns, one an industrial city up north, another a river city in the South.
The Motown Historical Museum in Detroit, which celebrates its 24th anniversary this year, when Motown Records is celebrating its 50th, includes a tiny white house known as Hitsville, where singers were discovered by Berry Gordy and trained by studio executives to become the hottest thing in music.
The house, where groups like the Four Tops and the Temptations and artists like Stevie Wonder recorded their greatest hits, is a time capsule of the glory years of Motown. 
By contrast, the Stax Museum of American Soul Music, about 10 minutes from downtown Memphis, cannot make such a claim.
The original studios of Stax Records, home to artists like the Staple Singers, Sam and Dave, and Booker T. and the MGs, are long gone, torn down in 1989 by a church that had taken over the deserted buildings on McLemore Avenue.
So the museum's founders had to start from scratch.
Instead of simply recreating the empty theater that served as the label's studio, organizers built a new museum, with a wide variety of exhibits dedicated to all types of American soul artists, not just those who recorded with Stax.
The grounds of the 11-year-old museum are also shared by the Soulsville Charter School, home to after-school programs that predate the museum, as well as a summer music camp.
Given their respective impacts on American music, it almost would seem like the two should switch places, with Motown, still operating today as part of Universal Music Group, getting the bigger quarters and Stax, which went out of business in 1975, housed in something less expansive.
''Musically, Stax was grittier, and clearly more Southern, whereas Motown had an overarching corporate philosophy of making music for all people,'' said Howard Kramer, a curator at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland, which recently opened an exhibit marking the Motown anniversary.
But Stax enjoyed a revival of sorts two years ago, when it celebrated its golden anniversary. Now it is Motown's turn to celebrate, putting the spotlight on Hitsville, as Motown Records' headquarters was called.
''Everybody wants to be our friend this year, and that's fine, we'll let them,'' said Robin Terry, the museum's executive director.
Ms. Terry, 40, is part of the extended Motown family, the great-niece of Mr. Gordy and granddaughter of Esther Gordy Edwards, Mr. Gordy's sister. Ms. Terry recalls visits from ''Uncle Smokey'' (Robinson) when she was a child and putting on her pajamas to slide down the stairs of Mr. Gordy's Detroit mansion.
After Mr. Gordy moved Motown to Los Angeles in 1972, Ms. Terry's grandmother stayed behind in Detroit, where one office remained open in one of the eight houses that had been its headquarters.
Mrs. Edwards served as an informal preservationist of the label's roots, collecting more than 500,000 pieces of Motown memorabilia.
Fans would regularly knock on her door, asking to visit the original studio and offices. Finally, in 1985, Mrs. Edwards persuaded her brother to let her turn Hitsville into a museum.
Ms. Terry took over in 2002, overseeing a collection that includes a fraction of the objects that Motown owns (and which are kept in an undisclosed warehouse). There is a single case of costumes worn by the Supremes, a set of sky blue and turquoise dresses that show perspiration stains from the workout the women received on stage.
A hat and glove donated by Michael Jackson take up another display case, while a piano used to teach Motown artists sits in a corner, its keys covered with masking tape, spelling out each note. Another exhibit features Mr. Gordy's apartment, furnished with no-frills period pieces, while a candy machine, with prices and snacks from the 1960s, stands nearby.
But the centerpiece of Hitsville is Studio A.
Here, visitors can see the control booth where songwriters like Lamont Dozier and the brothers Brian and Edward Holland sat scribbling as musicians belted out takes of their songs a few steps below.
The floor of the studio -- most recently featured in a video by Kid Rock -- is worn from use by artists like Marvin Gaye and Levi Stubbs, lead singer of the Four Tops, who died last year.
''It's an authentic Motown experience,'' said Ms. Terry. ''There's no place else in the world where you can go and stand in the steps of musical icons -- play the piano that Stevie Wonder played and stand at David Ruffin's microphone. We're allowing people to relive that.''
On a recent morning, Jennifer Lim and Dmitri Della Faille, both of Toronto, stopped by the studio during a trip to Detroit for a martial arts tournament. ''If you are going to Detroit, it is something you cannot avoid,'' said Mr. Della Faille.
''It's a hidden treasure,'' added Ms. Lim.
Still, the authentic surroundings can't mask the feeling that there ought to be more on display here, given Motown's impact on music and its hometown. ''People pull up to Hitsville and say, 'That's Motown?' '' Ms. Terry conceded.
Indeed, there have been a number of efforts through the years to move the Motown Museum to bigger digs.
In 1999, for example, plans were announced to house the museum in the empty office building on Woodward Avenue where Mr. Gordy moved Motown's operations after they outgrew the original quarters.
But that effort never came to fruition, and now the building is gone. Kwame Kilpatrick, then Detroit's mayor, ordered it torn down on the eve of the 2006 Super Bowl, which was held in the city, declaring it to be an eyesore.
Ms. Terry hasn't given up, and in the meantime, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame set up its own Motown exhibit this year. None of the objects were lent by Motown, however; instead, they came from the collection owned by Universal, which acquired it when a chain of Motown-themed cafes went out of business.
''Motown is a subject that could easily cover 5,000 square feet,'' Mr. Kramer said. ''We knew we couldn't do that much, but we tried to give an overview.''
On display are stage costumes from Mr. Gaye and his singing partner, Tammi Terrell; a bass guitar owned by Rick James; a passport that belonged to Mr. Ruffin, the lead singer of The Temptations; and posters for appearances by Motown artists.
''It was an incredible statement of black economic power,'' Mr. Kramer said of Motown. ''It showed the almost absurd amount of talent from Detroit. There may have been more talent in other cities, but Berry Gordy did a better job of getting it out there.''
When it comes to museum exhibits, however, Memphis now seems to have the upper hand. Soulsville is part of a community of music-related attractions that are enough to occupy visitors for a week.
They include Graceland, the home of Elvis Presley, as well as Sun Records, his original label. Meanwhile, Gibson offers a tour of its guitar factory downtown, just a block south of Beale Street, where numerous bars feature live bands playing tunes from the Stax era.
Soulsville also benefits from its association with the National Civil Rights Museum, housed at the Lorraine Motel, where the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated in 1968 (the two sell a combination ticket that offers a discount from each museum's admission price).
Inside Soulsville, there are enough displays and objects to interest even those who could not name a tune by Rufus Thomas or Jean Knight, two artists who recorded for Stax.
After watching an introductory film, visitors see the first exhibit, a 100-year-old gospel church from Duncan, Miss., which was dismantled and installed at the insistence of Al Bell, the former chairman of Stax. He said the museum needed to teach visitors that the roots of soul music lay in Southern churches.
The rooms of exhibits include soul artists on other labels, like Aretha Franklin and Ike and Tina Turner, and also focus on some of Stax's biggest names, especially Mr. Redding and Isaac Hayes, who won an Oscar for best song with the theme for the 1971 movie ''Shaft.''
Mr. Hayes, who died last year, gave the museum a custom-built Cadillac and an organ, which sits in the lobby.
The museum draws about 45,000 visitors a year, while the charter school and after-school program educate hundreds of Memphis children annually.
Although the museum is in a worn-looking working-class neighborhood, Tim Sampson, one of the museum's founders, said that did not deter visitors. They come from 26 countries and every continent but Antarctica. ''And I'm working on that,'' he said.
In Detroit, Ms. Terry is busy with plans for Motown's 50th anniversary year. One highlight will be a gala this fall featuring Motown artists, although she is not sure she will even try to top the label's 25th anniversary celebration, which was broadcast on national television.
''For us, it's a special time to respect this legacy,'' she said of Hitsville. ''It's such a tough time right now, in the city and in the state. It's nice to reflect on something positive. You really can hold your head up high.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A MUSIC'S ROOTS: The Stax Museum in Memphis is on the original site of soul's Stax Records. Among the exhibits are the custom-made Cadillac owned by Isaac Hayes, pictured, and a Southern church, dismantled and installed, as a typical place where soul had its roots.
 MOTOWN MEMORIES: In Detroit, the record label's museum includes the white house known as Hitsville where singers like Stevie Wonder recorded in Studio A (above). In the doorway is the chief curator, Lina Christine Stephens. Motown's stars included the Supremes, whose performance gowns are displayed.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); MUSIC (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); HISTORY (77%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); POP & ROCK (73%); MUSIC GENRES (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (65%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (63%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



742 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: In Zoo Cuts, It's Man vs. Beast

BYLINE: By HENRY FOUNTAIN

 BODY:
Chicago
AS in other cities, the shocks of the economic collapse have reverberated throughout Chicago, from the commodities exchanges in the Loop, past the fancy storefronts on Michigan Avenue and into the residential and commercial neighborhoods across the city's inland expanses.
But the gloom has also spread north along Lake Michigan, through the gates of the Lincoln Park Zoo on the lakefront and right into the Regenstein Center for African Apes. There, the gorillas are no longer getting their blueberries.
Facing a budget shortfall of more than $1 million because of endowment losses, the 140-year-old zoo has had to cut back where possible. ''Blueberries are pretty expensive,'' said Steven D. Thompson, senior vice president for conservation and science programs. ''And there are lots of other things we can use as treats.''
Taking pricey fruit off the table may seem like a trivial way to save money, but it illustrates the problem that zoos and aquariums confront when the economy turns sour. A gorilla -- or a sea lion, marmoset, skink or chinstrap penguin, for that matter -- can't be put in storage, like a painting, to reduce costs. Yet savings must come from somewhere. 
''We're a living museum,'' said John F. Calvelli, executive vice president for public affairs of the Wildlife Conservation Society, which operates the Bronx Zoo, three smaller zoos and the New York Aquarium and is facing a 10 to 15 percent budget cut, in part because of the threatened elimination of state aid. ''We just can't close a wing of our museum as other institutions can.''
So officials at zoos and aquariums around the country are freezing or cutting jobs, reducing hours of operation or eliminating programs, or are planning such cuts as the next fiscal year approaches. As at Lincoln Park, they are looking at the smallest details of their operations, ''the kinds of things you hope could be done every day but often take a little 'stimulus' to go after,'' Dr. Thompson said.
At the Staten Island Zoo, officials are eliminating overtime and cutting back on supplies to cope with a 5 percent reduction in the operating budget, said John Caltabiano, executive director. But they are also receiving blemished and otherwise unsalable fruits and vegetables three times a week from a local supermarket to help reduce feeding costs.
Only in the most dire circumstances are institutions considering reducing the number of animals in their collections. At the Wildlife Conservation Society no plans are final yet, and it and other New York zoos and aquariums are pressing the state's political leaders not to eliminate aid. But given the likely need to make large cuts in the society's operating budget, Mr. Calvelli said, ''I'd be hard pressed to think how we do it without closing down some exhibits.''
Yet that solution brings with it its own set of problems and expenses.
At the Dickerson Park Zoo in Springfield, Mo., where an underfinanced police and fire workers' pension plan has led to sharp reductions in the city budget, including money for the zoo, officials have decided to get rid of several animals to save money on food and keepers.
Among the animals due to leave are two hyenas that were brought in several years ago as eventual replacements for the zoo's aging cheetahs. The cheetahs are still around, so rather than keep the hyenas waiting in the wings, the zoo has found a new home for them at a zoo in Boise, Idaho.
''It's a significant challenge,'' said Melinda Arnold, a spokeswoman. As a member of an industry group, the Association of Zoos and Aquariums, the zoo has to find another accredited zoo or sanctuary to take the hyenas. ''We have to adhere to standards,'' Ms. Arnold said. ''It doesn't mean we can close down an exhibit tomorrow and move these animals out.''
Removing animals creates other problems as well. At the Maryland Zoo in Baltimore, a budget crisis earlier this decade led to the removal of about 10 percent of the animals, including snow leopards, gibbons and red pandas, and an entire section of the zoo was closed. But the moves were counterproductive, said Donald P. Hutchinson, the zoo's interim president and chief executive.
''What happened was that there was a significant drop-off in our attendance,'' said Mr. Hutchinson, who arrived after the cuts were made. ''When people come to a zoo, they want to see a variety of animals, not just farm animals or big cats or whatever.'' By cutting back on that variety, the zoo became less appealing.
The zoo also lost some of its staff. ''When you make the decision that you are going to make animal reductions, your professional keepers are going to leave quickly,'' Mr. Hutchinson said. ''Your vets are going to look elsewhere.'' And the slow process of finding homes for the animals means that expenses won't drop immediately. ''We got rid of a lot of snakes,'' he said. ''But it took two years to distribute them.''
This time, with cuts in government money, the museum has opted to close for three months instead of the usual two during the winter. ''It allows us to not have our temporary employees for the month,'' Mr. Hutchinson said, ''although it doesn't save you as much as you'd think because you're still caring for and feeding the animals.''
It's the people, not the animals, that bear the brunt of the cutbacks everywhere. For visitors, cuts in maintenance or seasonal staff might mean that the bathrooms are cleaned less often or the lines at the food concessions are longer. ''The visitor experience begins to be affected negatively, as opposed to the animal experience,'' Mr. Hutchinson said.
For the workers themselves, though, cutbacks are potentially devastating. Dr. Thompson said the Lincoln Park Zoo was trying to reduce the number of layoffs by leaving some recently vacated positions unfilled. For example, he said, the zoo's ''green'' coordinator has left, and the job will not be filled. As a result, he said, other employees are going to have to resume certain duties they had given up long ago.
Employees are also working harder at the North Carolina Zoo, a state-supported zoo in Asheboro. Zoo administrators have postponed major equipment purchases and have laid off a few employees to cut the operating budget by 7 percent, said Rod Hackney, a spokesman. ''It's had no impact on animal care,'' he said. ''We wouldn't shortchange them; they're our top priority.''
''Some people have to work longer,'' Mr. Hackney acknowledged. ''But they are certainly more than willing to do that. You don't get into this business if you don't love animals.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MOVING: A tight budget has led the Dickerson Park Zoo in Springfield, Mo., to find a new home for its two striped hyenas.
CUTTING BACK: The zoo is moving its impalas and kudus to Arkansas and Texas. Tracy Campbell, a handler, with an impala.
 GOING WEST: One of the striped hyenas the Dickerson is sending to a zoo in Boise, Idaho.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK SCHIEFELBEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); PRIMATES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (88%); EXECUTIVES (88%); LAKES (77%); MAMMALS (76%); ANIMALS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BOISE, ID, USA (79%); SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (74%) LAKE MICHIGAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



743 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: 3 Days of Peace and Music, 40 Years Later

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
BETHEL, N.Y.
THIS year is the 40th anniversary of Woodstock, and what a difference four decades makes.
Jimi and Janis are long gone, and there's no need to ''Watch out for the brown acid'' on Yasgur's farm. These alfalfa fields, where a half-million young people gathered for the three-day music festival in August 1969, have been transformed into a $100 million performing arts center run by a nonprofit corporation called the Bethel Woods Center for the Arts.
There are two outdoor performance spaces, including one that seats 15,000, on this 2,000-acre parcel in Sullivan County, about 90 miles from New York City. The centerpiece is the Museum at Bethel Woods, which opened last June in an immaculate wooden building dedicated to the 1960s and the 1969 Woodstock Festival.
None of the structures were built where the original festival stage stood because ''we would never disturb hallowed ground,'' said Wade Lawrence, the museum director, on a tour. 
During the tour, on a recent Sunday, Joni Mitchell's song ''Big Yellow Taxi,'' with its familiar lament about paving paradise to put up a parking lot, came drifting out of the gift shop, where designer Woodstock shirts sell for $69.95. Since much of Max Yasgur's acreage is now designated for parking, you might wonder on which side of that song the museum falls.
Throughout the museum, there is a bit of what might be called Wood-schlock, including large flower-power shapes projected on the carpeted floor and cool spinning lights and psychedelic designs. There are also the obligatory displays of groovy clothing and other artifacts.
But there is also substance. Museum officials were leery of fetishizing Woodstock as a big party, Mr. Lawrence said, but neither did they want to be didactic. The idea was to create an ''experience'' in the Hendrixian sense, one that visitors could live through and come out a bit transformed.
Yes, it was important to show the festival in its proper historical, political and social context, so there are serious exhibits devoted to the politics, culture and music of the '60s. Other exhibits address a range of aspects about the event itself -- including how the concertgoers got there (the crush of cars shut down the New York State Thruway).
But mostly, the museum seems focused on the visceral. The point is to let visitors feel what it was like to be there, Mr. Lawrence said. Indeed, it is the performers and their music that dominate -- there are images of Ravi Shankar, Carlos Santana, Joe Cocker and others.
Perhaps most striking is the theater in the round, where concert footage plays on tall video screens stretching up to an overhead screen of the sky. Roadie equipment boxes are scattered about, and visitors can lie on the carpet watching Joan Baez and other performers. Nearby, a more conventional theater shows a 21-minute film in which the musicians annotate their performances.
Of course, there are plenty of ''wow'' items. There is the trippy-hippie magic bus with the psychedelic paint job and videos projected on its windshield. There is the swirly-colored Volkswagen Beetle.
The Woodstock Festival, originally called An Aquarian Exposition, did not occur in the village of Woodstock, but in Bethel, which is more than 40 miles away. Museum officials say that would-be visitors call saying that they have driven to Woodstock and cannot find the museum. (Hey, man, you should have Googled it first.)
In fact, one exhibit explains how promoters had considered holding the event in Woodstock, then in nearby Middletown, and later rented Mr. Yasgur's farm.
The museum tour begins with a peace sign projected on the floor, and Country Joe and the Fish singing ''What are we fighting for?'' from a video screen. There are displays of quotations and photographs of performers, attendees and local residents -- and Wavy Gravy, who as master of ceremonies uttered the famous words, ''What we have in mind is breakfast in bed for 400,000.''
Then there are snazzy touch-screen computer displays offering detailed information, and an interactive map table detailing the festival locations.
Yeah, yeah -- but where's Hendrix's guitar, the white Stratocaster he used for his famous abstraction of ''The Star Spangled Banner?'' It is perhaps the most requested item here, but it is on display in Seattle, Hendrix's hometown.
One challenge was to address controversial issues like Vietnam, racial unrest, drugs and free love, all in a family-oriented museum that could accommodate hardcore countercultural types as well as middle schoolers, Mr. Lawrence said.
''We knew school principals would be coming in,'' he said. ''We wanted to make a PG-rated museum. We didn't want a place that parents would be uncomfortable with their kids. We wanted to be even-handed without advocating for one side.
''We didn't want to say dropping acid is the greatest thing in the world because obviously there are problems with that,'' Mr. Lawrence said. ''But it is part of the history, just like the March on Washington and the British Invasion.''
The museum does address lesser-known aspects of these three days of peace and music, which were famously chaotic, overcrowded and lacking in shelter, sanitation and other amenities.
One section touches upon the pre-cellphone aspect of the festival, exhibiting notes stuck to a tree by festival attendees. One of them, from Dan to Cindy, left a phone number and an apologetic yet hopeful note explaining that, ''I'm sorry I was too untogether to remember to ask for your address.''
Other exhibits are more serious. One addresses the burning of draft cards as a protest against the Vietnam War. Then there is the 1968 Theater, with its video presentation about that year's civil rights struggles and assassinations.
''It's not unusual to see 60-year-old men sitting in there sobbing,'' Mr. Lawrence said of the theater.
Minutes later, Ralph Smith, 56, a fifth grade teacher from Tyler Hill, Pa., came out of the theater a bit choked up. The year ''1968 was an emotional time for all of us, living through the assassinations and civil rights,'' he said. ''The entire '60s was just an amazing time to live through.''
Mr. Smith was with a group of teachers who he said were ''really amazed how it captured the decade, how they were able to fit so much information into a museum.''
He added, ''As I walked through, there were things I had forgotten, things that brought back real vivid memories.''
The museum is not yet supporting itself on admissions alone, and is seeking donations and starting a membership drive. Aside from the state of the current economy, the museum faces other challenges, including its location. There are few shops around, and the closest major attraction is Monticello Gaming and Raceway, the slots hall at the old trotters track whose crowd does not tend to wander to the museum.
Authenticity is a recurring theme. Numerous volunteer staffers attended the festival and Mr. Lawrence said that job applicants, even if they missed the festival -- or were not born yet -- are grilled about what it means to them.
The museum earned its counterculture stripes even while in the planning stages, drawing the wrath of conservative politicians who attacked federal money earmarked for the museum. They derided it as a ''hippie museum'' that would be nothing more than an acid flashback. There was criticism that elected officials were helping the museum's backer, Alan Gerry, the cable television mogul (and major Democratic Party contributor) who bought the original festival field and whose foundation supported the Bethel Woods project.
Many Woodstock attendees have visited, Mr. Lawrence said, as have some performers. John Sebastian and Richie Havens have visited, as has the folk singer Melanie, he said. One museum volunteer guide, Robin McClernon, 63, said she grew up locally and went to Woodstock.
''I just remember the people kept coming and the cars kept coming, in incredible numbers,'' said Ms. McClernon, a retired school social worker from Lake Huntington, N.Y.
For Margaret Hughes, the museum's education manager, educational experience helped her get an interview with Mr. Lawrence, but it was her familiarity with all things Woodstock -- she's only 26, but she soaked it up from her parents, she said -- that helped her get the job.
Ms. Hughes said that teenage visitors were eager to learn about Woodstock.
''They have a familiarity with the music,'' she said. ''They have this notion about the '60s that it was this cool time so it's easy to engage them.''
They say if you remember Woodstock, you probably weren't part of it, but attendees whose memories are blurred can come to the museum to ''see what they lived through,'' Mr. Lawrence said, joking.
He acknowledged that some visitors do come in under the influence, especially during the outdoor concerts. ''You can tell by the aroma,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PEACE, MAN: Visitors watching an 11-minute surround-sound Woodstock film at the Museum at Bethel Woods
a minitheater in a transformed school bus
T-shirts for sale in the shop.
MAGIC BUS: This relic at the Woodstock museum evokes the cross-country journeys of festival attendees with a film shown on the windshield and visible from both inside and outside.
 GET TOGETHER: A note left for a friend at the festival on the back of a paper plate.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOYCE DOPKEEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); THEATER & DRAMA (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); THEATER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



744 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: Taking a Step-by-Step Approach to Growth

BYLINE: By HILARIE M. SHEETS

 BODY:
NEAL BENEZRA is not a showman. But as museum directors nationwide face plummeting endowments and potentially crippling budget cuts, Mr. Benezra's even-keeled approach and penchant for collaboration in his stewardship of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art may be a blueprint for how to endure the financial uncertainty.
''We benefited from the fact that we went through a tough time seven years ago,'' said Mr. Benezra, 55, who grew up in the Bay Area.
He became director in 2002, soon after the dot-com bubble had burst. The museum had just undergone a huge growth spurt. Riding the wave of affluence amassed in the area from high-tech industries since the 1980s, the museum had moved in 1995 from cramped, shared quarters in the War Memorial Building to its expansive home designed by Mario Botta. 
Under the leadership of Jack Lane and then David Ross, it aggressively acquired works by artists like Piet Mondrian, Rene Magritte, Mark Rothko and Robert Rauschenberg to fill its new galleries. But the institution's quick growth could not be sustained. When the dot-coms crashed in 2001, Mr. Ross left abruptly, a dozen staff members were laid off, and the museum faced a $2 million deficit.
Mr. Benezra, who came to the job after serving simultaneously as deputy director and head curator of modern and contemporary art at the Art Institute of Chicago, said he learned a lot from his initiation, when he cut $2 million from the budget.
''We actually lost more money than we saved, which was a revelation to me and the board,'' said Mr. Benezra, who has operated the museum in the black since 2003. ''Our membership declined, our attendance declined, our philanthropy declined.''
He then took a more deliberate tack of slowing the pace of exhibitions and stretching resources, rather than shutting down activities as the city recovered. ''If you cut excessively -- and I think I can say this is wisdom for our current situation in our field right now -- the public will lose interest in you,'' he said. ''It's a very fine line, but you can create a recession of your own making if you're too extreme in the reduction of your program.''
During the recent years of market exuberance, as many museums completed high-profile expansions, Mr. Benezra followed a pragmatic course of expanding the museum in manageable steps. On May 10, the museum is to open its first new space since 1995 -- a 14,400-square-foot rooftop sculpture garden, designed by the San Francisco firm Jensen Architects. On display will be large-scale works by Louise Bourgeois, Ellsworth Kelly and Barnett Newman, among others.
''It's fully funded, fully endowed, on budget and on schedule, and that puts a smile on my face these days,'' Mr. Benezra said. He added that the $24 million donated for the project by five trustees was the easiest money he had ever had to raise.
Mr. Benezra said that he and the board chairman, Charles Schwab, founder of the eponymous investment firm, had their eyes on two spaces flanking the museum for future expansion but were waiting for the economy to improve.
''Outside of New York, there's more great contemporary art in the Bay Area than anyplace else in the U.S., and we have to convince our donors that if they are good enough to leave their objects to us, there's space to show them,'' Mr. Benezra said, noting that the creation of the sculpture garden had resulted in recent gifts of work by Mario Merz and Joel Shapiro.
He said that when he arrived at the museum, 70 percent of the 50,000 square feet of gallery space was given over to special exhibitions. Now it's closer to 60 percent. ''A really great museum that grows to maturity dedicates itself to its collection,'' he said. ''I would ultimately like to see a 50-50 ratio without cutting the exhibition program.''
The lineup of monographic exhibitions organized during his tenure, including shows of Diane Arbus, Olafur Eliasson, Eva Hesse, Sol LeWitt and Jeff Wall, may be where Mr. Benezra has put his strongest imprint on the museum.
''We're trying to create a balanced diet between modern and contemporary, between popular and challenging,'' said Mr. Benezra, who was a co-curator of the Wall show in conjunction with the Museum of Modern Art in New York. ''It's very important to me that we get people to come in and see a show of Calder or Matisse so that when you do Olafur Eliasson or Jeff Wall, your public has a base of knowledge about modern art that they can take to appreciate a younger contemporary artist.''
Last Saturday, a three-decade retrospective of the South African artist William Kentridge, co-organized with the Norton Museum of Art in West Palm Beach, Fla., and destined for seven other cities, opened at the San Francisco museum.
''Almost to a fault, I love to partner with other institutions,'' Mr. Benezra said. ''Sometimes it makes it difficult because it's harder for two museums to organize a show, but I love the collegiality of that.''
In the next couple of years, his institution will collaborate on the first United States retrospective of Luc Tuymans with the Wexner Center for the Arts in Columbus, Ohio, as well as on a show reassembling the collections of Gertrude Stein and her brother and sister-in-law Michael and Sarah Stein with the Grand Palais in Paris.
Mr. Benezra has always been a curator first, rising through the ranks after receiving his doctorate in art history from Stanford in 1983. He was given his first curatorial post by James Demetrion at the Des Moines Art Center and moved in 1985 to the Art Institute of Chicago, where he organized a Martin Puryear show.
In 1991, he was hired again by Mr. Demetrion, who was then director of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, as chief curator. There, Mr. Benezra organized a Bruce Nauman retrospective with the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis and shows on Edward Ruscha and Juan Munoz, among others. In 1996 he took on the additional role of assistant director until returning to the Art Institute in 2000.
Olga Viso, now director of the Walker Art Center, was hired by Mr. Benezra as an assistant curator at the Hirshhorn in 1994 and considers him her mentor.
''I learned my curatorial, installation and collection-building skills from Neal,'' Ms. Viso said. ''He's a great long-view, strategic thinker. Watching Neal, I learned the importance of balancing impulse with patience.''
Their institutions co-organized the Frida Kahlo exhibition last year, and it was the most highly attended show in the San Francisco museum's history.
Mr. Benezra's institution has also been a pioneer in joint acquisitions between museums as a way to share costs during the recent years of a skyrocketing art market. He has partnered with the Hirshhorn on a video piece by Gary Hill, with the Walker on a multimedia installation by Matthew Barney, and most recently with the Art Institute and the Guggenheim on a sculpture by Felix Gonzalez-Torres.
''Neal has subtle leadership qualities,'' said Mr. Demetrion, now retired. ''He has a good rapport with people at all levels, which is very important. He's able to work with trustees and he's able to work with colleagues, not just at the museum but in other institutions as well.''
Mr. Benezra plans to mark the museum's 75th anniversary next year with shows drawn from the permanent collection (which, not inconsequently, are cheaper to produce). ''We want this anniversary to tell stories about our history that make it clear why we matter,'' he said.
Founded in 1935, the museum is one of the three oldest in the country, along with MoMA and the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York, dedicated to modern and contemporary art. It gave Jackson Pollock his first museum show, as well as Arshile Gorky and Clyfford Still, who returned the favor in 1975 with a gift of 28 canvases.
''I really grew up in the museum,'' said Mr. Benezra, whose father, a second-generation Abstract Expressionist painter and art teacher in San Francisco, took him to shows often installed in the third- and fourth-floor hallways of the original building. He said he would never forget the 1979 opening of ''The Dinner Party,'' Judy Chicago's iconic feminist installation. ''It was very funky, very San Francisco,'' said Mr. Benezra, who then watched the museum's ambitious transformation in the 1980s and 1990s as it achieved a new stature in its own building.
As he considers the future, Mr. Benezra is remarkably nonalarmist. ''In December we made an appeal to our board for program support over and above what they normally do and got double what we were expecting,'' he said, adding that the museum also received gifts of 225 works of art in 2008, the most in years. ''I think the board is very enamored of the program we've established. They've all repeated the mantra to be prudent, make tough decisions, but don't hurt what we've built here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PRUDENT: Neal Benezra, director of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, stretched resources without cutting programs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RANDI LYNN BEACH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); LAYOFFS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



745 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: New York's Local Museums Feel the Pinch

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
THE Queens County Farm Museum has switched its animal feed to spent grains donated by the Brooklyn Brewery, and Flushing Town Hall, which presents arts and education programs, has taken its trolley tours of famous jazz sites off the road.
The Bronx Museum of the Arts has laid off part-time security guards and postponed plans to build a ''youth activity garden'' in its three back lots, because its capital money dried up. 
The Staten Island Museum finds itself trying to slim down even as it prepares to move its library and archive into buildings at the Snug Harbor Cultural Center and Botanical Garden, which requires more staff.
''We're expanding while we're shrinking, which is really a challenge for us,'' said Elizabeth Egbert, the museum's president.
These are tough times for cultural institutions all around, but particularly hard on those in New York City's outer boroughs, which lack the foot traffic, tourism concentration and cachet of Manhattan. Still, the arts organizations are soldiering on, making the adjustments necessary to keep their doors open and trying to maintain business as usual.
As important anchors in their neighborhoods, cultural institutions hope they can count on the loyalty of locals, for whom a trip to the museum is fast becoming one of the few affordable activities. And because museums outside Manhattan don't tend to be as dependent on tourists, their attendance shows less of a drop-off.
Moreover, outer-borough institutions say their location has always required a degree of scrappiness. ''We haven't had money to work with anyway,'' said Holly Block, executive director of the Bronx Museum. ''We've been struggling all along.''
With corporate donations down, public funds cut and endowments depleted, the challenges now are particularly formidable.
''The real question for everybody is how to deal with the funding picture,'' said Kate D. Levin, the city's Commissioner of Cultural Affairs, adding that museums were facing challenges ''not because they're not in Manhattan.''
''There are institutions holding their own and institutions that are particularly fragile,'' Ms. Levin added. ''Geography is not determinative.''
Flushing Town Hall saw its city allocation, including City Council funds, reduced by 41 percent. Cuts from other city agencies forced the hall to eliminate after-school programs and elder services. ''It was quite a hit to our institution,'' said Ellen Kodadek, the executive and artistic director.
''We're pretty stubborn,'' she added. ''My approach is to take past history, put it into context and look to the future.''
There are bright spots. Those organizations that already had building projects financed and under way, for example, have benefited from a decline in construction costs. The Queens Museum of Art had trouble generating contractor interest in its renovation project seven months ago, but the bid it reissued in December received a very different response. ''They were knocking down our door,'' said Tom Finkelpearl, the museum's executive director. ''Frankly, I don't think we could have built the building if the economy didn't go south.''
The Queens Museum had raised the $48 million for its renovation before the recession hit.
Similarly, the Staten Island Museum got its building project in under the wire, having already obtained $17 million from the city toward the $22 million move of its library and archive into buildings at Snug Harbor, also on Staten Island.
The center, though, has delayed the arrival of the seasonal crew that maintains its grounds. ''The grass will be a little bit longer than it's been in the past,'' said Frances X. Paulo Huber, the organization's president and chief executive. Generally, these local institutions are hurting.
At the Queens Museum, one of the main contributors had invested with Bernard L. Madoff, who is accused of running a Ponzi scheme that hurt nonprofit institutions, as well as other investors. The Queens Museum is extending exhibitions in order to program fewer new ones, has eliminated 7 of its 40-member staff through layoffs and attrition and will decrease its annual operating budget by about $1 million.
''Our board has said we have to be pessimistic,'' Mr. Finkelpearl said. ''It's safe to say there will be additional staff cuts. We're going to be smaller.''
The Queens County Farm Museum recently learned that it would not be receiving $110,000 in State Senate funds, money it had been spending for the last eight months. Because of this, and other cuts, the museum is on the austerity plan -- no more coffee for employees, no new concrete floor for the chicken coop. The farm's produce is now for sale at the Union Square Market in Manhattan. The switch to animal feed is saving $500 a month.
''We've trimmed everything we can trim,'' said Amy Fischetti-Boncardo, the executive director. ''At this point, we're hanging in there.''
If there is any important lesson to be learned from all this, arts groups say, it is in part the importance of building strong boards and diversifying financing sources. Flushing Town Hall, for example, gets 48 percent of its $1.2 million annual budget from the city. The Bronx Museum, which said its financing from city agencies was down about 60 percent between fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2010, has always relied on public funding from a variety of government sources.
''The biggest thing is, we don't have the infrastructure,'' said Holly Block, the executive director. ''We don't have traditional board strength. I don't have deep-rooted trustees.''
Organizations outside Manhattan say they also have to try to turn their remote locations into assets. The Staten Island Museum, for example, should emphasize ''the fun of being on the ferry,'' said Ms. Egbert, its chief. ''Don't try to compete with the Guggenheim.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LOCALIZED: The Bronx Museum of the Arts features artists of African, Asian and Latin American ancestry.
NO THRONGS: The outer-borough museums of New York are trying to keep visitors coming. The Bronx Museum of the Arts, left, displays a panoramic painting of the Grand Concourse
 at the Queens County Farm Museum, hogs and greenhouses are ready for spring.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES (BRONX MUSEUM) AND OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES (QUEENS COUNTY FARM MUSEUM)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITIES (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



746 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Soccer Offers an Oasis in a Mexican City Ravaged by a Drug War

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

 BODY:
CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico -- More than half a dozen soccer players refused to join the professional team in this border city, where so many tortured and beheaded bodies put fear in visitors and locals alike. Those who do play for the team live in gated areas, with high walls and fences topped with razor wire, to protect them from the turf war between the drug cartels that has left nearly 2,000 people dead over the past 14 months.
Despite the forbidding environment, the team, Indios, advanced last May to the top division in the Mexican League. It soldiers on this season, and so do the team's fans. On Sunday, even as the police announced the discovery of nine bodies buried outside this border city, the mood for a match at Olimpico Benito Juarez Stadium was one of celebration, not apprehension.
Indios operates in a kind of neutral zone, which takes a lot to maintain. From 250 to 400 municipal police and security guards provide crowd control for each game. Some players said they left home only for training and games and to buy necessary items, sticking to main roads during daylight, restricting travel at night. Their wives are encouraged to travel in groups when taking their children to school. 
''I avoid TV news,'' Javier Saavedra, a newly acquired defender, said through an interpreter. ''It makes me feel more secure.''
But the lurid headlines, the murder of the deputy police chief and the threats to decapitate the mayor have not deterred soccer fans, at least on game days. The stadium, just across the Rio Grande from El Paso, regularly fills to its capacity of about 22,000. Parents feel safe enough to bring their children. Mayor Jose Reyes Ferriz attended Sunday's match, along with a top official of the surrounding state of Chihuahua. Even the bishop of Juarez is occasionally spotted in the grandstand.
''We are a little afraid, but we still have to live our lives,'' said Omar Gurrola, a hotel bus driver who brought his 5-year-old son to the stadium.
On Sunday, the gates opened at 9 a.m., two hours before kickoff. Mariachi music played as fans arrived in jerseys, bandannas and masks borrowed from Mexico's flamboyant tradition of professional wrestling. Dancers gyrated in halter tops and Spandex chaps.
''This is our escape from reality, from the violence and the bad news,'' said Miguel Carbajal, president of the largest Indios fan club, who wore a team scarf and a rosary for good luck.
Last May, when Indios won a playoff to reach the top division after the team's third year of existence, tens of thousands of fans defiantly ignored a viral e-mail warning that the weekend would be the ''bloodiest and deadliest'' in Juarez's history.
Instead of cowering indoors, fans took to the streets, standing on cars and the roofs of houses, stopping traffic and rejoicing as the returning players were bused from the airport to the Church of San Lorenzo to give thanks for their triumph.
''We recovered part of the city that we were missing,'' said Victor Valencia de los Santos, the highest-ranking state official in Juarez, Chihuahua's largest city with a population of 1.3 million.
''We were afraid of everybody, everything,'' Mr. Valencia said. ''Thanks to the euphoria Indios brought to the city, we started to recover. We still have problems, but people feel they can go outside and be good neighbors and have a drink with somebody they don't know because he is wearing an Indios jersey or cap.''
Not even soccer, though, has been fully immune to the fear of violence.
Concerns over narco-danger and the slumping economy have delayed plans for a 37,000-seat stadium. It has become more difficult to attract corporate sponsors and to sign players. Andres Chitiva, a native of Colombia, was released in December, partly because he played poorly, partly because he was shaken by a menacing phone call, team officials said.
''He got scared,'' said Francisco Ibarra Molina, the team president. ''They wanted money or they would kidnap his kids.''
Two other Indios players, Ezequiel Maggiolo and Juan Ramon Curbelo, sent their families home to Argentina and Uruguay after the violence escalated earlier this year. Mr. Ibarra said he would soon send his three youngest children to school in El Paso, where it was safer.
''I'm a little worried,'' said Mr. Ibarra, whose family owns a prominent construction firm. ''I was born in Juarez and I have been here for 46 years. I hope to die in the city, but not with a bullet.''
Unlike many professional athletes in the United States who carry licensed guns for protection, Mexican athletes are prohibited by more restrictive laws, team officials said. Still, Indios players said they did not feel particularly threatened. Security is unobtrusive during training sessions, and players come and go without bodyguards. Apart from that ominous phone call to Mr. Chitiva, players said they had experienced nothing more damaging than a single stolen car, a relatively minor nuisance given the circumstances.
After a bloody February, killings here are down from an average of 10 a day to about one a day as 2,000 federal police officers and 5,000 soldiers stream into Juarez, Mayor Reyes said.
''Probably some drug dealers come to the games, but if they do, it's to have fun, not to do bad to anyone,'' said Jesus Rodriguez, a sociologist and journalist in Juarez. ''Soccer is neutral, like a treaty between the good and the bad.''
Before Sunday's game, three candles were lit in the locker room at shrines to Our Lady of Guadalupe, a revered 16th century depiction of the Virgin Mary. The players gathered in a circle as a priest led a prayer, then began to hug one another and shout, ''Let's go.''
A victory against Tigres of Monterrey was considered vital. Indios is seeking to avoid demotion from the 18-team division after its rookie season. The club could be worth $30 million in the top flight, but only $1 million in a lesser division after a loss of television money, sponsorships and prestige, Mr. Ibarra said. And there would be a psychic cost, too.
''Indios is hope and celebration,'' he said. To be demoted at season's end in May ''might bring an ugly depression.''
No amount of prayer, though, seemed sufficient as Indios trailed, 2-0, by halftime. Spirits lifted considerably after a late rally rescued a 2-2 tie. It was not a victory, but it was also not a defeat.
''The way we started, a tie is O.K.,'' Mayor Reyes said. ''The restaurants will be full. The merchants will be happy.''
He left the stadium with six security guards, but stopped outside to shake hands and pose for pictures with relieved Indios fans.
''Life is pretty normal,'' he said. ''There are threats and they are real. We have to be careful. But I'm going to go about my business. I won't be a slave in my city.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The municipal police providing security for an Indios game at Olimpico Benito Juarez Stadium. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE BERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (91%); SPORTS FANS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (88%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); HISTORY (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); CARTELS (56%); WRESTLING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



747 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1773 words

HEADLINE: When the Gallery Is a Classroom

BYLINE: By DOROTHY SPEARS

 BODY:
FOR years, with school budgets declining in so many American cities, museums have provided a parallel universe for learning. Now, with the Obama administration poised to support arts education with increased financing, museums nationwide are eager to align themselves with those efforts.
At the Oakland Museum in California, for example, where the collection spans art, history, the natural sciences and other disciplines, educators are showing schoolchildren how objects on exhibit are connected to their lives.
''We're moving away from the authoritarian voice of a museum,'' said Lori Fogarty, the museum's director. ''We're taking the approach that everyone's perspective is valid,'' by providing a vibrant, intellectually rich -- and safe -- destination for young people from the local community. 
One special night, the museum made way for visitors who rode up on customized skateboards and bikes, clad in fashions made from environmentally sustainable materials -- recycled curtain lace, old shirts, soda-can tabs, even violin parts. Breezing through the opening of ''Birth of Cool,'' an exhibit of mid-20th-century fashion, music, art and architecture last May, 500 high school students then mingled in its companion show, ''Cool Remixed,'' which presented not only their artwork but also their energetic fashion responses to the question, ''What is cool today?''
''The museum belonged to them,'' Ms. Fogarty said, referring to the students who thronged the party for the dual shows. The event's promotion relied heavily on blogs, Facebook postings, text-messaging and good old word of mouth, Ms. Fogarty said. ''We're talking about a very diverse urban setting,'' Ms. Fogarty said, ''where kids and families are not accustomed to coming to a museum.'' By creating an environment that's as warm and open as possible, she said, ''We're saying, 'You can be a part of that.' ''
In this spirit of creating a community gathering place, the High Museum of Art in Atlanta has developed an after-school program for third to fifth graders. ''Two days a week the kids come to us, and two days a week we go to them,'' said Pat Rodewald, director of education at the museum. ''Often both parents are working, which is why the kids are staying.'' The two-to-four-week program, which tries to reinforce what the children are learning at school, culminates in an exhibit of their artwork.
At a recent reception for a student show, Ms. Rodewald said: ''One little boy walked right up to me and gave me a hug. Then he said, 'Can I give you a tour?' ''
In Miami, where the 2000 census found that 51 percent of the population was foreign born and that 68 percent of families spoke a language other than English at home, Terence Riley, director of the Miami Art Museum, has connected the diverse community to a building project that has yet to break ground.
''Since building is such a big part of Miami,'' Mr. Riley said, ''we thought, why not have the design of the new museum and the drawing up of building plans be part of education, and bring that into classrooms?''
A trained architect, Mr. Riley established an educational program, Brick by Brick, now in its second year, that connects artists, designers and educators with 40 middle school and high school students from four local community centers.
Although the program began before Barack Obama called for building bridges to connect diverse populations, Mr. Riley said: ''If President Obama was here right now, I would tell him I grew up in a town of 18,000. Everybody was white. Virtually everybody was Christian. And although I still look back very fondly at Woodstock, Ill., Miami looks a lot more like the future. It's wonderfully diverse. And there are many different perspectives.''
Using computers from nearby youth centers and laptops, cameras and video equipment provided by the museum, students in the program have been asked to consider their neighborhood as a design problem.
After recording the buildings and billboards in the area, students loaded their images and video into the computers. With help from local artists, designers and educators, they created facades -- from the garish to the subtle -- for their neighborhoods' buildings and billboards, learning not only what blends in, or stands out, in urban environments, but also how these surfaces offer a kind of urban skin that can be customized or improved.
The students served by Brick by Brick, which is financed by the Heckscher Foundation for Children and J. P. Morgan Chase, are typically from difficult neighborhoods, Mr. Riley said.''This program is about their having a certain amount of control,'' he said. ''Through design we're trying to show them that their neighborhoods are not irredeemable, that they can improve.''
An exhibit of the students' designs, as well as the three-dimensional computer models of these neighborhoods rendered in miniature, is being planned for the spring. In the meantime, young people from the four local communities are invited to share their experiences, or post their artwork and stories and other related links, on a museum blog, mambxb.blogspot.com.
While the Miami museum is busy building bridges to local schoolchildren, the Cleveland Museum of Art is engaged in arts education programming geared to increasing its transparency.
''Obama wants to make his government transparent,'' said Marjorie Williams, director of education and public programming. ''That concept is really driving what we're doing here.''
The museum's Lifelong Learning Center, scheduled to open in 2012, will be just off the main entrance, she said. This location, and an abundance of glass in the architecture, are intended to enhance the center's main purpose: offering a behind-the-scenes study of museum activities, she said.
In the 10,000-square-foot center, interactive equipment will enable classes and families to experience how exhibits are assembled and organized, and how collections are maintained. By accessing the museum's collections on a computer, visitors will be able to curate virtual exhibits of their favorite artworks and historical objects, projecting images of their selections on the center's walls. ''We want to remove all the mystery about what happens in a museum,'' Ms. Williams said.
The museum has already been beaming its collections and educators into school classrooms through live videoconferencing equipment. In 2008 alone, Ms. Williams said, the museum's Distance Learning Program reached more than 28,000 students, from Cleveland to the remote village of Wildwood in Alberta.
Most museum administrators agree that arts education is essential for encouraging children to think creatively. Robert Lynch, president and chief executive of Americans for the Arts, an advocacy group, and a member of Mr. Obama's national arts policy committee, said: ''In order for Americans to remain competitive in the global economy, we have to make sure that our kids are getting meaningful arts education.''
Still, school classrooms have suffered from repeated cuts to education. And given the current economic climate, financing for kindergarten through 12th-grade arts education programs in city schools is endangered.
In the meantime, the Phillips Collection in Washington has embraced what it sees as the very backbone of arts education: local schoolteachers.
When an exhibit organized by the museum, ''The Great American Epic: Jacob Lawrence's Migration Series,'' went on a national tour in 2007, Susan Wright, director of education at Phillips, said she saw a great opportunity.
She and her staff contacted teachers from schools within easy traveling distance of the museums where the exhibit was on view. ''We've got this nationally traveling art exhibition,'' she said she told them. ''We want to work with your community and your students.''
Offering interested teachers stipends to support their research, members of the museum staff helped them create lesson plans about ''The Migration Series,'' Mr. Lawrence's colorful 60-panel cycle from 1941 that depicts the historic flight of more than six million African-Americans from impoverished communities in the rural South to cities in the North.
''Migration is a continuing reality in America,'' Ms. Wright said, adding: ''We are a country made up of immigrants; we really tried to generate enthusiasm and encourage teachers to take risks by pushing the boundaries of their curriculum. Then we tried to show them how making a difference in their curriculum could have an impact nationally.''
At a follow-up forum in Washington, teachers and other educators described how the traveling exhibit was used in multiple disciplines, from social studies to language arts. ''A second-grade teacher from Texas had never used art in the classroom before,'' Ms. Wright said. ''That was really powerful.''
In spite of these efforts, however, Ms. Wright said teacher support of arts education had been seriously eroded by the priorities of the No Child Left Behind Act. At the Phillips, for example, programs virtually grind to a halt during the two-month drilling period when children prepare for tests, she said.
''There's such pressure on teachers now,'' she said. ''If their students don't perform well on tests, they worry about losing their jobs.'' In taking such a narrow view toward education, she said, ''No Child Left Behind is not preparing students for their role in 21st-century society.''
A spokesman at the federal Department of Education said it was too early to know how a reframed -- and renamed -- No Child Left Behind Act would affect K-12 arts education. Referring to the secretary of education, Arne Duncan, the spokesman said, ''Secretary Duncan has opinions based on his longtime experience as a superintendent, but he wants to speak to people in the field before he develops a plan for N.C.L.B.''
And while museum directors remain hopeful, they also want their accomplishments recognized.
''It's just shocking to me,'' said Ms. Fogarty, referring to an amendment, proposed last month by Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, that grouped museums with golf courses and casinos as being similarly nonessential and thus not eligible for money in the recovery package. (The approved package ultimately preserved a $50 million allocation to the National Endowment for the Arts and eliminated the language that excluded museums.)
''The Obama platform mentions the impact arts can have on creative thinking,'' she said. ''But there still seems to be this limited understanding of the role museums play in this. We are schools if we're providing for schools. I know many museums that have thousands of kids coming through their doors every day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ENGAGED: Students from Woodson Elementary School in Atlanta examine Antoine-Louis Barye's ''Lion and Serpent'' at the High Museum.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F1)
LEARNING MODES: In Miami, students tackle computer graphics, above, with Dinorah de Jesus Rodriguez of the Miami Art Museum, while in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., left, a class watches a lecture from the Cleveland Museum of Art. In Atlanta, students take in ancient pitchers at the High Museum of Art.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CINDY KARP FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CLEVELAND MUSEUM OF ART)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); HISTORY (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); CITIES (78%); ART HISTORY (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (69%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



748 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Secretary Facing a Defining Moment

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- All three of President Obama's top economic advisers were on message when they appeared Sunday on separate television talk shows. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, they said, had concluded, based on lawyers' advice, that he could not stop the $165 million in bonuses that the American International Group was even then doling out to hundreds of employees.
But when Mr. Geithner and other officials met at the White House that night, the president's political advisers -- who had agreed to the day's message -- decided the growing outcry left Mr. Obama no choice but to publicly second-guess his Treasury secretary. 
The next morning on camera, the president said he had directed Mr. Geithner to find a legal way ''to block these bonuses and make the American taxpayers whole.''
Thus began perhaps the worst week in a string of bad weeks for the Treasury secretary. The mixed messages on A.I.G. gave further ammunition to critics who had begun questioning Mr. Geithner's credibility as the administration's point man on the economy, an essential commodity if he is to help restore consumer confidence.
Fair or not, questions about why Mr. Geithner did not know sooner about the A.I.G. bonuses and act to stop them threaten to overwhelm his achievements and undermine Mr. Obama's overall economic agenda. Edward M. Liddy, chief executive of A.I.G., told Congress on Wednesday that he generally deals with Fed officials, figuring they would keep Treasury informed.
The controversy comes as Mr. Geithner is about to announce details of the restructured bank rescue program, and it clouds prospects for more rescue funds that the administration is all but certain to need.
Mr. Geithner's once-heralded credentials with Wall Street were already marred by false starts in revamping the Bush administration's bank rescue program, even as his perceived closeness to financiers -- he is the former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York -- and unease with populist politics left Main Street skeptical.
On Wednesday, a junior Republican in Congress and some traders on Wall Street went so far as to call for him to quit or be fired. The Republican leader of the House, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, told a conservative talk-radio host that the secretary is ''on thin ice.''
But Mr. Geithner's boss, the president, interjected a vote of ''complete confidence.''
''Tim Geithner didn't draft these contracts with A.I.G.,'' Mr. Obama told reporters as he left for California on Wednesday. ''There has never been a secretary of the Treasury, except maybe Alexander Hamilton right after the Revolutionary War, who's had to deal with the multiplicity of issues that Secretary Geithner is having to deal with -- all at the same time.''
''He is making all the right moves in terms of playing a bad hand,'' the president continued. ''And what we need to be doing is making sure that we are providing him the support that he needs.''
Mr. Geithner is shouldering more crises on his slight frame than most Treasury secretaries ever have. And he is doing so without the usual complement of Treasury assistants because of administration delays in vetting potential nominees -- a consequence in part of its efforts to avoid embarrassments like the disclosures of Mr. Geithner's past tax lapses.
Since before his confirmation in late January, Mr. Geithner has juggled a crushing workload: overhauling the Bush administration's discredited financial bailout program; helping with Mr. Obama's nearly $800 billion economic stimulus plan; and managing the government effort to salvage the auto industry.
Mr. Geithner is now fashioning a new federal regulatory structure for the financial industry to replace the one that failed. He has developed a housing program that aims to avert up to nine million more foreclosures, and programs for getting credit flowing to small businesses and consumers as well as the major financial giants.
At 47, the same age as the president, Mr. Geithner works out at 5:30 a.m., gets to his desk by 6:30 and leaves 15 hours later.
On Tuesday last week, as he prepared for a meeting in London of the finance ministers of the Group of 20 nations, Mr. Geithner learned that A.I.G. by Sunday would send out the bonuses to employees at its financial products unit, which developed the risky derivatives now blamed for the global credit crisis.
With few senior political appointees on hand, the word came from one of the numerous career civil servants who keep the Treasury functioning through changes of administration, according to an official.
Mr. Geithner consulted lawyers. They told him the government could not override the contracts that the insurance conglomerate had signed in early 2008, when its financial products unit was fast losing money.
On Wednesday evening, Mr. Geithner called Mr. Liddy, and demanded that he renegotiate payments. The next morning, Mr. Geithner informed White House advisers. Later that day a senior adviser, David Axelrod, informed the president.
On Friday, Mr. Liddy said he could not block the bonuses; he did agree to reduce executive bonuses set for July 15 and Sept. 15. With Mr. Geithner in London, Treasury officials tried to manage the potential criticism by leaking word to news media on Saturday. On Sunday, the economic advisers went on TV.
The A.I.G. tempest has been especially explosive for Mr. Geithner because, as president of the New York Fed, he was the one administration official who had been involved in the Bush-era bailouts.
Once A.I.G. was under the Fed's control, its compensation plans hardly came up, according to officials. In December, an initial $55 million in bonuses went out with hardly a stir.
Administration officials Mr. Geithner's instincts are that government should not dictate compensation issues to businesses. As Treasury secretary, however, Mr. Geithner since has developed executive compensation limits, which Congress in turn toughened.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Timothy F. Geithner finds his plate is more than full. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (63%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); EDWARD M LIDDY (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



749 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2044 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
International
CHINESE CITY FIGHTS FRUGALITY WITH $30 SHOPPING VOUCHERS
Since January, more than a fifth of the five million residents of the Hangzhou area in China have received shopping vouchers worth nearly $30 apiece. Hundreds of thousands more will be issued soon. Local officials hope the coupons will stimulate buying and avert the worst of an economic downturn that has eviscerated factory after factory in the city. PAGE A6
A SOLDIER CARRIES GUINEA'S HOPES
The young, untested soldier, who seized power along with a group of junior officers after the death of Guinea's longtime president, has been enthusiastically welcomed by many people in Guinea. Capt. Moussa Dadis Camara's warm reception is a testament to just how desperate for change Guinea's people have become. PAGE A6 
Guilty Pleas in Austria Dungeon Case A6
OBAMA SEEKS BIGGER AFGHAN FORCE
President Obama and his advisers have set a goal to more than double the size of Afghanistan's security forces in an effort to fill a void left by the weak central government and do more to promote stability in the country, according to senior administration and Pentagon officials. PAGE A8
IRAQ WEIGHS OIL AND GAS INCENTIVES
To encourage a badly needed increase in its oil production, the Iraqi government is considering new incentives for foreign companies, including majority stakes in joint ventures, to develop the country's huge oil and gas fields, Iraqi officials said. PAGE A8
U.S. Envoy Is Cleared of Arms Fraud A8
IN RAPE CASE, ACCUSER BACKTRACKS
A Filipino woman who won the conviction of a Marine for raping her in 2005 in a contentious yearlong case that strained Philippine-American relations now says she has doubts, and might have been ''too friendly'' and made him think she was willing to have sex . PAGE A11
Case Against A.N.C. Leader A11
CROATIA COURTS OLD ENEMY
In a sign that the global financial crisis has hit the Adriatic, Croatia is inviting its former adversaries to come and see the sights. For the first time since Serbian and Montenegrin forces besieged Dubrovnik, Croatia, in 1991, business people there are publicly appealing to Serbian tourists to help rescue the economy. PAGE A12
Madrid Journal
Matador Wins Prize, Not Popularity
Francisco Rivera Ordonez is one of Spain's best-known toreros. He is a wealthy scion of the country's most illustrious bullfighting family. His handsome features regularly grace glossy magazines. But judging by the uproar over his receipt of a coveted bullfighting prize, Mr. Ordonez apparently lacks one vital quality: talent. PAGE A9
NATIONAL
Saginaw Journal
Habitat for Humanity
Adds Demolition to Its Mission
Habitat for Humanity volunteers will soon demolish two vacant houses a week in Saginaw, Mich., as part of an agreement with the city. The shift away from the group's long-held aim of constructing houses for those in need is a sign of the times in the shrinking city, and it offers a glimpse of what neighborhoods with many foreclosed homes in many cities may soon face. PAGE A14
'07 BIRTHS BREAK BOOM RECORD
More babies were born in the United States in 2007 than in any other year in American history, according to data from the National Center for Health Statistics. The 4,317,000 births edged out the figure for 1957, at the height of the baby boom. PAGE A14
RACE GAP IN HEART FAILURES
Black adults developed heart failure at a rate of 20 times higher than whites, even dying of it decades before the condition typically strikes whites, researchers reported. Page A15
CALL FOR INCREASE IN INCOME TAX
Facing the worst fiscal crisis in generations, Gov. Patrick J. Quinn of Illinois called for a significant increase in the income tax to close a record state budget deficit. Page A15
PROSTITUTION RING IN HOUSTON
A young Houston couple are out on bail of $5,000 each after being charged with running a prostitution ring that, court documents said, catered to a clientele that included businessmen, doctors and sports figures. PAGE A16
COMPUTER EXPERTS HUNT WORM
An extraordinary behind-the-scenes struggle is taking place between computer security groups around the world and the brazen author of a malicious software program called Conficker. PAGE A17
MILITARY TO END TOUR EXTENSION
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said that he would all but eliminate an unpopular practice that has prevented tens of thousands of active-duty soldiers and reservists from leaving the military on time if they were scheduled to deploy to Iraq or Afghanistan. PAGE A20
OBITUARIES
MILLARD KAUFMAN, 92
The writer of two Oscar-nominated screenplays, ''Take the High Ground!'' and ''Bad Day at Black Rock,'' he helped create the cartoon character Mr. Magoo and made a belated debut as a novelist at 90. PAGE A21
New York
DRUMMER FALLS ON ST. PATRICK'S DAY, BUT BAND PLAYS ON IN HIS HONOR
Steven Dunne, 59, a retired Bronx court officer, died of a heart attack after collapsing on the St. Patrick's Day parade route, an hour after his band started marching and 11 blocks before the parade's end point. But the band continued, and friends gathered at a pub later to remember the man they called Stevie. PAGE A23
Business
I.B.M. REPORTED TO BE IN TALKS TO BUY SUN MICROSYSTEMS
I.B.M. is in talks to buy Sun Microsystems in a deal valued at nearly $7 billion, a person with knowledge of the negotiations said. The proposed merger would be a major consolidation in the market for corporate server computers, and one that could set off an antitrust challenge. PAGE B1
State of the Art
A Voice in Your Ear Reading Your Mail
David Pogue reviews the iLane, a dashboard-mounted box that reads your e-mail messages aloud while you drive. ''It's ingenious, polished and efficient -- and at $600 plus $8 a month, it had better be,'' he writes. PAGE B1
Breakingviews.com B2
U.S. EXTENDS INQUIRY OF TAX FRAUD
Federal authorities have widened their criminal investigation into UBS concerning offshore tax fraud to include independent lawyers and accountants from Switzerland and the United States who worked with the bank, according to people briefed on the matter. PAGE B3
Rise in Consumer Prices B3
Valero Energy to Buy Ethanol Plants B3
Advertising
'We're Still Here,' a Saturn Ad Says
For the first time since the financial difficulties of General Motors began threatening the company's existence, a G.M. division, Saturn, will run advertising that addresses the effects of the precarious situation. The campaign is intended to restore consumer confidence in the brand. PAGE B7
Entrepreneurial Edge
Cash Cards Flourishing
Three small companies that deal in prepaid cash cards -- the Green Dot Corporation, the NetSpend Corporation and nFinanSe Inc. -- have watched the market for their product grow as the economy's troubles have deepened. PAGE B9
Bank of Japan to Buy More Bonds B9
Forecast of China's Growth Is Cut B10
Sports
FOR THE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT, SEPARATE TREATMENT IS NOT EQUAL
The women's N.C.A.A. tournament is treated like leftovers, Jere Longman writes. That's too bad; they have a great product to sell. But the women's tournament is so adamantly separated from the men's, that it becomes marginalized. Analysis. PAGE B13
YANKEE HERO NEEDS HEART SURGERY
Aaron Boone, whose extra-inning home-run against the Red Sox vaulted the Yankees into the 2003 World Series, said his career might be over after learning he needs open-heart surgery to fix a problem with his aorta and aortic valve. PAGE B13
Arts
STATES SUBSIDIZE FILMS,
But Not for a Theater Near You
States, like Michigan, have been offering filmmakers subsidies in an effort to increase employment. But there has been a problem. With rare exceptions, the subsidized films do not make it into theaters. Page C1
Abroad
The Voice of Prayer on Stage
The Muslim call to prayer, or muezzin, is usually just a voice. But a new play in Berlin called ''Radio Muezzin,'' about these integral parts of Islamic daily life a in the city of Cairo, gives a face to the men behind that distinctive cry, and a current plan in Cairo's government to standardize the custom. Page C1
Architecture
Housing Project or Monument?
A current debate in architecture is what to do with the remnants of postwar Brutalism, Nicolai Ouroussoff writes. Older architects see buildings that represent all the drawbacks of the welfare state, while younger ones view it as a welcome respite from the many saccharine structures of today. Page C1
STARZ ADDS ORIGINAL PROGRAMMING
The premium cable channel has realized that in order to stay current and competitive, it needs original shows. It will add three shows to its already respectable roster of feature films. Page C2
Music Review
The Precision of Anguish
As a man whose music is mired deep in the throes of tortured self-involvement, Ben Ratliff writes, Morrissey sure does travel with one heck of a tight band. In his recent show at the Wellmont Theater in Montclair, N.J., that perfect timing allowed him to tap into wherever he keeps that misery while everything else ran with the constancy of a metronome. Page C5
Home
HARDSHIP LEADS TO OPPORTUNITY WHEN MORTGAGE CRISIS HITS
''Home preservation'' -- the process of cleaning, securing and maintaining foreclosed properties for banks -- has become a busy and crowded industry. Home preservation companies have experienced an especially big boom in California and Florida, where the mortgage crisis has done heavy damage. PAGE D1
On Location
In From California, Packing Light
Back in New York after nearly two decades in Los Angeles, Billy Morrissette bought a loft in SoHo. The walls had been painted black. Mr. Morrissette decided he needed a little of that Southern California sunshine. PAGE D1
The Fix: Avoiding Frozen Lettuce D2
Currents D3
MIND THE HEARTH, EVEN IN SPRING
At last count, Sean MacPherson, a hotel and restaurant owner, had 27 fireplaces scattered among his properties. Mr. MacPherson goes shopping for fireplace accessories. PAGE D4
GARDEN Q. & A.: WINTER'S LAST GASP
Q. It looks as if it's finally getting warm, but could a late freeze or snow harm the foliage of my broad-leaf evergreens or damage my spring bulbs, especially if they've already come up? PAGE D6
Styles
VIEWS ON CHRIS BROWN CASE
Are Varied Among Teenagers
Across the Internet, teenagers have been talking about the pop singer Rihanna, 21, and the pop singer Chris Brown, 19, who is accused of beating her. Many parents and professionals have been alarmed by the number of teenagers defending Mr. Brown, often at Rihanna's expense. PAGE E1
Fitness
The First Lady of Biceps
Michelle Obama's toned biceps, triceps and shoulders have started a workout craze, as women try to replicate the first lady's arms. Trainers offer guidance. PAGE E1
Wife /Mother/Worker/Spy E2
Skin Deep
Doubts About Facials
Spas have long promoted routine facials as a requisite for radiant skin. But many dermatologists disagree. What, then, can consumers really expect from facials? PAGE E3
Physical Culture E8
Editorial
IT'S THE REGULATIONS, NOT THE REGULATOR
It has become a truism of the financial crisis that the system was prone to collapse because there was no single regulator to prevent a meltdown. Just one problem: the premise is false. The financial crisis is not just the result of a missing regulator, but also deregulatory zeal that eclipsed rules and regulations -- and the very will to regulate. Page A30
A SMALL AND DANGEROUS SPAT
President Obama has been warning that tit-for-tat protectionism could drive the world into an even worse economic slump than it is already in. He is right. Unfortunately, Congress doesn't seem to be listening. Page A30
THE WHALE ROAD NEARBY
There is a busy migration corridor just beyond the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge. But because of New York State's budget problems, the waters, at least to our ears, have gone silent. Page A30
Op-Ed
GAIL COLLINS
Angry. So very, very angry. Unable to speak due to mega-anger washing over every pore and fiber of my being. Anger is in. (Hope's so ... January.) Page A31
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
As we ignore traditional news media more and more and go online for ''news,'' we become our own editors. Heaven help us. Page A31
A PRISON OF WORDS
In an Op-Ed article, Noah Feldman, a Harvard law professor, writes that while President Obama has stricken the term ''enemy combatant'' from the war-on-terrorism lexicon, his policies may not be all that different from those of the Bush administration. Page A31

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BULLFIGHTING (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (86%); SEX OFFENSES (86%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (83%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (71%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); JOINT VENTURES (65%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%) ZHEJIANG, CHINA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) GUINEA (94%); CHINA (94%); CROATIA (93%); IRAQ (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SPAIN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); AUSTRIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



750 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 853 words

PERSON: Claude S. Brinegar 

HEADLINE: Claude S. Brinegar Is Dead at 82; Supported Mass Transit and Conrail

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Claude S. Brinegar, a transportation secretary in the Nixon and Ford administrations, who helped finance mass transit, restructure railroads in the Northeast and institute a national 55-mile-an-hour speed limit, died Friday in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 82.
He died of natural causes, his daughter Claudia Brinegar Berg- lund said. 
Mr. Brinegar (rhymes with vinegar) was a former Democrat who had never met President Richard M. Nixon when Nixon appointed him the nation's third secretary of transportation in December 1972, replacing John A. Volpe. The department began in 1967 with the mission of coordinating more than a dozen transportation agencies and developing transportation policies.
At the time of his appointment, Mr. Brinegar was a senior vice president with the Union Oil Company of California. Environmentalists were outraged, pointing to Union Oil's support of the successful fight in 1968 to defeat a proposition to require that 25 percent of California's gasoline taxes be used to pay for mass transit and reduce air pollution.
Mr. Brinegar responded that he had had no involvement in the political activities of Union Oil and intended to examine policies impartially. He had honed an analytical precision in earning a doctorate in economics. His bent for statistics made him a calm presence during the tangled transportation debates that raged during his two-year tenure.
His first crisis came in 1973, when the Penn Central Railroad threatened to shut down if it did not receive government aid. In the face of Congressional efforts to nationalize Penn Central and six other Northeastern railways, Mr. Brinegar led a task force in producing a plan to change their freight lines into a streamlined system known as Conrail.
Conrail steadily gained financial strength under federal control until 1987, when Washington transferred ownership to private hands in what was then the largest initial public stock offering in United States history.
As gasoline prices surged after the Arab oil embargo of October 1973, Mr. Brinegar used his oil industry expertise to help the Nixon administration develop policies on gasoline refining and marketing. He also led the way in formulating legislation for the nationwide 55-mile-an-hour speed limit, which President Nixon signed into law on Jan. 2, 1974. A 1995 law ended the federal speed limit, giving states the authority to regulate speed limits.
In December 1973, Mr. Brinegar signaled that the Nixon administration was willing to consider subsidies for mass transit from the Federal Highway Trust Fund, a reversal of policy. In December 1974, President Gerald R. Ford, who had succeeded Nixon that August, signed an $11.8 billion bill to aid mass transit. The 35-cent New York City subway fare was temporarily preserved.
Claude Brinegar was born as Claude Rawles Stout on Dec. 16, 1926, in Rockport, Calif., a lumber town. Ms. Berglund said that Claude's father had abandoned the family and that his mother had married Butler Brinegar, who traveled around northern California working for government agencies. Claude attended a different school each year. He legally changed his name in 1951.
After serving in the Army Air Forces from 1945 to 1947, Mr. Brinegar earned bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees from Stanford. He joined Union Oil in 1953, worked in ever-higher executive positions, and returned to the company after resigning as transportation secretary in December 1974.
Mr. Brinegar was one of the first members of Nixon's cabinet to criticize the Watergate break-in and subsequent cover-up, saying in a speech to the National Press Club in May 1974 that he was ''shocked, offended and discouraged'' by the ''mess.''
A year earlier, he had demanded the firing of Egil Krogh Jr. as undersecretary of transportation after Mr. Krogh admitted that he was a leader of the ''plumbers,'' who had burglarized the office of the psychiatrist of Daniel Ells- berg, a critic of the Vietnam War.
Mr. Brinegar's marriage to the former Elva Jackson ended in divorce in the early 1980s. His second wife, the former Mary Katharine Potter, died in 1993. He is survived by his wife, Karen Bartholomew, whom he married in 1995; three children from his first marriage, his daughters Claudia Berglund and Meredith Cross and his son, Thomas; and four grandchildren.
In 1980 and 1981, Mr. Brinegar headed President-elect Ronald Reagan's transportation transition team. In the 1990s, he returned to the Democratic Party.
He loved Mark Twain first editions and fast cars, and his board memberships included the International Speedway Corporation. His Porsche 911E Targa had been a pace car at the Daytona Speedway.
Some things were slower. In 1974, Mr. Brinegar announced a $50 million federal grant to help finance the $1.3 billion cost of the Second Avenue subway in Manhattan, which had been approved in 1929 at a projected cost of $98.9 million. A fiscal crisis halted construction the next year.
In November 2007, Mary E. Peters, transportation secretary, announced $1.3 billion in federal funds to help resume construction of the line. It is now expected to cost more than $16 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Claude S. Brinegar (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYRONE DUKES/THE NEW YORK TIMES, 1973) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); SPEED LIMITS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); LEGISLATION (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); NATIONALIZATION (74%); GASOLINE (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FUEL TAX (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (67%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (62%); AIR POLLUTION (52%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (50%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%)

RICHARD NIXON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



751 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Y.M.C.A. to Let Campers Choose What to Pay

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Anyone who has visited the Metropolitan Museum of Art is familiar with the pay-what-you-want concept that has obvious appeal to those unwilling or unable to handle full price. 
 Now that practice is coming to another cherished cultural tradition -- summer camp -- with a twist. The Y.M.C.A. of Greater New York will allow families to choose among three prices for its sleep-away camps in Huguenot, N.Y., this year, based on what they feel they can afford. No paperwork required. No questions asked.
 But the catch is that the lowest of the three rates ($978 for two weeks) is about what the camps cost last year ($990). So what the Y.M.C.A. is really offering is a chance for some families to pay more ($1,178 or $1,378).
 Jack Lund, chief executive of the Y.M.C.A. of Greater New York, acknowledged that the so-called honor code tuition system was essentially a way of asking wealthier families to subsidize poor and middle-income campers in tough economic times. But he said that higher operating costs and tough economic times meant that without the new system, camp would have cost more for everyone. And he said the tiered tuition would allow him to offer at least $400,000 in scholarships, $100,000 more than last year, to the camps, McAlister and Talcott, which serve more than 2,900 children, most of them from New York City.
 The American Camp Association, which represents more than 2,400 camps, said on Wednesday that camps were working with families to make the experience affordable, but it did not specifically know how many were experimenting with tiered tuition. It said that about three-quarters of its camps offered financial aid totaling $39 million annually.
 Mr. Lund said his organization had previously used a tiered-pricing system to make membership, swimming lessons and gym activities accessible to more families. Of 47 families already registered for camp this summer, he said, 16 elected to pay the highest tuition, 14 the middle and 17 the lowest. 
 ''Our philosophy is we fundamentally trust people,'' he said. ''We'd rather treat 99 percent of our camp families with respect and get beat by 1 percent than treat them all like we don't trust them.''
 Victoria Bruce, 40, a social worker and a single mother, said she chose the pay the middle price -- $2,356 for four weeks -- for her son Jabari, 12, even though she could have paid $400 less. Though she was tempted, Ms. Bruce said, she felt ''it was the right thing to do.''
 ''I'm sure they have overhead, counselors and food they have to supply,'' she said. ''I don't want to short the camp of the programs they have to offer.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); FAMILY (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (53%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



752 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Message From a Condemned Car Brand: 'We're Still Here'

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
FOR the first time since the financial difficulties of General Motors began threatening the company's existence, a G. M. division will run advertising that addresses the effects of the precarious situation.
 A campaign for the Saturn division of the General Motors Corporation, which is now under way, features dealers -- known in Saturn-speak as retailers -- talking frankly to consumers. The dealers urge potential car buyers not to be deterred from considering Saturn by the problems confronting G. M., the American automotive industry or the economy in general.
 Saturn sales have tumbled along with the sales of almost every car and truck brand since the financial crisis started in September. But the sales outlook for Saturn is being complicated by viability plans filed with the federal government in connection with requests from G. M. for loans to stave off bankruptcy.
 Saturn is among four marques, along with Hummer, Saab and Pontiac, that G. M. identifies as not part of its long-range plans for full brand lines. G. M. said last month that Saturn would be phased out by 2012, although the company would consider a plan from dealers or investors for a spinoff of the division. 
 ''We know what's going on in the market,'' said Kim McGill, director for advertising and promotions at Saturn in Detroit. ''We're not hiding behind it.''
 ''Regardless of what has happened with the industry, with General Motors,'' she added, ''we still need to communicate'' that Saturn continues to sell a ''full portfolio of products.''
 The campaign is intended to tackle the ''issue of trust'' that may arise in these circumstances, Ms. McGill said, as many marketers caught up in the economic turmoil find it necessary to reassure consumers.
 That is particularly true for Saturn's dealers, she added, because ''they're the face of Saturn in their local communities.''
 How frank is the conversation between dealers and consumers? One television commercial is titled ''We're Still Here.''
 ''Not a day goes by that someone doesn't ask me, 'What's going on with Saturn?' '' Todd Ingersoll, who owns two dealerships in Connecticut, in Danbury and Watertown, says in a television commercial.
 ''Let me tell you what's going on with Saturn,'' Mr. Ingersoll continues. ''We're still here.''
 In a second television commercial, Jim Smith, a Saturn retailer in the Dallas area, describes how he will ''come home from work, turn on the television and listen to these pundits talk about the fact that American car companies cannot build a car Americans want to buy.''
 ''Saturn builds cars that Americans want to buy,'' Mr. Smith declares. 
 The campaign, which also includes radio, newspaper and online ads, is risky. For one thing, it may raise red flags among car shoppers who were unaware of the clouds over the Saturn nameplate.
 ''We didn't want to alarm folks out there,'' Ms. McGill acknowledged, so for those unfamiliar with G. M.'s plans, the campaign asks them to keep Saturn in mind when they shop.
 That may be a large part of the population, she said, adding that research indicated ''less than 50 percent of people associate Saturn with G. M.''
 When G. M. introduced the Saturn brand in 1990, it was presented as an import-fighter with few if any ties to its parent. That was typified by the theme of the campaign from Hal Riney & Partners, the first agency for Saturn: ''A different kind of company, a different kind of car.'' The local Saturn dealers also played a major role in those early ads.
 It is no accident that the new campaign offers echoes of the introductory campaign by ''putting the dealers front and center,'' said Eric Hirshberg, co-president and chief creative officer at Deutsch L.A., the creative agency for Saturn.
 ''The heart and soul of this brand has always been how it treats people, which has always been activated at the local level,'' said Mr. Hirshberg, whose agency is the Los Angeles office of Deutsch, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 ''It's easy to dehumanize all this and think about it as a big, abstract problem,'' Mr. Hirshberg said of the economy. ''We thought, let's put a human face on this brand.''
 Another reason the campaign is risky is that its frank approach is at odds with the longtime inclination of automotive marketers to rarely see a sky that is not blue and almost never to refer to reality in their shiny, happy ad world.
 But ''it's something that is definitely needed'' if Saturn and G. M. are to try to recover, said Mike Jackson, a former vice president for marketing and advertising at General Motors.
 Mr. Jackson, who is now consulting for an agency, Sarkissian Mason, suggested that G. M. sponsor a plain-speaking campaign like Saturn's, promoting the corporate brand along with the divisional brands.
 ''I don't think Saturn is big enough to tell that story by itself,'' Mr. Jackson said. ''If there was a broader effort that G. M. put all its resources behind, clearly the competition would match it, and all of a sudden you'd have an industry focused on getting people to buy again.''
 Such a campaign could have the same stimulative effects, Mr. Jackson said, as the campaign that G. M. introduced after Sept. 11, 2001, which carried the theme ''Let's get America rolling.'' 
 One obstacle to that kind of campaign would be cost. As G. M.'s woes have worsened, the company has reduced ad spending. For instance, according to the Nielsen Company, Saturn spent $201.1 million to advertise in major media last year, down 31.1 percent from the $294.9 million spent in 2007. 
 ''We have ratcheted spending to be consistent with the market,'' Ms. McGill said. ''You don't want to spend a ton of money on a market not ready to respond.''
 Saturn sales last year totaled 155,486, according to G. M., down 26 percent from 210,047 in 2007. For the first two months of 2009, sales totaled 12,383, down 50.7 percent from 25,101 a year ago.
 The Saturn campaign, scheduled to run through early May, is being timed to arrive with spring, usually a good sales season.
 ''Absolutely, the timing couldn't be better,'' said Mr. Ingersoll, who appears in the ''We're still here'' commercial.
 Mr. Ingersoll said he hoped consumers might be in a buying mood ''now that we've gotten through winter.''
 ''If you're an auto dealer, you're a pretty optimistic guy,'' he added. ''I feel, hopefully, the worst is behind us.''
 The dealer in the second commercial, Mr. Smith, is a former pro football player with dealerships are in Irving, Lewisville and Plano, Tex. 
 There are plans for a third dealer commercial, featuring Karen Radley, a Saturn retailer in Fredericksburg, Va.
 Other agencies on the campaign are Digitas, part of the Publicis Groupe, for interactive ads, including a redesign of saturn.com, and the Starcom MediaVest Group division of Publicis, for media planning and buying.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Todd Ingersoll, a Connecticut Saturn dealer, in an ad.
 A campaign emphasizes that Saturn still does things differently from other car companies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (78%); RETAILERS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%)

COMPANY: SATURN CORP (92%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



753 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: A Symphony Triumphs Over Hard Times

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
If the musicians of the Philadelphia Orchestra are feeling demoralized, they certainly did not sound so on Tuesday night at Carnegie Hall. The conductor Charles Dutoit concluded the program with Dvorak's ''New World'' Symphony, and the orchestra sounded fabulous. 
 You might have expected the players to be reeling as the orchestra grapples with a leadership crisis, searching for a music director, a chief executive and a board chairman. In addition the institution has decided to confront the acoustical shortcomings of Verizon Hall, its home at the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts, which opened with such promise in 2001. It will undergo an expensive and disruptive renovation. All this as economic woes afflict arts institutions everywhere. 
 But rough times sometimes get people to focus on what matters. And, under Mr. Dutoit the Philadelphia musicians played this Dvorak staple as if nothing mattered more. This was not the most incisive or tautly structured performance. But Mr. Dutoit's restrained tempos allowed him to draw out the Wagnerian resonances of the music. The strings played with a richness that has long been a Philadelphia trademark. Yet there was uncanny clarity, despite the warmth and body of the string sound.
 The subdued chords that introduce the Largo movement evoked the sound world of ''Parsifal.'' Yet in the fleeting episode in which the music turns rustic with warbling winds, suddenly we were in the pastoral realm of ''Siegfried.'' Mr. Dutoit and his players brought bracing freshness to the finale in a performance of sweep and brilliance.
 The concert was part of Carnegie Hall's Honor! festival, a celebration of African-American cultural legacy organized by Jessye Norman, who was on hand to introduce the evening. The program opened with Darius Milhaud's compact ballet score ''La Creation du Monde'' from 1923, a work overtly influenced by black culture. 
 The creation story told here comes not from Genesis but from African folklore. And this Neo-Classical music, though French to its core, is suffused with the jazz that thrilled Milhaud during outings to Harlem nightclubs on a visit to New York. The section of the score in which the bluesy serenity of the gods is disrupted by cosmic chaos is especially delightful: the chaos is depicted through music of raucous, syncopated, jazzy boisterousness.
 Befitting the occasion, two black vocal soloists were featured in performances of orchestral song cycles. The rising tenor Russell Thomas brought his essentially lyric yet sizable voice to an urgent performance of George Walker's ''Lilacs,'' a 16-minute setting of phrases from Whitman's ''When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloomed,'' a piece that in 1996 made Mr. Walker the first black American to win the Pulitzer Prize for Music. 
 In comparison with the Milhaud, there is little about Mr. Walker's music that could be considered overtly African-American. This is a skillfully orchestrated, restless and brooding contemporary score, composed in an essentially atonal yet harmonically grounded idiom. The composer, agile at 86, bounded up the steps to the stage during the warm ovation.
 The bass-baritone Eric Owens was the earthy-voiced soloist in Mahler's ''Songs of a Wayfarer,'' performed in honor of the pioneering American contralto Marian Anderson, who sang the piece at Carnegie Hall in 1946 with the New York Philharmonic.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Charles Dutoit and the Philadelphia Orchestra at Carnegie Hall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARI MINTZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C1)
 Russell Thomas performing George Walker's ''Lilacs.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARI MINTZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); DANCE (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); FOLKLORE (68%); CREATIONISM (67%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (91%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



754 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ROOMS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: For Playing Solitaire or Saving the Economy

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

DATELINE: Say what you will about the Old Guard 

 BODY:
-- its members knew their way around a crisis. They also knew their way around the city's better interiors -- separate facts that may not be entirely unrelated. 
 One of last century's best, most crisis-filled interiors was J. P. Morgan's private study, now in the Morgan Library and Museum on Madison Avenue , which -- shortly after it was finished in 1906 -- was described as America's most beautiful single room. It was here that Morgan came, as Wall Street occupied him less, to spend long hours playing solitaire amid the Renaissance furnishings and the Circassian walnut doors. It was also here that, according to the history books, he single-handedly saved the economy during the Panic of 1907.
 ''There was a credit shortage, and the economic seas were rather squally,'' said Jean Strouse, author of ''Morgan: American Financier,'' who took a visitor on a tour of the study the other day. The situation was grim and growing grimmer: there were bank runs in Egypt, Japanese stocks had plunged, a massive earthquake had just struck San Francisco, and Morgan -- attending an Episcopal Church convention in Virginia -- watched the markets crumble with a distant, nervous eye. 
 In the first nine months of that year, American equities had already lost a quarter of their value. Then, in mid-October, an ill-advised attempt by a rich Montanan to corner the copper market failed. The ensuing panic spread like a contagion, Ms. Strouse said: Trust companies (the unregulated hedge funds of the day) began to topple; the stock exchange nearly closed for lack of capital; Moore & Schley, a brokerage firm, was in danger of collapsing -- sound familiar? -- from too much leveraged debt; the city itself could barely make its payroll and faced the threat of going broke.
 Enter Morgan, then 70, who took matters into his own hands, as President Theodore Roosevelt was off shooting game in the Louisiana canebrakes. On Saturday, Nov. 2, he gathered top men from New York's banks and trusts in his study, there among the smoky Flemish masters and the crimson damask walls.
 He demanded they come up with $25 million (how quaint) to bail out their beleaguered financial brethren. And at nearly 4 a.m., Benjamin Strong, one of his top lieutenants, went to give Morgan a report -- he was in another study -- then tried to leave the building . ''That was the dramatic moment,'' Ms. Strouse said, ''when he realized that Morgan had locked the doors.'' 
 There are several ways to consider this event -- none of which shine brightly on the present. The economy was eventually ''saved'' that night, and its longest-term effect was the creation, six years later, of the Federal Reserve Bank by President Woodrow Wilson. But the days of locked doors and single-handed rescue plans were numbered: Alan Greenspan could do it when Long Term Capital Management collapsed in 1998, but the stakes have grown too large, the balance sheets too toxic, for even Warren E. Buffett and his billions to step in and plug what is known to be a multitrillion-dollar hole.
 The night in Morgan's study also says some unkind things about the democratic process -- which, despite its reputation, often gets mired in a crisis. Rule by plutocrats arrives with certain risks. But absent from them is the risk of things not getting done.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: J. P. Morgan's private study at the Morgan Library and Museum in Manhattan. In 1907, Morgan called New York's top bankers to his study for an emergency meeting aimed at rescuing the nation's foundering financial system from collapse.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (78%); HISTORY (77%); WRITERS (76%); LIBRARIES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); COPPER MARKETS (64%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (55%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



755 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: States Underwrite Films, Some in Narrowest Release

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Andrew van den Houten, a producer and director, made his movie ''Offspring,'' about a baby-hungry cannibal clan, with a boost from the taxpayers of Michigan. 
 Now comes the hard part: getting people to watch it.
 ''We haven't had one of our films get major theatrical release,'' said Mr. van den Houten, whose Moderncine company has produced five movies mostly for horror fans, who can find them on video or at genre festivals like Toronto After Dark. This time around he is happy to have landed ''Offspring,'' which cost roughly $1 million -- 35 percent picked up by the state -- with Grindstone Entertainment Group and its Ghost House Underground direct-to-video line.
 So it goes with a growing number of subsidy films made in Michigan and elsewhere around the country. They may not be coming to a theater near you.
 Under an unusually aggressive program of state film incentives that began in April, nearly two dozen feature-length movies (in addition to short films, documentaries and television shows) were shot in Michigan last year with public support that can reach 42 percent of a movie's cost, the largest such incentive offered in the United States. 
 The idea is to create employment in that economically depressed state. The ploy was recently matched by California, which devised a film credit of its own to compete with incentives now offered by three dozen states, including New Mexico, New York and Louisiana.
 The first round of Michigan credits cost that state's taxpayers about $48 million in 2008, while generating about $53.8 million in new employment income, and the equivalent of 1,102 full-time jobs, according to a report last month by the Center for Economic Analysis at Michigan State University.
 But only a handful of pictures shot with the subsidy have secured theatrical distribution. The shining stars are Clint Eastwood's ''Gran Torino,'' a Michigan-backed movie that was released by Warner Brothers in December, and ''Youth in Revolt,'' which was directed by Miguel Arteta, stars Michael Cera, and is scheduled for release by the Dimension Films unit of the Weinstein Company next fall.
 The rest, by and large, are pointed toward festivals, video stores and pay-per-view services -- if that. 
 ''We're waiting for rebate money to finish the film,'' said Leigh Jones, a producer of ''Red & Blue Marbles,'' referring to an expected payment from the state. The movie is about graduate students on a dying Earth who are debating whether to sell themselves into corporate slavery in return for a trip to Mars. 
 ''We'll be submitting to festivals,'' Ms. Jones said of her plan for attracting a distributor for the film, which she said was made for under $1 million.
 Whether government-subsidized films are ever seen by a significant audience may not matter much in the short run.
 ''What matters is that you maximize employment for residents in the state,'' said Eric Witt, chief of staff to the New Mexico governor, Bill Richardson, who began an extensive incentive program in his state shortly after taking office in 2003.
 Still, the audience has something to say about the sustainability of incentives. ''If you're making shoes and nobody's wearing them, it doesn't create a brand,'' said Mr. Witt, whose state has helped underwrite films as prominent as ''Terminator Salvation,'' a $200 million action epic set for release by Warner Brothers in May.
 Each state's experience with film subsidies has been different, and the mix of movies may change with time. In Michigan the sudden availability of a large incentive in a state with relatively little film infrastructure appears to have drawn a rush of projects that could be started quickly but had uncertain prospects.
 There, as elsewhere, officials are largely agnostic about a film's commercial potential when authorizing a credit.
 ''We're not going to say if you've got an independent film that isn't going to be released in a thousand theaters, we're not going to fund it,'' said Ken Droz, manager of the creative and communications department at the Michigan Film Office, which administers the state's credits.
 The state does consider a film's possible impact on tourism. It helps if Michigan looks attractive, even when it's doubling for Texas, as it did in ''Whip It!,'' a roller-derby romp that was directed by Drew Barrymore and does not yet have a distributor. 
 And Michigan does not underwrite pornography, an issue in which Mr. van den Houten became tangled, he said, when state officials initially balked at a screenplay, based on a novel by Jack Ketchum, that called for cannibal children to be ''completely nude.'' (The script was rewritten.)
 Otherwise it is up to the filmmakers to make sure that the citizens of Michigan, and other states like it, are not building the cinematic equivalent of a bridge to nowhere.
 More than a few producers are still figuring out what do with movies underwritten by Michigan last year.
 ''We have approached many distribution companies, and it's under review,'' said Lance Kawas, who produced and directed ''Street Boss,'' a crime drama that was shot in Saginaw and will be shown there at a premiere in coming weeks, whether any distributor picks up the movie or not.
 Michael Mendelsohn said his Patriot Pictures would try its luck at the film market in Cannes this spring with ''All's Faire in Love,'' a bawdy comedy set at the Michigan Renaissance Festival south of Flint, with Christina Ricci, Ann-Margret and Cedric the Entertainer in featured roles.
 Warren Zide, a Hollywood producer, has two Michigan-backed comedies, ''Demoted,'' about tire salesmen turned secretaries, and ''High School,'' about high school high jinks, almost ready to push. ''We plan to sell them to the studios,'' Mr. Zide said.
 ''We're looking around a little bit,'' said Eric Hendershot, a Utah-based writer, director and producer, speaking of distribution plans for his ''Horse Crazy 2: The Legend of Grizzly Mountain,'' a family film he shot last year mostly in Michigan, which doubled for locations in the West.
 Several filmmakers said they might soon return to Michigan for another picture, even while waiting for the first round to land.
 ''There are a couple we're looking at,'' said Gary Gilbert, a producer whose ''Miss January,'' also known as ''Meet Monica Velour,'' features Kim Cattrall in a story about an aging adult film star -- and is still in search of a distributor.
 Still, Mr. Gilbert said, it would not hurt to see some commercial validation for the first wave before anyone gets too deep in the next.
 ''If a ton of movies get made in Michigan, and the vast majority aren't getting distributed, somebody's not doing the right thing,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The producer and director Andrew van den Houten, left, with Tommy Nelson on the set of ''Offspring'' in Michigan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS CLARKE) (pg.C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (89%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); PAY PER VIEW (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (61%); THEATER (58%); SALES REBATES (57%)

COMPANY: WEINSTEIN CO LLC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%)

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARS (50%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



756 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Correction Appended 
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: The A.I.G. Outcry, Continued: Another Sampling

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''418 Got A.I.G. Bonuses; Outcry Grows in Capital'' (front page, March 18):
 As a retired lawyer, closely following the repeated references to the legal obstacles making it ''impossible'' to recover the bonuses (or ''retention payments'') paid out to top executives and employees of the American International Group who, in fact, seem to have been responsible for the losses incurred and that necessitated a United States taxpayer bailout, I keep searching in vain for a reference to a basic legal theory: unjust enrichment. 
 Can someone explain why that theory, and that cause of action, could not be invoked to recover totally unjustified payments made to people who not only did nothing to deserve or ''earn'' those payments, but who also contributed to the losses for which they are now holding the fruits of their failure? 
 I can't imagine a more unjust enrichment. What am I missing?
 David Griff Tarrytown, N.Y., March 18, 2009
 To the Editor:
 The paucity of good options to block A.I.G.'s bonus payments illustrates the folly of Washington's no-strings-attached approach to bailing out Wall Street. 
 By refusing to demand an ownership stake or to condition loans on any standard of good corporate governance, the government, in the name of avoiding ''socialism,'' has ended up abetting an unjust redistribution of wealth -- allowing A.I.G. insiders to loot their moribund company by paying compensation grossly disproportionate to contribution, while forcing taxpayers to cover the difference.
 Christopher Brown Charlottesville, Va., March 18, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Why have the bonuses contractually stipulated for A.I.G. executives been considered sacrosanct, and the health care coverage for General Motors auto workers, also contractual obligations, subject to ex post facto revision?
 G.M. workers earned their health care coverage through negotiations and wage deferrals. A.I.G. executives failed in their fiduciary responsibility to earn profits while managing risk. 
 Now that I am one of the reluctant new taxpayer-owners of A.I.G., I would like every single one of my executives who earned $1 million or more in bonuses in 2008 to explain to me what he or she did to deserve that extra money. I don't just want to know who met earnings targets; I also want to know how those targets were met, whether sound market fundamentals were followed, and what the ultimate cost to my bottom line was. 
 If these A.I.G. millionaires are truly the best and the brightest, they should be able to explain why. 
 Neil Chesanow Montvale, N.J., March 17, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''A.I.G.'s Bonus Blackmail,'' by Lawrence A. Cunningham (Op-Ed, March 18):
 With all the legal pundits commenting on ways to abrogate the A.I.G. contracts, one possibility seems to have gone unmentioned. A.I.G. could file for Chapter 11 reorganization -- it is certainly insolvent under any number of definitions -- and file together with that a plan of reorganization that eliminates, among other things, these compensation contracts.
 The doctrines of bankruptcy law could also provide, potentially, for a fairer way of resolving the problems of A.I.G.'s credit default swaps without destroying the world banking system, especially with the skilled guidance of Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, who would be A.I.G.'s largest creditor in reorganization.
 Thomas Jones New York, March 18, 2009
 To the Editor:
 For most of us, a bonus is something we get for doing good work for a profitable company. This is why there is so much justified outrage over executive bonus pay for companies like A.I.G. 
 The companies would be bankrupt if we hadn't bailed them out, so the bonuses are not for good performance or adding value to the company; quite the contrary in fact. These are the very executives whose actions brought financial ruin to their companies and in some measure to the economy as whole. 
 The companies are failing.
 They have failed and yet they are receiving ''retention bonuses''?
 David Pfeifle Seattle, March 18, 2009

CORRECTION-DATE: March 19, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The letter from Charlottesville, Va., about the outcry over the A.I.G. bonuses referred incorrectly to the government's role in the company. It does indeed have an ownership stake.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BONUS PAY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BAILOUTS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (71%); RISK MANAGEMENT (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); COMPANY PROFITS (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



757 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: FED WILL INJECT $1 TRILLION MORE TO AID ECONOMY

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve sharply stepped up its efforts to bolster the economy on Wednesday, announcing that it would pump an extra $1 trillion into the financial system by purchasing Treasury bonds and mortgage securities.
 Having already reduced the key interest rate it controls nearly to zero, the central bank has increasingly turned to alternatives like buying securities as a way of getting more dollars into the economy, a tactic that amounts to creating vast new sums of money out of thin air. But the moves on Wednesday were its biggest yet, almost doubling all of the Fed's measures in the last year. 
 The action makes the Fed a buyer of long-term government bonds rather than the short-term debt that it typically buys and sells to help control the money supply. 
 The idea was to encourage more economic activity by lowering interest rates, including those on home loans, and to help the financial system as it struggles under the crushing weight of bad loans and poor investments. 
 Investors responded with surprise and enthusiasm. The Dow Jones industrial average, which had been down about 50 points just before the announcement, jumped immediately and ended the day up almost 91 points at 7,486.58. Yields on long-term Treasury bonds dropped markedly, and analysts predicted that interest rates on fixed-rate mortgages would soon drop below 5 percent.
 But there were also clear indications that the Fed was taking risks that could dilute the value of the dollar and set the stage for future inflation. Gold prices rose $26.60 an ounce, hitting $942, a sign of declining confidence in the dollar. The dollar, which had been losing value in recent weeks to the euro and the yen, dropped sharply again on Wednesday.
 In its announcement, the central bank said that the United States remained in a severe recession and listed its continuing woes, from job losses and lost housing wealth to falling exports as a result of the worldwide economic slowdown.
 ''In these circumstances, the Federal Reserve will employ all available tools to promote economic recovery and to preserve price stability,'' the central bank said.
 As expected, policy makers decided to keep the Fed's benchmark interest rate on overnight loans in a range between zero and 0.25 percent. 
 But to the surprise of investors and analysts, the committee said it had decided to purchase an additional $750 billion worth of government-guaranteed mortgage-backed securities on top of the $500 billion that the Fed is already in the process of buying. 
 In addition, the Fed said it would buy up to $300 billion worth of longer-term Treasury securities over the next six months. That would tend to push down longer-term interest rates on all types of loans.
 All these measures would come in addition to what has already been an unprecedented expansion of lending by the Fed. The central bank also said it would probably expand the scope of a new program to finance consumer and business lending, which gets under way this week. 
 In effect, the central bank has been lending money to a wider and wider array of borrowers, and it has financed that lending by using its authority to create new money at will. 
 Since last September, the Fed's lending programs have roughly doubled the size of its balance sheet, to about $1.8 trillion, from $900 billion. The actions announced on Wednesday are likely to expand that to well over $3 trillion over the next year.
 Despite a trickle of encouraging data in the last few weeks, Fed officials were clearly still worried and in no mood to cut back on their emergency efforts.
 Fed policy makers sharply reduced their economic forecasts in January, predicting that the economy would continue to experience steep contractions for the first half of 2009, that unemployment could approach 9 percent by the end of the year and that there was at least a small risk of a drop in consumer prices like those that Japan experienced for nearly a decade.
 The Fed rarely buys long-term government bonds. The last occasion was nearly 50 years ago under different economic circumstances when it tried to reduce long-term interest rates while allowing short term rates to rise.
 Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, has been extremely cautious in recent weeks about predicting an end to the recession, saying that he hoped to see the start of a recovery later this year but warning that unemployment, a lagging indicator, would probably keep climbing until some time in 2010.
 In contrast to several recent Fed decisions, with the presidents of some regional Fed banks dissenting, the decision at Wednesday's meeting of the 10 members of the Federal Open Market Committee, the central bank's policy making group, was unanimous. 
 Jan Hatzius, chief economist at Goldman Sachs, said the Fed had adopted a ''kitchen sink'' strategy of throwing everything it had to jolt the economy out of its downward spiral.
 But while Mr. Hatzius applauded the decision, he cautioned that the central bank could not solve the economy's problems by expanding cheap money. 
 ''Even if the Fed could make interest rates negative, that wouldn't necessarily help,'' Mr. Hatzius said. ''We're in a deep recession mainly because the private sector, for a variety of reasons, has decided to save a lot more. You can have a zero interest rate, but if you just offer more money on top of the money that is already available, it doesn't do that much.''
 Fed officials have been wrestling for months with the fact that lenders remain unwilling to lend and borrowers are unwilling or unable to borrow. Even though the Fed has been creating money at the fastest rate in its history, much of that money has remained dormant. 
 The Fed's action is an expansion of its effort to bypass the private banking system and act as a lender in its own right. 
 The Fed and the Treasury are starting a joint venture this week called the Consumer and Business Lending Initiative in their latest effort to thaw the still-frozen credit markets. The program will start out with $200 billion in financing for consumer loans, small-business loans and some corporate purposes. 
 Fed officials have said they hope to expand the program next month, possibly to include the huge market for commercial mortgages, and both the Fed and Treasury hope the program will eventually provide up to $1 trillion in total financing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (67%); GOLD MARKETS (65%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



758 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: A New Ferry Terminal, the Same Fretful Commute

BYLINE: By JOEL STONINGTON

 BODY:
The glass walls were cleaned and workers were still mopping the floors and polishing the handrails as the first commuters stepped into the new Port Authority Ferry Terminal at the World Financial Center on Wednesday morning. 
 Except for officials from the Port Authority and New York Waterway, few people waited in the large glass-enclosed terminal. Commuters mostly got off the ferries and walked quickly toward the exit.
 ''It's nice, but the other one was fine,'' said Andrew Thompson, 33, who works for a Japanese equities company and has commuted to Manhattan from Hoboken, N.J., by ferry for six years. ''All this money. It's got a bathroom. That's the only benefit I see to it.'' 
 Mr. Thompson and other commuters said they were worried about the financial side of the ferries.
 ''It certainly took a long time to get going, but it's certainly very nice,'' said Pete Radke, 46, from Glen Rock, N.J. He works as a commodities trader at the New York Mercantile Exchange, which is just steps from the new terminal. He said he had noticed decreased ridership in the past few months and speculated that part of it had to do with futures pits that were closed at the mercantile exchange.
 ''A lot of people are now working from home and from offices in other places in New Jersey,'' he said. 
 He said he suspected that when the Goldman Sachs headquarters is finished, ridership will go up, but said he was worried about the ferries during the economic downturn. It did not matter to him that the new terminal was built.
 ''I'm a creature of habit who uses this means to get to work,'' he said.
 Dan Kohn, 35, who takes the ferry to New Jersey every morning, was there with his wife and had a 5-week-old son in a carrier on his chest. ''Hopefully they won't go out of business, but if they do, maybe the Port Authority will take them over,'' he said.
 Paul Goodman, chief executive of the BillyBey Ferry Company, which is operating and maintaining the terminal under a contract with the Port Authority, was there in the morning to watch the first ferries come in. He said ridership in the first two months of 2009 was down 10 percent from ridership in the first two months of 2008. He said the new terminal, which he said was at less than 50 percent capacity, was ''built for growth.''
 ''We have been profitable in the last couple of years so we have the reserves to weather the storm,'' he said.
 He said, though, that if ridership declined or even continued at current levels, ''it's not a prescription for long-term health.''
 The terminal's opening coincides with the news, reported in Crain's New York Business on Sunday, that New York Waterway may go bankrupt this year.
 Both BillyBey and New York Waterway, whose chief executive is Arthur Imperatore Sr., operate under the New York Waterway flag, and both will serve the downtown terminal. (BillyBey owns 15 of the vessels in the combined fleet of 34.) But Mr. Goodman emphasized that BillyBey, which draws most of its passengers from Hoboken, owns its own boats and runs its own routes. 
 ''All the financial issues will in no way lead to a disruption in services,'' Mr. Goodman said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The new ferry terminal at the World Financial Center, on the Hudson River at Vesey Street, opened to passengers on Wednesday.
 A ferry official who said the terminal was ''built for growth'' acknowledged that ridership had fallen 10 percent in the last year.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (91%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (72%); FUTURES (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (73%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



759 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices Rise, Easing Deflation Fear

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Consumer prices rose slightly for a second month in February, the government reported on Wednesday, calming fears that the economy was veering toward a chronic spiral of falling prices known as deflation.
 As retail and wholesale prices fell sharply in the last months of 2008, economists and some officials at the Federal Reserve said the risks of deflation had increased slightly. 
 But producer prices have increased in the first two months of the year. The Labor Department reported Wednesday that its Consumer Price Index rose 0.4 percent in February after a 0.3 percent rise in January. Excluding volatile food and energy prices, the so-called core price index rose 0.2 percent. 
 ''Worries about deflation can be set aside right now,'' said Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group. ''It's unlikely we would have seen inflation drop to negative levels for more than a year, given all the fiscal and monetary stimulus that's in the economy. The math just didn't work out.''
 Still, with the United States mired in one of the worst economic downturns since the Depression, economists said that reduced demand and lower consumer spending would probably keep downward pressure on prices. The Fed expects inflation from 0.3 percent to 1 percent this year as the economy searches for a bottom and unemployment swells.
 ''There is just so much excess capacity, so much underutilized labor, so many commodities that are not being tapped,'' Mr. Baumohl said.
 The Fed underlined that dim view of inflation Wednesday afternoon when it left the target rate untouched at a record low near zero percent. In a statement after a two-day meeting of the Open Market Committee, the Fed said it would buy up $1 trillion in mortgage-backed and government securities as it tries to jump-start lending markets and lift the sagging economy.
 ''In light of increasing economic slack here and abroad, the committee expects that inflation will remain subdued,'' the statement said. ''Moreover, the committee sees some risk that inflation could persist for a time below rates that best foster economic growth and price stability in the longer term.''
 Much of the increase in consumer prices stemmed from a 3.3 percent rise in energy prices and rises in the prices of clothing and new vehicles, the government reported. 
 Gasoline prices rose 8.3 percent after double-digit declines at the end of last year as oil prices crumbled from more than $145 a barrel to lows of about $33 a barrel. Crude oil has rebounded to around $50 a barrel since skidding to its recent lows. The average price of gasoline is $1.92 a gallon, down from $3.28 a year ago, according to AAA, the automobile club.
 The government's apparel index rose 1.3 percent, perhaps reflecting a rebound in prices from the deep discounts offered by desperate retailers during the holiday shopping season. Men's and boys' clothing prices rose 2.8 percent in February while women's and girls' clothing was 0.8 percent higher.
 But airline fares fell for a sixth month, declining 2.6 percent as airlines cut their flights, business travelers made fewer trips and leisure travelers scaled back. 
 On Tuesday, the government reported that its producer-price index rose 0.1 percent in February and that wholesale prices excluding food and energy were up 0.2 percent. 
 But the prices for goods farther down on the ladder of production fell for a seventh month, suggesting that lower prices will continue to ripple through the system for months. Some economists said the specter of deflation lingered.
 ''We continue to expect more disinflation through 2009,'' Goldman Sachs economists said in a note to clients. ''The output gap is already wide, and all but certain to get even wider. This will continue to put downward pressure on inflation and we think that deflation remains very much a risk; it just doesn't appear that it so is quite yet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brittany Pierce, right, a salesclerk, helping a customer at a clothing store in Saugus, Mass. Apparel contributed to a slight increase in consumer prices last month after a period of discounting.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ELISE AMENDOLA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Producer Prices: Index of finished goods prices, 1982 =100, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Labor Department) Chart details line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEFLATION (91%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); FOOD PRICES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (70%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



760 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Valero Energy, the Oil Refiner, Wins an Auction for 7 Ethanol Plants

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
Valero Energy, the country's largest independent refiner, said on Wednesday that it would buy seven ethanol plants from VeraSun Energy for $477 million, giving the biofuel industry a lift at a time when it is suffering from excess production capacity and falling gasoline consumption. 
 VeraSun, the nation's second-largest ethanol producer after Archer Daniels Midland, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection last fall. Valero's purchase signals important new support for a flagging industry from an unexpected quarter. In recent years, refiners have opposed Congressional mandates for refineries to blend increasing amounts of ethanol in gasoline, arguing that it made neither economic nor environmental sense.
 The Valero purchase of an ethanol plant is the first by a traditional refiner, pumping cash into the industry at a time of tight credit and removing a potent political opponent, at least in part. 
 Bill Day, a spokesman for Valero, said the purchase ''represents a cost savings and a recognition on Valero's part that ethanol is going to be part of the fuel mix going forward.''
 Valero competed with Archer Daniels Midland in an auction, and the purchase was approved at a Delaware bankruptcy hearing on Wednesday. Valero originally entered an agreement to buy five plants for $280 million last month, contingent on the auction. The price Valero paid for the plants -- in South Dakota, Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska and Indiana -- is a fraction of what it would cost to build new ones.
 ''It's a good deal for Valero because they have to have ethanol in their blend mandated by the federal government,'' said Chris Ruppel, an energy analyst at Execution, a Connecticut brokerage firm. ''Ethanol is still a lousy business, but if you can buy the plants for cents on the dollar, it looks a lot better as Washington is likely to keep mandated production targets.''
 VeraSun, like many ethanol companies, has suffered financially in recent months after committing to buy corn last year at high prices. Those prices have since dropped sharply. In the meantime, ethanol prices have declined along with gasoline since last summer.
 The ethanol industry is expected to produce about 10 billion gallons this year, leaving much of the industry's capacity of 12.5 billion gallons idle. 
 Only a year ago, ethanol appeared to be the transportation fuel of the future. Congress had mandated the doubling of corn ethanol use, to 15 billion gallons by 2015. Meanwhile, with gasoline prices soaring along with the cost of a barrel of oil, refiners were willing to blend cheaper ethanol into fuels to keep costs down at the pump.
 But now the slumping economy has brought down demand for gasoline, and prices at the pump have plummeted, giving refiners little incentive to use more ethanol than they are required to use.
 Furthermore, with ethanol blend levels limited at 10 percent for most auto fuels, declining gasoline consumption means less room in the market for the development of more advanced biofuels, like ethanol made from switchgrass and wood chips.
 Congress set a target of using 21 billion gallons of advanced biofuels by the year 2022, a goal some energy experts say will be difficult to reach unless the economy grows robustly over the next several years.
 The ethanol industry is now pressing the Obama administration to raise the 10 percent blend limit in most gasoline blends to as high as 15 percent to bolster demand for biofuels.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (95%); ALCOHOLS (94%); ETHANOL (94%); BIOFUELS (93%); BIOMASS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AUCTIONS (87%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); FUEL ADDITIVES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); CONSUMPTION (72%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); APPROVALS (66%)

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (93%); VALERO ENERGY CORP (92%); VERASUN ENERGY CORP (58%)

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (93%); VLO (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (93%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (93%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (93%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (93%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (93%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (93%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (93%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2865 CYCLIC ORGANIC CRUDES & INTERMEDIATES & ORGANIC DYES & PIGMENTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



761 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Homage to a Man and His Chocolate Factory

BYLINE: By DAVE CALDWELL

DATELINE: Hershey, Pa. 

 BODY:
 A HANDSOME $23.5 million museum, built of bricks that are roughly the color of Hershey bars, opened in January on Chocolate Avenue, beneath the streetlights shaped like Hershey's Kisses and down the street from the factory that Milton S. Hershey built in 1903 to make chocolate for the masses.
 Mr. Hershey was never one to shoo visitors from the town, which became known as Chocolate Town, U.S.A., after he built the factory, workers' homes and an amusement park on what had been acres of farmland. He was a businessman first, and visitors bought 5-cent Hershey bars, too. 
 Apparently, Mr. Hershey, who died in 1945, did not pay attention to how he fit into the story. There was a Hershey Museum, but it was in a hard-to-find, poorly lighted building, and the collection was mostly American Indian and Pennsylvania Dutch artifacts that had nothing to do with him.
 The new museum, called the Hershey Story, is an attempt by the M. S. Hershey Foundation, which he founded as a way to channel his fortune into good works, to put Mr. Hershey's tale of ingenuity, persistence and philanthropy into context -- not just for visitors, but also for those who have worked in the factory and lived in the community.
 ''Even though they know all the bits and pieces of the story, it hasn't been woven into one piece before,'' said Don Papson, interim director of the Hershey Story.
 Hershey, an unincorporated town of about 13,000 residents 15 miles east of Harrisburg, Pa., is widely known for Hersheypark, the amusement park Mr. Hershey built in 1907 for his workers and their families, and Chocolate World, the free, World's Fair-type ride that simulates the chocolate-making process. (The factory is closed to visitors.)
 More than a century after he built the factory, Mr. Hershey's empire is still vast and impressive, but it was as if the pages to his life story had been scattered all over town. The old museum included an exhibition called the Kisstory, which offered a short history of Mr. Hershey and his business, but there were more photos and artifacts in storage, said Amy Bischof, the museum's associate director.
 ''The overwhelming response we got was that people wanted to learn more about Hershey, the man and the town,'' she said.
 The new museum tries to cover all aspects of that story. The second floor, with 10,500 square feet of exhibit space, has five display rooms -- ''Failures to Fortunes,'' ''Sweet Innovations,'' ''Power of Promotion,'' ''Hershey Builds Hershey'' and ''A Living Legacy'' -- organized on a timeline, from distant past to present legacy.
 Mr. Hershey, who grew up on a farm in central Pennsylvania not far from the factory, tried to open confectioneries in Philadelphia and New York. He failed both times. He moved to Lancaster, Pa., where he opened the Lancaster Caramel Company and became successful. But he was intrigued by the potential of milk chocolate, which was then used primarily as a coating for other candies. He worked on less-expensive methods of making chocolate, so it could be sold to the masses.
 He sold the caramel company, bought nearby land amid dozens of dairy farms -- a source of milk for the milk chocolate -- and oversaw the construction of the factory. 
 He amassed a fortune because he developed a simple recipe for making chocolate and stayed true to it. He did not advertise his products (which once included chewing gum, soap made from cocoa butter and mulch from cocoa beans) on the radio; he believed in point-of-purchase advertising.
 His personal life is also a big part of the Hershey legacy.
 Tammy Winter, a guide in the new museum, says she is frequently asked about Milton's life with his wife, Catherine, whom he called Kitty. She could not have children, which inspired Mr. Hershey, as he is still known among some town residents today, to start the Hershey Industrial School for orphan boys. It is now the Milton Hershey School, a coeducational institution serving children in need. Kitty died in 1915 at the age of 44. 
 Although he thought he could sell anything, Mr. Hershey was a private and unassuming man. He did not keep a journal, Ms. Bischof said. But he established a big business that inspired loyalty among its workers.
 ''Some of them come here and can tell me names of all the people,'' Ms. Winter said, pointing to the black-and-white photos on the walls of the second-floor exhibition rooms.
 The museum also displays important tools of chocolate-making: a machine that wraps Hershey's Kisses and a device called a conche, which refines the cocoa, milk and sugar. Mr. Hershey bought his first conche at the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition, whose main hall was the inspiration for the first-floor lobby of the new museum.
 Also on the first floor is the Chocolate Lab, where visitors can learn to grind cocoa beans, then temper, mold and dip the chocolate (and eat it, too). Students can learn about where the beans come from and the economics of candy-making. (They can also fill out ''apprentice'' cards while touring the museum.)
 Next to the Chocolate Lab is the Countries of Origin Chocolate Tasting, which looks like a bar, with racks of shot glasses. For $8.95, visitors get six glasses filled with samples of warm chocolate -- thicker than regular hot chocolate -- from different countries. Each chocolate has a different texture, sweetness and flavor. 
 Ms. Bischof said museum officials hoped to attract 200,000 visitors in its first year, which is only 10 percent of the 2 million visitors to Hersheypark annually. But she and other museum workers have spotted a trend: Cafe Zooka, which is on the first floor and is named for Mr. Hershey's first chocolate sticks, has become a gathering spot for locals.
 ''It was such a departure from what they thought was going to be here,'' Mr. Papson, the museum's interim director, said of the local residents.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 20, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Museums section on Thursday about a museum in Hershey, Pa., devoted to the life and legacy of the founder of the Hershey Company, misstated the price of a chocolate tasting called Countries of Origin. It is $8.95, not $8.50. On April 1, the price will increase to $9.95.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SWEET: The Hershey Story, right, a new museum in Hershey, Pa., devoted to the king of chocolate. An candy case, above.
EXOTIC: Chocolate samples from six countries.
 MAKE YOUR OWN: Erin Szentsy, a visitor, at work in the new museum's Chocolate Lab, where chocolate is processed and, of course, tasted.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIM SHAFFER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); CONFECTIONERY (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); PHILANTHROPY (67%)

COMPANY: MARS INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



762 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M., Looking to Buy Sun, Sets Up a Software Strategy

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR and ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
I.B.M.'s interest in acquiring the server computer maker Sun Microsystems for nearly $7 billion may seem at first to be a reversal of its recent efforts to move away from the hardware business. 
 But analysts say there is more to Sun than servers, which are used in corporate data centers. They say its strengths in software, systems design and research make it an attractive target.
 The price tag being discussed by the companies works out to nearly $10 a share, a person with knowledge of the negotiations said on Wednesday. That is approximately twice Sun's closing price on Tuesday. Shares of Sun surged nearly 79 percent Wednesday on news of the negotiations, to close at $8.89. 
 I.B.M. has pared back its dependence on hardware, where profit gains have declined, while increasing its investment in higher-margin software and services businesses. It sold off its personal computer business to Lenovo of China in 2005, and its hard-disk drive unit to Hitachi of Japan in 2003.
 Sun has a solid share of the market for server computers used in corporate data centers, but it too has been trying to expand in more profitable businesses. While it is struggling financially today, the Silicon Valley company has long been a source of technological innovation. 
 Sun created both the Solaris operating system, a version of Unix, and Java, an Internet-era programming language and related software tools. Java is the teaching language in most of computer science, and software programs written in Java are widely used in things like data centers and cellphones.
 ''The technologies of greatest interest to I.B.M. are Java and Solaris, and those are notably not hardware technologies,'' said David M. Smith, an analyst at Gartner.
 I.B.M. uses Java extensively in its big software group, which trails only Microsoft in size. It has its own Java-based tools for software developers, called Eclipse, and at times it has clashed with Sun, potentially weakening the Java camp as an alternative to Microsoft's Windows software and tools.
 If it acquired Sun, I.B.M. ''would unify those warring groups and make for a stronger front against Microsoft,'' said Michael A. Cusumano, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management.
 Both I.B.M. and Sun boast sizable communities of third-party software developers who write programs using their technology. An estimated one million programmers use Sun's technology, while I.B.M.'s vast software business claims eight million. 
 Both companies not only support Java, but are also backers of the open-source operating system Linux, a rival to Microsoft's Windows in data centers and on some desktop personal computers. In 2008, Sun increased its commitment to open-source software by paying about $1 billion for MySQL, a company distributing an open-source database that is used in Web commerce sites.
 Still, Sun's server business means that the merger, if completed, would be a major consolidation in the machines that power corporate data centers -- and it would certainly invite antitrust scrutiny.
 News of the talks between the two companies was first reported in The Wall Street Journal. I.B.M. would not comment. Sun's chairman, Scott McNealy, said in an e-mail message: ''As always, I don't comment on rumors, no matter how accurate or silly they may be.''
 Despite its innovations in software, Sun has been unable to arrest the erosion in the profitability of its mainstay server business. That business had long been based on Sun's proprietary hardware designs, and its high-end machines still are. 
 The profits in proprietary servers have been under steady pressure from machines run by lower-cost microprocessors, made by Intel and Advanced Micro Devices, using personal computer technology. The leading makers of these industry-standard servers are Hewlett-Packard and Dell.
 The price pressure as servers turn into commodity products has prompted the major server makers to move into software and services. They are particularly focusing on supplying the technology and expertise to operate corporate data centers more efficiently and with less power. Sometimes they supply computing services to business users much as Google does to consumers, a style of data-center service known as cloud computing.
 ''For years, Sun has been fighting against the commoditization wave,'' said Nicholas G. Carr, an industry analyst and author of ''The Big Switch,'' a book published last year about cloud computing. ''But building private cloud-computing environments for corporations looks like a much more lucrative business for all the major server companies. That way, they are not just selling generic boxes, but also higher-level engineering, which is more profitable.''
 Sun came to the view last year that linking up with another large company would be its best future. That is when its representatives began talking to other companies, including I.B.M., according to a person involved in the discussions.
 If the companies agree on a bid, an antitrust review will begin. The principal issue, legal experts say, will be how regulators define the server market. Together, I.B.M. and Sun would have about 65 percent of the market for server computers running the Unix operating system and 42 percent of the total server market, measured by the dollar value of the market.
 But viewed by numbers of server computers sold, I.B.M. and Sun would have only 18 percent of the market, according to I.D.C., a market research firm. That is because Hewlett-Packard and Dell are the leaders in lower-cost industry-standard servers, which sell in far higher numbers than Unix machines.
 Combined, the companies would hold nearly all of the $1-billion-a-year market for specialized robotic systems that handle tape storage for mainframe computers, according to Robert Amatruda, an I.D.C. analyst.
 Antitrust enforcement tends to be less rigorous in bad economic times, in the interests of keeping business activity going. But legal experts said that each antitrust merger review is a separate case, based on specific facts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Samuel J. Palmisano, left, is chairman of I.B.M. Scott McNealy, Sun's chairman, right, said he would not comment on rumors.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISAAC BREKKEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (92%); NETWORK SERVERS (91%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (89%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (89%); PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES & TOOLS (86%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (78%); HARDWARE STORES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (73%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (64%); WAR & CONFLICT (63%); HARD DRIVES (53%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



763 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2316 words

HEADLINE: Trash-Out: Ill Fortune And Its Leavings

BYLINE: By STEVEN KURUTZ

DATELINE: MURRIETA, Calif. 

 BODY:
 AT 6:30 on a Wednesday morning in February, James Brewer backed a pickup truck with a trailer into the driveway of a one-story beige house in a new subdivision called Murrieta Oaks and looked down at the day's first work order. 
 ''It's 10 cubic yards interior, 5 exterior,'' he told his three-man crew as they climbed out of the truck and pulled on canvas gloves. Within a minute, the four men had fanned out across the property. 
 Mr. Brewer walked from one mostly empty room to the next -- the open kitchen equipped with new appliances, the living room with its working fireplace, the walk-in closet off the master suite -- snapping ''before'' pictures for the bank that had recently taken possession of the house. Andrew Fisher and Mike Zurn followed close behind, sweeping telephone books, paper scraps and other random junk into plastic garbage bins. 
 ''Hey, dude, hold off on that,'' Mr. Brewer said to Mr. Fisher, who stood beside a wooden desk with built-in shelving in one of the bedrooms. ''I'm going to call my wife and see if she wants it.'' 
 Outside, George Bernal tidied the backyard with a weed trimmer, a job made easier by the large patches of bare earth. He worked his way around a Christmas tree lying on its side, a clue to how recently people had lived here. 
 Just over an hour after they had arrived, they were done: the yard was clean, the house cleared, the ''after'' pictures taken. The men, members of a ''trash out'' crew charged with hauling away what's left in foreclosed houses, had removed any sign of a home life from this one in Murrieta Oaks. 
 Mr. Brewer and his colleagues work for WSR Sales and Management, a real estate company based in nearby Riverside that has been around for 27 years, but has lately reinvented itself as a specialist in ''home preservation'' -- the process of cleaning, securing and maintaining foreclosed properties for banks that begins with the process referred to as trashing out. 
 Companies like WSR have been starting up (or similarly retooling) across the country in the last year, particularly in the Southwest and Florida, where the mortgage crisis has done heavy damage. In these places, such companies are finding themselves ''off-the-chart busy,'' as John Plocher, WSR's president, put it. 
 In the three years since the mortgage crisis began in the Riverside area, the company has expanded its preservation unit from 2 people to 60, and Mr. Plocher now oversees five trash-out crews that work 10 hours a day, 6 days a week, along with another 23 crews that perform regular landscaping and maid services for roughly a thousand houses that have already been cleaned out and put on the market. 
 Even in a state where more than 80,000 homes were in foreclosure proceedings in February, Riverside County and other parts of the Inland Empire region east of Los Angeles have been hit exceptionally hard. Also in February, John Husing, an economist whose company, Economics and Politics Inc., issues regular reports on the area's economy, told a building industry group that roughly a third of the nearly 360,000 homes sold in the Inland Empire between 2004 and 2007 have been served with notices of default. For WSR, statistics like this have translated to between 75 and 100 trash-outs a week, with more orders coming in every day from the banks. 
 ''It's been a boon and a blessing,'' Mr. Plocher said. ''Have I bought a beach house and a Learjet? No. But I've been able to maintain a reasonable standard of living for my employees,'' who now number about 120, up from about 65 three years ago. ''I'd say we'll be doing this steadily for the next two or three years,'' he added, sounding confident. 
 AFTER the Murrieta Oaks job, Mr. Brewer drove alone to another house nearby to do an ''initial'' -- the first viewing of a home to evaluate its condition. At 32, he has been doing trash-outs for just a couple of years (before that he was in the Army), but he is already a seasoned assessor. 
 The initial assessments always involve a disconcerting element of surprise: Workers have stumbled on vagrants sleeping on floors, pets left to fend for themselves and scenes of interrupted life so fresh that they wondered if a resident might return at any minute. Once, on an initial visit near Palm Springs, Mr. Brewer found himself in a fully furnished home where the answering machine was blinking. His first thought, he said, was, ''I just broke into someone's house.'' 
 The overriding concern in an initial assessment is the question of how much stuff will be waiting on the other side of the door. People about to be forcibly parted from their homes often lack the presence of mind, or the money, for a considered move (even when a foreclosure has been drawn out for months), and end up leaving a lot behind: furniture, piles of clothing, family photographs.
 Those who are more on top of their situations are generally headed to smaller quarters, and may not have room for many of their possessions. Mr. Brewer's crew recently worked on a house where they found, among other things, a piano, a Donkey Kong Jr. arcade machine and makeshift plywood animal stalls -- a bizarre tableau that barely raised their eyebrows.
 ''Dude, I once trashed out a home that was 235 cubic yards,'' Mr. Fisher had said earlier that day. In the trash-out world, homes aren't thought of in terms of architectural style or number of bedrooms, but of the volume of stuff that must be carted to a landfill; anything over 35 cubic yards is considered a big job. 
 Mr. Brewer pulled his truck into the driveway of a faded two-story stucco home with palm trees in the front yard. He peered through the windshield and let out a sigh. ''Lots of doors,'' he said, a reference to the fact that he is required to change the locks at each home to secure the property. 
 He got out and circled around to the back, looking for a way in (because foreclosing banks typically don't have the keys to a house, trash-out workers don't, either). The house abutted a golf course, and two men were playing through, seemingly oblivious to the fact that someone was trying to break into the house 30 yards in front of them. Mr. Brewer found an unlocked window, lifted it and removed the Venetian blinds with a yank. 
 ''Oh! I want that chair,'' he said, peering through the window at a leather recliner in the living room. Although banks are required to make an effort to reunite departed homeowners with property thought to be valuable, the definition of valuable is loose, and these efforts, when they are made, often hit a dead end after a few weeks. 
 So the spoils may end up going to the worker who found them, and when trash-out crews enter a house there's a barely contained rush through the door, as if they are contestants on a shopping-spree game show. WSR workers have made off with big-screen TVs and couches. One uncovered a rare coin collection in a tool shed. Whoever conducts the initial, of course, gets the lay of the land first. 
 Mr. Brewer squeezed through the window and unlocked the door. Inspecting the recliner, he was disappointed to discover that its seat was stained and its back ripped. 
 This house was older and less well-cared-for, especially in its recent past, than the one in Murrieta Oaks. An upstairs bathroom mirror was shattered, and the dining room carpeting had been stained with bleach. Owners of foreclosed homes sometimes take out their frustration on the property, damaging surfaces, writing graffiti on walls, leaving bathroom faucets on to overflow. 
 Mr. Brewer took pictures of the clutter scattered throughout the house and garage: clothes; a stack of DVDs; an upended mattress and box spring; an unopened can of Cal-Maid grapefruit juice on the kitchen counter; a rotting bag of trash that had, he estimated with an expert's nose, been sitting out for two months; a glass lamp shaped like a head. 
 Certain items in particular seemed to invite a kind of foreclosure anthropology. Buried in a drawer was a ''debit card'' from Pechanga Resort & Casino, the casino in nearby Temecula. Cigarette butts littered a hallway carpet. A teddy bear lay on the floor in one bedroom, a pair of boy's briefs in another. 
 Spending time in the house encouraged thoughts about what had become of the family who had lived there -- which is perhaps why Mr. Brewer worked so feverishly to note the estimated cubic feet of debris, replace the locks and get back to his crew. 
 ''I used to think, somebody was living here last week -- they were probably stressing out,'' Mr. Brewer said of his early days on the job. ''I'd think, what if I was kicked out of my home?'' He has since developed a workmanlike focus on the task at hand, blocking out thoughts of the human suffering that accompanies foreclosure. ''I don't want to feel guilty about my job,'' he said.
 DURING the housing boom, Riverside County saw explosive growth, as hundreds of developments like Murrieta Oaks sprouted from the desert floor. Mr. Brewer, who grew up in Murrieta, said that when he returned in 2002 after a tour of duty in Afghanistan, there had been so much building, he didn't recognize the road from the airport.
 Now, the streetscape of the county is so pocked with foreclosures that WSR workers frequently drive past homes they have trashed out on their way to other jobs. ''Chara Avenue!'' Mr. Fisher shouted from the back seat of the truck that afternoon, recognizing a street sign. ''That's where the house was with the dead peacock in the yard.'' 
 Animal stories are an entire subset of trash-out folklore: live fish found in bathtubs, a family of possums hiding in a woodpile. (When workers find an abandoned dog, they don't wait to learn the outcome; they mark ''Occupied by Dog'' on the work order, call animal control and move on.) 
 Overpowering smells are another peril of the job. ''There's definitely a foreclosure smell,'' said Mr. Brewer, explaining that it's a stale, frequently sour odor often traceable to the kitchen. ''I've learned that if the power is off in a home and there's a refrigerator, don't stand in front of it,'' he said. ''Not only will the stench knock you out, but 3,000 gnats might fly out.'' 
 He continually braces himself, he added grimly, against the possibility that the ''foreclosure stench could turn into a death stench.'' 
 Trash-out workers resemble crime-scene cleaners in their studied detachment and black humor, and the jobs are not dissimilar. Some foreclosed homes have a palpable feeling of trauma.
 ''Do you remember that place in Barstow?'' Mr. Zurn asked Mr. Brewer.
 Mr. Brewer said: ''Yeah. The pipes had been completely ripped out.'' 
 Mr. Zurn said, ''Neither one of us wanted to go down the basement steps.'' 
 Mr. Brewer said: ''It had an eerie, someone-is-still-here vibe. In some of these homes, it feels like the foreclosure ghosts -- the disgruntled people who were forced to leave.''
 After lunch, Mr. Brewer drove a few miles east to San Jacinto, a sleepy desert community on the southeastern edge of the county, made sleepier by the rash of foreclosures. Entering a neighborhood of older homes built in the 1970s (''older'' is a relative term here), he stopped in front of the kind of modest low-maintenance house popular with downsizing retirees. An empty Seagram's 7 bottle lay in the kitchen sink, and a pantry shelf held military food rations and a candy-filled Easter basket. 
 Mr. Zurn set several unopened boxes of Jell-O flan aside for himself. A soft-spoken man who grew up in Utah, he has seen all sides of the foreclosure crisis, first as an assistant escrow officer for a mortgage lender in Costa Mesa, Calif., in 2006, then as a real estate agent in Utah two years ago, and now as a trash-out worker. He said he is still surprised at the assortment of items he comes across, and disturbed by the waste. ''These people have plenty of time to move stuff out,'' he said. 
 He likened departing homeowners to runners in a marathon who fall and never get back up to finish. ''Their credit is bad, their home is lost, the money they put into it is gone,'' he said. ''They leave it and walk away.'' 
 The San Jacinto home was meant to be the last of the day, but Mr. Brewer decided to swing by a house in an another foreclosure-ravaged community, Moreno Valley, where another WSR crew was working on a large job. 
 ''I think I did the initial on this place,'' Mr. Brewer said. ''If it's the house I'm thinking of, it's a total mess.'' 
 The phrase was a woefully inadequate description. The house, a sad-looking one-story on a corner lot overlooking a busy street, looked as if it had been torn apart by wolves who were also graffiti-writing meth addicts. 
 When Mr. Brewer pulled up, the leader of the other crew, Tyler Hatch, was standing knee-deep in household detritus in the garage, a besieged expression on his face. Workers around him were shoveling the deserted belongings into a trailer. 
 The house's interior was a jumble of clothes, broken furniture and dirty dishes, and the major appliances -- stove, refrigerator, washer and dryer -- had left scars and discolored patches when they were pulled from the walls and carted away. A fossilized whole roast chicken sat on a kitchen shelf. 
 Mr. Brewer's crew pitched in, and in a few hours the men restored the home to some semblance of order. A neighbor stood in his driveway and watched with what looked like only mild interest. 
 Dressed in a security guard uniform and headed to work, he explained to Mr. Brewer that after the house was abandoned several months ago, squatters broke in and trashed the place. At another time or in another part of the country, the account would have been startling, and the vandalized house would have been a disturbing sight. But for Mr. Brewer and his crew, it was just the last trash-out of the day. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TRACES: An empty house in Moreno Valley, Calif., shows evidence of the lives and personalities of the people who lived there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D1)
WHAT'S LEFT BEHIND: Workers from the WSR Sales and Management company discard items from a house in Moreno Valley, Calif. Clockwise from left: Avery Creech takes a breather while Andrew Fisher, at left, and James Brewer pass an old mattress up to Alan Vance
abandoned belongings include furniture and toys
the crew cleans up a lawn outside another house, in Winchester, Calif.
SIGNS OF LIFE: Mr. Brewer, top, inspects the empty kitchen of the Moreno Valley house
 above, discarded items like a grill, a sprinkler and a toy speak to happier times. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); CHRISTMAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



764 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Chinese City Bolsters Scant Consumer Spending With Free Vouchers

BYLINE: By SHARON LaFRANIERE; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Taiwan. Huang Yuanxi and Jonathan Ansfield contributed research.

DATELINE: HANGZHOU, China 

 BODY:
Shou Xuejun was a popular man one afternoon early this month. As a finance official in this town of ancient canals and textile factories, he got to hand out shopping vouchers worth nearly $30 apiece to 20 elderly residents.
 Chen Jue, 87, could hardly believe her good luck. ''Can these vouchers really buy things?'' she asked, amazed, at a community center decorated with a six-foot-high photograph of Mao. ''The government is very good to us! I will buy flowers, and I will also buy goldfish.''
 Since January, more than a fifth of the five million residents of the Hangzhou area have received the same vouchers. Hundreds of thousands more vouchers will be issued soon. Hangzhou officials hope the coupons will stimulate buying and avert the worst of an economic downturn that has eviscerated factory after factory here.
 But even Mr. Shou, who helps oversee the $100 million program, acknowledges that vouchers will not cure Hangzhou's slump -- or China's. The problem is more basic: China's economy thrives on making things that overseas customers want to buy. Chinese consumers tend to be less eager shoppers. Conditioned to save for medical expenses and old age, they sock away more than one-fourth of their incomes -- far more than Westerners, especially Americans. 
 ''People do not dare to spend more because of the underdevelopment of the social welfare system,'' Mr. Shou said. ''That problem cannot be solved in the short term.''
 China's leaders have talked for years about the need to create a social safety net that would ease the financial pressure on average Chinese and make consumer demand and the service sector a bigger source of growth. Now that exports are slowing in the face of a global economic crisis, many economists say, it is past time for action.
 Despite recent increases in social spending, especially on education, the government has mostly concentrated on building up industry and infrastructure, subsidizing a host of manufacturing costs. That economic model has delivered world-beating growth for three decades and lifted hundreds of millions out of poverty.
 Chinese consumers have played a comparatively small part. Their spending accounts for just 35 percent of China's gross domestic product, compared with more than two-thirds for consumers in the United States.
 They save for good reason: at least one-fourth of the population has no health insurance at all, according to official estimates. Hundreds of millions of others face crippling bills for treatment of serious illnesses that are not covered by rudimentary insurance programs. Public pensions cover less than one-third of workers. An estimated 130 million migrant workers are not protected by unemployment insurance. Payments to the poor reach only a fraction of those eligible, according to the China Development Research Foundation, a nonprofit group.
 Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said this month that China must make domestic demand ''a basic point of departure for stimulating economic growth.'' But weaving a social safety net that gives average Chinese the confidence to loosen their purse strings would take years. Meanwhile, the overseas consumer is in full flight: In February, exports fell by a record 25.7 percent. Some economists warn that exports might not revive until next year.
 With the Communist Party's political legitimacy closely tied to economic growth, China's leaders are trying to save and create jobs with a $584 billion stimulus plan tilted heavily toward infrastructure. Outside economists say they hope the money goes to build schools or low-cost housing for migrant families, rather than more highways and seaports to benefit industry.
 The government has also pledged more social spending, led by a $123 billion three-year initiative to deliver basic, universal health care and health insurance to 9 in 10 Chinese. That follows a three-year drive to provide compulsory, free education to students through ninth grade.
 ''This is step one of a 100-step process, but it is a very important step,'' Arthur Kroeber, managing director of Dragonomics, a Beijing-based economic research firm, said of the health care plan. ''There is political will, and they are putting real money on the table at a time when it is not easy to do so.''
 But in a January meeting with Finance Ministry officials, outside economists argued that the government should do more now to protect the vulnerable. ''The government could afford to expand all these programs quickly,'' David Dollar, the World Bank's country director, wrote in a report on the bank's Web site describing the meeting.
 ''They really need a sweeping program to set up social security,'' said Fred Hu, a Goldman Sachs economist who has advised the government on policy. ''That hasn't happened. It's still piecemeal measures.''
 The coastal city of Hangzhou, just south of Shanghai, has been hit less hard than some cities in China's manufacturing belt. Still, officials say industrial output has shrunk since late last year, and migrant-worker centers are packed with job seekers. At one center last week, the arrival of a foreigner -- mistaken for a possible employer -- caused such commotion that security guards came running.
 Wang Pengfei, 21, was one of hundreds in Hangzhou hoping to find work. Until December, he helped fill orders for the Hangzhou Donghua Chain Group Company, which makes chains for conveyor belts, tractors, motorcycles and other machinery. Michael Xiao, that company's head of exports, said that Donghua normally exported four-fifths of its production. Now those orders have fallen by 50 or 60 percent. In December, the factory laid off 500 of its 3,000 workers. 
 Hangzhou officials are hoping to soften such blows by giving vouchers to everyone from middle school students to tourists. Some vouchers are aimed at the needy, including laid-off workers; others are more broadly directed toward consumers in the hope of spurring spending.
 A red and yellow banner stretched above the doors to Century Mart, a supermarket, announces: '''Welcome, shoppers. Come to our store and spend your voucher.''
 ''I would buy this anyway, but this relieves our burden,'' said Zhang Beili, a 62-year-old retired government worker, as she cashed a $3 voucher to buy snacks and soft drinks.
 Although some other Chinese cities are also experimenting with vouchers, government officials said there was no plan now to expand the program nationwide. Many economists question whether vouchers can revive consumption, saying many recipients may use them instead of spending cash, not in addition.
 Still, in Taiwan, where the economy is more consumer-based, President Ma Ying-jeou said that a program that gave every Taiwanese citizen vouchers worth the equivalent of $102 was a success. In an interview last month, Mr. Ma said that 50,000 retailing jobs were saved and that about two-thirds of 1 percent was added to the economic output.
 Whether Hangzhou will be so lucky is unclear. At the least, Mr. Shou said, the city is sending a message to its citizens to ''have confidence'' and spend.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A woman at a community center in the Chinese coastal city of Hangzhou was given a voucher last week to use for shopping. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHIHO FUKADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A6)
 Job-seekers last week at a worker center in Hangzhou, where factories have laid off employees. Officials say industrial output has shrunk since late last year in the city, just south of Shanghai. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHIHO FUKADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TEXTILE MFG (78%); TEXTILE MILLS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FABRIC MILLS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); AGING (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (63%); MIGRANT WORKERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (93%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (90%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



765 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SAGINAW JOURNAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: A Housing Group Adds Demolition to Its Mission

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: SAGINAW, Mich. 

 BODY:
The ordinary scenes of Habitat for Humanity -- volunteers with saws and hammers creating homes from scratch on empty dirt -- are being upended here. 
 Volunteers are learning to rip down plaster, pull apart walls and tear off roofs. To the nonprofit group's long-held aim of constructing houses for those in need, Saginaw's affiliate has lately added to its mission by doing the opposite.
 As part of an agreement with the city, and with at least $500,000 from the state and federal governments, the Habitat for Humanity volunteers and paid workers plan to demolish two vacant, dilapidated houses here a week, every week, over the next two years. As for creating homes, they will build or refurbish eight houses this year. 
 The shift in the organization's focus is a sign of the times in Saginaw, a shrinking city northwest of Detroit where at least 800 houses sit empty and doomed, and offers a glimpse of what increasingly empty neighborhoods in many cities may soon face as foreclosures continue. 
 International leaders of Habitat for Humanity, an organization more than three decades old, say their focus is changing to meet the demands of a changing economy. In cities where so many homes sit empty, the group is leaning away from building new houses and instead fixing up old ones, said Ken Klein, the vice chairman of the group's board. 
 In recent years, about 100 of the organization's affiliates around the country have done the same, removing recyclable items, like cabinets, floorboards, plaster and light fixtures, from condemned houses and, in a few cities, even razing some structures.
 In Saginaw, city leaders acknowledge that some people have been skeptical, or at least puzzled, by the notion that Habitat for Humanity would tear down houses. But these leaders contend that the move makes sense: workers will remove (and resell) reusable housing material rather than send it to landfills, some homeless or unemployed people will be paid to work on the program, and money earned through the demolitions will go toward the organization's longtime goal of getting poor families into new or rehabbed homes.
 ''You have to look at the mission; the mission is to make housing more affordable,'' said Paul Warriner, the executive director of Saginaw's Habitat for Humanity affiliate. ''And when you think about this, that isn't too much of a stretch.''
 Still, it is an untested realm for volunteers, many of whom have spent years hammering nails and painting boards in new houses, never thinking of trying to take one apart. Last week, a chilly group from Habitat for Humanity, including several people fulfilling community service requirements and one who was staying in a homeless shelter, ripped wallboards and windows from a house as a fire still burned in its fireplace. 
 ''It's more challenging than building, where you go in linear steps,'' said Chuck Aubin, a longtime volunteer who helped lead efforts to demolish a credit union -- one of the affiliate's first tests in taking apart a building here. ''With deconstruction, you don't know what you're getting into until you tear that panel off the wall.''
 Saginaw, with some 56,000 people, was, by some estimates, nearly twice as populous when the automobile business boomed. These days, the biggest employer is the health care industry, city officials said. Saginaw, a 100-mile drive from Detroit, is a city of contrasts: neighborhoods of enormous, well-kept homes (this was, after all, a lumber town before it was a car town) but also blocks of vacant lots and shuttered houses.
 ''The problem is endemic throughout the Midwestern, older industrial towns,'' said Darnell Earley, Saginaw's city manager. ''It's going to be very difficult to catch up with it.''
 On the city's east side on a recent afternoon, a mail carrier stepped onto the porch of what appeared to be the only occupied house in sight and then drove off, past a whirring bulldozer demolishing the remains of a burned house and past every other house on the block, boarded and abandoned.
 There is something jarring at the sight of hundreds of houses sitting empty, while many poor families need a place to live. 
 ''Yeah, we might have enough homes here,'' John C. Stemple, the city's zoning and development coordinator, said, peering around the empty neighborhood. ''But they're not quality choices.''
 Many of the houses exceed Habitat for Humanity's modest size requirements.
 ''A lot of these are just too big for us to use,'' said Mr. Warriner, noting that there was no point in restoring a house that someone then could not afford to maintain or heat. ''Some of them are not in real good areas, perhaps. And some of them are just too far gone, too dangerous.''
 Inside Habitat for Humanity's ReStore, where the group sells discounted items from demolitions, the floor is lined with sink basins, cabinets, doors, bathtubs, counters and wood. Leaders here hope that the program will ultimately pay for itself, that the profits from selling recycled items will one day cover the cost of taking down homes.
 In a nearby office, Cameron Brady, Habitat for Humanity's development manager, shows a visitor the latest photographs from a project. There are the volunteers, ripping away at walls and pulling down pieces in one of the few buildings they have removed so far. In later scenes, tired workers stand proudly in all that is left, a foundation. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At least 800 houses sit empty in Saginaw, Mich., and Habitat for Humanity, known for building houses, is instead fixing up or tearing down old ones, and recycling items like cabinets and light fixtures. About 100 of the group's affiliates in other areas of the country hit hard by foreclosures are doing the same.
Cameron Brady, Habitat for Humanity's development manager in Saginaw. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14)
At ReStore, Habitat for Humanity sells discounted items collected from demolitions.
 ReStore sells sink basins, cabinets, doors, counters and wood. One shopper measured a bathtub. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (90%); VOLUNTEERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); FORECLOSURE (73%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); LANDFILLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



766 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: The Whale Road Nearby

 BODY:
Say whales, and you may think of Moby Dick or gray whales along the California coast or even humpbacks in Hawaii. What most of us do not think of -- unless an errant whale wanders up the Hudson -- is the waters near New York City. And yet there is a busy migration corridor just beyond the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, a corridor used by three endangered species, North Atlantic right whales, fin whales and humpbacks. 
 Much of the data about the movements of these whales come from smart buoys located offshore along shipping lanes. The buoys record whale calls and transmit them to the bioacoustics research program at the Cornell Lab of Ornithology. The buoys help alert ship captains to the presence of whales, decreasing the chance of ship strikes, which, with entanglement in fishing gear are the leading causes of whale deaths. 
 Just how vocal the whales are in nearby waters can be heard and seen at the lab's Right Whale Listening Network Web site. The Web page shows data for the area around the arm of Cape Cod and into Boston, where buoys are still active. The listening program in New York waters is one of the casualties of the state's financial crisis.
 A share of the lab's right whale listening budget comes from the State Department of Environmental Conservation. The shortfall for this whale listening season -- a matter of $100,000 -- means that the buoys have been pulled and the waters, at least to our ears, have gone silent. That means a loss of valuable research data and the possibility of more ship strikes. And it also means a loss to our imagination. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE MAMMALS (93%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); ANIMAL COMMUNICATION (78%); FISHES (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); BIRDS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); ORNITHOLOGY (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



767 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2020 words

HEADLINE: Getting Their Kirk On

BYLINE: By THOMAS VINCIGUERRA

 BODY:
THERE is nothing particularly unusual about the living room of the two-story town house that Scott Veazie shares with his wife in Washougal, Wash., except for one piece of furniture in a corner: a full-size replica of the captain's chair from the bridge of the U.S.S. Enterprise, as seen in the original ''Star Trek'' television series. 
 Mr. Veazie, 27, was not yet born when that show first went on the air in the 1960s; even his parents were only teenagers. During his childhood, there were ''Star Trek'' spinoffs on TV with more sophisticated special effects than the original, and a more contemporary sensibility, and there were also movies featuring the old show's actors aboard updated versions of the Enterprise. But Mr. Veazie, who watched endless reruns of the original series with his mother in the 1980s, was never drawn to those later incarnations. 
 ''The original show was the first one I saw,'' he said. ''It was so idealistic. A lot of us kids wanted to be Captain Kirk -- and part of that was the chair.'' 
 Mr. Veazie, a manager at Underwriters Laboratories, built the chair himself last year, and has been gratified to find, since installing it in the living room in May, that ''when someone comes in, it's the first thing they comment on.'' 
 Serious Trekkies have long fashioned copies of their favorite costumes and props, and, back in the '70s and '80s, a few even put together homemade knockoffs of the captain's chair, using reference materials like the ''Starfleet Technical Manual'' and ''U.S.S. Enterprise Bridge Blueprints.'' 
 But lately fans like Mr. Veazie have been building or buying more sophisticated versions of the command module from which James T. Kirk, played by William Shatner, ordered ''Ahead, warp factor six.'' Moreover, they are making them the centerpiece of their homes, thus conquering what is for them a final frontier of domestic decor. 
 At a moment when yet another movie is about to present yet another revamped Enterprise (this one claiming to be the original vessel of the young Kirk, Spock and McCoy), these traditionalists are holding their ground. 
 Drawing on a wide variety of new sources, including construction-oriented Web sites, Web-based entrepreneurs who supply kits of parts, and a Maryland company that just started selling ready-made chairs for $2,700 a piece, they are making a definitive statement to the world, or at least to their friends and families. 
 ''The closet command-chair Trekkies have come out of the closet,'' said Keith Marshall, 45, an unemployed phlebotomist, emergency medical technician, corrections officer and firefighter whose uncompleted chair, currently sitting in his brother's garage, is slated for his own living room in Bonney Lake, Wash. ''For a lot of people in the last few years,'' Mr. Marshall added, ''the pieces have come together.'' 
 The current wave of interest seems to have started after the original chair was auctioned for $305,000 in 2002 and subsequently displayed at the Science Fiction Museum and Hall of Fame in Seattle, where ''Star Trek'' loyalists could view it up close. (Not coincidentally, perhaps, the chair's devotees tend to be clustered in the Northwest.)
 The spread of digital video also helped the cause, allowing hobbyists to freeze-frame shots of the chair and scrutinize it from every angle. On message boards like Dewback Wing A.S.A.P.: A Site About Props, they swap and compare screen grabs, measurements, schematics and spare parts.
 Aficionados offer different reasons for the chair's allure, some straightforward, some verging on the mystical. 
 ''Everyone wants to sit in it,'' said Bruce Boyd, an unemployed auto parts manager in Roseburg, Ore., who completed his chair -- which he also keeps in the living room -- in November. ''There's some sort of charisma there. It's hard to explain.''
 ''I know it's not real,'' added Mr. Boyd, 43, ''but the minute I sit in it, the hairs stand up on the back of my neck.''
 Clark Bradshaw, a computer animator and graphic designer in Nicholasville, Ky., cited the chair's unmistakable design. ''It definitely is the only one of its kind,'' he said. ''All of the other chairs in all of the shows resembled each other -- they weren't distinctive.''
 Mr. Bradshaw, 36, began building his chair in college, 15 years ago. But when he saw the exacting specifications on the A.S.A.P. forum, he said, ''I just ripped it apart and started over.'' In his home office, it awaits painting and final assembly.
 For Mike Paugh, 42, a financial planner in Cranbrook, British Columbia, the appeal goes back to childhood. ''I loved the show,'' he said. ''I had all the model kits and all that stuff, but when I moved I had to get rid of them. Now I've started to build again.'' He spent about $1,000 on his chair, which he finished in October 2007 and put in his family's rec room. 
 Mr. Paugh is one of many Trekkies who are not particularly impressed with what they have seen, in trailers and on the Internet, of the Enterprise from the new ''Star Trek'' movie, directed by J. J. Abrams and coming out in May. ''A lot of guys are saying, 'They're wrecking this show, they're not doing it the way they used to do it,' '' he said. 
 ''The chair, in particular, looks like some weird office chair,'' he added. ''But then, that's what the original was.''
 Indeed, it is a commonly held view that Captain Kirk's throne was built around the black Naugahyde cushioning and slim walnut arms of a model No. 2405 or No. 4449 armchair produced by Madison Furniture Industries of Canton, Miss., between 1962 and 1968. The late industrial designer Arthur Umanoff conceived the chair as part of an attempt to replicate the Danish modern look, popular then. Today, vintage examples of the Madison chairs can fetch up to $2,000 on eBay.
 ''They weren't high-end furniture,'' said B. J. West, a San Francisco-based computer game production designer and Madison collector who maintains a Web site devoted to the chairs. He has had many requests for information and advice from would-be builders of Kirk chairs, he said. 
 Louis Shornick, 90, the owner of the Madison company from 1950 to 1966, used to watch ''Star Trek'' without thinking that his product was being immortalized on the small screen. Only later, when Mr. West sent him detailed pictures from the original series, did he see a connection.
 ''I said, That's our chair,'' Mr. Shornick recalled. ''There is no doubt in my mind that that's it.''
 Not everyone is so sure. Herbert F. Solow, a former vice president of Desilu Studios who developed and sold ''Star Trek'' to NBC, insists Kirk's chair was made from scratch, as does John Jefferies, an uncredited ''Star Trek'' set designer whose late brother, Walter, was the set designer for the show -- and the designer of the captain's chair itself. Mr. Jefferies remembers helping his brother construct the chair's extended frame, swivel base and pedestal from plywood, and coating it with dove-gray paint from the Desilu stores.
 ''It was a function of what we had to work with, and the ability of the people we had,'' said Mr. Jefferies, 73. ''And cost was a factor. Today, it would probably be made of fiberglass or carbon fiber material.''
 He added, ''If we knew we would be a part of history, we would have paid more attention to what we were doing.'' 
 Walter Jefferies's imitators are considerably more painstaking. They fixate on the contours of the seat, its angle of recline, the exact color and size of the controls, and myriad other details.
 When Tod Sturgeon of Auburn, Wash., the manager of a private security firm, built his chair in 2006, he was consumed with the paint job.
 ''I got six or eight different grays, put them on a sheet of wood, compared them to what I saw on the small screen, and did sort of an average,'' said Mr. Sturgeon, 40. ''We Trekkies really do get down in the wheat sometimes.''
 Mr. Veazie, of Washington, spent several hours a day for two weeks last spring sanding, spackling, and otherwise smoothing out the grain of his plywood frame. ''The finishing took forever,'' he said. ''I could have spent another month on it. I was obsessed with fidelity.''
 In the fictional ''Star Trek'' universe, the chair's buttons and switches were used for deep-space communication, signaling alerts and other command functions. Some latter-day Captain Kirks have their own ideas.
 ''I want to put an intercom system in it that would control the intercom system in my house and operate some lights,'' said Mr. Marshall, the phlebotomist. ''For that couch potato thing.'' 
 Mr. Paugh, the financial planner, is wiring his chair's innards with 25-watt bulbs to light up its epoxy resin knobs. The bulbs' ceramic sockets will be surrounded by foil to protect the encircling wood from the heat, exactly like its 1960s progenitor, according to a description in the catalog for the 2002 auction from the California auction house Profiles in History.
 ''I want to have it look just as gross inside as the real one, even though the people I'm going to show it to can't see it,'' Mr. Paugh said. ''I know that doesn't make me sound particularly sane.''
 For those willing to be a little less hands-on, Diamond Select Toys & Collectibles, a company in Timonium, Md., that specializes in science fiction and comic-book novelties, has just begun selling a ready-to-use model for about $2,700. This version -- which the company says it plans to limit to 1,701 pieces, in honor of the Enterprise's Starfleet registration number -- includes light and sound effects emanating from the control knobs, push buttons, rocker switches and a mock intercom on the chair's boxy armrests.
 So what, beyond pushing buttons, do these men -- as all Kirk chair owners appear to be -- do with the most conspicuous piece of furniture in the room? 
 Some watch TV in theirs, or simply loll, and some seem to find the chair an empowering place from which to deal with others. ''When we have a little family powwow -- I have four children -- I sit in it to lay down the law,'' said Mr. Boyd, the auto parts manager.
 And most, of course, indulge their fantasies, imagining doing battle with Klingons and otherwise cruising the cosmos. ''Sitting in it,'' said Mr. Bradshaw, the graphic designer, ''I find myself striking an action pose quite unconsciously.''
 To his regret, he must strike those poses in his home office. ''My wife is not big on it,'' he said. ''I've actually been threatened with divorce if it comes into the living room.''
 Mr. Sturgeon's wife is more understanding. Though her husband's chair measures, like most of its counterparts, an obtrusive 40 inches wide, 44 inches tall, and 38 inches deep -- with extra room needed to swivel -- she permits it in the living room. 
 ''Every once in a while I'll play a 'Star Trek' video game in front of the chair and pretend I'm in command of the fleet,'' Mr. Sturgeon said. ''But by this time I'm so used to it that it's just like any other chair. Maybe I feel like I'm in command of the house.''
 ''You sit in the chair,'' Mike Paugh said, ''and you're watching an episode and pushing buttons and you find yourself saying, Fire photon torpedoes or whatever, and you're making the sounds yourself because I don't have the sound effects yet.''
 ''Personally,'' said his wife, Barbara, ''I think my husband is a nerd.''
 For all the labor and money the chair builders expend, they generally don't park themselves in the captain's seat for too long.
 ''It's not the most comfortable of chairs,'' Mr. Veazie said. ''The arms are too low and they're too far apart. Now I know why William Shatner was always leaning forward in it.''
 There is another possible explanation, suggested Eddie Paskey, who as Mr. Shatner's stand-in on ''Star Trek'' spent much time in the chair during camera and lighting set-ups. ''Early on, Bill sat down, leaned back, and it went over backwards,'' he said.
 No word, though, from Captain Kirk himself. ''Mr. Shatner is not doing any 'Star Trek'-related interviews right now,'' his assistant, Christopher T. Carley, wrote in an e-mail message, ''because of the new movie.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BRIDGE CLUB: A new breed of Trekkies is expressing a passion for ''Star Trek'' by building replicas of Capt. James T. Kirk's original chair, inset, and making them a focal point in the home. Tod Sturgeon, right, and Scott Veazie, below, obsessed over details like paint color and control buttons. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE, STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
BELOW, SUSAN SEUBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
INSET, EVERETT COLLECTION) (pg.D1)
HOME ENTERPRISE: Boldly going where few husbands have gone before, Bruce Boyd, left, with his daughter, Brittany, put his Captain Kirk chair in the living room. Not Clark Bradshaw, below. His wife threatened divorce if he tried the same thing. Top, Scott Veazie's control panel. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE, CHRIS PIETSCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
BELOW RIGHT, DAVID STEPHENSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CONTROL PANEL, SUSAN SEUBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 KEEP ON TREKKIN': The new ''Star Trek'' movie, to be released in May, has a young Kirk (Chris Pine), McCoy (Karl Urban) and Spock (Zachary Quinto) -- and a curvier command chair. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PARAMOUNT PICTURES) (pg.D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (63%); PARAMEDICS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNDERWRITERS LABORATORIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Star Trek (TV Program); Star Trek (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



768 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: City Nears 8.4 Million As Fewer Leave the State

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
New York City lost less population to other states in the 12 months ending July 1, 2008, than during any year in decades, according to census figures released Thursday. If that trend continues, the city's population will top 8.4 million in 2010. 
 Gains and stanched losses in New York and a number of other large metropolitan areas in the Northeast, the Midwest and coastal California reflected, in part, slower growth in traditional domestic migrant magnets in the South and West. 
 An analysis by William H. Frey, a Brookings Institution demographer, found that Las Vegas, Orlando and Tampa drew fewer migrants than in any year in nearly two decades. Phoenix attracted only half as many as two years earlier. Booming Riverside-San Bernardino, near Los Angeles, recorded the first migration loss since the mid-1990s.
 ''The beneficiaries of this bursting migration bubble include large metro areas whose earlier high housing prices made the exurbs and interior metro hot spots seem too tempting to pass up,'' Dr. Frey said. 
 Other demographers agreed that the reversals were stunning.
 ''This is one of the most complex patterns of migration change in a short period that I have seen in 30 years,'' said Kenneth M. Johnson, a sociology professor at the University of New Hampshire.
 ''This is new, a real deviation from the average,'' said New York City's chief demographer, Joseph J. Salvo. ''Whether it's a trend is another thing.''
 The latest census estimate did not reflect the decline in private-sector jobs in the city late last year. 
 Dr. Salvo, the director of the Department of City Planning's population division, said, ''When you take a look at the conditions in the rest of the country and what has happened to the housing and economic market in a lot of places our migrants have gone to, it's very tempting to conclude that perhaps people are staying put more because the opportunities that were afforded there are not there any longer or are no longer attractive.''
 As of July 1, 2008, the census counted 8,363,710 New Yorkers, an increase of 355,000, or 4.4 percent, since April 2000. As a result, New York City residents now account for nearly 43 percent of the state's population. 
 In the year beginning July 1, 2007, the city grew by nearly 54,000, with Brooklyn registering the biggest increase. During that year, 76,000 more people left the city for other states than arrived from other states, a sharp reduction from the annual average since 2000 of 148,000. 
 While immigration from abroad has slackened some since the 1990s, the net influx of 73,000 foreigners was nearly enough to offset the domestic outflow. Also, longer life spans and higher birthrates among immigrants contributed to there being 63,000 more births than deaths.
 ''A growing population is one of the best defenses against housing abandonment and economic decline,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said.
 In the metropolitan area, Nassau County, on Long Island, and Essex County, N.J., recorded losses in the latest year. Hudson County, N.J., and Fairfield County, Conn., reversed earlier losses registered in the middle of the decade. 
 Los Angeles and Cook County, Ill., which includes Chicago, reversed recent losses, too. 
 While some places expanded more slowly than in prior years, most of the fastest-growing areas between July 1, 2007, and July 1, 2008, were still in the South and West. Raleigh-Cary, N.C., grew faster than any metropolitan area. St. Bernard Parish, La., was the fastest-growing county. 
 Metropolitan Dallas-Fort Worth, Houston, Phoenix and Atlanta each added more than 100,000 people in a year when 313 areas gained population and 50 lost. Most of the fastest-growing counties and metro areas were in Texas, Georgia, North Carolina, Utah and Idaho. 
 An analysis by Mark Mather and Kelvin Pollard of the Population Reference Bureau found that the population in counties with unemployment rates of 6 percent or more in 2007 grew by 0.3 percent, compared with 1.2 percent growth in areas with unemployment less than 4 percent.
 While all but two states (Michigan and Rhode Island) gained population, they found, more than a third of the nation's counties recorded losses.
 Demographers agree that unemployment may be just beginning to affect migration patterns.
 Dr. Johnson, who is the senior demographer at the Carsey Institute at the University of New Hampshire, said: ''Migrants to metro cores tend to be younger adults, 20 to 29, who are less concerned about the housing market and more concerned about the job market. So, my best guess is that through the period covered by the census data they would have still come. 
 ''On the other hand, those leaving metro cores tend to be in their 30s and 40s with children, so the housing market, particularly selling houses, is a big deal to them. The slowdown of the housing market has essentially frozen them in place. As a result, big metro cores are losing fewer people and continuing to gain young ones.'' 
 Dr. Frey said the next round of census figures would better capture any trend. ''Because these numbers do not yet include the substantial rise in unemployment that has occurred in the past several months,'' he said, ''there is no telling how much more air will be let out of the mid-decade migration bubble before the housing and labor markets begin to revive.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); TRENDS (90%); CENSUS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); IMMIGRATION (76%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



769 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 716 words

BYLINE: By JEFF SEGAL and ROB COX

 BODY:
Gains for the Web 
 In March Madness
 The annual N.C.A.A. men's college basketball tournament, which starts in earnest on Thursday, is a pressure cooker for the 64 teams involved. CBS, which owns the television rights, and the casinos hit by the economic slump also have plenty at stake. But the online video and gambling businesses could turn out to be the up-and-coming teams to watch. 
 Las Vegas casinos, for instance, expect nearly $100 million to be bet on the tournament, not to mention what gamblers will spend on hotel rooms and food. Some debt-laden casino operators like MGM Mirage are barely staying afloat, so any extra revenue is more important than usual. 
 CBS bought rights to 11 years of the tournament for $6 billion in 1999. It made $643 million from advertisements last year, and expects a similar take this year. 
 At the same time, casinos and television both face rising online rivals. Online gambling for March Madness, largely through Web sites beyond the borders of the United States, already exceeds the take in Las Vegas. And Web sites like Gambling911.com expect this year's tournament-related traffic to be double their totals of last year. That's good for the online business -- but potentially bad for Las Vegas and other gambling centers. 
 The growth of online video is similarly problematic for CBS. True, it owns the Internet rights to the tournament. And it expects online video revenue to increase 20 percent this year to $30 million. If the company can make extra money from online video while keeping its TV revenue steady, its not-very-lucrative rights contract could still turn into a moneymaker. 
 But online revenue could come at the expense of the company's cash cow, its television business. Last year, the tournament averaged 10 percent fewer viewers than in 2004, according to Nielsen. 
 Business and sports dynasties alike can go on longer than expected, however. And newcomers need time to season. But if online video and gambling do well in this tournament, it could point to their potential to win in the years ahead. 
 China Should Explain
 Which matters more: the flow of capital across borders or the flow of juice to consumers' lips? China has chosen the latter by blocking the Coca-Cola Company's $2.4 billion purchase of the juice maker Huiyuan. But without a convincing explanation of how the deal would hamper competition in China's booming beverages business, the decision looks like protectionism. 
 Shielding domestic companies from the muscle of a foreign multinational erects yet another unwelcome hindrance to the global movement of capital. China would, of course, not be alone. American lawmakers in 2005 managed to convince the China National Offshore Oil Company to drop its bid for the United States oil group Unocal, citing largely spurious concerns over the company's strategic importance. 
 While orange juice is hardly as geopolitically significant as oil, China's decision after seven months of deliberations to block Coke may just be a delayed opportunity for the government to settle the Unocal score. But it comes at an inopportune moment. The global financial crisis has given birth to all manner of impediments to free trade and capital flows. 
 This has happened despite one lesson of the Great Depression -- that restricting the flow of global trade and capital fails to produce greater prosperity, and, in fact, probably achieves the opposite. The Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act of 1930 sparked retaliation by America's trading partners and threatened to halt international trade. 
 Putting the lid on a relatively small orange juice deal is hardly as damaging as the Smoot-Hawley Act. But without the evidence to back up its claims that a Coke-Huiyuan deal would limit competition, it sends a poor message. The deal would have been the largest complete takeover of a Chinese company by a foreign entity. 
 So while the Huiyuan decision may not presage shutdown of a global mergers and acquisitions, it doesn't help acquisitive Chinese companies. Chinalco, for instance, is still trying to convince the Australian government to let it buy a $19.5 billion stake in the Anglo-Australian miner Rio Tinto. 
 JEFF SEGAL and ROB COX 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Kansas Jayhawks after winning the men's national championship in 2008.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JED JACOBSOHN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); GAMING (90%); INTERNET VIDEO (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (69%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (64%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNERS (60%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINK MFG (60%)

COMPANY: MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (70%); COCA-COLA CO (62%); CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (59%)

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (70%); KO (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (70%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (62%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



770 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Shovels Sit Idle as Some Projects Are Delayed

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
THERE are shovel-ready projects at museums across the country. But the economic downturn has started to chip away at the museum building boom, delaying some plans and casting doubt on others.
 To be sure, museum directors have bigger headaches at the moment. Faced with huge market losses in their endowments, many of them have laid off employees, frozen wages or canceled exhibitions. The economic crisis has even shuttered a few museums.
 Some building projects are still afoot, generally where the money was raised before the financial markets went into a tailspin last fall. But in an informal poll that the American Association of Museums conducted in January, one-third of the museum directors who responded said they were planning to postpone, reduce or cancel a capital project because of the economy. 
 ''That's not surprising,'' said Ford Bell, the association's president, ''given how much their endowments have shrunk and given how much their individual donors' portfolios have declined.''
 Mr. Bell said any renovation or expansion projects that had already broken ground would probably be completed, ''but those museums that are in the early planning phase are probably rethinking whether they can afford to go ahead.''
 The Cincinnati Art Museum is in the early stages of planning a major expansion. Aaron Betsky, the museum's director, estimated that the first phase, which would add about 60,000 square feet of space, would cost around $43 million. Mr. Betsky said he did not have a price tag for the second phase, which would focus more on renovating the building. As for a third phase, he said, ''One of our dreams is to add a sculpture garden.''
 Mr. Betsky said the board had not set a firm date to start the capital campaign. ''No one would think that it would be a polite thing to do right now to ask for large sums of money with so much uncertainty,'' he said.
 Some building projects at other institutions have been delayed, even though the money has been pledged. For example, Mr. Bell said he had heard of donors who made five-year pledges asking to extend those to seven-year pledges. That might give the donors more time to recoup stock market losses, but it can wreak havoc with a building schedule.
 In other cases, uncertainty in the short-term credit markets is delaying plans. This was one of the main reasons that the board of the Saint Louis Art Museum decided to push back the start date for an 82,000-square-foot expansion plan. Brent R. Benjamin, the museum's director, said board members had planned to break ground in the fourth quarter of 2008 but now they were aiming for the fourth quarter of this year.
 The museum has raised $122 million toward its capital campaign goal of $125 million. The estimated cost of the expansion is about $80 million, and the rest of the goal would increase the museum's endowment to cover the higher operating costs of a larger building. Mr. Benjamin said the board had been planning to raise short-term financing to cover the building costs while it waited for the pledges to come in.
 ''The driving force behind the expansion is to add gallery space,'' Mr. Benjamin said. But he added that the renovation work was necessary for the building, which is the only remaining structure from the 1904 World's Fair.
 Even some museums that have the cash in hand to start construction have pushed back building projects because, with their shrinking staffs, they are having to do more with less.
 For example, the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which completed a major expansion of its building in 2006, has delayed the opening of the Virginia B. Fairbanks Art and Nature Park, which it plans to build on 100 acres surrounding the museum. The park was scheduled to open in September, but the public opening has been pushed back until June. 
 Maxwell Anderson, the director of the Indianapolis Museum of Art, said the museum had raised $23.5 million of the $25 million capital campaign for the park. It will cost $12.5 million to build the park's visitors center, renovate bridges and create landscaping. The other half of the capital campaign is endowment money to pay for operating expenses and commission original artworks for the park.
 ''The fact that the museum faced layoffs was a factor in our decision'' to postpone the project, Mr. Anderson said. ''We decided to delay the opening of the park in order to reduce the pressure on our staff.''
 The Addison Gallery of American Art at the Phillips Academy, in Andover, Mass., decided to go ahead with its long-planned renovation last summer, despite needing to raise a bit more money by the end of this school year, when the work is scheduled to be completed.
 So far, the museum has raised $20.5 million toward the $22 million cost of the renovation and expansion. It has also raised $1 million of its $8 million goal to bolster the endowment to cover the added costs of lighting, heating and staffing an additional 14,000 square feet, which will increase the size of the building by more than 50 percent.
 ''We are in a good place because we started fund-raising long before this calamity,'' said Brian Allen, the Addison's director. He said the museum had raised most of the money in 2006 and 2007, although ''people were still giving money in the fall. But it was harder to get the six- or seven-figure gifts.''
 Mr. Allen said his short-term goal was to finish raising the $22 million for the construction costs by this spring, before the contractor gave them back the keys in December. ''I expect the endowment portion will take a bit longer than we expected,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 20, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Museums section on Thursday about the effect of the economic downturn on museums' building plans misstated the timetable for a major renovation at the Addison Gallery of American Art at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass. The work is scheduled to be completed by December, not this spring.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WAITING: A rendering of the visitors center at the Virginia B. Fairbanks Art and Nature Park, a project delayed by the Indianapolis Museum of Art.(PHOTOGRAPH BY INDIANAPOLIS MUSEUM OF ART)
OPTIMISM: The Addison Gallery of American Art at Phillips Academy, in Andover, Mass., is being renovated but still needs additional financing.(PHOTOGRAPH BY COURTESY OF PHILLIPS ACADEMY)
 POSTPONED: Above and left, renderings of the Saint Louis Art Museum's $80 million expansion of gallery and public space, a project that has been pushed back until the fourth quarter of this year because of uncertainty in short-term credit markets.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RENDERINGS COURTESY OF SAINT LOUIS ART MUSEUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF MUSEUMS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%) INDIANA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



771 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Japan Central Bank to Buy More Government Bonds

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Japan's central bank said Wednesday that it would increase its purchase of government bonds by nearly 30 percent, a move intended to pump money into the economy and start a recovery from the worst recession in decades.
 The Bank of Japan said at the end of its two-day policy meeting that it would increase its monthly purchase of government debt from banks to 1.8 trillion yen, or $18.3 billion, from 1.4 trillion yen. The bank's board also voted unanimously to hold its benchmark interest rate steady at 0.1 percent.
 ''We continue to hold the view that Japan's economy has deteriorated significantly, and is likely to continue deteriorating for the time being,'' the central bank governor, Masaaki Shirakawa, said at a news conference. ''We deem it very important to stabilize financial markets by actively increasing financial liquidity.'' 
 The news preceded the Federal Reserve's announcement that it would buy as much as $300 billion of Treasuries and $750 billion in mortgage-backed securities to lower borrowing costs.
 Other central banks have intervened in recent days to shore up their economies. The Bank of England is buying government securities to increase the money supply, while the Swiss National Bank is selling francs to stem a rise in its currency, which has battered its exports.
 With interest rates near zero since December, Japan's central bank has been left with few options besides buying assets from banks to encourage lending. Japan's rate compares with America's preferred range of zero to 0.25 percent, and the euro zone's 1.5 percent.
 On Tuesday, the Bank of Japan said it was considering offering as much as 1 trillion yen in loans to banks to shore up their depleted capital. It has also started buying commercial paper, corporate bonds and stocks from financial institutions.
 The seriousness of Japan's economic slump seemed to have spurred the central bank to take further action, economists said.
 ''The increase in bond purchases was larger than I expected,'' said Masamichi Adachi, senior economist at JP Morgan Securities in Tokyo. ''It shows that the bank still sees the financial system as in a critical condition.'' 
 ''But the concern is, what next?'' Mr. Adachi said. ''The bank is running out of options besides buying more government bonds, and it can't do that forever.''
 Mr. Shirakawa, the bank governor, said the increase in bond purchases announced Wednesday was intended to spur lending by banks to stimulate the flagging economy.
 Japan's gross domestic product shrank at an annualized rate of 12.1 percent in the October-December quarter, as Japan's mainstay exports collapsed in the global slowdown. Economists say Japan is in the midst of its longest recession since World War II.
 The governor had previously been cautious about expanding purchases of sovereign bonds, saying it could lead to concerns that public debt would swell further, driving up bond yields in the long run. The central bank, which has bought government bonds since 1989, last increased purchases in December.
 Japan has already unveiled stimulus plans worth 12 trillion yen to combat the recession. Some economists worry about Japan's mushrooming government debt, already about 170 percent of its gross domestic product -- the worst debt-to-G.D.P. ratio in the world after Zimbabwe by some measures.
 Mr. Shirakawa emphasized that the bank's moves were not intended to finance Japanese government spending. ''It would be dangerous to use the government bond-buying operations as a financing tool,'' he said.
 Initially, Japanese banks had appeared to escape relatively unscathed from the subprime-mortgage crisis affecting financial institutions elsewhere.
 But the banks' vast shareholdings have exposed them to large losses as stock prices tumbled, casting a shadow over their financial health.
 The banks' problems have also raised concerns about tightened lending just as Japan's companies struggle to settle their accounts before the fiscal year ends March 31.
 Japanese shares have stabilized recently after plunging more than 40 percent, partly in anticipation of further market-bolstering moves by the government and Bank of Japan. On Wednesday, the Nikkei stock index rose 0.29 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BONDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); EURO ZONE (73%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (67%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: SCHWEIZERISCHE NATIONALBANK (67%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%); BANK OF ENGLAND (55%)

TICKER: SNBN (SWX) (67%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (67%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) JAPAN (99%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



772 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Israel Confronts Deeper Isolation In Gaza's Wake

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM 

 BODY:
Israel, whose founding idea was branded as racism by the United Nations General Assembly in 1975 and which faced an Arab boycott for decades, is no stranger to isolation. But in the weeks since its Gaza war, and as it prepares to inaugurate a hawkish right-wing government, it is facing its worst diplomatic crisis in two decades.
 Examples abound. Its sports teams have met hostility and violent protests in Sweden,Spain and Turkey.Mauritania has closed Israel's embassy.
 Relations with Turkey, an important Muslim ally, have suffered severely. A group of top international judges and human rights investigators recently called for an inquiry into Israel's actions in Gaza. ''Israel Apartheid Week'' drew participants in 54 cities around the world this month, twice the number of last year, according to its organizers. And even in the American Jewish community, albeit in its liberal wing, there is a chill. 
 The issue has not gone unnoticed here, but it has generated two distinct and somewhat contradictory reactions. On one hand, there is real concern. Global opinion surveys are being closely examined and the Foreign Ministry has been granted an extra $2 million to improve Israel's image through cultural and information diplomacy. 
 ''We will send well-known novelists and writers overseas, theater companies, exhibits,'' said Arye Mekel, the ministry's deputy director general for cultural affairs. ''This way you show Israel's prettier face, so we are not thought of purely in the context of war.'' 
 But there is also a growing sense that outsiders do not understand Israel's predicament, so criticism is dismissed.
 ''People here feel that no matter what you do you are going to be blamed for all the problems in the Middle East,'' said Eytan Gilboa, a professor of politics and international communication at Bar Ilan University. ''Even suicide bombings by Palestinians are seen as our fault for not establishing a Palestinian state.''
 Of course, for Israel's critics, including those who firmly support the existence of a Jewish state, the problem is not one of image but of policy. They point to four decades of occupation, the settling of half a million Israeli Jews on land captured in 1967, the economic strangling of Gaza for the past few years and the society's growing indifference toward the creation of a Palestinian state as reasons Israel has lost favor abroad, and they say that no amount of image buffing will change that.
 Israel's use of enormous force in the Gaza war in January crystallized much of this criticism. 
 The issue of a Palestinian state is central to Israel's reputation abroad, because so many governments and international organizations favor its establishment in the West Bank, Gaza and East Jerusalem. And while the departing government of Prime Minister Ehud Olmert negotiated for such a state, the incoming one of Benjamin Netanyahu says that item is not on its immediate agenda.
 Javier Solana, foreign policy chief for the European Union, said in Brussels on Monday that the group would reconsider its relationship with Israel if it did not remain committed to establishing a Palestinian state.
 Moreover, Mr. Netanyahu is expected to appoint Avigdor Lieberman, leader of the ultranationalist Yisrael Beiteinu party, as his foreign minister. This alone has Israelis and their allies in Europe and the United States worried because of Mr. Lieberman's views of Israeli Arabs that some have called racist.
 Mr. Lieberman had campaigned on the need for a loyalty oath in Israel so that those who did not support a Jewish democratic state would lose their citizenship. One-fifth of Israeli citizens are Arabs, and many do not support defining the state as Jewish. 
 Mr. Lieberman also has few fans in Egypt, which has acted as an intermediary for Israel in several matters. Some months ago Mr. Lieberman complained that President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt had not agreed to come to Israel. ''If he doesn't want to, he can go to hell,'' he added.
 ''Imagine that Hossein Mousavi wins the Iranian presidency this spring and he names Mohammad Khatami as his foreign minister,'' said Meir Javedanfar, an Iran analyst in Israel, referring to two Iranian leaders widely viewed as in the pragmatist camp. ''With Lieberman as foreign minister here, Israel will have a much harder time demonstrating to the world that Iran is the destabilizing factor in the region.''
 Of course, all of this is being seen in the context of a new, Democratic administration in the United States that has announced a desire to press for a two-state solution. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton has already criticized Israeli plans to demolish Palestinian homes in East Jerusalem, and her department has criticized Israel's banning of certain goods from Gaza.
 This represents a distinct shift in tone from the Bush era. An internal Israeli Foreign Ministry report during the Gaza war noted that compared with others in the United States, ''liberals and Democrats show far less enthusiasm for Israel and its leadership.''
 The gap between Israelis and many liberal American Jews could be seen Tuesday in a blog by Bradley Burston, who writes on the Web site of the left-leaning newspaper Haaretz. He said that while visiting Los Angeles he faced many questions that amounted to ''What is wrong with these people, your friends, the Israelis?''
 He quoted an article by Anne Roiphe, an American Jewish liberal, which said that witnessing the popularity of Mr. Lieberman in Israel made her feel ''as if my spouse had cheated on me with Mussolini.''
 She added: ''We here in America are waiting as of this writing for a government to emerge in Jerusalem, and most of us keep on hoping that its shape will not preclude the peace process, will not doom a two-state solution, will not destroy the hope that our new president brings to the table.''
 Mr. Burston pointed to the thousands of rockets fired from Gaza into Sderot and other Israeli cities and towns and titled his piece ''The Racist Israeli Fascist in Me.''
 Some Israeli officials say they believe that what the country needs is to ''rebrand'' itself. They say Israel spends far too much time defending actions against its enemies. By doing so, they say, the narrative is always about conflict.
 ''When we show Sderot, others also see Gaza,'' said Ido Aharoni, manager of a rebranding team at the Foreign Ministry. ''Everything is twinned when seen through the conflict. The country needs to position itself as an attractive personality, to make outsiders see it in all its reality. Instead, we are focusing on crisis management. And that is never going to get us where we need to go over the long term.''
 Mr. Gilboa, the political scientist, said branding was not enough. 
 ''We need to do much more to educate the world about our situation,'' he said. Regarding the extra $2 million budgeted for this, he said: ''We need 50 million. We need 100 million.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Palestinian civilians ran for cover during an Israeli airstrike in Gaza in January. Israel's use of enormous force in the war generated heavy international criticism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMMED ABED/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) (pg.A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOYCOTTS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); THEATER (65%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (65%); WRITERS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); SPORTS (56%); SPORTS & RECREATION (56%); HUMAN RIGHTS (55%); POLLS & SURVEYS (54%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (94%); TURKEY (93%); SPAIN (92%); SWEDEN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



773 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Girl Scouts Battle With One of Their Own

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

 BODY:
It has been a tough year for that classic American snack, the Girl Scout cookie. 
 With the cost of flour, oil and cocoa rising, Thin Mints, Trefoils and Peanut Butter Sandwiches now come in smaller boxes, with two fewer cookies. Do-Si-Dos are struggling against a salmonella outbreak that has left customers wary of peanut butter. And the recession has dissuaded many from spending $3.50 on a little tray of cookies, whether chocolate, shortbread or lemon. 
 Add to that list of woes the name of 8-year-old Wild Freeborn. 
 Wild, a girl scout from Asheville, N.C., set out in January with the goal of selling 12,000 boxes of cookies, enough to win a free week of Scout camp for her entire troop. Because her father, Bryan, works in Web site development, his first impulse was to have her advertise her mission online.
 She did so, and it was not long before she found herself afoul of the Scouts' national organization, Girl Scouts of the U.S.A., which forbids Internet sales of cookies. The resulting stir -- innovative third grader versus Scout leadership, online entrepreneurship versus the tradition of door-to-door promotion -- has drawn publicity across the country, with coverage by national news organizations and many radio stations.
 ''It didn't really dawn on us that we were doing something new and innovative,'' Mr. Freeborn said. ''The business community in Asheville is very active on Facebook and Twitter. We were surprised that we were the first to get noticed for doing this.''
 Michelle Tompkins, a spokeswoman for the Scouts, says there are good reasons for the online ban, beginning with the familiar dangers that young girls can encounter on the Web. Beyond that, Ms Tompkins says, is the issue of fairness: local councils typically award prizes to girls for reaching certain levels of sales, and since all girls are limited to selling within their local areas, a campaign like Wild's can overwhelm opportunities for other girls in town.
 But the debate only begins there. The further question is what online ''selling'' means.
 The Scouts had no problem with the YouTube video, shot by Mr. Freeborn, in which Wild bounced around on a couch and made the sales pitch: ''Buy cookies! And they're yummy!''
 The trouble, Ms. Tompkins says, is that Wild posted an order form online along with the promotional material.
 But Mr. Freeborn says that although his daughter took orders online, she did not break the rule, since she delivered the cookies and collected payment in person.
 ''Wild did everything you do as a traditional cookie-selling girl scout,'' Mr. Freeborn said. ''But she also utilized the Internet to promote the cookies.''
 And help from his students did not hurt. Mr. Freeborn, a guest lecturer at the University of North Carolina at Asheville, assigned his mass communications class to run a ''grass roots'' cookie campaign on his daughter's behalf, using Facebook, Craigslist and text-messaging, that was directed at residents of the Asheville area.
 In any event, after the local council received complaints from parents of other scouts about Wild's campaign, the Freeborns removed the online order form, though they kept up a promotional video, a Facebook page and a PayPal account through which people could donate cookies to charities or the military.
 Wild ultimately fell far short of her goal, selling something more than 1,000 boxes, Mr. Freeborn said, including cookies she sold door to door and at a grocery booth. Still, that is far more than the couple of hundred that the typical scout sells each year and will be enough to win a trip to camp for herself, though not for the whole troop.
 Molly Keeney, chief executive of the local organization, Girl Scouts of Western North Carolina Pisgah Council, agrees that Wild's approach violated national regulations. But she questions their correctness.
 ''It's a new day now,'' Ms. Keeney said. ''To not develop a system for girls to sell via the Internet is probably not responding to how girls operate these days. But as long as there's a rule, we need to support it or at least enforce it, not to defy the rule or misinterpret the rule.''
 Ms. Tompkins, the national spokeswoman, says that rule may soon change. ''We need to find a way to come up with a program for girls to sell cookies that is safe and fair,'' she said. ''Once we do, we will allow online sales.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wild Freeborn, whose posting of an online order form for Girl Scout cookies drew the Scouts' disfavor, on television last week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); SOCIAL MEDIA (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); BACTERIA (57%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (54%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SCOUT ASSOCIATION (83%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (90%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



774 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ENTREPRENEURIAL EDGE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: As Credit Cards Falter, the Cash Variety Gains Popularity

BYLINE: By JAMES FLANIGAN. 
This column about small-business trends in California and the West appears on the third Thursday of every month. E-mail: jamesflanigan@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THREE small companies are playing a role in a business that has been growing as the economy's troubles have deepened -- the business of prepaid cash cards. 
 The cards, which have the Visa, MasterCard and Discover logos, act like portable checking accounts, though they are replenished with deposits made at retail outlets rather than banks. 
 Distribution and management of these debitlike accounts are handled by small service companies, prominently the Green Dot Corporation, the NetSpend Corporation and nFinanSe Inc. They provide computer servers and software as well as customer service to networks of retailers, typically supermarkets, drugstore chains and check-cashing outlets. 
 The business serves a market that has existed for decades among the 44 million adult Americans who do not have bank accounts. And some experts put the size of the market even higher, at 73 million, to include potential cash card customers who have little access to bank services because they have low incomes and are unable to maintain minimum account balances. 
 Yet the number of ''unbanked'' and ''underbanked'' people is growing rapidly in the current economic crisis. The Mercator Advisory Group, a research service focused on the credit and payments industry, estimated in November that the volume of transactions on general-purpose prepaid cards totaled more than $4 billion in 2008. It forecasts an increase to $7.2 billion in 2009 and $10.8 billion in 2010.
 ''The rapid growth squares with what we see in the marketplace,'' said Mark Troughton, president of cards and networks at Green Dot, ''but we find the totals too low. We did more than $4 billion by ourselves last year.'' 
 Green Dot, based in Monrovia, Calif., started operating its prepaid reloadable cash cards business in 2001 for such retail chains as Kroger supermarkets and Walgreens drugstores. Green Dot now has 550 employees and about $350 million in annual revenue. It receives a portion of card purchase fees, up to $9.95 usually, as well as fees for reloading cards and a monthly maintenance fee of $4.95 an account.
 Since 2007, Green Dot has stepped up to bigger business, managing the prepaid card business for Wal-Mart Stores. Wal-Mart recently lowered fees to $3 for the initial card, $3 for each replenishment and $3 for maintenance each month -- and no fee if customers deposit paychecks directly into their cash card accounts. 
 The resemblance to bank services is unmistakable and Mr. Troughton was enthusiastic in describing what he sees as a new era for Green Dot's business. ''In the next few months, we are going to be rolling out new financial services for cash card customers,'' he said. ''The general-purpose cash card business is at an inflection point.''
 Jerry R. Welch, the chairman of another small service company, nFinanSe, said he, too, saw Wal-Mart's expansion as an indication of the potential for growth for the business. Wal-Mart ''will bring the prepaid card business a new profile, new legitimacy,'' he said.
 Mr. Welch, who once led the toy retailers Zany Brainy and F.A.O. Schwarz, said he saw the business through the eyes of a store owner. ''A retailer sees people coming in to load cash onto their cards and says, 'These people are using me as a bank -- and that's good. I should sell them something while they're here.' '' 
 Mr. Welch raised capital for nFinanSe and became its chairman in 2007, attracted, he said, by the computing system that runs its network. ''A reloadable card is better than a bank account because a customer can shop online. And our card gives text messaging notation of transactions and balances,'' he said. 
 The company now has 80,000 cards distributed through Dollar General stores and Winn-Dixie supermarkets and 70 employees, half of whom work in customer service. ''If customers call in to ask questions or get their balance, they get a person, not a machine,'' Mr. Welch said. ''Customer service will build this business.'' 
 Last month, in another effort aimed at establishing a beachhead in the banking business, NetSpend introduced a savings account in collaboration with a national network of financial service centers. ''Our savings accounts can earn interest at a 5 percent annual rate,'' said Daniel R. Henry, NetSpend's chief executive. ''It encourages our customers to save, and it's the right thing to do.'' 
 NetSpend, based in Austin, Tex., started a decade ago distributing prepaid cards through check-cashing stores -- the alternative finance centers for those with no bank accounts. Its Visa and MasterCard prepaid cards are now used also at the Albertsons, H-E-B and Winn-Dixie supermarket chains.
 NetSpend has 300 employees and about $180 million in annual revenue, and Mr. Henry said more cost-conscious customers were turning to prepaid cash cards. ''We offer better, more flexible service than banks,'' he said, ''and we don't charge for overdrafts because you can't spend more than the cash on your card.'' 
 Mr. Henry said he learned about cash economies when he went to Hungary in 1994. ''In Eastern Europe there were no credit cards to speak of in those days,'' he said. 
 ''Cash cards became a way for people to gain flexibility in Hungary, the Czech Republic and other countries,'' he said. ''I saw how convenient such cards could be, and then I came home and found just as large a market for such cards in the United States.'' 
 With banks and credit card issuers now tightening up and cutting back, Mr. Henry said NetSpend's savings account and other services represented opportunities to expand. In a potential market of 44 million people who do not have bank accounts, he said, ''there are only some three million customers so far.''
 Mr. Welch of nFinanSe remained skeptical, however. ''Maybe the business will expand like that,'' he said. ''If in five years' time everybody has a cash card, then we'll offer a savings account, too. But, meanwhile, the average cash card customers aren't interested in bank account services. They want low fees and convenience, and we'll offer that.'' 
 Either way, traditionally or with new financial services, a cash business is growing while credit services retreat.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jerry R. Welch, chairman of nFinanSe, which services prepaid cards sold through Dollar General and Winn-Dixie stores.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); PREPAID CARDS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); NETWORK SERVERS (70%); MARKET SIZE (68%)

COMPANY: VISA INC (93%); GREEN DOT CORP (85%); NETSPEND HOLDINGS INC (72%); NFINANSE INC (71%); KROGER CO (65%); WAL-MART STORES INC (52%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (93%); GDOT (NYSE) (85%); NTSP (NASDAQ) (72%); KR (NYSE) (65%); WMT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (85%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (72%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (71%); SIC6153 SHORT-TERM BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS EX. AGRICULTURAL (71%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (71%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (65%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (65%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



775 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Taxing Rich Won't Necessarily Make Them Flee, Experts Say

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
It is perhaps the most potent argument offered by those who oppose increasing the income tax on wealthy New Yorkers: If you raise it, they will flee.
 That case has been made repeatedly by Gov. David A. Paterson, who says that higher taxes should be a last resort. It has been featured in a campaign by Taxpayers for an Affordable New York, a coalition of real estate and business interests. And it has been on the mind of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, New York City's richest person, who said in a radio interview, ''You can't tax too much those that can move.''
 Yet there is surprisingly little evidence to support the proposition that rich New Yorkers would bolt if forced to pay higher income taxes. Though tracking the movement of wealthy taxpayers from state to state is difficult, experts on public finance and migration say they have yet to document a substantial ''rich drain'' in states that have raised income taxes in recent years. 
 ''At the level we're talking about, there's no quantitative evidence that it affects the mobility decisions of affluent taxpayers,'' said Douglas S. Massey, a demographer at Princeton University and president of the American Academy of Political and Social Science. 
 Pressured by enormous budget deficits, officials in Illinois, Hawaii, Wisconsin and New Jersey are considering new taxes on the rich. Lawmakers in Albany have discussed several proposals, including increases for those earning more than $250,000.
 But even experts who oppose such taxes on other grounds -- out of fear that they will retard economic growth and innovation, or encourage lawmakers to indulge in bouts of new spending -- concede that there is not much evidence that raising taxes on the wealthy would drive out a significant number.
 ''I kind of clench my teeth every time Paterson says people will leave,'' said Edmund J. McMahon, director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy, a conservative-leaning research group that has advocated for sharp cuts in spending to balance New York's budget. 
 ''It is the selling point. It's also a dumb point,'' Mr. McMahon added. ''Nobody says your wealthy enclaves will shrink dramatically. What they say is that your economy will suffer.''
 New Jersey raised taxes on the wealthy in 2004, increasing by 2.6 percent the tax rate levied on those making more than $500,000 a year; and Gov. Jon S. Corzine this month proposed a new increase on high earners. 
 But a study by Professor Massey and two colleagues, published in September, estimated that the previous tax increase cost New Jersey only 50 to 350 existing ''half-millionaire'' households -- a relatively small number against the total of 44,000 such households in the state. 
 While those departures cost the state about $38 million a year in revenue, the study estimates, the higher taxes levied on those who stayed have brought in an average of $895 million a year. Also in 2004, California voters approved a 1 percent income tax surcharge on personal income over $1 million, and Silicon Valley and Beverly Hills appear to remain well populated with the wealthy. From 2004 to 2007, according to a study by the California Budget Project, a left-leaning research organization, the number of millionaire taxpayers rose by close to 50 percent, well outpacing the 8.6 percent growth in the total number of those paying personal income tax. 
 ''It is one of the oft-cited urban legends in California politics -- that the rich are leaving California because of higher taxes,'' said Jean M. Ross, the project's executive director. 
 Between 2003 and 2005, after the Sept. 11 attacks, New York State imposed a temporary surcharge on incomes of more than $100,000, as did New York City. While the city did lose residents at all income levels in 2005, according to a 2007 study of population data published by the city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., households with incomes of $250,000 and higher were the least likely to leave. 
 Some who study the issue theorize that other factors affecting people's decisions about moving -- schools, jobs, even the weather -- make it unlikely that a relatively small tax increase would drive those decisions. In states like New York and California, hubs of culture and specific industries, people may also stay out of a desire to live and work near others like themselves.
 ''People move to maximize their utility,'' Professor Massey said. ''The $64,000 question is, what is their utility? There are taxes and income, but there are issues about jobs, local amenities in the state, family.''
 Some research suggests that very wealthy retirees will move when their home states raise income taxes or preserve estate taxes, though in small numbers. And studies counting the number of wealthy taxpayers who stick around may not, of course, capture those who choose not to move to a state because of higher taxes. 
 Broader trends are also significant. New Jersey and California raised their income taxes on the wealthy during an economic boom when federal tax rates were being cut. Now, lawmakers are proposing to tax the rich amid an economic crisis and under a president who has already promised higher federal taxes for the wealthy. 
 Whether the rich will move is also a different question from whether raising their taxes is a good long-term policy. 
 Elizabeth Lynam, a research director at the Citizens Budget Commission, a group that has generally advocated for lower spending and taxes in New York, argued that the collapse of the financial sector should make lawmakers leery of increasing taxes.
 ''That's the danger of assuming that the experience of 2002-3 will hold this year,'' Ms. Lynam said. ''Things are much more cataclysmic.''
 Some Democrats in Albany -- and just about every Republican -- seem to share those concerns. The Capitol, a magazine that covers state politics, noted last week that despite the lack of evidence that the wealthy would flee the state, there were not yet enough votes in the Senate to pass legislation to raise taxes on the rich.
 Professor Massey, however, suggested that the steep and perhaps permanent loss of jobs in finance, while shrinking overall tax revenue in New York, might actually deter people who still have jobs in the industry from moving.
 ''In this time of upheaval, people that have an economic stake and have a job are probably going to stay,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 23, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on Thursday about skepticism over the argument that raising the New York State income tax on the wealthy -- a proposal now being considered in Albany -- will cause them to leave the state misstated the amount by which New Jersey in 2004 increased the tax rate for those making more than $500,000 a year. It was 2.6 percentage points, not 2.6 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); CONSERVATISM (65%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (65%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (57%); DAVID PATERSON (57%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



776 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Obama Seeks Vastly Expanded Afghan Security Force to Help Stabilize the Nation

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and ERIC SCHMITT; David E. Sanger contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama and his advisers have decided to significantly expand Afghanistan's security forces in the hope that a much larger professional army and national police force could fill a void left by the central government and do more to promote stability in the country, according to senior administration and Pentagon officials.
 A plan awaiting final approval by the president would set a goal of about 400,000 troops and national police officers, more than twice the forces' current size, and more than three times the size that American officials believed would be adequate for Afghanistan in 2002, when the Taliban and Al Qaeda appeared to have been routed. 
 The officials said Mr. Obama was expected to approve a version of the plan in coming days as part of a broader Afghanistan-Pakistan strategy. But even members of Mr. Obama's national security team appeared taken aback by the cost projections of the program, which range from $10 billion to $20 billion over the next six or seven years. 
 By comparison, the annual budget for the entire Afghan government, which is largely provided by the United States and other international donors, is about $1.1 billion, which means the annual price of the program would be about twice the cost of operating the government of President Hamid Karzai. 
 Those figures include only the cost of training and establishing the forces, and officials are still trying to determine what the cost would be to sustain the security forces over the long term. 
 Administration officials also express concerns that an expanded Afghan Army could rival the corruption-plagued presidency of Mr. Karzai. The American commanders who have recommended the increase argued that any risk of creating a more powerful Afghan Army was outweighed by the greater risks posed by insurgent violence that could threaten the central government if left unchecked.
 At present, the army fields more than 90,000 troops, and the Afghan National Police numbers about 80,000 officers. The relatively small size of the security forces has frustrated Afghan officials and American commanders who wanted to turn security over to legitimate Afghan security forces, and not local warlords, at a faster pace.
 After resisting the idea for several years, the Bush administration last summer approved an increase that authorized the army to grow to 134,000 over the next three years, in a program that would cost about $12 billion. 
 The resistance had been a holdover from the early months after the rout of Taliban and Qaeda fighters in 2001, when it appeared that there was little domestic or external threat that required a larger security force. 
 The new proposal would authorize a doubling of the army, after the increase approved last summer, to about 260,000 soldiers. In addition, it would increase the number of police officers, commandos and border guards to bring the total size of the security forces to about 400,000. The officials who described the proposal spoke on condition of anonymity because they had not been authorized to discuss it publicly in advance of final approval by Mr. Obama. 
 Some European countries have proposed the creation of an Afghan National Army Trust Fund, which would seek donations from oil kingdoms along the Persian Gulf and other countries to pay for Afghanistan's security forces.
 Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, which would have to approve new American spending, endorsed the goal of expanding Afghan security forces, and urged commanders to place Afghans on the front lines to block the border with Pakistan to insurgents and terrorists.
 ''The cost is relatively small compared to the cost of not doing it -- of having Afghanistan either disintegrate, or fall into the hands of the Taliban, or look as though we are dominating it,'' Mr. Levin said in an interview late on Tuesday. 
 Administration officials and military experts cited recent public opinion polls in Afghanistan showing that the Afghan Army had eclipsed the respect given the central government, which has had difficulty exerting legitimacy or control much beyond the capital.
 ''In the estimation of almost all outside observers, the Ministry of Defense and the Afghan National Army are two of the most highly functional and capable institutions in the country,'' said Lt. Gen. David W. Barno, who is retired and commanded American and coalition forces in Afghanistan from 2003 to 2005.
 General Barno, currently the director of Near East and South Asian security studies at National Defense University, dismissed concerns that the army or the Ministry of Defense would challenge the authority of elected officials in Kabul.
 ''They are respectful of civil governance,'' he said. ''If the government of Afghanistan is going to effectively extend security and the rule of law, it has to have more army boots on the ground and police shoes on the ground.''
 Stephen Biddle, a senior fellow for defense policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, said the Obama administration now appeared ''willing to accept risks and accept downsides it might not otherwise'' have considered had the security situation not deteriorated.
 Military analysts cite other models in the Islamic world, like Pakistan, Egypt and Turkey, where the United States supports democratically elected civilian governments but raises no objection to the heavy influence wielded by military forces that remain at least as powerful as those governments.
 Martin Strmecki, a member of the Defense Science Board and a former top Pentagon adviser on Afghanistan, told a Senate committee last month that the Afghan Army should increase to 250,000 soldiers and the national police force should add more than 100,000 officers. Mr. Strmecki said that only when Afghan security forces reached those numbers would they achieve ''the level necessary for success in counterinsurgency.'' 
 Military officers also see an added benefit to expanding Afghanistan's security forces, if its growing rosters can offer jobs to unemployed young men who now take up arms for the insurgency for money, and not ideology.
 ''We can try and outbid the Taliban for 'day workers' who are laying I.E.D.'s and do not care about politics,'' Mr. Biddle said, referring to improvised explosive devices. ''But if we don't control that area, the Taliban can come in and cut off the hands of anybody who is taking money from us.''
 C.I.A. Chief in Overseas Trip
 The director of the Central Intelligence Agency, Leon E. Panetta, is traveling to India and Pakistan this week to discuss the investigation into the Mumbai terrorist attacks, improved information-sharing to combat violent extremists and other intelligence issues, an American official said Wednesday. 
 Making his first overseas trip as C.I.A. director, Mr. Panetta was in India on Wednesday and was expected to travel to Pakistan and possibly another country in the following days, the official said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Afghan soldiers and their American trainers conducted a joint patrol last November to blow up a cave used as an attack position near the Pakistani border. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); ARMIES (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); APPROVALS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALIBAN (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); TERRORISM (75%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); BUDGETS (73%); AL-QAEDA (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); HAMAD KARZAI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



777 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: It's the Regulations, Not the Regulator

 BODY:
It has become a truism of the financial crisis that the system was prone to collapse because there was no single regulator who had the legal tools and authority to prevent a systemwide meltdown. That belief has led to calls from some lawmakers and major banks, among others, for a new ''systemic risk regulator'' -- one regulator to monitor the entire financial landscape for problems that could lead to cascading failures. 
 In recent days, the unfolding fiasco of the American International Group and its federal bailout seems to have reinforced the drive for a systemic-risk cop -- and the notion that putting one in place is the key to solving all our problems. Speaking of the insurance company's mess on Wednesday, President Obama said that he had consulted with his economic advisers and with Representative Barney Frank, the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, about developing tools to ''prevent ourselves from getting in a situation where an A.I.G.'' can threaten the entire financial system. 
 There's just one problem with all that. The premise is false. The financial crisis, including what went wrong at A.I.G., is not just the result of a missing regulator, a gaping structural gap in the regulatory framework. 
 Rather, it is rooted in the refusal of regulators, lawmakers and executive-branch officials to heed warnings about risks in the system and to use their powers to head them off. It is the result of antiregulatory bias and deregulatory zeal -- ascendant over the last three decades, but especially prevalent in the last 10 years -- that eclipsed not only rules and regulations, but the very will to regulate. 
 A.I.G. is a prime example. The company kneecapped itself -- and the financial system -- via credit default swaps, an unregulated derivative that supposedly reduced investment risk but, as it turned out, increased risk beyond the system's ability to absorb it. 
 In the late 1990s, a drive to fully regulate swaps was squashed by Congress, with the support of then-President Bill Clinton's Treasury Department. Instead of regulation, which could have prevented the A.I.G. fiasco, a law was passed in 2000 that deregulated swaps. By then, the Treasury secretary was Lawrence Summers, who is now Mr. Obama's chief economic adviser.
 There are many other examples where rules were blocked, eliminated or ignored. They all make painfully clear that what is needed is a comprehensive response -- to restore rules, develop new ones as needed and enforce them day to day; to reassert the government's regulatory mission; and to reaffirm the centrality of solvency, safety and soundness of financial firms, and of investor and consumer protection. 
 A new systemic-risk regulator could play a role in that, coordinating the efforts and identifying emerging risks. A systemic-risk regulator could also assume the important function, currently lacking, of a sort of F.D.I.C. for nonbank financial firms, with authority to seize and restructure critically impaired firms before they threaten the broader system. Mr. Obama specifically cited this function in his remarks on Wednesday. 
 Unfortunately, the systemic-risk regulator is more often presented, at least at this early stage of the regulatory reform effort, as an overarching and primary fix for the broken financial system. It is not. Congress must not substitute the quick fix for the hard work of regulatory reform. To do so would squander current public support for re-regulation and would ultimately leave the system vulnerable to a repeat of the same calamities that afflict it today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (67%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (66%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); BILL CLINTON (56%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); BARNEY FRANK (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



778 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. Seeking Return of Half Of Its Bonuses

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and LOUISE STORY; Carl Hulse and Helene Cooper contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Two chief executives with much on the line in the furor over Wall Street bonuses -- President Obama and Edward M. Liddy of the American International Group -- made concerted efforts on Wednesday to tamp down the populist anger, but faced continued outrage on Capitol Hill and elsewhere.
 At a highly charged Congressional hearing, Mr. Liddy said he had asked employees making more than $100,000 a year who just shared in a $165 million bonus payout to give half the money back, reflecting the public and political disgust at the idea of rewarding the same people who had helped drive the company and the economy into distress. 
 ''Some have already volunteered to give back 100 percent,'' said Mr. Liddy, who was installed by the Federal Reserve when it rescued A.I.G. last September and is being paid $1 a year. But he did not provide any details, and resisted releasing the names of those who had received the bonuses, saying some employees had received death threats. 
 Mr. Obama, at the White House, said his goal was to ''channel our anger in a constructive way'' and called for legislative authority to take over and close troubled nonbank financial institutions like A.I.G. 
 Even as he said that ''nobody here'' had drafted the bonus deals A.I.G. agreed to last year, the president said he took responsibility for cleaning up the mess, deflecting some of the criticism being directed at Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and trying to limit any damage to his ability to get more money from Congress for bank bailouts. 
 ''The buck stops with me,'' Mr. Obama said. ''And my goal is to make sure that we never put ourselves in this kind of position again.''
 But furious Democratic leaders in Congress said they would not wait for A.I.G. to act on good faith, and instead said they would head to the House floor on Thursday with a bill to tax 90 percent of bonuses paid out since Jan. 1 by A.I.G. or any other company that had accepted more than $5 billion in government bailout funds. 
 The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, at a hastily called news conference with Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, the chairman of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, and other leaders, said Congress would do what was necessary to assure that taxpayers did not pay for bonuses. 
 ''This money doesn't belong to A.I.G.,'' said Representative Steve Israel, Democrat of New York. ''It belongs to the American taxpayer and we are going to get it back.'' 
 Senate leaders have proposed legislation that would impose a 35 percent tax on recipients of the A.I.G. bonuses, and a 35 percent tax on the company.
 House leaders said that they had kept the White House informed of their plans, but that the administration had not been involved in developing the legislation.
 Faced with demands for disclosure of the names of the people who received the bonuses, Mr. Liddy said hesitantly at the Congressional hearing, before a subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee, that he would be willing to supply the names, but only if they were not released publicly. He explained that there had been death threats, and read an example: ''All the executives and their families should be executed with piano wire around their necks,'' it said. ''That is our only hope.''
 The committee's chairman, Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, said he was dismayed to hear about the threats, but he was unwilling to guarantee the confidentiality of the names. He warned that if he did not get the information, he would try to have Mr. Liddy subpoenaed. ''I think the time has come for the federal government to assert greater ownership rights,'' Mr. Frank said. 
 Likewise, the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, signaled that he would make the names public when he received them in response to a subpoena.
 Another uproar could emerge if Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage-finance giants that have been taken over by the government and have received billions in taxpayer money, pay similar retention bonuses to top executives, as they have indicated that they would do in recent regulatory filings.
 As Congress sought to tighten its grip on A.I.G. and other companies aided by the taxpayers, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the Senate banking committee, sought to explain how legislation aimed at limiting executive compensation at firms receiving bailout help was changed at the last minute to allow certain bonuses that were contained in employment contracts before Feb. 11, 2009. 
 Mr. Dodd initially said he did not know how that change was made to the compensation limits that were included in the economic recovery bill adopted by Congress last month. But in an interview Wednesday with CNN, he said that the Treasury Department had requested the change and that his staff had helped to write it into the bill, as part of a deal to keep other pay limits in the legislation. 
 ''It was their suggestion,'' Mr. Dodd told CNN. ''We wrote it together at the time.'' But it is far from clear that the change mattered in the case of A.I.G.
 The payouts have roused particular fury because they went to employees of A.I.G.'s financial products unit -- the part of A.I.G. that dealt in the credit derivatives that were its downfall. 
 A horde of cameras and reporters awaited Mr. Liddy outside the hearing room, subjecting him to the sort of gantlet reserved for major felons and celebrities after an unfortunate night out.
 But Mr. Liddy, who chatted with protesters as he entered the session for hours of testimony, repeatedly tried to make clear that he was not responsible for getting A.I.G. into this mess. 
 ''Six months ago I came out of retirement to help my country,'' said Mr. Liddy, a former Allstate executive who no doubt has questioned that decision on more than one occasion. 
 ''At the government's request I've had the duty and extraordinary challenge of serving as chairman and chief executive officer of American International Group, or A.I.G.''
 Representative Paul E. Kanjorski, the Pennsylvania Democrat who is chairman of the subcommittee, sought to make the distinction clear as well, saying that Mr. Liddy had responded to a plea to help out and should be spared any abuse. 
 ''We do not intend to harass you,'' Mr. Kanjorski said.
 Yet members of both parties sharply questioned Mr. Liddy.
 ''This is like the captain and the crew of the ship reserving the lifeboats saying to hell with the passengers,'' said Representative Stephen F. Lynch, Democrat of Massachusetts.
 To Mr. Liddy, Mr. Lynch's observation went too far.
 ''I take offense, sir,'' he responded, reminding lawmakers that he was not in charge when the bonuses were arranged but believed he was legally bound to pay them.
 ''Well, offense was intended,'' Mr. Lynch retorted. ''So you take it rightfully, sir.''
 In response to questions about who in the federal government A.I.G. consulted with on its business decisions, Mr. Liddy said that he normally spoke with the Fed, and believed the Fed then kept the Treasury in the loop. The Fed has appointed three trustees to represent the government's stake in A.I.G., but when asked their names Mr. Liddy could not recall them. 
 He said it was his impression that Mr. Geithner had not known about the bonuses until two weeks ago.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In a hearing, Edward M. Liddy of A.I.G. tried to parry lawmakers like Barney Frank, right, who wanted a list of bonus recipients. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 Edward M. Liddy of A.I.G. told lawmakers that because of death threats, he did not want bonus recipients' names to be public. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) CHART: FINDING OUT ABOUT A.I.G.: What is known about the government's knowledge of bonuses for A.I.G. employees who were responsible for huge losses. (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BAILOUT BONUSES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BONUS PAY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); BAILOUTS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); BANK FAILURES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%)

PERSON: EDWARD M LIDDY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); STEVE ISRAEL (57%); CHARLES B RANGEL (57%); BARNEY FRANK (56%); NANCY PELOSI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



779 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 407 words

 BODY:
FED TO BUY TREASURY BONDS The Federal Reserve said it would pump an extra $1 trillion into the financial system by purchasing Treasury bonds and mortgage securities. 
 ANGER OVER BONUSES Both President Obama and Edward M. Liddy, the chief of the American International Group, tried to tamp down the populist anger over the payments, but faced continued outrage on Capitol Hill and elsewhere. [A1.] 
 Mr. Liddy, a longtime executive hired to oversee a corporate makeover of A.I.G., has now become a lightning rod. [B1.] 
 JUDGE ORDERS NAMES RELEASED A judge ruled that Andrew M. Cuomo, the attorney general of New York, must be provided the names of the A.I.G. workers who got bonuses. [B1.] 
 PRESSURE ON GEITHNER The furor over A.I.G.'s bonuses has provided further ammunition to critics of Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner. [A1.] 
 I.B.M. PURSUING SUN I.B.M. is offering to buy Sun Microsystems for nearly $7 billion. Analysts say Sun's strength in software, systems design and research are what make it an attractive target to I.B.M. [B1.] 
 SMALL RISE IN PRICES Consumer prices rose slightly for a second month in February, calming fears of deflation. [B3.] 
 MADOFF ACCOUNTANT CHARGEDBernard L. Madoff's accountant was charged with aiding the investment adviser fraud committed by Mr. Madoff. [B1.] 
 G.M. AS AN OPEN BOOK Among bailed-out companies, General Motors is getting high marks for opening up every facet of its business for review. [B3.] 
 BANK OF JAPAN TO BUY BONDS
 Japan's central bank will increase its purchase of government bonds by nearly 30 percent, said the bank's governor, Masaaki Shirakawa, above. [B9.] 
 SPITZER SPEAKS UP The uproar over the American International Group has apparently helped Eliot Spitzer find his voice after a year in exile from the public spotlight. [B4.] 
 DIPPING INTO ETHANOL Valero Energy is buying seven ethanol plants from VeraSun Energy for $477 million. [B3.] 
 COKE IS TURNED AWAY China has rejected Coca-Cola's bid to acquire one of the country's biggest beverage makers. [B10.] 
 'WE'RE STILL HERE' Saturn, the precarious division of General Motors, has begun a campaign to address customer concerns. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B7.]
 SAN DIEGO PAPER IS SOLD A private equity firm bought The San Diego Union-Tribune from Copley Press. [B12.]
 TIGHTER CONTROLS Britain's financial regulator proposed sweeping changes, including new capital rules for banks. [B8.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); ACCOUNTING (87%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); LITIGATION (75%); JUDGES (75%); DEFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); ALCOHOLS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (67%); SOFT DRINK MFG (66%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (65%); PRIVATE EQUITY (65%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (64%); BIOFUELS (62%); ETHANOL (62%); BEVERAGE MFG (61%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (52%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (73%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); VALERO ENERGY CORP (53%); VERASUN ENERGY CORP (52%); COCA-COLA CO (52%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (73%); 8685 (TSE) (73%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); GM (NYSE) (54%); VLO (NYSE) (53%); KO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (73%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (73%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2865 CYCLIC ORGANIC CRUDES & INTERMEDIATES & ORGANIC DYES & PIGMENTS (52%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%)

PERSON: EDWARD M LIDDY (88%); ELIOT SPITZER (77%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (73%); BARACK OBAMA (68%); ANDREW CUOMO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



780 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: A New High School, With College Mixed In

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
A school that officials are billing as a kind of hybrid between a high school and a community college is set to open in Brooklyn this fall.
 At the five-year secondary school, called the City Polytechnic High School of Engineering, Architecture and Technology, graduating students would receive both a high school diploma and an associate's degree.
 The school will blend a curriculum focused on career and technical education with advanced courses in subjects like computer systems and architectural technology at the New York City College of Technology. 
 The new school is long overdue, said the city schools chancellor, Joel I. Klein, at a news conference Wednesday at Lehman College. Mr. Klein, along with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, also announced increases in the number of public school graduates attending City University of New York schools like Lehman and the College of Technology.
 Currently, 11 city schools allow high school students to earn college credit at CUNY before they graduate.
 City Polytechnic, in Downtown Brooklyn, will be the first city high school to allow students to take college-level courses in professional areas like information technology and construction management. 
 Students will begin taking college material in their third year at City Polytechnic, and attend classes at the College of Technology in later years.
 Officials say the new school makes the transition to college courses much easier, and shaves one year off the route to an associate's degree.
 Under a data-sharing agreement that began in August, the Department of Education has provided CUNY with course, grade and testing data for graduates of its schools, and CUNY has provided information to the city on how its graduates are faring in college. 
 The enrollment data released on Wednesday showed that since 2002, the number of public school graduates enrolling in CUNY has increased by 49 percent, to 24,354 from 16,342. Some of that is a result of a 35 percent increase in the overall number of students graduating from city schools, to 43,651 in 2007 from 32,261, in 2002, but city officials attributed the rest to increases in the high school graduation rate and the number of students taking the SAT.
 The number of Hispanic public school graduates attending CUNY colleges and programs, in particular, has grown significantly. Last year, there were 8,777, up from 5,055 in 2002, an increase of 74 percent.
 ''People who say we have to dumb down just don't get it,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''You raise the standards and people work up to those standards.''
 But even after enrolling in college, many public school graduates require remedial instruction in reading, writing and math. In 2002, 82 percent of public school graduates at CUNY community colleges required such courses; in 2008, 74 percent did.
 In an interview, Mr. Klein said education officials were concerned that so many students must relearn material from high school. But he said the city has renewed its efforts to establish higher standards, for instance, by requiring rigorous Regents diplomas for all students.
 ''We still need to make sure all our kids are college ready,'' he said. ''That's what raising standards is about.''
 CUNY officials expect record enrollments this fall, with more than 250,000 students. Officials say the economic crisis may cause students to bypass more expensive private schools.
 Justin Simmons, a 2007 graduate of Brooklyn Technical High School who appeared at the news conference, said he was accepted at George Washington University in Washington, but chose to attend Lehman College because of financial reasons. ''When times get hard,'' he said, ''people have to turn inwards, and reorganize their thinking.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); CURRICULA (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); CITIES (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



781 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Two Words For Fall: Toughen Up

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

 BODY:
ONE of the reasons fashion is a young person's game is that older people keep wishing it were dead. Consider how often in this newspaper we've heard the groanings that unreal amounts of money, celebrity and marketing are knocking the more genuine stuff out of fashion. Yet even if the complaint seems valid, it is largely an older generation's reaction to the speed and inorganic nature of change, and not a result of our changing relation to what we wear.
 Fashion is not dead, but the world has slowed down and sobered up. Between last September and the start of the fall 2009 collections, on Feb. 5, merchants saw business fall dramatically as consumers shifted from spending to saving in the path of the recession. Magazines, faced with declining advertising, sent fewer editors to Milan and Paris. Fashion houses, anticipating reduced orders, cut out the theatrics as they sought to appeal to a relatively new demand in luxury fashion: value.
 As Sidney Toledano, the chief executive of Dior, said after John Galliano's almost sedate Orientalist-themed show for the house, on March 6: ''John is looking for beauty. He's not looking to do experimental work. These are expensive clothes.'' 
 They were also expensive in the late '90s, when Mr. Galliano was at his most flamboyant. But now there is a line drawn between that kind of artistic excess and something that today feels more precise, more wearable but no less emotional. In this remarkable season of fashion, which for the first time in years saw continuity among New York, Milan and Paris, designers seemed to discover that if their clothes were just a little bit sober, just a little bit sharper and youthful, they might actually resonate more powerfully with women.
 The recession could turn out to make designers better designers.
 In spite of the last-day brilliance of Marc Jacobs's Marie Antoinette ruffles at Louis Vuitton -- a collection that recalled Tom Ford's early designs for Saint Laurent and is sure to connect with fashion-mad young women -- tailoring was the dominant story of the fall shows. In New York, Michael Kors offered one-shoulder dresses in flannel and sculptural suits, while Donna Karan skipped the vagueness of seasons past and focused on well-cut blazers and trousers with seductively draped jersey tops. In Paris, Alber Elbaz at Lanvin and Stefano Pilati at Saint Laurent sounded the same note, with pinstriped suits that had a deliberate ease -- and an experienced sexual attitude.
 Not only did tailoring banish girlishness from runways, it also spurred American designers as different as Francisco Costa of Calvin Klein and L'Wren Scott, who started her business three years ago with tailoring, to be more creative with new fabrics. These were not your basic Calvins, Mr. Costa seemed to be saying with his geometrically cut suits and dresses in black wool that looked moth riddled. And yet precisely for those mysterious effects, they were desirable.
 By the end of the shows, retailers were praising the level of craft and fabric research -- and complaining when it was obscured, as at Chanel, by French-maid ruffles.
 OUT of necessity, a lot of designers put on smaller shows. It meant that they couldn't flub a seam. A month after seeing Vera Wang's plain shirtdresses and Fortuny pleating, Ron Frasch, the chief merchant at Saks Fifth Avenue, said: ''One of my favorites of the whole collections. It was about, 'Let's not throw on more ornament. Let's create clothes with more craftsmanship.' ''
 In Milan, Miuccia Prada and Raf Simons at Jil Sander continued to up the ante. Here, in two collections, was personal vision realized with extraordinary craft. With his spiraling S-shaped coats and lovely dresses -- with vivid satin flashing behind the curls -- Mr. Simons showed how you can have the wearable, and yet just a little more. Those who know of Ms. Prada's fondness for rural life -- and the tension it has long given her fashion -- understand only too well the incredible allure of these clothes, their richness and plainness. In both her Prada and Miu Miu lines, Ms. Prada conveyed a different kind of glamour. She also, in a dozen small ways, expressed key trends: the return of the coatdress, the use of asymmetry and the new cut of sleeveless dresses, so that the shoulders of a velvet and tweed dress extend slightly over the arms.
 Mr. Elbaz's opening dress at Lanvin, a black wool sheath with a twist of fabric over one shoulder, had a similar cut. As Linda Fargo, the fashion director at Bergdorf Goodman, said, ''It's a simple sheath -- well, it is and it isn't.''
 Retailers seemed almost surprised that designers had managed to cram so much style into classics like the coatdress without overdoing it. As Mr. Frasch said, ''It's fashion, but it's not going to be going out of fashion.'' Julie Gilhart, the fashion director at Barneys New York, brought up the Lanvin sheath with the twist, which will cost about $2,300. ''It's the kind of dress you can wear, then put away in your closet for 10 years. When you bring it back out, people will say, 'What is that?' And you can say, 'Yeah, it's a 10-year-old Lanvin.' ''
 With consumers likely to remain ''picky and negative,'' as one merchant put it, most retailers focused on strong items like thigh-high boots, leggings and the distinctive capes at Comme des Garcons. ''Listen, we can't fill up our stores with collections,'' said Linda Dresner, the owner of a boutique in Birmingham, Mich. ''Clothes become too recognizable, and before you know it, the good idea becomes the old idea.'' 
 Considering the economy, retailers were dismayed that houses didn't come up with more affordable items. ''I'm still befuddled with blouses over $1,000,'' Mr. Frasch said. ''We're talking about something that women wear to work.''
 Although Balenciaga's satin drapes and emerald print dresses are certain to tempt women, if only for their Parisian influence, it was interesting to hear what editors who will photograph the collections had to say. ''To me the classicism was kind of brilliant, but it wasn't dull,'' said Paul Cavaco, the creative director at Allure, adding: ''My challenge is always how do you take something normal and make it covetable. This time, I think the designers did that. They took the pinstriped suits and made them covetable. And it wasn't over the top.''
 Alex White, who styles many of the shoots for W, said in an e-mail message: ''Over all, I was quite struck by the number of clothes that I want to wear,'' and she plans her first story to illustrate how wearable the collections are. Seeing Burberry, Prada and Comme des Garcons, she said she thought of Bruce Weber in the country. Thinking more, Ms. White wrote: ''The photographs of Louise Dahl-Wolfe came to mind when reviewing the Dries Van Noten show. The nonchalant elegance and the ease of the collection have definitely inspired me for a shoot.''
 It's amazing what you can see when things slow down.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FALL ARMOR: With a sharply tailored Yves Saint Laurent suit and thigh-high boots from Stella McCartney, girlishness was banished form the runways. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VALERIO MEZZANOTTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES ) (pg.E1)
THE RETURN OF THE COATDRESS: RENAISSANCE: Top row, from left: Miu Miu, Michael Kors and Isaac Mizrahi. Second row: Prada, Miu Miu and Balenciaga.
TOP COAT, TOP FORM: EXTERIORS Top row from left: Chloe, Prada and Dries Van Noten. Second row: Comme des Garcons, Jil Sander, Marc Jacobs and Balenciaga.
IN LIEU OF PANTS?: SOLID FOOTING Top row: Prada, Fendi and Louis Vuitton. Second row: Gucci and Giles Deacon.
TAILORED BUT SEXY: FORM FITTING: From left: Michael Kors, Jil Sander, Prada and Lanvin. Tailored but Sexy In Lieu of Pants?
 TIGHT AND BRIGHT: SVELTE: From left: Diane Von Furstenberg, Marni, Diane Von Furstenburg and Marc Jacobs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, TOP LEFT GROUP: VALERIO MEZZANOTTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES (ISAAC MIZRAHI), FIRSTVIEW (PRADA), CHRIS MOORE/CATWALKING/GETTY IMAGES (MICHAEL KORS). TOP RIGHT GROUP: VALERIO MEZZANOTTI, CHRISTOPHE SIMON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES (PRADA, JIL SANDER) AND CATWALKING/GETTY IMAGES (MARC JACOBS). ABOVE LEFT GROUP: VALERIO MEZZANOTTI (LOUIS VUITTON), FIRSTVIEW (GILES), ANTONIO CALANNI/ASSOCIATED PRESS (GUCCI), LUCA BRUNO/ASSOCIATED PRESS (PRADA),GIUSEPPE ARESU/ASSOCIATED PRESS (FENDI). ABOVE RIGHT GROUP: MARILYNN K. YEE (MICHAEL KORS), VALERIO MEZZANOTTI (LANVIN), LUCA BRUNO/ASSOCIATED PRESS (PRADA), NATHALIE LAGNEAU/CATWALKING/GETTY IMAGES (JIL SANDER). RIGHT GROUP: FIRSTVIEW (VON FURSTENBERG), LUCA BRUNO/ASSOCIATED PRESS (MARNI), ELIZABETH LIPPMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (VON FURSTENBERG) AND CATWALKING/GETTY IMAGES (JACOBS).) (pg.E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); FABRICS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); WOMEN (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (82%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (82%); LVMH (BIT) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (82%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (82%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (90%); DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (79%); SIDNEY TOLEDANO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



782 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: World Bank Lowers Its Forecast for Growth in China

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
The World Bank lowered its forecast for economic growth in China on Wednesday to 6.5 percent in 2009, reflecting the influence of the global slowdown.
 The figure, down from the bank's earlier forecast of 7.5 percent growth, is well below the 8 percent projected by the Chinese government for its market, the fastest-growing major economy. It is more in line with what many independent economists expect for China, which has the world's third-largest economy after the United States and Japan.
 China's banks have been largely unscathed by the international financial turmoil, and the authorities still have plenty of leeway to enact additional stimulus measures on top of steps already announced by Beijing. 
 Recent economic data has shown, however, that exports -- a significant factor behind China's stellar growth -- have fallen sharply.
 The Chinese prime minister, Wen Jiabao, called on Wednesday for rapid adoption of policies meant to stimulate growth, saying ''big difficulties'' continued to confront the nation, Reuters reported.
 Some industrial sectors and geographical areas were improving, Mr. Wen said at a regular meeting of the cabinet, according to the central government's Web site. But, he added, the government should waste no time in starting stimulus measures.
 In its quarterly review of China, the World Bank stressed that the country's economy was holding up relatively well in the face of the most severe global downturn in decades.
 ''China is a relative bright spot in an otherwise gloomy global economy,'' the World Bank's country director for China, David Dollar, said in a statement Wednesday, adding that the bank still expected China to continue to outgrow most other countries.
 The World Bank also echoed what many other China watchers were saying: that greater domestic consumption and a reduced reliance on exports were crucial to China's long-term growth prospects.
 Only 5 of 12 economists polled by Reuters say they think the government's 8 percent goal is achievable; the average expectation is for growth of 7.8 percent.
 The Reuters poll, published Wednesday, also found that economists expect India, Indonesia and the Philippines to be the only other emerging Asian economies to grow this year. Worst hit in the region will be Singapore and Taiwan, which are both expected to shrink 4.9 percent, according to the poll.
 Despite Wednesday's revision, the World Bank's comments on China also reflect a broad consensus that the country is better placed than many others to get through the downturn relatively well -- even if a tangible recovery remains some way off.
 This has also been reflected in China's stock market -- one of the world's best performers so far this year.
 While most indexes around the world have fallen more than 10 percent so far this year and the Dow Jones industrial average is down 15.7 percent, the Shanghai stock exchange is up 22 percent since Jan. 1, and added a further 0.3 percent on Wednesday.
 Jonathan Garner, chief equity strategist for Asian and emerging markets at Morgan Stanley, speaking to reporters in Hong Kong on Tuesday, said he believed much of emerging Asia -- outside Japan, which is in a recession -- was better positioned than other regions of the world, and that stock markets here might have bottomed out last October.
 By contrast, the market in the United States ''could still see new lows before it troughs,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Exports, like motorbikes from a factory in southeast China, have driven the nation's growth. Some economists say new domestic demand will help China weather the global downturn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YAN JUN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSUMPTION (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); JAPAN (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



783 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: House Passes Expansion Of Programs For Service

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House voted Wednesday to approve the largest expansion of government-sponsored service programs since President John F. Kennedy first called for the creation of a national community service corps in 1963. 
 The legislation, which passed by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 321 to 105, would more than triple the number of service positions by expanding AmeriCorps and creating volunteer programs focused on education, health care, clean energy and veterans. The total number of positions would grow to 250,000 from 75,000 now in AmeriCorps.
 The Senate is expected to adopt a nearly identical bill early next week. 
 The action by the House came three weeks and a day after President Obama in his first speech to a joint session of Congress called for ''a renewed spirit of national service for this and future generations,'' and lawmakers said they were answering his challenge.
 The broad expansion of AmeriCorps, at a cost of nearly $6 billion over the next five years, would establish Mr. Obama as the boldest proponent of service programs since Kennedy exhorted Americans to ''ask what you can do for your country.'' 
 Mr. Obama, in a statement, praised the House vote. ''At this moment of economic crisis, when so many people are in need of help and so much needs to be done, this could not be more urgent,'' he said, adding, ''It is up to every one of us to do his or her small part to make the world a better place.''
 The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi of California, said, ''This has been a great day.'' 
 Critics, however, expressed concern about the cost of the measure, and some said the money could be better spent, perhaps on raises for members of the military. A single Democrat joined 104 Republicans in opposing the bill; 251 Democrats and 70 Republicans voted for it. 
 In addition to expanding the number of positions, the bill would raise the education stipend for volunteers to $5,350 -- the same amount as a Pell Grant.
 The legislation is a top priority of the first lady, Michelle Obama, who has said public service will be a main focus of hers in the White House. She founded the Chicago chapter of Public Allies, an AmeriCorps program, after leaving her law career. 
 Representative George Miller, Democrat of California and chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee, said Mrs. Obama had pulled him aside at a White House dinner to introduce herself and express her keen interest in the bill moving quickly. 
 At a lunch with Mr. Obama the next day, Mr. Miller recounted the conversation, aides said, prompting a jovial warning from the president. ''Speaking from long-term experience,'' he said, ''it sounds to me like you better get that bill out of committee.'' 
 Kennedy's service program, which began after his death, was called Vista, Volunteers in Service to America. The House bill is the GIVE Act, for Generations Invigorating Volunteerism and Education. The Senate legislation has a simpler name: the Serve America Act. 
 Mr. Obama's budget provides $1.2 billion for the expansion of programs in the next fiscal year. 
 The House bill seeks to encourage middle school and high school students to engage in volunteer activities, allowing them to earn a $500 education credit to be used for college costs. It also establishes ''youth engagement zones,'' a new service-learning program intended to establish partnerships between community organizations and schools in high-poverty neighborhoods. 
 The bill seeks to establish Sept. 11 as a national day of service though it would not be a formal holiday. 
 Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland and a major proponent of the legislation, invoked the nation's long history of service programs, saying, ''This is not about programs; this is about value.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (90%); MICHELLE OBAMA (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



784 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: The Grievance Committee

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Angry. So very, very angry. Unable to speak due to mega-anger washing over every pore and fiber of my being. Anger is in. (Hope's so ... January.)
 I am extremely angry at Tim Geithner for being such a baby that he couldn't scare a bunch of American International Group quants into forgoing their bonuses. We need a Treasury secretary so terrifying that if you were stuck in an elevator alone with him, you would just automatically hand over your wallet and credit cards.
 Somebody as weird and tirade-prone as Hank Paulson. Although when he had Geithner's job we hated Hank Paulson. Hated, hated, hated. Many people thought he was the worst Treasury secretary ever, although at this moment I am hard pressed to remember the name of any of the other ones since Alexander Hamilton. Except for Robert Rubin, who we used to like but now we don't because he was a banker. 
 Hate those bankers. However, Jimmy Stewart seemed nice in that movie about Christmas.
 Geithner claims nobody warned him that this bonus scandal was coming down the pike. Is it because he doesn't have any assistants? It appears there's nobody in the world of finance who wants to accept a top-level Treasury job if it means letting the White House accountants go over their tax returns. Geithner is walking around listening to the hallways echo, like the only kid at boarding school who didn't get invited home for Christmas.
 I hate everybody in the world of finance. Also accountants, since it's tax time.
 And I'm totally angry at everybody in Congress for trying to pretend that they're angrier than I am. Like Senator Chuck Grassley saying the A.I.G. execs should follow the Japanese model and ''resign or go commit suicide.'' Took him about three seconds to backtrack. ''Inteligent journalist can't recgnize rhetoric,'' Grassley twittered.
 The senator from Iowa is a big twitterer. On Monday, he shared the details of his day: ''Red previous Twitter. Did get DsM Eastern Star EastGate Lodge Swiss Steak Dinner. Great food price of tip at any Sun dinner I recomend.'' If Grassley was truly outraged at the seppuku-demanding level, wouldn't he have reported that although the Swiss steak dinner smelled tasty, he was unable to partake because his digestive system was overflowing with bile? And do you think he knows how to spell ''intelligent''? 
 I hate senators who Twitter.
 On Wednesday, Edward Liddy, the head of A.I.G., was hauled in front of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance, and Government Sponsored Enterprises where everybody was extremely eager to express their outrage about the $165 million in bonuses for employees in A.I.G.'s financial (Credit Swaps Derivatives R Us) products division. 
 This is the same subcommittee that came to our attention a year ago when then-Gov. Eliot Spitzer of New York wheedled an invitation to testify about bond insurance so he could go to Washington for a night of hanky-panky at the Mayflower Hotel. I really hate the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance, and Government Sponsored Enterprises. 
 Liddy, a retired insurance executive who took over A.I.G. six months ago at the behest of the Treasury Department, said he had asked most of those who got a bonus to give at least half back. This did not seem to calm the subcommittee members down very much, although the fact that Liddy is working without pay while getting mail from people who want to garrote him with piano wire seemed to have a slight dampening effect.
 It is not particularly satisfying to complain about businessmen who answer their country's call for $1 a year. However, Liddy does have three houses, which is one above the new quota. 
 Let's complain about Barack Obama. Why doesn't he sound angrier? Doesn't he understand that his job right now is to be the Great Venter?
 Sure he keeps saying he's mad. But you can tell that he secretly thinks it's crazy to obsess about $165 million in bonuses in a company that's still got $1.6 trillion in toxic assets to unravel. ''I don't want to quell that anger. I want to channel our anger in a constructive way,'' he said on Wednesday. Everybody knows constructively channeled anger doesn't really count. It's like diet pizza.
 If John McCain were president, you can bet that we'd be getting outrage 24-7. McCain would be so angry that we'd be scared that he'd have a coronary or invade a new country. The New York Post would be running ''Calm Down, Mr. President'' headlines. 
 Except, of course, the whole reason we elected Barack Obama was because when the economy started melting down, Obama seemed sane and calm while McCain appeared to be a loopy visitor from the Planet of the Overwrought. 
 I hate it when we make irrational, contradictory demands of our president. But, it seems as if that's what he's there for. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); BONUS PAY (71%); SCANDALS (52%); SUICIDE (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (79%); HENRY PAULSON (71%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (69%); EDWARD M LIDDY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



785 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: A Small and Dangerous Spat

 BODY:
President Obama has been warning that tit-for-tat protectionism could drive the world into an even worse economic slump than it is already in. He is right. Unfortunately, Congress doesn't seem to be listening. 
 The $410 billion spending bill that Mr. Obama signed into law last week cuts off financing for a pilot program that allows Mexican trucks to deliver goods across the United States. The move clearly violates the North American Free Trade Agreement, which promised -- starting in 2000 -- to open cargo transport throughout the United States, Mexico and Canada to carriers from all three countries. This week, Mexico retaliated, leveling tariffs against $2.4 billion worth of American imports. 
 Both the United States and Mexico must be careful. A full-fledged fight could threaten more than $350 billion in annual commerce between the two countries. That is clearly in nobody's interest. 
 An arbitration panel ruled in 2001 that the United States was in breach of its Nafta obligations on Mexican trucks. But thanks to the Teamsters union and its allies in Congress, all but a small number of Mexican carriers are restricted to operating within a 25-mile band from the border. 
 The truck drivers' argument that Mexican trucks are unsafe is spurious -- a flimsy cover for protectionism. Data from the Department of Transportation show that Mexican trucks and drivers operating in the United States -- along the border and in the pilot program -- have a better inspection record, with fewer violations, than their American counterparts. 
 President Obama has so far shown a worrying ambivalence about trade. He has called for renegotiating Nafta, creating anxiety in both Ottawa and Mexico City -- claiming that this can somehow be done without harming trade. While he managed to persuade Congressional Democrats to water down a ''Buy American'' provision in the fiscal stimulus package, he did not get them to pull it altogether. 
 We understand the White House did not want to threaten the passage of the spending bill by raising a ruckus over Mexican trucking, a comparatively minor issue. But it is time for Mr. Obama to put some political muscle behind his declared support for open trade.
 He can start by persuading Congress to revive the truck pilot program or start a new one. And he must make clear that -- sometime soon -- all properly inspected Mexican trucks must be able to work throughout the country, as Nafta requires. That would not only solve this trade spat, but it would provide the world with needed reassurance that the United States will stand by its trade agreements in these difficult times.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTECTIONISM (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009



786 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Plenty of Interest In Tavern's License

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
Call it kicking the tires.
Close to 60 representatives of potential bidders for that landmark restaurant in Central Park, Tavern on the Green, arrived to ask questions of the Department of Parks and Recreation at its headquarters on Thursday. 
A surprise visitor was Ti Adelaide Martin, the co-proprietor, with Lally Brennan, of Commander's Palace in New Orleans, the high-end turquoise and white Victorian fantasy in that city's Garden District.
''We're seriously looking at it because we think it could be a heck of a good fit,'' Ms. Martin said.
Others attending the session included representatives of the Trump Organization, the Cipriani family, the Central Park Boathouse, Danny Meyer's Union Square Hospitality Group, Capitale restaurant, Sean Driscoll of Glorious Food, David Liederman of the DJ Restaurant Group and Alan Stillman of Smith & Wollensky restaurants.
Last month, the department put out a formal 38-page request for bidders to take over the restaurant's 25-year operating license, which expires on Dec. 31. The bidders have until May 1 -- at precisely 3 p.m. -- to submit their proposals and their $50,000 bid deposits (no personal checks, please).
Tavern, as the restaurant is called, is just west of the Sheep Meadow near 67th Street, and, in reporting $36.2 million in revenue last year, is one of the highest-grossing independently owned restaurants in the United States. But under the terms of its current license, it is required to pay only 3.5 percent of its gross receipts to the city. More recent licenses have required restaurant operators to pay more than 10 percent to run parks department properties like the Central Park Boathouse, which pays 16.5 percent. The department said it hoped to decide on a winner by July 1.
It was unclear how many of those who attended would actually bid; Tavern's revenues have declined in the recession. Another drawback for interested companies is that the city does not have the authority to pass along the name, which has been owned by the LeRoy family since 1973.
Michael Desiderio, Tavern's chief operating officer, said he found the Thursday session ''very useful,'' adding that he was ''not at all worried'' by the large turnout. He declined to say whether the restaurant would be willing to relinquish its name to a new operator, if he should lose the bid. But he added that the name ''Tavern on the Green'' had been appraised, and its value ''is $19 million,'' he said.
In a statement last month, Mr. Desiderio said that the LeRoys hope to ''continue to serve the hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers'' by keeping the license for ''generations to come.''
GLENN COLLINS
ALSO
ON THE BLOG
City Hall vs. Bedbugs: With the mayor's signature on Wednesday, legislation to establish a 10-member bedbug commission passed its final hurdle. The city's infestation of bedbugs has been steadily worsening in recent years, with city records showing that complaints to 311 doubled between 2006 and 2008 to more than 22,000.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An information session for potential bidders on the license for Tavern on the Green was well attended.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011



787 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Utah Ski Town Weighs Options to Big-Gun Avalanche Control

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
ALTA, Utah -- One of the great symbols of winter here, on a crisp clear day after a big snowfall, is the resonating thunder of artillery. The sound echoes between the canyon walls, and if you are lucky, you can sometimes spot the impact of a 105-millimeter round landing in a puff of powdery white on the slopes rising past 11,000 feet.
For nearly 60 years, the guns of Alta have shot down menacing snow crusts and ice sheets before they can slide and set off the devastating avalanches that once gave Little Cottonwood Canyon, atop which Alta sits, a reputation of danger and dread. 
But now the big-gun equation that Alta pioneered and perfected is changing. The supply of military surplus shells, many of Korean War vintage, is dwindling. Development and population growth have put more people under the flight path of aging ordnance, raising the anxieties of the Army, which monitors the program.
So the scramble is on to find alternatives even as the snow continues to fall here an hour's drive southeast of Salt Lake City. And that is bumping up against the culture of a resort community that has resisted change at just about every turn since its founding 70 ski seasons ago.
From snowboarders, still banned from the mountain, to the Alta Lodge, still owned by the family that bought it in 1959 in the age of wooden skis and Nordic sweaters, to the guns themselves, Alta-lovers say change is dangerous to the formula that has worked so well for so long. On average, about 500 shells are fired each season.
''You can't take these beautiful mountains and screw them up to keep slides from coming down,'' said Bill Levitt, 92, who came here in the 1950s, served as Alta's mayor for 34 years and skied into his late 80s. ''But what to do?''
Artillery-based avalanche control is used elsewhere around the West, including Mammoth, Calif.; Jackson Hole, Wyo.; and Taos, N.M. But the practice -- devised at Alta by an Army veteran who had seen avalanche marksmanship in the Alps in World War II -- is coming under greater scrutiny here in its birthplace because population growth, in the canyon and in neighboring valleys, has put more and more people in proximity to high explosives.
The snows are so deep, averaging 500 inches a year, the canyon walls so steep and the two-lane highway so vulnerable and heavily traveled, that Alta grew up both as one of the nation's first ski resorts and a Petri dish for snow-safety science.
''If there's a Mecca for avalanche control, it's Little Cottonwood,'' said Doug Abromeit, the director of the United States Forest Service National Avalanche Center. ''It's kind of the birthplace for the avalanche program of the United States.''
What now confounds resort officials and highway managers is that many of the alternatives to artillery are loaded with consequences, too. Newer types of weapons, of which the Army has plenty on hand, shoot explosives farther than the current gun system does, elevating the risk of overshooting targets. Snow sheds and tunnels to cover the highway are hugely expensive, and snow fences that restrict snow on high slopes raise aesthetic and environmental issues.
Some proposals might even backfire and worsen avalanche risks. Alta is considering, for example, building a new chairlift on a slide-prone area called Flagstaff Mountain. Demolition experts could then plant hand charges, the preferred method in most resorts, and skiers using the lift would compact the snow, reducing its propensity to slide.
But Flagstaff Mountain is also considered a prime gateway to backcountry ski areas outside the resort boundary and not patrolled by anyone. More skiers on one side of the mountain packing down the snow, avalanche experts said, would probably mean more people on the other, venturing into areas where they could be in more avalanche danger than ever.
Backcountry skiing and snowmobiling have been the fastest-growing categories in avalanche deaths in recent years, especially last year, when 36 people died nationwide, the worst year since 1950. Twenty-four people have died so far this winter in avalanches around the West.
''You would quite likely have a lot of people venturing out there who shouldn't,'' said Liam Fitzgerald, who leads the Highway Avalanche Safety Program at the Utah Department of Transportation. ''No one has come up with how we are going to deal with that issue.''
State officials and ski industry experts say the conservative antichange mentality at Alta was partly forged by the same geography that produces avalanches.
The narrow canyon road, which has 33 avalanche paths in just one four-mile stretch, also constricts how many people can come here or live here. (The 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City bypassed Alta and its neighboring resort, Snowbird, partly for that reason.) The Salt Lake City metropolitan area also owns water rights in Little Cottonwood Creek, a fact that has restricted growth and water use around the resorts.
Change in snow-safety management must schuss between the narrow confines of land use, culture and economics.
''We all have our personal attachments to some old lift or weapons program, but life in the real world goes on,'' said Onno Wieringa, the general manager of the Alta Ski Area.
Mr. Wieringa started as a gunner in 1972 and continues to shoot down avalanches even now, because, he said, ''it's an essential component of making our ski area run, and I enjoy it.''
He paused and then said, ''But we have to evolve.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gabe Garcia, left, of the Alta Ski Patrol and Liam Fitzgerald, an avalanche forecaster, discussing the 105-millimeter recoilless rifle they use to protect Alta, Utah.
Mr. Garcia replacing the cover on the rifle's barrel. The gun has been used since the late 1960s.
 Mr. Fitzgerald used an inclinometer on Wednesday to measure a distant slope opposite the recoilless rifle above the ski town.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN NICHOLSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Avalanche Deaths: Avalanches caused a record number of deaths in the United States last winter.(Source: Colorado Avalanche Information Center) Chart details line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AVALANCHES (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); SKIING (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); KOREAN WAR (74%); SNOWBOARDING (73%); RESORTS (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (70%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); MAYORS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO AVALANCHE (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (94%); WYOMING, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ALPS (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011



788 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: Everybody Into the Rental Pool

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
PEOPLE who buy second homes often harbor the same fallback plan in case their purchase proves to be too much of a stretch: ''Well, we can always rent it out if we get in trouble.''
So with belts tightening and the real estate market in turmoil, how is the vacation-rental business holding up?
Although there are few statistics on the national vacation-home rental market, property managers and online listings companies say that more second-home owners are trying to rent out their properties at least part-time, a trend no doubt propelled by the Internet as well as the gloomy economy.
At the same time, prospective renters, feeling the financial pinch themselves, are more likely to haggle over prices, book shorter stays (often at the last minute) and opt for destinations within driving distance. And with more properties to choose from, they can afford to be picky about amenities and discounts. 
That is translating into more pressure on homeowners to spruce up and market their properties.
''If I want to be fully booked, I have to offer more features that renters can't find elsewhere,'' said Victor Nawrocki, who owns a home near Orlando that he furnished with Tempur-Pedic mattresses and Disney decor.
That includes a ''101 Dalmatians''-themed room decked out with black-and-white spotted wallpaper and bedding, and two enormous plush dogs lounging on the twin beds. Other draws include a heated pool and hot tub (protected by an alarm if a wandering child opens the gate) and a game room with a pool table, foosball and air hockey.
''I've been really proactive and it's paid off,'' Mr. Nawrocki said, pointing out that the four-bedroom house has been booked 85 percent of the time since he started renting it last July. Which is no small comfort to Mr. Nawrocki since he lost his sales job in Rhode Island shortly after buying the Florida home last summer, envisioning a retirement retreat down the road.
''I need this house to do well now -- that's why I've been working so hard at promoting it,'' he said. Yet, being unemployed, he said he was sympathetic when renters try to negotiate, and would trim a bit off his usual rate ($650 to $1,150 a week) if the dates filled a hole in his calendar. Homeowners and vacation property managers around the country say that renters are looking for bargains.
Gary Lanzoni, owner of Lake Placid Accommodations in the Adirondacks, has been managing rental properties for more than 16 years and said his clients have had to become more flexible about policies like minimum stays since travelers are booking shorter trips.
''During holiday periods, we used to do a week or five-day minimum,'' he said. ''Now, it's three and five days.''
Although his business did not decline in 2008, in part because of the strong Canadian dollar pulling renters across the border last year, other regions have experienced softening demand.
Patricia Berryman, who lives in Golden, Colo., and rents out a two-bedroom condominium in Vail, said her rental nights from Thanksgiving to Easter were down about 20 percent compared with last year.
Although Ms. Berryman said she was willing to negotiate, she has not lowered the price on her online listing ($275 a night during the high season), but is considering a decrease for the summer.
''I normally rent it for $150 a night in the off season,'' she said. ''I think I might reduce that to $100 or $125.''
Like many homeowners who advertise their properties online, Ms. Berryman checks her competitors' prices and rental calendars (which show how many days are booked), and has justified buying a BlackBerry so she can respond to inquiries promptly.
''It's a matter of getting back to people right away,'' she said, ''because they move down the list -- even in four hours.''
Ms. Berryman's BlackBerry and Mr. Nawrocki's ''doggie room'' illustrate just how much the rental-by-owner market has matured into a serious business in recent years, spurred by Web sites that make it easy, and affordable, to list a home for rent.
HomeAway.com, the market leader, has more than 124,000 properties in its database (half of them in the United States), while two other sites the company has acquired, Vrbo.com and VacationRentals.com, have 115,000 and 35,000 listings, respectively. Its total inventory is up 25 percent from a year ago, and the fee to list a rental has risen too, to $329 a year.
Mike Butler, HomeAway's chief commercial officer, said last December was the company's strongest month ever in terms of new listings, with the number of properties listed up 92 percent in the fourth quarter in Los Angeles compared with the previous year and up 55 percent in Miami.
''There are a lot of owners feeling the pinch of the economy who are more inclined than ever to consider renting their home,'' Mr. Butler said.
HomeAway is also seeing more listings in cities: an increase of 114 percent last year for New York City, 64 percent for Chicago and 97 percent for Seattle.
A newer site, Roomorama.com, focuses entirely on urban markets, and has expanded from New York City to Boston, Chicago and Toronto, though it has just 500 properties in its database.
Another site, Rentalo.com, has a mix of hotel and vacation home listings, which it says have been growing steadily every year. Its prices vary depending on the location of the property, but the annual fee starts at $219.
Since many owners of vacation homes rent them just to family or friends and don't advertise listings online, it is tough to gauge how many second-home owners have embraced this option to help pay the bills.
In its first report trying to do just that, the travel research firm PhoCusWright recently estimated that there were at least 1.2 million vacation homes available for rent in the United States, more than half of them managed directly by their owners.
Douglas Quinby, a senior director with PhoCusWright who compiled the report, said that even though travel was down, the vacation-rental market was holding up in many parts of the country, particularly in locations within driving distance of major urban areas.
''The fly markets like Colorado and Utah are doing poorly,'' Mr. Quinby said, ''whereas in other markets such as Vermont we're seeing demand up 15 to 20 percent.''
The report found that the average price of a vacation rental was about $215 a night -- about double the average price for a hotel room -- although most rental properties have multiple bedrooms and can accommodate two or more families, so renting a house or condominium can be more affordable.
Mr. Quinby said a bigger factor than the economy was the lack of awareness of rental homes as a lodging option. PhoCusWright's survey of leisure travelers found that 6 of 10 respondents did not consider renting a home the last time they booked a vacation, and just one in 10 United States adults had stayed in a vacation rental in the past decade.
In response, companies like HomeAway are marketing more aggressively and adding features like rental guarantees and customer reviews to make travelers more comfortable with the idea of vacationing in a stranger's home.
HomeAway began online reviews last year, so past guests can post comments about their stay (homeowners have the option of responding) and recently introduced an online payment option to make it easier for renters to use PayPal or a credit card.
The site also lets owners pay extra to flag their property as a ''special offer'' or ''featured listing,'' improving its visibility to prospective renters, an option 31 percent more owners chose in January compared with the same month last year.
For instance, Steve Bisel, a technology consultant who rents out a two-bedroom condominium in Scottsdale, Ariz., for $1,800 to $3,200 a month, opted to pay more this winter to promote the ''recent rate reduction'' on his listing.
''This season the rentals came in slower than in the prior season,'' Mr. Bisel said, ''so we reduced the rent by about $150 a month and the responses picked up as soon as we did that.'' Alas, the outlook for the low summer season is less rosy.
''Approaching this summer, we're not getting any bites now,'' he said. ''But we're keeping our fingers crossed.''
Other homeowners have managed to do well despite the recession, bolstering the real estate adage that everything is local.
Doug Miller, a body shop owner who rents out a two-bedroom home in the hills near Woodstock, N.Y., said his rental business had not suffered because of the economy.
''There doesn't seem to be a problem -- I keep getting renters,'' he said. ''For New Year's Eve I probably had 50 inquiries.''
He attributes his steady stream of renters to the affordable price for a New York City getaway -- he charges $725 for a weekend -- but he does keep tabs on the competition, which includes almost 60 homes listed on HomeAway.com.
''There's one house down in Woodstock -- the guy had a bunch of great reviews and then someone raked him over the coals,'' Mr. Miller said. ''A lot of people go by the reviews, and I have really good reviews.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ADDED VALUE: Victor Nawrocki in his rental home near Orlando with Disney-related decor.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW RATAJCZAK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
AVAILABLE: Above, Doug Miller's rental property near Woodstock, N.Y. He says he has a steady stream of renters. Below Left, Victor Nawrocki lives in Rhode Island, but his rental is near Orlando, Fla.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENNIFER MAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MATTHEW RATAJCZAK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TRENDS (76%); POOL & BILLIARDS (69%); MATTRESSES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2011



789 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2269 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times: March 20, 2009

 BODY:
International
BANGLADESH SEES SILT AS SHIELD
To Fight Tides of Climate Change
In a resourceful push, workers in Bangladesh have begun experimenting with channeling silt and sand to fill soup-bowls of land most prone to flooding from a rise in sea level. The efforts illustrate that a nation vulnerable to climate change could literally raise itself up by using what the tides bring each day. PAGE A6
ARTIST ASSAILS CHINA OVER QUAKE
Ai Weiwei, one of China's most prominent artists, who helped design the Olympic National Stadium, is accusing the government on his blog of what he calls its cover-up of incompetence in managing the response to an earthquake last May in Sichuan Province that killed more than 80,000 people. PAGE A6 
CLIMATE CHANGE THREATENS BEARS
Five nations near the Artic Ocean that created a treaty nearly four decades ago to protect polar bears through limits on hunting issued a joint statement identifying climate change as ''the most important long-term threat'' to the bears. PAGE A8
Life Ruling in Austrian Incest Case A8
Protests of French Crisis Strategy A8
ISRAEL ARRESTS 10 HAMAS LEADERS
Israel arrested 10 Hamas leaders in the West Bank, including four lawmakers, in what Hamas said was an attempt to put pressure on the organization after the collapse of negotiations for the release of an Israeli soldier, Cpl. Gilad Shalit. He was seized by Hamas and other Palestinian militants in 2006. PAGE A9
VETERANS OF DIPLOMACY MEND TIES
Three former American secretaries of state, including 85-year-old Henry A. Kissinger, and a former secretary of defense were in Moscow for informal meetings with top Russian officials in an attempt to pull relations between the two countries out of a tailspin before their presidents meet for the first time next month. PAGE A10
THE GREAT OBSTACLE IN LIBYA
As Libyans long for change, their greatest obstacle is the country's absolute ruler, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, or Brother Leader, as he is called. By nearly every practical measure, the system has failed Libyans, but it is Colonel Qaddafi's system, and so it is above reproach. A Memo from Libya by Michael Slackman. PAGE A11
PAKISTAN LINKED TO KABUL ATTACK
A group of suicide bombers who stormed the Justice Ministry and a prison department building in Kabul, the Afghan capital, last month were trained in Pakistan's lawless border region, Afghan intelligence officials announced. Seven accomplices have been arrested, they said, and several more were killed in a raid. PAGE A12
Bomb Kills Afghan Lawmaker A12
National
ARIZONA SEEKING WAY TO REINSTATE CHARGES OF ARMING MEXICAN CARTEL
Prosecutors in Arizona are trying to figure out how to appeal a state judge's decision to dismiss charges against a gun dealer who had been accused of arming a Mexican drug cartel. PAGE A13
Alta Journal
Avalanche Control Without Guns
For nearly 60 years, the howitzer of Alta, Utah, has shot down snow crusts and ice sheets before they can slide and set off avalanches. But more people now live under the ordnance's flight path. And the supply of military surplus shells is dwindling. So a resort community that has almost always resisted change is scrambling to find alternatives. PAGE A13
Actress Died of 'Blunt Impact' A13
THE EARNING POWER OF OBAMA'S PEN
A disclosure form filed on Tuesday shows that President Obama signed a $500,000 book deal five days before taking office in January. Mr. Obama's books have earned him $8,605,429, and counting. PAGE A14
A THIRD OF U.S. BIRDS ARE IN PERIL
Habitat destruction, pollution and other problems have left nearly a third of the nation's 800 bird species endangered, threatened or in serious decline, according to a new study. PAGE A15
PITCH TO RAISE PHILADELPHIA TAXES
Mayor Michael A. Nutter proposed temporarily raising sales and property taxes in Philadelphia to help fill a shortfall in the city's budget for 2010. PAGE A16
CAGE FIGHTS IN DALLAS SCHOOL
A high school principal and his security staff shut students in a steel cage to fight, according to an internal report by the school district. PAGE A17
First Lady Visits Schools A18
U.S. Agencies Told to Be More Open A18
13 Rescued Firms Owe Back Taxes A19
New York
PUBLIC HOSPITAL SYSTEM
To Cut 400 Jobs in Tough Times
New York City's public hospital system announced that it was cutting 400 jobs and closing some children's mental health programs, pharmacies and community clinics that serve more than 11,000 patients. It cited reductions in state Medicaid reimbursement, a sharp spike in uninsured patients and rising costs for labor, drugs and medical supplies. PAGE A21
CRITICS FAULT MATH OF M.T.A. PLAN
For weeks, Democrats in the State Senate have criticized the math in the financial rescue plan for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. So the Senate majority leader, Malcolm A. Smith, proposed a scaled-back, short-term bailout plan this week. Now, the transportation authority says he has the math wrong. PAGE A22
Business
WHILE TAKING AIM AT FUNGUS,
Laser Company Jumps the Gun
Medical technology companies are hoping that lasers will represent a new way to treat toenail fungus, which afflicts an estimated 10 percent of American adults. But one company, PathoLase, eager to get a piece of the billion-dollar-plus market, has begun marketing its device without federal permission. PAGE B1
SHRINKING INDUSTRY STIRS FEARS
Industrial production is down in Europe and the United States. Even in China, production growth has slowed, as exports have fallen more than 25 percent. Although the decline inmanufacturing is hardly surprising, the depth and speed of the plunge are striking and worrisome, economists say. They worry it is a self-reinforcing trend not unlike the one that led to the Great Depression. PAGE B1
A DIGITAL DAVID BOUGHT BY GOLIATH
Pure Digital Technologies -- known for its inexpensive, easy-to-use Flip video cameras -- has been bought by Cisco Systems, a technology infrastructure giant, for $590 million in stock. The deal caps a bumpy and unpredictable rise for the tiny, eight-year-old start-up, which conquered the Asian companies that dominate the camera industry. PAGE B3
A.I.G. FIGHTS TAX PAYMENTS
While the American International Group comes under fire from Congress over executive bonuses, it is fighting the federal government for the return of $306 million in tax payments, some related to deals conducted through offshore tax havens. PAGE B4
Madoff's Lawyer Presses for Bail B3
Newsprint Giant Risking Bankruptcy B3
Citigroup Considers a Reverse Split B3
GLOBAL ESPIONAGE UNTANGLES
With Two Irresistible Forces
''Duplicity,'' written and directed by Tony Gilroy, is a jet-set spy thriller with a densely coiled plot and love story starring Clive Owen and Julia Roberts. The film is superior entertainment, the most elegantly pleasurable movie of its kind to come around in a very long time, A.O. Scott writes. PAGE C1
IN SEARCH OF FAME IN AUSTIN
Around 2,000 bands are playing in this year's South by Southwest, the annual music conference and festival in Austin, Tex. For the bands, the festival is a five-day gauntlet. Musicians and industry players say success is tricky to gauge in an era when fame can disappear as quickly as it comes. PAGE C3
Martyrdom of an I.R.A. Activist C13
The Power to Make Fans Snore C13
ARTIFACTS OF KOREA'S RENAISSANCE
All of the art from the exhibition ''Art of the Korean Renaissance, 1400-1600'' at the Metropolitan Museum dates from a period of cultural efflorescence and innovation in Korea. What the show lacks in grandeur, displaying four dozen ceramic jars, lacquer boxes, and scroll paintings, it makes up in fineness and in rarity, Holland Cotter writes. PAGE C23
ART FROM THE POTTER'S WHEEL
''Dirt on Delight: Impulses That Form Clay,'' at the Institute of Contemporary Art at the University of Pennsylvania, argues to bring ceramics into art's mainstream. The show consists of medium, large and small works; abstract and representational pieces; and glazed, unglazed and painted pottery. The pieces span more than 100 years and come from both the arts world and the crafts world. PAGE C23
A CULT COMEDIAN'S WILD RIDE
From his role as a narcissistic rock singer in the film ''Forgetting Sarah Marshall,'' to host of last year's MTV Video Music Awards, comic Russell Brand's American resume is as thin as his omnipresent dark eyeliner. Despite this, his memoir, ''My Booky Wook,'' was a best seller in England, and if its early Amazon ranking is any indication, it's about to crash American best-seller lists as well. PAGE C23
Art Reclaimed and on Show C26
Sports
Sports of The Times
Deaths of Racing Thoroughbreds Raise Call for Sport's Reform
Since January, there seven horses have died at Aqueduct racing track in Queens. Twelve horses have been euthanized at the track since late last year, and another horse died of a heart attack. The succession of fatalities has renewed concerns about the well-being of racing horses and whether reform can remove the perils inherent in a sport where 1,200-pound animals run full speed in traffic. PAGE B13
ECCENTRIC PLAYER A TOP PROSPECT
Arizona State guard James Harden is the epitome of an unconventional player. While sporting his hallmark grandfatherly beard and a doughy body, he has brought a little nuance but also a big impact onto the court, being named the Pacific-10 player of the year, a first-team all-American and projected as a top-five pick in the N.B.A. draft. PAGE B13
THE BEST OF THE BEST OF THE BIG EAST
Terrence Williams, the senior point forward for Louisville, the Big East tournament's overall No. 1 seed, is the only player in Cardinals history with more than 1,500 points, 900 rebounds, 500 assists and 200 steals. He is the best player on a deep team that is one of the favorites to win the national title, yet casual fans are just getting acquainted with him. PAGE B18
Obituaries
MARTIN P. KNOWLTON, 88
He made it possible for thousands of older Americans to pursue the love of learning and travel through Elderhostel, a nonprofit organization that he helped found. PAGE B12
Science
Questions About Drug Studies
A Harvard child psychiatrist told the drug giant Johnson & Johnson that planned studies of its drugs in children would yield results benefiting the company, according to court documents. PAGE A16
SHOCKS EASE PARKINSON'S IN MICE
By electrically stimulating the spinal cords of rodents, scientists have reversed some of the worst symptoms of Parkinson's disease. PAGE A16
OVERWEIGHT FIRST RESPONDERS
A new study of 370 recruits for firefighting and emergency medic jobs in the Boston area found almost all were either overweight or obese . PAGE A17
Food Executives Testify at House A18
escapes
LUXE MEETS LAKE
In Real Florida
It means ''big water,'' and big water it is. Lake Okeechobee is a 730-square-mile freshwater lake that occupies much of the real estate of South Florida. It is also quiet water. The region is a place of unhurried, outdoorsy pursuits: bass fishing, boar hunting or simply shooting the breeze on a lazy, sunny day. But these days, there are signs that Lake Okeechobee is embracing a more luxe life. PAGE D1
NOT TYPICAL SKI LIFTS
Powder Mountain is the largest ski resort in Utah and a tad old-school and underdeveloped, with only four chairlifts to serve its ample supply of alpine bowls. But harder to see are one helicopter, two snow cats and a fleet of roving buses on a road below the resort that help move droves of skiers and snowboarders uphill each day. PAGE D1
EVERYBODY INTO THE RENTAL POOL
With belts tightening and the real estate market in turmoil, how is the vacation-rental business holding up? Experts say that more second-home owners are trying to rent out their properties at least part time, a trend no doubt propelled by the Internet as well as the gloomy economy. And with more properties to choose from, the power shifts over to the renters. PAGE D1
Havens
For Bull Riders and Fly-Casters
For some, Cody, a tidy city 52 miles from the eastern entrance to Yellowstone National Park, is mountain man. And for others, its cowpoke country. Either way, people from all over the country have since discovered what might be called the western outdoor charm of Cody for vacation and retirement homes. Some are drawn by the horse culture, others by the mountain stream fishing and still others for the hunting. PAGE D3
Living Here
Historic Town: Lexington Va. D4
Editorial
GIVING AND TAXES
President Obama's plan to cap itemized deductions for high income taxpayers flew like a lead balloon in Congress. It would be a pity if the administration were to forgo that money. And complaints that capping deductions would kill charity and decimate small business are wrong. PAGE A26
NATO'S MISSION
In order for the NATO alliance to shape a meaningful mission after 20 years of post-cold war drift, it must succeed in Afghanistan. Right now, it is frighteningly close to failing. PAGE A26
THE PROSTATE CANCER MUDDLE
Scientists have just published the findings of two large trials that were supposed to tell us for certain whether screening for prostate cancer is effective. These studies seem to undercut the value of screening, but they fall short of being definitive. PAGE A26
Op-Ed
DAVID BROOKS
The president of the United States has decided to address this financial crisis while simultaneously tackling the four most complicated problems facing the nation: health care, energy, immigration and education. The results of this overload are evident on Capitol Hill. PAGE A27
THE STATE OF IRAQ
For the sixth anniversary of the invasion of Iraq, a chart on the Op-Ed page prepared by Jason Campbell, Michael O'Hanlon, Jeremy Shapiro and Amy Unikewicz compares statistics from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. PAGE A27

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (pg. A2
 pg. A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ARRESTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); MAMMALS (78%); FLOOD ZONES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (75%); SEX OFFENSES (75%); TERRORISM (74%); BOMBINGS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (73%); SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); AVALANCHES (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (64%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (63%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (63%); JUDGES (60%); CARTELS (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (60%); PRISONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (72%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); BANGLADESH (94%); CHINA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); ISRAEL (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ARCTIC (79%); AUSTRIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011



790 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: House Approves 90% Tax On Bonuses After Bailouts: A.I.G. and Wall St. Confront Upsurge of Populist Fury

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Louise Story and Jonathan D. Glater contributed reporting from New York, and Helene Cooper from Burbank, Calif.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The House overwhelmingly approved on Thursday a near total tax on bonuses paid this year to employees of the American International Group and other firms that have accepted large amounts of federal bailout funds, rattling Wall Street as lawmakers rushed to respond to populist anger.
Despite questions about the legality of the retroactive 90 percent levy, Democrats and some Republicans said the tax on bonuses for traders, executives and bankers earning more than $250,000 was the quickest way to show angry Americans that Congress intended to recoup the extra dollars. Even backers of the measure noted it was an extraordinary step.
The House vote sent some employees into a panic about the prospect of, in effect, having to give up money they might already have spent. And it had regulators fearing it could undermine the Treasury's efforts to stabilize the financial system if banks tried to flee the bailout program or if other firms refused to participate in coming rescue operations to protect their bonuses, some executives said.
Vikram S. Pandit, chief executive of Citigroup, lobbied against the legislation in a meeting Thursday with the Senate majority leader, Senator Harry Reid, according to an industry official. 
But the rush to curb the bonuses by lawmakers, many of whom have previously been torn about limiting executive compensation, reflected Congressional anxiety about heightened public dismay over the bailout. The Senate is expected to consider a similar tax on bonuses but has some differences with the House, which could slow final action.
In a statement, President Obama suggested he was supportive of the legislation, urging Congress to deliver a ''final product that will serve as a strong signal to the executives who run these firms that such compensation will not be tolerated.''
In an appearance later on ''The Tonight Show'' on NBC, Mr. Obama was measured in his reaction, saying he understood that Congress was ''responding, I think, to everybody's anger'' but that the best way to handle the situation was ''to make sure you've closed the door before the horse gets out of the barn.''
The legislation would apply to bonuses paid to executives at companies holding at least $5 billion in bailout money and would essentially wipe out the phenomenal paydays that have been a tradition on Wall Street, at least until the firms reduce the amount they owe taxpayers to less than $5 billion.
According to a tally by The New York Times of bailout recipients, employees at 11 institutions -- including Goldman Sachs, Bank of America, Citigroup, Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase -- would face restrictions immediately.
The current version of the Senate bill would apply to an even wider array of companies. It would tax bonuses at companies that received as little as $100 million in federal bailout assistance, though at a lower rate.
In response, financial institutions that have received federal bailout money mounted a broad assault Thursday on the House legislation, which was opposed by leading Republicans. But nearly half of House Republicans joined Democrats in supporting the measure, which was approved by a 328-to-93 vote.
Its backers said the companies had forced Congress to act by inexplicably handing out generous rewards to employees after tapping taxpayer funds to survive an economic calamity brought on by irresponsible and risky executive decisions. A.I.G. gave out $165 million in bonuses, saying the payments were essential to retain employees who could help the company sort out its financial problems.
''Have the recipients of these checks no shame at all?'' asked Representative Earl Pomeroy, Democrat of North Dakota. Summing up his personal view of the so-far-anonymous A.I.G. executives, he said: ''You are disgraced professional losers. And by the way, give us our money back.''
But several executives at Wall Street banks said they were being unfairly caught up in a hasty response by Washington that would ultimately deliver a sharper blow to their companies than to A.I.G., which set off the furor. One bank executive said employees were coming into his office in tears.
Several banks are considering refusing to participate in government financial rescue programs if the bill passes, according to a person briefed on the banks' plans. Hedge fund and private equity firms may also be hesitant to work in partnership with the government to purchase bad assets from banks -- a central component of the Treasury Department's coming financial recovery plan -- if they think the government might later add restrictions on their pay.
''If this stands, you will destroy the value of institutions where the government is an owner,'' said Orin Kramer, who runs a hedge fund and helps oversee the New Jersey pension plan.
''You will drive people away from being willing to do business with the government,'' said Mr. Kramer, a prominent fund-raiser for Mr. Obama.
Members of both parties raised doubt about whether the legislation could survive a court challenge, saying it was tantamount to a retroactive ''bill of attainder,'' which is banned by the Constitution. Even backers of the bill acknowledged it amounted to an extraordinary use of tax law.
''It is an extreme use of the tax code to correct an extreme and excessive wrong done to the American taxpayer,'' said Representative Dave Camp of Michigan, senior Republican on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, who backed the measure despite reservations.
But experts on constitutional and tax law said it was likely the House bill could pass muster. Numerous court rulings have upheld retroactive tax provisions, particularly over short periods. The House bill applies back only to Jan. 1, 2009. The measure is also strengthened by the fact that it does not apply to just one company or group of individuals, and does not take aim only at past bonuses but also bonuses to be paid in the future, experts said.
The effort to impose the tax was led by the House Ways and Means Committee chairman, Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, who just days earlier had expressed reluctance at using the tax code for this purpose. Mr. Rangel has also sought donations from A.I.G. for a public policy institute at City College in New York that will bear his name.
But on Thursday Mr. Rangel said that the executives were ''getting away with murder.''
''They are getting paid for the destruction they have caused our communities,'' he said.
Bank executives, who requested anonymity because they did not want to further alienate lawmakers, said their employees were on edge and many would face severe financial hardship if they were severely taxed on money already paid.
''It'll impact tens of thousands or maybe hundreds of thousands of people,'' said Alan Johnson, managing director at Johnson Associates, a compensation consulting firm in New York, noting that the tax would apply to a bonus recipient with family income of more than $250,000. ''If you're a receptionist and your husband is a doctor, your $5,000 bonus just vaporized. It's not just the C.E.O.'s.''
Led by Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the party leader, several House Republicans assailed the legislation, calling it a diversion by Democrats eager to escape scrutiny for failing to block the bonuses.
They also pointed to a last-minute addition to the economic stimulus legislation approved in February that appeared to restrict the federal government's ability to block bonuses for the most senior executives if they were negotiated into contracts before Feb. 11, including some at A.I.G.
''This bill is nothing more than an attempt for everybody to cover their butt up here on Capitol Hill,'' Mr. Boehner said. ''It's full of loopholes. A lot of these people who are getting these bonuses likely live in London. And it's not clear how raising this tax is going to recover that money.''
But their attacks were somewhat undermined by the fact that 85 Republicans, including Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the No. 2 party leader, ended up backing the new tax, suggesting they wanted to be seen as restricting the bonuses even as others in the party were trying to hit Democrats over the issue. In all, 87 Republicans opposed the bill.
Senator Reid said he hoped Congress could send a final tax bill to Mr. Obama by Easter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Neil M. Barofsky, of the Troubled Asset Relief Program, testified Thursday before a House panel.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); APPROVALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LOBBYING (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BAILOUT BONUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (64%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); CITIGROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); VIKRAM PANDIT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011



791 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: House Approves 90% Tax On Bonuses After Bailouts: Connecticut Senator Draws Voters' Ire for Payout Role

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ and THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
Clarence Randolph, a 50-year-old dump truck driver from New Haven, has been out of work for two months.
He is not happy that financial firms bailed out by the government are paying bonuses to their executives. And he does not understand why one of his senators, Christopher Dodd, allowed it to happen.
''Why would he do it?'' he said as he was about to enter the New Haven Free Public Library to search online for jobs. ''Why are they going to take taxpayers' money -- my money -- and give all these people bonuses? I think that's terrible.''
Across Connecticut, anger is erupting against Mr. Dodd, the Democratic chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, whose stature in Washington once reflected the state's beneficial ties with the financial industry. Now, he finds himself a symbol of the political establishment's coziness with tainted corporations and a target of populist wrath over their excesses. 
On Thursday, the senator sought to defuse the furor over the latest revelation, holding a conference call with reporters to explain how legislation meant to limit executive compensation was changed at the last minute. That change exempted bonuses protected by contracts, like those at American International Group, a big campaign contributor to Mr. Dodd that received billions in federal bailout money.
Mr. Dodd said that his staff revised the bill at the urging of Treasury officials, who he said were concerned that the compensation limits, which he had written in the original legislation, went too far and might invite lawsuits.
While he knew the language was being rewritten, the senator said he had no idea the revision would allow for the bonuses at A.I.G.
''Had I known at the time that there were any A.I.G. bonuses involved -- that this was somehow going to assist in that matter -- I would have rejected it completely,'' he said.
On Thursday, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner came to Mr. Dodd's defense, saying in an interview with CNN that his staff had raised concerns about whether the legislation limiting executive compensation ''was vulnerable to legal challenge.''
The fierce reaction back in his home state, however, underscores the peril the usually politically invulnerable senator faces.
In dozens of interviews, residents said they were appalled by Mr. Dodd's ties to financial firms and believed that he had damaged himself as he prepares to run for re-election next year.
Even some who have been steadfast supporters worry that after 28 years in the Senate, Mr. Dodd, 64, has been seduced by the power of Washington and grown distant from his constituents in this heavily Democratic state, which has been hit hard by the economic downturn.
''What he needs to do is try to get some jobs out here for people,'' said Henry Ford, 44, a painter from New Haven. ''There are a lot of people out here who have bought houses and can't afford them.''
This week's uproar was triggered largely by Mr. Dodd himself, when he provided conflicting answers about the provision that allowed the bonuses at A.I.G. According to the Center for Responsive Politics, the company's employees, political action committees and subsidiaries have made campaign contributions of nearly $300,000 to Mr. Dodd since 1989.
Initially, Mr. Dodd said he did not know how the loophole got into the legislation that sought to crack down on executive compensation. But then in an interview Wednesday with CNN, he acknowledged that his staff helped write the revisions after receiving a request from the Treasury Department.
Newspaper headlines that greeted morning commuters throughout Connecticut on Thursday underscored Mr. Dodd's problems. ''Dodd's Flip-Flop,'' declared The Hartford Courant. ''Dodd Takes Bonus Blame,'' announced The Advocate of Stamford. ''Dodd Admits Bonuses Role,'' trumpeted The Norwich Bulletin.
The firestorm has encouraged Republicans, who see an opportunity to pick up a Senate seat in next year's election. Last week, Quinnipiac University released a poll showing Mr. Dodd trailing former Representative Rob Simmons, who has jumped into the race, railing against the senator's ties to the financial industry.
''He is certainly out of touch with Connecticut,'' Mr. Simmons said in an interview.
The problem for Mr. Dodd is that the A.I.G. affair is just the latest episode in which he has been accused of being too chummy with powerful corporate executives.
Last year, he was criticized for receiving preferential treatment from Countrywide Financial Corporation after it was disclosed that the mortgage lender assigned him to a V.I.P. program in 2003 when he refinanced mortgages on his homes in Connecticut and Washington.
Mr. Dodd insisted he had done nothing wrong, saying that he did not get favorable pricing from the lender. But the issue was politically explosive, given that Countrywide and its executives had been criticized for contributing to the national housing crisis with aggressive subprime lending.
A short-lived presidential run, during which he moved his family to Iowa, did not help either, leaving some in Connecticut feeling that he abandoned the state for a quixotic adventure.
''To be very honest with you, I thought he was nuts,'' said Mary Spaulding, 79, a retired nurse from Waterford, who said she had always supported the senator, but would not do so again.
''I think in Connecticut, a lot of people are very frustrated with him,'' she said.
The backlash is a remarkable development for a senator once known for championing populist initiatives like the 1993 Family Leave Act. Elected to the Senate in 1980, Mr. Dodd is the longest-serving senator in the state's history and has won all his re-elections by sizable margins.
Troy Beers of New London remembered how he felt in 1985, when the senator spoke at his graduation from Ella T. Grasso Southeastern Technical High School in Groton and took a moment to shake his hand.
''He was inspiring back then,'' said Mr. Beers, 41, a lifelong Democrat who is unemployed. ''Now, he's a dinosaur. There needs to be a change.''
That sentiment was echoed by Jasmine Coleman, 21, of New Britain, whose mother's house went through foreclosure last year. Ms. Coleman, a Democrat, expressed dismay over Mr. Dodd's connection with A.I.G.
''I can't believe he actually approved of that,'' she said, as she shopped in Meriden with her two small sons. ''For them to get bailed out, it's just not fair. I'm from New Britain, and every street has at least three houses going through foreclosures. People are poor. Unemployment is a problem. It's hard to find a job, a good paying job.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BAILOUT BONUSES (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); INTERVIEWS (88%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); APPROVALS (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); LIBRARIES (56%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (67%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (67%); 8685 (TSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (79%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011



792 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1132 words

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
With the opening of the Venice Biennale just two and a half months away, officials at the Philadelphia Museum of Art -- commissioners of the United States pavilion this year -- are scrambling to raise the money to cover the costs of their ambitious Bruce Nauman exhibition. 
 Last week the museum sent out a letter to a group of national and international contemporary-art collectors asking for help. Donors were invited to join Friends of Bruce Nauman and, as with museum memberships, receive special perks depending on the amount of the contribution. A check for $5,000, for instance, will be reciprocated with an invitation for two to drinks on June 5 and a free exhibition catalog. 
 The bigger the donation, the more the offerings. Fifty thousand dollars means goodies like a special tour of the pavilion with the commissioners Carlos Basualdo and Michael R. Taylor as well as a dinner and drinks in honor of Mr. Nauman, the conceptual artist and sculptor. 
 ''There's no question this is an ambitious project to do in a challenging economic climate,'' said Gail Harrity, the museum's interim chief executive, who estimated the cost of the exhibition at $1.8 million. ''We're 80 percent of the way there, and I'm encouraged and hopeful that we will close the gap soon.'' 
 The plan for the show, ''Bruce Nauman: Topological Garden,'' is particularly large in scale. Besides the national pavilion, which will survey four decades of his work, including video, installation, performance and neon pieces, there will be two versions of a new sound installation by Mr. Nauman that is too big to fit in the pavilion. One will be on view in the Universita Iuav di Venezia at Tolentini and the other on two floors of a 15th-century gothic palace that houses the Universita Ca' Foscari. Ms. Harrity said there were no plans to truncate the show if the needed funds were not raised. 
 In addition to individual donors, she said, the project has received support from the Pew Charitable Trust, the Henry Luce Foundation, the State Department and the Philadelphia museum's home state, Pennsylvania. 
 MUSEUM FEES RISE
 The Brooklyn Museum, like all arts institutions trying to survive in these difficult times, announced this week that effective Saturday it will increase its suggested general admission fee to $10, from $8, and admissions for students and those over 62 to $6 from $4. Target First Saturdays, the museum's free evenings, will continue as they have, from 5 to 11 p.m. once a month. 
 This will be the first time since 2004 that the museum has increased its suggested admission prices. The news comes on the heels of an increase at the Art Institute of Chicago, which announced last week that its admissions would rise by 50 percent for most visitors, to $18 from $12.
 Arnold L. Lehman, director of the Brooklyn Museum, said the increase was part of a larger process. In February the museum imposed a hiring freeze and has asked staff members to cut expenses 10 percent to 20 percent. Officials are also looking at exhibitions to cancel or postpone. One that has already been canceled is ''Joint Venture: Donald Saff and the Art of Collaboration,'' scheduled to open in the fall. It was to explore this printmaker's innovative techniques when working with artists like Robert Rauschenberg and Roy Lichtenstein. 
 ''This is a delicate balance for us,'' Mr. Lehman said. ''We've worked so hard to establish an audience, and we don't want to lose them.'' 
 WATERFALLS' LONG LIGHTS
 Those shimmering lights that bathed Olafur Eliasson's man-made waterfalls last year every evening at dusk have found a new home. This week the Public Art Fund -- the nonprofit institution that organized the four cascading waterfalls by Mr. Eliasson, the Danish-Icelandic artist, along the shores of Brooklyn, Manhattan and Governors Island -- said that it had donated the project's 40 LED lights to the Atlanta Ballet's new headquarters. 
 ''It was always our goal to recycle as much as we could,'' said Susan K. Freedman, president of the fund. When the waterfalls project ended in October, 90 percent of the materials used in their construction were recycled. The scaffolding, for instance, went to a number of building sites. ''We're probably looking at them in the cityscape,'' Ms. Freedman said. 
 The lights went into storage until another use could be found for them. How they eventually landed in Atlanta was a result of word of mouth. ''One architect told another architect who told another,'' Ms. Freedman said. ''It's the greatest opportunity when one not-for-profit can help out another.'' 
 The Atlanta Ballet plans to install the recycled lights on the exterior of its new headquarters in a renovated warehouse, where it expects to move in 2010. The lights will be installed in two locations along Kalwall panels (translucent walls that resemble shoji screens), which will illuminate the inside of the dance studios. 
 ''Everything about the building is energy efficient,'' said David Tatu, the ballet's facilities manager. ''The lights will shine on the panels and make them glow.'' 
 The waterfalls were not without problems. In August the hours of operation were cut after complaints that the project was damaging waterfront plantings in Brooklyn. ''As spring approaches, we will be watching the trees, hoping they come back,'' Ms. Freedman said. ''The horticulturalists who have seen them are optimistic. Trees are resilient, but it can often take a few seasons for them to come back.'' PARK AVENUE BLOOMS
 Some of this spring's flowers along Park Avenue from 50th to 57th Street are particularly unusual. Fashioned from bronze and steel and rising as high as 15 feet, they are the work of James Surls, a Colorado sculptor. 
 The exhibition, which includes seven monumental pieces, has been organized by the sculpture committee of the Fund for Park Avenue and the New York City Parks Public Art Program. Each work was created in the last two years. Four have already been installed, and the rest will go up over the next 10 days. 
 ''We've had 13 separate exhibitions on Park Avenue since 2000,'' said Adrian Benepe, the city's parks commissioner, who added that they have featured the work of Tom Otterness, Fernando Botero, Beverly Pepper and Robert Indiana, among others. ''It's fun for the city,'' he said. ''It gives people who might not otherwise go to museums a chance to see the art.'' 
 N.Y.U. APPOINTMENT
 Patricia Lee Rubin is the new director of the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University. Dr. Rubin, deputy director of the Courtauld Institute of Art in London and head of its research forum, will start her new job Sept. 1. She is replacing Mariet Westermann, who left in June to become the university's vice chancellor for regional campus development. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James Surls's ''Standing Vase With Five Flowers'' (2005).(PHOTOGRAPH BY GERALD PETERS GALLERY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CHARITIES (77%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (73%); ART COLLECTING (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (61%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2009



793 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Panel Votes to Recommend Anticlotting Drug

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
For decades, an anticlotting drug called warfarin has dominated the market for oral medications used to treat blood clots that form in the veins. Now, there may finally be a new contender.
 An advisory panel of the Food and Drug Administration voted on Thursday to recommend that the agency approve a new drug, called rivaroxaban, a joint venture between Bayer Healthcare Pharmaceuticals and Johnson & Johnson. 
 Johnson & Johnson has applied to the agency for approval to market the drug for short-term use in preventing deep-vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients undergoing total hip or knee replacement surgery. The agency typically follows the recommendation of such advisory panels composed of outside medical experts. 
 Industry analysts said the application to temporarily treat orthopedic surgery patients was just a warm-up. 
 The real money lies in treating millions of chronic patients for stroke prevention and post-acute coronary syndrome, said Rick Wise, an analyst with Leerink Swann.
 ''This is Act 1 of a multiact play,'' said Mr. Wise, who estimated that the orthopedic use of the drug could generate sales of $150 to $200 million annually in the United States. ''For Act 2, the prospects look to be much greater.''
 Johnson & Johnson has just ended clinical trials of the drug for longer-term use in patients with acute coronary syndrome. 
 The advent of a challenger to warfarin, the category leader, has the potential to expand sales of drugs to treat thrombosis, or blood clots in veins. Doctors and patients have been looking for an alternative to warfarin because of its significant drawbacks. Common foods and medicines can decrease the efficacy of the drug, requiring patients to have frequent blood tests.
 In 2008, Americans spent $304 million on the top three prescription thrombosis drugs, according to data from IMS Health, a health care information company.
 But Bruce Nudell, an analyst with UBS Securities, has calculated that a new brand of drug able to supplant warfarin, an inexpensive generic version of which Americans take 1.5 billion doses every year, could eventually generate as much as $6 billion annually.
 ''The big opportunity is in replacing warfarin in chronic patients,'' Mr. Nudell said.
 The panel voted 15 to 2 in favor of recommending that the agency approve the drug. 
 Robert Dubbs, a patient representative on the panel, said he was personally looking forward to an alternative to warfarin, which he takes.
 ''I am excited by the possibility of not having to have my blood drawn every two weeks,'' Mr. Dubbs said.
 But the review of rivaroxaban was not without contention.
 The drug makers reported that patients in clinical trials who took the pills had half the incidence of blood clots than people who had injections of an anticoagulant drug called enoxaparin. But they also reported that 24 study patients on rivaroxaban subsequently had major bleeding -- the kind that can require surgical intervention -- compared with 13 who had injections.
 An F.D.A. statistician who analyzed the data said the drug was effective. But, because of increased risk of bleeding, the drug did not prove to be superior at preventing life-threatening blood clots or death, she said.
 Dr. Sanjay Kaul, a panel member who is a cardiologist at the Cedars Sinai Heart Institute in Los Angeles, agreed.
 ''I saw a risk-benefit ratio which was a washout,'' Dr. Kaul said. He voted against the drug.
 Other large drug companies, including Sanofi-Aventis, Pfizer and other firms are also developing anticlotting medications.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTICOAGULANTS (94%); ORTHOPEDICS (90%); HEART DISEASE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); BLOOD DISORDERS (89%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); DRUG EFFICACY (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); APPROVALS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (76%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (76%); STROKES (73%); SALES & SELLING (71%); JOINT VENTURES (56%)

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (93%); BAYER HEALTHCARE PHARMACEUTICAL DIVISION (57%); IMS HEALTH INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (58%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (93%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2009



794 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2236 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By NATE CHINEN

 BODY:
JAZZ
 Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music. 
 ERNESTINE ANDERSON WITH HOUSTON PERSON (Tuesday through Thursday) Ms. Anderson, a soulful and experienced singer, is at her best weighing the ups and downs of love. She should have no problem covering that terrain here with help from a frequent foil, the tenor saxophonist Houston Person. (Through March 29.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $30; $15 for students at the early show; with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. () 
 KENNY BARRON: WORDS AND MUSIC (Saturday) On his most recent album, ''The Traveler'' (Sunnyside), the ever articulate pianist-composer Kenny Barron calls on not only the fluid propulsion of his working trio (with the bassist Kiyoshi Kitagawa and the drummer Francisco Mela), but also on the considerable charms of several singers, including Gretchen Parlato and Grady Tate, who join the festivities here. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Allen Room, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 721-6500, jalc.org; $60. 
 WILL BERNARD BAND (Thursday) ''Blue Plate Special'' is the emphatically groove-minded new Palmetto release from Will Bernard, a shrewdly economical guitarist; his cohort on the album, resurfacing here, consists of the keyboardist John Medeski, the bassist Andy Hess and the drummer Stanton Moore. At 9 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $20 in advance; $25 at the door. 
 GENE BERTONCINI AND STRINGS (Wednesday) The guitarist Gene Bertoncini is rightly celebrated for his articulate solo playing, though his most recent album, ''Concerti'' (Ambient), places that sound within the larger context of a string quartet and bass. Mr. Bertoncini revisits that premise here, with a chamber group conducted by Michael Patterson. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25. 
 SEAMUS BLAKE QUINTET (Thursday) The tenor and soprano saxophonist Seamus Blake has a new album, ''Live in Italy'' (Jazzeyes), that confirms his affinity for burnished modernism. He has different but equally strong partners in this quintet: the pianist Gary Versace, the guitarist Lage Lund, the bassist Matt Clohesy and the drummer Bill Stewart. (Through March 28.) At 8, 10 and 11:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $20. 
 LARRY CORYELL ORGAN TRIO (Thursday) The guitarist Larry Coryell was one of the pioneering figures in jazz-rock, and he has continued to explore the idea of fusion. In this group he joins an established organ trio led by the irrepressible Hammond B-3 specialist Joey DeFrancesco. (Through March 29.) At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; $30. 
 MARILYN CRISPELL (Saturday) Ms. Crispell, a pianist equally celebrated for aggressive atonality and delicate lyricism, plays the early set here (8 p.m.) as a solo recital. In the later set (at 10), she works with Michelle Makarski, a violinist, and Lukas Ligeti, a drummer and composer (and this month's programmer at the Stone). At the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, New York, thestonenyc.com; $20 per set. 
 HANS GLAWISCHNIG QUARTET (Saturday) On his most recent album, ''Panorama'' (Sunnyside), the bassist Hans Glawischnig presents his multifaceted take on contemporary Latin-jazz, often with rewarding results. He aims to do the same here, with a group that prominently features the pianist Edsel Gomez. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15; $10 for members. 
 MARY HALVORSON AND JESSICA PAVONE (Wednesday) Ms. Halvorson plays acoustic guitar in this duo, and Ms. Pavone plays viola. On their new album, ''Thin Air'' (Thirsty Ear), they continue their experiments with spindly melodies and confrontational harmonies, playing and singing in a way that suggests intimacy without comfort. At 7 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; suggested donation, $10. 
 MARY HALVORSON TRIO (Saturday) Last year the guitarist Mary Halvorson released ''Dragon's Head'' (Firehouse 12), a brambly but engaging debut featuring her own compositions for a trio with the bassist John Hebert and the drummer Ches Smith. Ms. Halvorson will draw again from that material here, with Mr. Hebert and another responsive drummer, Tomas Fujiwara. Also on the bill: a collective quartet composed of the guitarist Chris Forsyth, the multireedist Chris Heenan, the sound collagist Aki Onda and the trumpeter Nate Wooley. At 8 p.m., Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side, (212) 598-0400, henrystreet.org/arts; $10. 
 JOHN HOLLENBECK'S CLAUDIA QUINTET (Friday and Saturday) This improvising chamber ensemble pursues texturally oriented and often contrapuntal exploration; Mr. Hollenbeck's drumming is one color on a palette that also includes Chris Speed's clarinet and tenor saxophone, Ted Reichman's accordion, Drew Gress's bass and Matt Moran's vibraphone. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com.; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. 
 ETHAN IVERSON TRIO (Monday and Tuesday) Ethan Iverson, the pianist probably best known as one-third of the Bad Plus, digs in with a different trio here, and more of a standard repertory. His partners are the drummer Albert (Tootie) Heath, a bebop veteran, and the bassist Ben Street, a versatile peer. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, (212) 252-5091, smallsjazzclub.com; cover, $20. 
 LEE KONITZ (Friday and Saturday) Lee Konitz, now in his 80s and playing as insightfully as ever, applies his wit and dry-martini alto saxophone tone to an uptown engagement with George Schuler on piano, Jeremy Stratton on bass and the deeply intuitive Rashied Ali on drums. At 8 and 10 p.m., Creole Restaurant, 2167 Third Avenue, at 118th Street, East Harlem, (212) 876-8838, creolenyc.com; cover, $20. 
 KEVIN MAHOGANY'S KANSAS CITY REVUE (Thursday) Over a decade ago Kevin Mahogany portrayed the blues shouter (and fellow Kansas City native) Big Joe Turner in the Robert Altman film ''Kansas City.'' Attempting a similar emulation here, he calls on Red Holloway on tenor saxophone, Reuben Wilson on Hammond B-3 organ, Grant Green Jr. on guitar and Bernard Purdie on drums. (Ribs not included.) (Through March 29.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25. 
 JOHN MCNEIL QUARTET (Wednesday) The trumpeter John McNeil specializes in a small-group jazz of springy but gently subversive aims, and he's at his best with a strong sparring partner. In this group, which has begun a long-term Wednesday night engagement, he locks horns with the saxophonist Noah Preminger and enjoys the propulsion of Mike McGuirk (bass) and Jochen Rueckert (drums). From 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., Puppets Jazz Bar, 481 Fifth Avenue, at 11th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 499-2622, puppetsjazz.com; cover, $6, with a two-item minimum. 
 ERIC MCPHERSON-ABRAHAM BURTON QUINTET (Friday and Saturday) The saxophonist Abraham Burton and the drummer Eric McPherson share a brisk command of post-bop traditions, as they prove in this collaborative ensemble with Duane Eubanks on trumpet, Marc Cary on piano and Dezron Douglas on bass. At 10:30 p.m. and midnight, Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, (212)252-5091, smallsjazzclub.com; cover, $20. 
 JAMES MOODY QUARTET WITH JON FADDIS (Tuesday through Thursday) The saxophonist and bebop legend James Moody ushers in his 84th birthday with a supportive working band and an appropriate special guest: Mr. Faddis, a trumpeter whose stratospheric style has always recalled Mr. Moody's longtime bandleader Dizzy Gillespie. (Through March 29). At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $35 at tables; $20 at the bar; with a $5 minimum. 
 MIKE MORENO QUARTET (Friday) On his most recent album, ''Third Wish'' (Cris Cross), the guitarist Mike Moreno breezes through jazz standards and some originals; he'll do the same here, reaching for a lyrical but propulsive ideal. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15; $10 for members. 
 DAFNIS PRIETO SI O SI QUARTET (Friday through Sunday) The Cuban drummer Dafnis Prieto, an essential fixture on New York's insurgent Latin jazz scene, convenes a regular cohort -- Peter Apfelbaum on saxophones, Manuel Valera on piano and Charles Flores on bass -- for a live recording to be released on his own label. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set on Friday and Saturday, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $30; $25 on Sunday. 
 ENRICO RAVA QUINTET (Wednesday and Thursday) The trumpeter Enrico Rava has a superb new album, ''New York Days'' (ECM), featuring the quintet found here: Mark Turner on tenor saxophone, Stefano Bollani on piano, Larry Grenadier on bass and Paul Motian on drums. It's a group with a lot of inside history, and deep reserves of discernment. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30 and $40, with a $10 minimum. 
 RUDY ROYSTON 303 SEXTET (Thursday) Previously based in Colorado, Rudy Royston is a drummer of increasing prominence on the New York scene. He features his own compositions here, with a promising ensemble that includes the trumpeter Shane Endsley and the saxophonist Stacy Dillard. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15 for the first set; $10 for the second ($10 and $5 for members). 
 JEROME SABBAGH TRIO (Friday) Jerome Sabbagh, a tenor saxophonist with a harmonically interrogatory style, works here with the assertive rhythm team of Ben Street on bass and Rodney Green on drums. At 7 and 9 p.m., Bar Next Door, 129 Macdougal Street, West Village, (212) 529-5945, lalanternacaffe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. 
 RANDY SANDKE TRIO (Thursday) With a string of solid releases, most recently ''Unconventional Wisdom'' (Arbors), the trumpeter Randy Sandke has proved himself an artist of imagination and intent. He takes a clear lead in this intimate trio with the pianist Ted Rosenthal and the bassist Nicki Parrott. At 8 p.m., Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $25; $15 for students. 
 WILL SELLENRAAD QUARTET (Monday) On ''Balance'' (Beezwax), the guitarist Will Sellenraad explores a handful of sleek original themes for a longtime working band with the saxophonist Abraham Burton, the bassist Kiyoshi Kitagawa and the drummer Victor Lewis. The same group appears here, with Eric McPherson filling in for Mr. Lewis. At 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $10. 
 JACKY TERRASSON TRIO (Wednesday) About a decade ago the pianist Jacky Terrasson led one of jazz's fresher-sounding acoustic piano trios, distinguished not only by his fluid pianism but also by an irresistible sense of play. He leads a different but highly promising new group here, with Ben Williams on bass and Jamire Williams (they are not related) on drums. At 7:30 p.m., Lycee Francais de New York, 505 East 75th Street, Manhattan, (212) 439-3820, lfny2.org; $20 in advance; $25 at the door; $10 for students. 
 GARY VERSACE (Tuesday) Mr. Versace, a versatile keyboardist who has focused lately on the Hammond B-3 organ, celebrates the release of his new album, ''Outside In'' (Criss Cross), by reconvening its capable personnel: Donny McCaslin on tenor saxophone, Adam Rogers on guitar and Clarence Penn on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $20. 
 WE ARE THE JAZZ AT LINCOLN CENTER ORCHESTRA (Thursday) The Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra, led by Wynton Marsalis, is one of the great precision machines on the current jazz landscape. The title of this concert run, which comes on the heels of an extensive tour, is no accident: the band always approaches its hometown performances with a declaratory air. (Through March 28.) At 8 p.m., Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 721-6500, jalc.org; $30 to $120. 
 FRANK WESS QUINTET (Tuesday through Thursday) At 87, Frank Wess conveys a gentlemanly cool on tenor saxophone and a marvelous expressiveness on flute. Though recently recognized as a National Endowment for the Arts Jazz Master, he hasn't coasted for a moment; he can make an old-fashioned statement seem not only crisp but also newly hip. For this weeklong engagement he works with his fellow saxophonist Scott Robinson, along with a crisp rhythm section. (Through March 29.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $20, with a $10 drink minimum. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mary Halvorson: This versatile young guitarist is offering two separate programs for jazz listeners. On Saturday her trio, which includes the bassist John Hebert and the drummer Tomas Fujiwara, performs at Abrons Arts Center in the Lower East Side. She will then be joined by her frequent duo partner, the violist Jessica Pavone, on Wednesday at Barbes in Brooklyn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIE DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); RECORD RELEASES (79%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (79%); MUSIC REVIEWS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (74%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (57%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) TEXAS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2009



795 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. Sues Government for Return of $306 Million in Tax Payments

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
While the American International Group comes under fire from Congress over executive bonuses, it is quietly fighting the federal government for the return of $306 million in tax payments, some related to deals that were conducted through offshore tax havens.
 A.I.G. sued the government last month in a bid to force it to return the payments, which stemmed in large part from its use of aggressive tax deals, some involving entities controlled by the company's financial products unit in the Cayman Islands, Ireland, the Dutch Antilles and other offshore havens. 
 A.I.G. is effectively suing its majority owner, the government, which has an 80 percent stake and has poured nearly $200 billion into the insurer in a bid to avert its collapse and avoid troubling the global financial markets. The company is in effect asking for even more money, in the form of tax refunds. The suit also suggests that A.I.G. is spending taxpayer money to pursue its case, something it is legally entitled to do. Its initial claim was denied by the Internal Revenue Service last year.
 The lawsuit, filed on Feb. 27 in Federal District Court in Manhattan, details, among other things, certain tax-related dealings of the financial products unit, the once high-flying division that has been singled out for its role in A.I.G.'s financial crisis last fall. Other deals involved A.I.G. offshore entities whose function centers on executive compensation and include C. V. Starr & Company, a closely held concern controlled by Maurice R. Greenberg, A.I.G.'s former chairman, and the Starr International Company, a privately held enterprise incorporated in Panama, and commonly known as SICO.
 The lawsuit contends in part that the federal government owes A.I.G. nearly $62 million in foreign tax credits related to eight foreign entities, with names like Lumagrove, Laperouse and Foppingadreef, that were set up or controlled by financial products, often through a unit known as Pinestead Holdings. 
 United States tax law allows American companies to claim a credit for any taxes paid to a foreign government. But the I.R.S. denied A.I.G.'s refund claims in 2008, saying that it had improperly calculated the credits. The I.R.S. has identified so-called foreign tax-credit generators as an area of abuse that it is increasingly monitoring. 
 The remainder of A.I.G.'s claim, for $244 million, concerns net operating loss carry-backs, capital loss carry-backs, a general refund claim and claims for refunds of other tax-related payments that A.I.G. says it made to the I.R.S. but are now owed back. The claim also covers $119 million in penalties and interest that A.I.G. says it is due back from the government.
 In part, A.I.G. says it overpaid its federal income taxes after a 2004 accounting scandal that caused it to restate its financial records. A.I.G. says in part that it is entitled to a refund of $33 million that SICO paid in 1997 as compensation to employees, which it now says should be characterized as a deductible expense.
 A.I.G.'s lawyers in the case, at Sutherland Asbill & Brennan, referred calls to the company. Asked about the lawsuit, Mark Herr, an A.I.G. spokesman, said Thursday that ''A.I.G. is taking this action to ensure that it is not required to pay more than its fair share of taxes.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Demonstrators marched in New York's financial district Thursday to protest corporate excesses.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LITIGATION (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%); SCANDALS (60%); ACCOUNTING (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (79%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2009



796 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Rapid Declines in Manufacturing Spread Global Anxiety

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Heather Timmons contributed reporting from New Delhi and Hiroko Tabuchi from Tokyo.

 BODY:
Since it was founded by his great-grandfather in 1880, Carl Martin Welcker's company in Cologne, Germany, has mirrored the fortunes of manufacturing, not just in Europe but around the world.
 That is still true today. In a pattern familiar to industrial businesses in Europe, Asia and the United States, Mr. Welcker says his company, Schutte, which makes the machines that churn out 80 percent of the world's spark plugs, is facing ''a tragedy.''
 Orders are down 50 percent from a year ago, and Mr. Welcker is cutting costs and contemplating layoffs to prevent Schutte from falling into the red. 
 That manufacturing is in decline is hardly surprising, but the depth and speed of the plunge are striking and, most worrisome for economists, a self-reinforcing trend not unlike the cascading bust that led to the Great Depression. 
 In Europe, for example, where manufacturing accounts for nearly a fifth of gross domestic product, industrial production is down 12 percent from a year ago. In Brazil, it has fallen 15 percent; in Taiwan, a staggering 43 percent. 
 Even in China, which has become the workshop of the world, production growth has slowed, with exports falling more than 25 percent and millions of factory workers being laid off.
 In the United States, until recently a relative bright spot for manufacturing despite the steady erosion of blue-collar jobs, industrial output fell 11 percent in February from a year ago, according to statistics released Monday by the Federal Reserve. 
 ''Manufacturing has fallen off the cliff, and it's certainly the biggest decline since the Second World War,'' said Dirk Schumacher, senior European economist with Goldman Sachs in Frankfurt. 
 The pattern of manufacturing and trade ominously recalls how the financial crisis of 1929 grew into the Great Depression: tightening credit and consumer fear reduced demand for manufactured goods in one country after another, creating a downward spiral that reduced global trade.
 ''Plunging manufacturing suggests that as bad as things were in the fourth quarter, they are at least as bad now,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at ITG, a New York research and trading business. ''This is a classic adverse feedback loop. It won't quickly correct itself.''
 That means more workers can expect to lose their jobs around the world in coming months as manufacturers continue to cut production, especially as global trade contracts.
 In fact, trade is shrinking even faster than production. Germany's exports down are 20 percent from a year ago, Japan's have plunged 46 percent, and in the United States, exports fell at an annualized rate of 23.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008.
 Mr. Welcker says he has never seen anything like it. For parallels, he has to hark back to the Great Depression and World War II, when Schutte's factory was destroyed.
 After focusing on Germany and Europe in the decades after the war, Schutte thrived recently as globalization opened new markets in Eastern Europe and Asia. In the last five years, Schutte's sales soared to about 100 million euros ($131 million) from 58 million. 
 The sudden reversal in global manufacturing suggests that Americans should not expect economic relief from abroad soon, despite a slightly more optimistic mood on Wall Street lately and President Obama's call for more stimulus spending by foreign governments.
 While manufacturing equals about 14 percent of gross domestic product in the United States, it totals 18 percent worldwide, and accounts for 33 percent of G.D.P. in China, according to the World Bank.
 That means that China, Brazil, India and other fast-growing emerging market countries that have escaped the worst of the fallout from the credit crisis will increasingly suffer, dragging down demand in more advanced Western economies even as government-led stimulus packages kick in.
 The damping effect works both ways.
 Despite the misperception that America no longer makes anything, falling demand for goods made in the United States, including jet engines, locomotives, medical equipment, pharmaceuticals and some high-tech products, will hurt American growth prospects.
 ''Manufacturing makes up about two-thirds of U.S. exports, and contributed more to G.D.P. growth over the last 20 years than any other sector of the U.S. economy,'' said David Huether, chief economist for the National Association of Manufacturers in Washington. ''Our share of global manufacturing output has remained steady at 20 to 23 percent over the past decade.''
 Elsewhere, even relatively healthy industrial companies like Toyota are also slashing production, which contributed to Japan's huge export decline.
 Toyota halted work at its 12 auto plants in Japan beyond its normal break in February and March. It also cut its production forecast for the year ending March 31 by 20 percent, to slightly more than seven million vehicles, and has warned that it will post a net loss of 350 billion yen ($3.6 billion), its first in decades.
 In Europe, new figures for January manufacturing are due Friday, and they are expected to show that the decline is still worsening.
 Although the problems of manufacturers supplying the auto industry and other so-called big iron manufacturers of products like locomotives, jet engines and power turbines have gotten the most attention, makers of a variety of other products, including handicrafts, clothes and jewelry, are suffering too.
 India's manufacturing sector, which accounts for about 16 percent of G.D.P., recently recorded its first quarterly production decline in more than a decade.
 Since last April, handicraft exports have fallen by 55 percent to $1.35 billion, and textile makers estimate they have slashed half a million jobs. Banks, meanwhile, are restructuring loans for diamond makers and polishers.
 And despite tax cuts and a $64 million stimulus package announced in February, Indian textile makers are pushing for more government help.
 ''We're competing with countries like Bangladesh, where wages are lower,'' said Rakesh Vaid, the chairman of Usha Fabs, a Delhi textile manufacturer. ''We're competing with China where the currency is well managed, and Vietnam where the industry is getting strong support from the government.''
 At Schutte, which has 550 workers and is emblematic of Germany's bedrock Mittelstand sector of family-run businesses, perilous times are part of the company's history.
 Mr. Welcker recalls family tales of trucks filled with cash to pay workers during the hyperinflation of the Weimar era, and how after G.I.'s crossed the Rhine in 1945 near where his factory stands today, ''not one stone stood atop another.''
 Today, he is thankful the situation is nothing like those days. ''But the speed of the decline in orders,'' he said, ''is the worst we've ever seen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Migrants left Guangzhou, China, after the factory where they worked closed.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHINA PHOTOS/GETTY IMAGES)(B1)
Mumbai in India, which recently had its first quarterly decline in factory output in a decade.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ARKO DATTA/REUTERS)
A Saint-Gobain plant in Pont-a-Mousson, France, where industrial output has fallen for months.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRICE DIMIER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 A clothes plant in Guangzhou in China, where growth has slowed and many jobs have been lost.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHINA PHOTOS/GETTY IMAGES)(B9) CHARTS: Shrinking Output: INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION: Year-over-year percentage change(Source: Bloomberg)(B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STATISTICS (76%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); EROSION (70%); WORLD WAR II (64%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (74%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (70%) SOUTH CHINA (90%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (78%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); TAIWAN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2009



797 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: FedEx Profit Drops 75%, More Than Estimated

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The FedEx Corporation said on Thursday that it was taking market share from competitors despite a recession that drove its profit down 75 percent.
 The company also announced additional cost cuts, including reducing capacity at its FedEx Express and FedEx Freight units, and slashing personnel and work hours. 
 The company, based in Memphis, reported net income for its fiscal third quarter, which ended Feb. 28, of $97 million, or 31 cents a share, down from $393 million, or $1.26 a share, in the period a year earlier. Analysts had expected 46 cents a share, according to Reuters Estimates.
 FedEx said third-quarter revenue fell 14 percent, to $8.14 billion, from $9.44 billion in the quarter a year ago. 
 ''If this is what FedEx can do in really tough times, imagine what they can do when things bounce back,'' said Sandeep Kar, a transportation analyst at the consulting company Frost & Sullivan. ''They are going to emerge as a lean and mean company that will experience rapid growth.''
 Like its main rival, United Parcel Service, FedEx is considered a bellwether of economic activity. When the economy does well, companies and consumers ship more goods; in a recession, package volumes drop.
 For the current quarter, FedEx said it expected to earn 45 cents to 70 cents a share, below the average of 72 cents expected by analysts.
 In December, the company said it had suspended matching contributions to its 401(k) retirement plan for a minimum of one year as of Feb. 1 and would impose pay cuts for all salaried personnel.
 Package volumes at both FedEx and UPS have been hit by the downturn. The Deutsche Post unit DHL closed its American domestic service in January, citing the economic slump and its inability to compete in a market dominated by FedEx and UPS.
 Shares of FedEx rose 4.76 percent, or $2.05, to $45.10.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A FedEx delivery in New York
 the company announced further cuts in capacity and personnel.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET SHARE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); US 401K PLANS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%)

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (95%); FEDERAL EXPRESS CORP (84%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (55%); DEUTSCHE POST AG (53%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (95%); UPS (NYSE) (55%); DPW (FRA) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (95%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (95%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (95%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (55%); NAICS491110 POSTAL SERVICE (53%); SIC4215 COURIER SERVICES EX. BY AIR (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2009



798 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2517 words

HEADLINE: Film Series and Movie Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
FILM SERIES
 CANADIAN FRONT 2009 (Friday through Monday) The Museum of Modern Art's sixth annual survey of new Canadian films features work from both established filmmakers (Bruce McDonald's ''Pontypool,'' Lea Pool's ''Mommy's at the Hairdresser'') and newcomers (Charles Officer's ''Nurse.Fighter.Boy,'' Guillaume Sylvestre's ''Well Done''). Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Dave Kehr)
 CRONENBERG CLASSICS (Friday and Saturday) The IFC Center draws on David Cronenberg's diverse filmography for a continuing series of midnight screenings. This weekend's attraction: ''The Dead Zone,'' his 1983 adaptation of Stephen King's novel about a reluctant psychic (Christopher Walken). IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-7771, ifccenter.com; $12.50. (Kehr) 
 'HAPAX LEGOMENA' (Wednesday and Thursday) A seven-part cycle by the avant-garde filmmaker Hollis Frampton, ''Hapax Legomena'' is both a conceptual history of visual media and what Frampton, who died in 1984, described as an ''oblique autobiography,'' graced by a sly sense of humor. On the occasion of its restoration -- through funds provided by the National Film Preservation Foundation -- Anthology Film Archives offers a weeklong series of screenings devoted to the cycle's parts. Each evening's program will be introduced by a different Frampton scholar, beginning with the filmmaker Keith Sanborn (Wednesday) and the critic Annette Michelson (Thursday). (Through March 31.) Anthology Film Archives, 32-34 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org; $9. (Kehr)
 PAUL NEWMAN PART 2 (Friday through Sunday) A BAMcinematek retrospective devoted to this actor-director continues with screenings this weekend of Martin Ritt's 1958 film ''The Long, Hot Summer'' (Friday), George Roy Hill's 1977 ''Slap Shot'' (Saturday), Newman's own 1971 film of the Ken Kesey novel ''Sometimes a Great Notion'' (Sunday) and Robert Altman's 1979 ''Quintet'' (Sunday). BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $11. (Kehr)
 SUPERDAY WITH GREG MOTTOLA (Sunday) With a new feature ready for release, this independent filmmaker is the subject of a one-day retrospective sponsored by the Museum of the Moving Image. The program starts at 2 p.m. with ''The Daytrippers,'' Mr. Mottola's 1996 debut feature (mysteriously unavailable on DVD) in which a suburban family invades Manhattan to rout a philanderer in their midst; Liev Schreiber, one of the film's stars, will appear for a discussion after the screening. At 4:30 p.m. the actor Kevin Corrigan joins Mr. Mottola for the 2007 ''Superbad,'' a teenage sex comedy in the raunchy-sensitive mode pioneered by the film's producer, Judd Apatow. And at 7:30 p.m. the producer Ted Hope appears with Mr. Mottola to introduce their new offspring, ''Adventureland,'' a comedy about an art history student (Jesse Eisenberg) who takes a summer job at a run-down amusement park in the 1980s. Directors Guild of America Theater, 110 West 57th Street, Manhattan, (718) 784-4520, movingimage.us; $15 for ''The Daytrippers'' and ''Superbad''; $18 for ''Adventureland''; $35 for an all-day pass. (Kehr)
 MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
 'CARMEN & GEOFFREY' (No rating, 1:20) This concise, inspiring documentary examines the careers of Geoffrey Holder and Carmen de Lavallade, pioneers of the pop end of modern dance, who have been married for more than 50 years. (Stephen Holden)
 'THE CLASS' (No rating, 2:08, in French, with English subtitles) An artful, intelligent, heartfelt fiction film from the director Laurent Cantet about modern French identity and the attempt to transform young students of all sizes, shapes and colors into citizens through talk, talk, talk. (Manohla Dargis)
 'CONFESSIONS OF A SHOPAHOLIC' (PG, 1:40) Like the flailing American economy, this comedy with Isla Fisher wants to eat its conspicuous-consumption cake and have its spiritual redemption too. (Dargis)
 'CORALINE' (PG, 1:40) Henry Selick's adaptation of Neil Gaiman's novel is exquisitely beautiful and creepy in the best ways. (A. O. Scott) 
 'CROSSING OVER' (R, 1:53) Wayne Kramer takes on immigration in a politically tinged drama with Harrison Ford and Cliff Curtis, which delivers its sanctimony with fist shaking, lurid violence and periodically bared female flesh. (Dargis)
 'THE CURIOUS CASE OF BENJAMIN BUTTON' (PG-13, 2:47) A hothouse blossom of romance, intrigue and breathtaking digital effects from David Fincher (''Zodiac,'' ''Fight Club''). Brad Pitt stars as a man who ages backward, but it is Cate Blanchett who provides the film's delicate, graceful emotional center of gravity. (Scott) 
 'DELHI-6' (No rating, 2:20, in Hindi and English) Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra's ambitious film means to be nothing less than a referendum on the modern Indian soul. Sadly, the movie is bogged down by its own good intentions, though Abhishek Bachchan does his best to keep things light. (Rachel Saltz) 
 'DOUBT' (PG-13, 1:44) Adapted by John Patrick Shanley from his stage play, this drama about a Roman Catholic priest suspected of child molestation stars a tamped-down Philip Seymour Hoffman as the accused and an energetic, often wackily comic Meryl Streep as his accuser. (Dargis)
 'EVERLASTING MOMENTS' (No rating, 2:11, in Swedish) The story, about a working-class wife and mother in early-20th-century Sweden who finds a measure of fulfillment by mastering the art of photography, is a bit familiar and sentimental, but strong acting and an understated visual elegance from the director Jan Troell make this a better-than-average literary costume drama. (Scott)
 'FADOS' (No rating, 1:28, in Portuguese) The veteran director Carlos Saura creates a rousing, often stirring celebration of fados, the soul music of Portugal, that's both a tribute and a performance archive. (Dargis)
 'THE FEATURE' (No rating, 2:57) The underappreciated artist and video maker Michel Auder creates an accessible, beautiful and deeply tender magnum opus in this epic memory trip about his bohemian life and times. (Nathan Lee)
 'FIRED UP!' (PG-13, 1:29) Two teenage boys attend cheerleading camp. Puppy love, nubile flesh and unexpectedly funny jokes follow. (Dargis)
 'FRIDAY THE 13TH' (R, 1:30) An undying slasher-flick franchise gets a surprisingly decent reboot in this stylish, playful example of the decapitated-hottie genre. (Lee) 
 'FROST/NIXON' (R, 2:02) It's twinkle (Michael Sheen) versus glower (Frank Langella) in Ron Howard's amusing, facile edition of the Peter Morgan theatrical smackdown. (Dargis)
 'GOMORRAH' (No rating, 2:15, in Italian) Based on the 2006 expose of the same title by the Italian journalist Roberto Saviano, this corrosive, ferociously unsentimental fictionalized look at organized crime from the director Matteo Garrone is also a bracing corrective to the sentimentalized Mafia thug popularized on both the big and small screens. (Dargis)
 'GRAN TORINO' (R, 1:56) Once again Clint Eastwood shows everyone how it's done, with a sleek muscle car of a movie set in that industrial graveyard called Detroit about a racist who befriends a besieged Hmong family next door. (Dargis)
 'HE'S JUST NOT THAT INTO YOU' (PG-13, 2:12) And neither am I. (Dargis) 
 'HOTEL FOR DOGS' (PG, 1:40) Children and dogs: those two magic words distill the appeal of this cuter-than-cute, sweeter-than-sweet family film about animal-loving kids who embark on a crusade to rescue all the stray pooches in a fictional city. (Holden)
 'THE INTERNATIONAL' (R, 1:58) A murderous bank, pursued by Clive Owen and Naomi Watts. Much less interesting, and also less frightening, than a daily perusal of the business pages. (Scott) 
 'JONAS BROTHERS: THE 3-D CONCERT EXPERIENCE' (G, 1:16) Strictly for the cult. (Lee)
 'KATYN' (No rating, 2:01, in Polish) The great Polish filmmaker Andrjez Wajda's film is a dignified, somber reckoning with one of the central traumas of his nation's history: the massacre by the Soviet Army of nearly 15,000 Polish officers during the first months of World War II. (Scott) 
 'LET THE RIGHT ONE IN' (No rating, 1:54, in Swedish) A charming and chilling Swedish love story directed by Tomas Alfredson about a lonely boy and the girl next door who may just happen to be a vampire. (Dargis)
 'MILK' (R, 2:08) Gus Van Sant's film about Harvey Milk (1930-78), the San Francisco City supervisor who was one of the first openly gay elected officials in the country, is less a standard biopic than a sharp, lyrical history lesson, touching not only on a crucial decade in the gay-rights movement but also on the rough and tumble of big-city politics and the tricky ways of love. Sean Penn outdoes himself as Milk, balancing his intense conviction with an unusual and welcome playfulness. The large supporting cast is also excellent, and includes James Franco as Milk's lover and campaign manager, Scott Smith, and Josh Brolin as Dan White, Milk's colleague on the Board of Supervisors and also his murderer. (Scott)
 'MISS MARCH' (R, 1:30) Road trip to the Playboy Mansion -- and not to read the articles. Zach Cregger and Trevor Moore wrote, directed and star in this not-funny-enough comedy about a boy who falls into a coma right before he gets a chance to deflower his girlfriend. When he wakes up, she's Miss March. (Saltz)
 'PAUL BLART: MALL COP' (PG, 1:30) Fat people are funny. Fat people who run into things are funnier. Fat people who run into things and have humiliating working-class jobs? Stop, you're killing me! (Lee)
 'PHOEBE IN WONDERLAND' (PG-13, 1:36) This tremblingly sensitive family drama, which decomposes in its last half-hour, examines the difference between the growing pains of a gifted child (Elle Fanning) and the possibility of more serious mental illness. (Holden)
 'THE PINK PANTHER 2' (PG, 1:32) Hoary slapstick routines, invariably rushed and only marginally funny, are all there is in this disorganized hodgepodge of juvenile pranks starring an overstressed Steve Martin. (Holden)
 'PUSH' (PG-13, 2:01) Navigating a Hong Kong bristling with partly constructed skyscrapers, a telekinetic (Chris Evans) and a clairvoyant (Dakota Fanning) hunt for a mysterious suitcase while dodging a pair of Chinese brothers whose screams can pop blood vessels. Paul McGuigan directs with maximum efficiency and minimum reliance on computers, creating a landscape crawling with mind controllers and human bloodhounds. The only ability in short supply is acting. (Jeannette Catsoulis)
 'RACE TO WITCH MOUNTAIN' (PG, 1:39) A passable kiddie-action movie, with Dwayne Johnson as a Las Vegas cab driver and ex-convict who becomes the unlikely protector of two blond alien children. (Scott) 
 'RACHEL GETTING MARRIED' (R, 1:54) Anne Hathaway plays Kym, furloughed from rehab to attend her sister Rachel's wedding. The director, Jonathan Demme, working from a script by Jenny Lumet, takes a fairly conventional family-therapy drama and packs it with exuberant vitality. There is ample sorrow and recrimination at this party, but nonetheless you'll be sorry when it ends. (Scott)
 'THE READER' (R, 2:03) You have to wonder who, exactly, wants or perhaps needs to see another movie about the Holocaust that embalms its horrors with artfully spilled tears and also asks us to pity a death camp guard. Kate Winslet plays the guard; Stephen Daldry directs. (Dargis)
 'REVOLUTIONARY ROAD' (R, 1:59) Sam Mendes directs Kate Winslet and a fine Leonardo DiCaprio in a waxworks edition of the corrosive, furiously unsentimental novel by Richard Yates about an unhappy marriage in the mid-1950s. (Dargis)
 'SEVERED WAYS: THE NORSE DISCOVERY OF AMERICA' (No rating, 1:47) Clashing swords mix with flourishes of heavy metal music in the young American director Tony Stone's D.I.Y. epic about two Vikings who, lost in the New World in 1007, go seriously off the story grid. (Dargis)
 'SLUMDOG MILLIONAIRE' (R, 2:00) A modern fairy tale from Danny Boyle (''Trainspotting'') about a pauper angling to become a prince, this sensory blowout largely takes place amid the squalor of Mumbai, India, where lost children and dogs sift through trash so fetid that you swear you can smell the discarded mango as well as its peel. (Dargis)
 'STREET FIGHTER: THE LEGEND OF CHUN-LI' (PG-13, 1:37) Daddies and daughters lend a wistful emotional core to this otherwise generic martial arts movie with video game credentials. Kristin Kreuk plays a tranquil concert pianist turned reluctant crime fighter, while a grievously miscast Chris Klein is the darling Interpol cop who assists. Dion Lam's action choreography is unusually witty, and Geoff Boyle's photography renders the vivid Bangkok locations in crisp, bright hues. (Catsoulis)
 'SUNSHINE CLEANING' (R, 1:32) Or better, ''Sundance Recycling,'' since every available indie cliche is thrown into this hapless comedy-drama. Not even the combined charms of Emily Blunt, Amy Adams and Alan Arkin can save it. (Scott) 
 '13B' (No rating, 2:10, in Hindi and Tamil) An overstuffed Bollywood fright flick in which, upon moving into their new apartment, the titular 13B, a new TV show reveals, in typical cliffhanger format, that a family's lives may be in danger. (Laura Kern)
 'TOKYO!' (No rating, 1:52, in Japanese) A cramped metropolis of eccentrics living in a futuristic present: that is the image of the Japanese capital evoked in ''Tokyo!,'' a compendium of three surreal shorts whose relationship with one another might best be defined by the exclamation point in the title. (Holden)
 'TOKYO SONATA' (PG-13, 1:59) A distinctly eccentric variant on the family melodrama from Kiyoshi Kurosawa, a genius of dread who brings more than a touch of horror to this story of a salaryman whose downsizing sets off a series of cataclysmic events. (Dargis) 'TWO LOVERS' (R, 1:48) A ripe, old-school romantic melodrama from James Gray, with Joaquin Phoenix as a young Brooklyn man torn between the pull of duty and the dream of escape, and also between the title figures, played by Vinessa Shaw and Gwyneth Paltrow. With Isabella Rossellini as a Jewish mother beyond Alexander Portnoy's wildest dreams. (Scott) 
 'TYLER PERRY'S MADEA GOES TO JAIL' (PG-13, 1:43) Not that jail can contain her, though neither can Mr. Perry's threadbare melodrama-meets-comedy formula. (Scott)
 'WALTZ WITH BASHIR' (R, 1:27) Ari Folman's animated documentary about Israeli soldiers haunted by memories of the 1982 Lebanon war is part memoir, part dream, part combat picture and altogether amazing. (Scott)
 'WATCHMEN' (R, 2:40) Who watches them? Lots of people, I guess. The real question is why. (Scott)
 'THE WRESTLER' (R, 1:45) Mickey Rourke, with sly, hulking grace, stars as a washed-up wrestler hoping for a comeback. But like its hero, the movie has a blunt, exuberant honesty, pulling off even its false moves with conviction and flair. (Scott) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Superday With Greg Mottola: This daylong retrospective, sponsored by the Museum of the Moving Image, begins with Mr. Mottola's 1996 debut feature, ''Daytrippers,'' with, from left, Parker Posey, Liev Schreiber and Hope Davis. Mr. Schreiber will take part in a discussion after the film. This program, on Sunday at the Directors Guild of America Theater, also includes ''Superbad'' and a screening of Mr. Mottola's forthcoming new comedy, ''Adventureland.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (89%); FILM HISTORY (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%)

COMPANY: NEWMAN'S OWN INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (84%); DIRECTORS GUILD OF AMERICA (59%)

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2009



799 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Finding Fame in Austin in the Internet Age

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex. 

 BODY:
Weaving through the thousands of fans, spring-breaking music industry professionals and assorted revelers who clog the streets of downtown Austin this week, you might well think that South by Southwest, the annual music conference and festival here, is nothing but a big party. 
 Despite the jittery economy and the decade-long recording industry slump, the festival grows bigger every year. Around 2,000 bands are playing in this year's 23rd installment, which began on Wednesday night and continues through Sunday. Seemingly every paved inch downtown becomes a stage, and from noon until the wee hours the air along Red River and East Sixth Streets is filled with the din of rough rock music and the smell of free-flowing liquor. 
 But for the young bands that come in pursuit of a big break -- or, more likely, a small break -- South by Southwest is also hard work, a five-day gantlet of makeshift showcases and insufficient sound checks. And musicians and industry players alike say success is tricky to gauge in an era when fame from a commercial placement or a rush of blog postings can disappear as quickly as it comes.
 Crocodiles, a two-man band from San Diego so fresh that the head of their record label was seeing them perform live for the first time, have had an enviable streak of Internet attention in the last few months. In December the underground art-punk kings No Age picked a Crocodiles song as one of their favorites of 2008, and after Crocodiles signed with Fat Possum Records in January two influential outlets, the blog Stereogum (stereogum.com) and Fader magazine's blog (thefader.com), weighed in with effusive recommendations of the band's throbbing wash of guitars and electronics. 
 Many bands dream of this kind of reception. But over the four or five years that blogs have been the dominant tastemakers of independent music, artists have gradually become more wary of the hype-and-slam cycle of the Web. Brandon Welchez and Charles Rowell of Crocodiles have been so distrustful of the Internet's fickle power that at first they tried to keep as low an online presence as possible, going so far as to ask fans to remove YouTube videos of their shows.
 ''The Internet is taking all the romance out of music and art and replacing it with this revolving door that just revolves so fast,'' Mr. Welchez, 27, the duo's singer, said before a 20-minute showcase on Wednesday afternoon. Eventually, though, the Internet found them, and their MySpace plays quickly shot into the tens of thousands.
 Artists, labels, journalists and everyone else at South by Southwest now depend on the Internet for almost every aspect of their jobs, from discovery to communication, distribution to promotion. But on the patios and hotel rooftops of Austin the conversation often turns to debates about what the Internet's role should be. 
 Matthew Johnson, the owner of Fat Possum, discovered Crocodiles online. But watching the band set up at Emo's Annex, he said the Web had only accelerated the inevitable.
 ''The Internet follows the band,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''The kid who is going to get expelled from school knows the cool band before MySpace.'' 
 The splintering of the music industry has also resulted in altered priorities for many musicians. Until the 2000s, most bands came to South by Southwest with the relatively straightforward aim of getting a recording contract. That remains a goal, although it is often the last item on a group's checklist.
 Afternoons, a seven-piece chamber-pop band from Los Angeles, has lots of buzz at home, a poster designed by Shepard Fairey, a song on the television show ''Gossip Girl'' and representation by a top independent booking firm, the Windish Agency -- everything a band could want, in other words, except a record contract, which the band needs to finance recording sessions, said Brian Canning, who sings and plays guitar. Lacking that support, the group has found itself in much the same financial situation as any unsigned band, spending virtually all its reserves to make it to Austin.
 ''It's a tough decision: is it worth it?'' Mr. Canning said. ''In the end we think so. We don't have any wild expectations. We're not delusional. But at the same time it would be nice to play for these people who have been expressing interest in doing deals with us.''
 For others, the concerns are more about day-to-day practicalities. As South by Southwest has grown bigger and more decentralized -- this year it has twice as many acts as in 2003 -- bands have been adding more and more performances to their itineraries, hoping to register the most impressions on the crowd. Shilpa Ray, an unsigned Brooklyn singer with a powerfully raw voice and a fierce technique on the harmonium, has eight showcases lined up, and for her the big question is simply endurance.
 ''It's a challenge: how good of a musician are you?'' she said. ''I wonder if I can do it, if I can sustain my voice for so long and stay consistent.''
 For her showcase at Club de Ville on Wednesday night, the audience included at least one record executive who said he was competing with another label to sign her. But Ms. Ray, who canceled a tour to make it to Austin, said she knew that even with a record contract success was far from guaranteed. And besides, she added, she is fine with roughing it at South by Southwest.
 ''Maybe in the past there were your pampered rock stars hanging out,'' she said. ''But then there's the people like us who climb out of clown cars and try to make things work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Charles Rowell (left) and Brandon Welchez of Crocodiles, a San Diego band with plenty of Internet buzz. Above, Shilpa Ray, a Brooklyn singer with eight showcases at South by Southwest.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); POP & ROCK (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); WRITERS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (95%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2009



800 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Laying It All Out

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
At 30 Rockefeller Plaza, in the Art Deco theater that is home to ''Saturday Night Live,'' humor was not part of the program on Thursday. Instead, General Electric executives were doggedly making the case that the company's huge finance arm is not just a troubled bank in disguise, as investors have feared.
 G.E., the bluest of blue chips, has been battered by the credit crisis, was forced to raise capital, cut its dividend for the first time since the Depression and lost its triple-A credit rating. 
 So to try to ease Wall Street's qualms, G.E. presented an extraordinarily detailed look inside GE Capital, the largest nonbank finance company in the United States, whose global portfolio spans aircraft leasing, commercial real estate lending, credit cards and home mortgages. 
 The presentation, to an audience of analysts, ran more than five hours, as tag teams of executives discussed their divisions aided by some 170 fact-filled PowerPoint slides. Michael A. Neal, president of GE Capital, made good on his promise at the outset. ''We're going to grind through,'' he said.
 Beyond the detail, some broad points emerged. The first is that the company's projection, made in December, that GE Capital would deliver profits of $5 billion in 2009 seems increasingly unlikely. Mr. Neal conceded: ''The market is worse than it was a few months ago. We don't predict.''
 But GE Capital has applied two different Federal Reserve economic models to its business, a so-called base case and a worse case -- both of which assume tougher economic times than G.E. did for its outlook in December. The Fed's base case assumes that unemployment in the United States averages 8.4 percent for the year and that the economy contracts by 2 percent. In those circumstances, G.E. estimates, GE Capital's profits for 2009 would fall to $2 billion to $2.5 billion.
 The nation's unemployment rate is already at 8.1 percent, and many economists find the Fed's more pessimistic outlook more realistic. That model assumes that unemployment averages 8.9 percent for the year and that the economy shrinks by 3.3 percent. In that case, GE Capital would show no profit, the company said.
 Still, Mr. Neal said he expected that GE Capital would be profitable during the first quarter and for the year.
 Throughout the day, G.E. executives portrayed its practices as a world apart from the missteps that have hobbled many banks. GE Capital, they noted, holds onto the loans it originates instead of selling them off, as so many banks did. The G.E. approach, they said, means the company knows its customers and its risks. GE Capital, they added, is liquid and far less leveraged than most banks, and has shunned complex securities, which have proved toxic in the downturn. ''We don't do bad acronyms, like C.D.O.'s or S.I.V.'s,'' Mr. Neal said, referring to collateralized debt obligations and structured investment vehicles. 
 Another theme, stressed repeatedly, was that the finance business was not so different from G.E.'s trademark industrial side. The G.E. management playbook, they said, applied to both. ''We run this like a factory, just like any other G.E. business,'' said Ronald Pressman, who heads the commercial real estate finance business.
 The GE Capital executives made their case forcefully and articulately. But analysts and investors remain skeptical. G.E. shares rose early, and then slipped to close at $10.13, down a bit under 2 percent, in line with the overall fall in the market.
 In a research note after the presentation, Nicholas P. Heymann, an analyst at the brokerage Sterne, Agee & Leach, wrote that although GE Capital was well financed, its profit performance would probably come closest to the outcome suggested by the Fed's pessimistic model. Mr. Heymann estimates the 2009 profit from GE Capital at $900 million, below his previous estimate of $2.8 billion, and well below the company's December target of $5 billion.
 Today, G.E. is actively paring back its finance unit, particularly in areas like consumer lending in the United States and home mortgages in Britain. Yet the presentations also show some of its finance units were growing well into 2007. Its write-offs in commercial real estate last year were clustered in commitments it called vintage 2007.
 This year, GE Capital plans to originate only about $100 million in loans in the troubled British home mortgage market, while in 2007 it originated nearly $11 billion. G.E. bought into that business in 2003 by acquiring the mortgage lending arm of a British bank.
 G.E. executives pointed out a few times at the presentation that, unlike troubled banks in the United States, it is not a home mortgage lender in the United States. But that is because it got out after getting burned. In 2004, G.E. bought a subprime lender in California, WMC Mortgage, and shed it in 2007, taking a total loss of about $1 billion.
 G.E.'s entry into finance goes back to its early days of financing electrical equipment purchases and, later, in consumer lending to finance the purchase of its appliances during the Depression. Yet the finance arm at G.E. grew far beyond the tight links to its basic industrial businesses. In recent years, half of the company's profits have often come from GE Capital, though no longer.
 Over the years, it seems, G.E. got hooked on finance. And it is hardly alone, as the financial sector as a share of the economy increased steadily over the last two decades. Finance rose to 35 percent of total corporate profits in 2006, before falling to 19 percent by the end of last year, according to Economy.com.
 ''G.E. is symptomatic of what is going on in the United States economy,'' said Edward Yardeni, an economist and independent investment adviser. ''The easy money from finance is wonderful during the good times, but finance can really turn around and bite you in the bad times. That's the predicament G.E. is in.''
 Eventually, G.E. is expected to come through the credit crisis with a smaller, more focused finance arm, and more attention will be paid to its strong industrial businesses in energy, aviation and health care.
 ''G.E. is still a huge industrial corporation with a very solid global strategy,'' said Noel Tichy, a professor at the University of Michigan business school who once ran G.E.'s management school at Crotonville, N.Y. ''But that gets obscured and ignored now because of the financial crisis.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael A. Neal, president of GE Capital, told analysts, ''We're going to grind through.'' Then came 170 slides over five hours.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE RECTOR/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(B9) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); DIVIDENDS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (72%); BANK FAILURES (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (54%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (54%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (95%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (95%); GEC (LSE) (95%); GE (SWX) (95%); GE (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2009

 
