

401 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-23

War News Summary B2

North Korea Announces
Policy Shift on Nuclear Talks
North Korea, in a major policy shift, said it would negotiate its nuclear program without sticking "to any particular dialogue format." The new policy signals an end to a six-month insistence on two-way talks with the United States. A4

Stalled U.S. Effort on Cuba
Cuba's jailing of dozens of dissidents and the execution of three ferry hijackers have stalled what had been an increasingly popular drive in Congress to ease trade and travel restrictions on the island. A18

Language Tensions Easing
The 40 year long uneasy relationship between English and French speakers in Quebec is easing as voters are seeking -- and finding -- a bicultural, bilingual accommodation over such issues as health care, taxes and the economy. A12

Japan Power Shortage Threat
Industry officials in Japan say the Tokyo Electric Power Company will have to press 16 nuclear power plants back into operation in order to avoid severe power shortages and even blackouts this summer. A23

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Health Workers on Front Line
SARS, a new and mysterious respiratory illness, has changed the lives of the healthcare workers on the front line, forcing them to think about ways to avoid catching the highly infectious disease, which has already hit at least 267 doctors, nurses and medical students. A16

NATIONAL A24-28

U.S. to Review Research At Hospitals for Veterans
The Bush administration has ordered a nationwide review of medical research at 115 veterans' hospitals and has halted some studies after investigators found serious violations of federal rules, including some that may have contributed to the deaths of patients. A24

Wilderness Protection Limited
The Interior Department wants to limit Bureau of Land Management lands eligible for wilderness protection to 23 million acres, a figure environmental groups say leaves millions of acres vulnerable to development. A24

Flaws at NASA Studied
Investigators of the Columbia shuttle accident are finding that serious problems with a particular component or components, repeatedly weathered by various shuttle missions, might have proved fatal in the end because management misread them as maintenance headaches. A27

Retiree Restoring Town
A retired businessman is buying up and restoring property in Tuscumbia, Ala., the rundown town where he grew up, as many small towns around the country are struggling financially. A26

EDUCATION

Beyond Privatization
The experiment that brought Edison and six other outside managers to run 45 of Philadelphia's schools caused widespread excitement last fall. But the educational and political landscape has shifted, and attention has turned to the new school chief, Paul G. Vallas. A24

NEW YORK/REGION A29-34

Experts Say Dispute at M.T.A. Stems From Structural Flaws
A dispute between the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's inspector general and its top security official once again raises serious questions about the independence of the inspector general's office, the agency's corruption watchdog. Several experts and former inspectors general say there are inherent flaws with an office intended to serve as an independent monitor, but whose leadership and budget are controlled by the political apparatus it is supposed to police. A29

New York and L.A. Similarities
Social scientists have compared New York and Los Angeles. Partisans may be sorry to learn that the two regions strike some of them as increasingly alike. A29

OBITUARIES A35-36

Dr. Donald W. Fiske
A psychologist who challenged the idea that personalities could be defined with traits that were consistent through time, he was 86. A35

Chess A35
Weather A37
Cong. Vote A34

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (91%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (75%); MULTILINGUALISM (74%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (74%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); SARS (71%); ISLANDS & REEFS (70%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (69%); NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (64%); WILDERNESS (63%); SPACE SHUTTLE (61%); SPACE EXPLORATION (61%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: TOKYO ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (91%)

TICKER: 9501 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); CUBA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003 



402 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 3771 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: AMERICAN CASUALTIES; 
Plans for Families, Degrees and Careers Come to Abrupt End in Iraq

BYLINE:  By MONICA DAVEY 

 BODY:
Left behind, somewhere in the desert, were all of their plans.
 One Army captain was signed up to enter Harvard Business School once he got home. It would be another step, he hoped, on his way to teaching at the United States Military Academy at West Point. Another man, with 20 years of Marine Corps service behind him, planned to start a second career as a police officer as soon as his retirement papers came through. 
 And one young soldier, Devon D. Jones, hoped to teach English in a high school like the one from which he had just graduated. Private Jones knew he would need a college degree for that, which was why he had found himself in Iraq to begin with. 
" 'I don't have any other way to pay,' " his former girlfriend, Tiffany Taylor, remembered him telling her when he enlisted last year.
"That is the thing about him dying there," Ms. Taylor said of Private Jones, one of more than 100 Americans killed so far in the war. "So much lay ahead. He was really trying to do something in his life. He had everything ahead of him."
"That wasn't supposed to be it," she said. "It just wasn't."
The third week of war brought a turning point as American troops entered the heart of Baghdad and ousted the government of Saddam Hussein. And while many Americans were relieved that the war seemed to be moving more quickly than it might have, the week also brought the worst news to more than 40 families, families who learned that their own had perished in Iraq.
They died when helicopters crashed, and when a vehicle fell into a ravine. They died, eight more families learned last week, after an Army unit was ambushed in Nasiriya on March 23. They died in firefights as they entered Baghdad. 
But before that, before Iraq, all had plans. Some envisioned long military careers, as a way to carry on a family legacy, to earn a solid wage, or to follow a sense of duty. Others signed up to get somewhere else -- into college or a new job, out of a tough neighborhood or bad times. But, in their letters and phone calls home, when they mentioned SAT preparatory books and their babies' due dates, computer schools and long, hot showers, they had all been looking ahead, beyond Iraq, to futures they seemed certain they would have time to shape. 
Private Jones, 19, had told anyone who would listen that he wanted to become a teacher. While at Lincoln High School in San Diego, he volunteered to read to students at a nearby elementary school. He adored children, Ms. Taylor said, perhaps in part because his own childhood had been such a struggle.
Private Jones's mother went to prison and his family broke up early. He was sent to live in group homes for children, then found a woman who was willing to be a foster mother for him and his two younger brothers -- all of them together.
"He was avery grateful young man," Evelyn Houston, his foster mother, said. "He felt so thankful for a country that had foster care, when in many other countries they just abandon you."
When he enlisted in the Army a few weeks after high school graduation last summer, friends and teachers were surprised. But he said he wanted to help support his two younger brothers with the paychecks, and he wanted money the Army would offer him to go to college later.
He told Ms. Taylor that his work, inside a tank, turned out to be hard. The Army recruiters had not warned him about what it would really be like, she said he told her, and that he would not recommend the Army to others. 
Private Jones died along with two fellow soldiers -- Pfc. Wilfred D. Bellard, 20, of Lake Charles, La., and Specialist Daniel Francis J. Cunningham, 33, of Lewiston, Me. -- when their vehicle fell into a ravine on April 4. Private Jones's former English teacher said she had to remove his photos from her classroom wall. Otherwise, she could not stop crying.
The last time his foster mother spoke to him, Private Jones was in the desert, in a rush to use the phone before the next guy needed it, and asking for her prayers. He sounded upbeat, Ms. Houston said, but also a little scared. "He said, 'I signed on for it, and I ain't going to cry about it now.' "

'He Became Proud of Himself'
Six men perished together when their UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter, hovering above a battle, crashed in central Iraq on April 2. They had come from opposite ends of the country -- towns like Bennington, Vt., and Granburg, Tex. -- and, until that day, seemed headed toward separate futures.
Specialist Mathew G. Boule, 22, loved his flock of "birds" (that was the only term he would tolerate for the precious Black Hawks) but he also wanted to come home one day, to Dracut, Mass., his mother, Sue Boule, said. He dreamed of working as a police officer on a search and rescue team.
The service had changed her son, his mother said. He had given up baggy pants and wisecracks, she said. He wore his shirts ironed. And he seemed three inches taller than she remembered, even though he had not grown. "He wasn't slouching anymore," Mrs. Boule said. 
"We were proud of him for anything he did beforehand, but he became proud of himself, that's what it was," she said. "It seemed like he had a mission in life."
Chief Warrant Officer Scott Jamar, 32, of Granbury, Tex., had always wanted to be a military pilot, and had been in the service for more than 10 years -- long enough to know the military was going to be his life's work, his family said. 
The same held true for Chief Warrant Officer Eric A. Smith, 41, of Rochester, N.Y., who reminded his mother that if he had to die, he would rather do it flying a helicopter, and Chief Warrant Officer Erik A. Halvorsen, of Bennington, Vt., who had once given up the military briefly, only to return to it.
Officer Halvorsen, 40, had tried out commercial pilot work for an airline, but he found that he did not like it, his mother, Dorothy, said. There was too much sitting on the ground, not enough flying, she said. And he missed the camaraderie of the Army. So, in 1999, he re-enlisted.
"He found this structure something that was good for him," Ms. Halvorsen said. "He really did enjoy it. He wouldn't have gone back if he didn't. He lived in an apartment complex with a group of pilots his age, or younger, or people who had been involved with the military. That was what he enjoyed, to be with people who were a lot like him. They were all kind of loners, but they hung together."
But Capt. James F. Adamouski, 29, who was also on the Black Hawk, set an independent, ambitious course for himself. He and his wife were preparing to move from Savannah, Ga., to Cambridge, Mass., in August, so he could get his master's from Harvard. He learned that he had been accepted there in January, just before he was deployed to Kuwait. After business school, his family said, he planned to teach economics at West Point, from which he was a 1995 graduate.
"Jimmy was an individual who always looked deeply into what he was going to do and how he was going to do it," his father, Frank Adamouski, said. In the fourth grade, he picked West Point. At 12, when he missed the bus to his northern Virginia school one day, he called a cab for himself.
Captain Adamouski played soccer at Robert E. Lee High School in Springfield, Va., and again at West Point. He won first team all-conference honors in college, then played for a professional German team while he was stationed in Germany. 
He had served three tours in Bosnia, and one in Albania. This one looked like it would be his last.
When the crisis in Iraq emerged, Captain Adamouski was prepared, but he was also concerned, his father said. "I wouldn't say he had doubts. He had some apprehensions, as relative to things unknown. When you do this type of work, this is the job. You don't have an umpire or a referee to say 'play by the rules, and it's going to be a fair game.' It's not a soccer game; it's a war."
Circumstance had led Sgt. Michael F. Pedersen, of Flint, Mich., another member of the helicopter team, into the military. When he died, he had served seven years, and had already signed up for more. If he had lived, this seemed to be where he would have stayed, his mother said. 
And to think, way back, that he might not have joined. Sergeant Pedersen was just a teenager, still finishing Northern High School and working at a Long John Silver's in Flint, when military service dawned on him. His daughter had just been born. One day he came home and announced: "Mom, I've made a decision. Long John Silver's will never pay me enough to take care of my family."
"That's why he joined the Army," Lila Lipscomb, his mother, said. "From the beginning, when he signed up, his intention was to make it a career. He intended to retire from the Army."
When he was home this past Christmas, Sergeant Pedersen acknowledged that he had fears about what the future in Iraq might hold. He had no doubt that he needed and wanted to go, his mother said. 
Still, Mrs. Lipscomb said, "Just before he left he fell into my arms crying. He said, 'Mama, I'm so scared to go. I wish I didn't have to go.' My son was very concerned. But he knew what he had to do. He was part of a team. He loved being part of the team on that helicopter."
Mrs. Lipscomb said she was thankful when her son had first enlisted. "The Army gave him confidence," she said. "It allowed him to learn what it was to succeed. It made him the strong man he was when he died."
Days before that, his daughter, Destiny, turned 7.

'Opportunity to Better Himself'
Some of the Americans killed, especially some of the youngest ones, had seen their stints in the armed services as a chance to figure out just what their futures could hold. Some were still sorting out their plans, searching for what to do after this. They saw the Army, the Marines or the Air Force as a way to buy some structure, some adventure, a steady paycheck -- and some time to think.
Cpl. Mark Evnin's decision to join the Marines in 2000 after he finished high school was a recognition that he was not ready, just yet, for more school, his mother, Mindy Evnin, said. 
"He was always trying to figure it out," Ms. Evnin said of her son, who was 21 and lived in South Burlington, Vt. "Different days he wanted different things. But he knew for sure that to make anything meaningful out of his life he would need a college education."
Lately, he had talked about the Central Intelligence Agency or maybe the Federal Bureau of Investigation. He often asked his mother to pass along information about colleges so he could consider different options. Perhaps he would study international relations or foreign languages. 
Corporal Evnin was shot in the abdomen in a firefight in Iraq. Ms. Evnin will never know exactly what profession, what city, what family life he might have chosen. "But I'm sure he would have gone to college," she said. "And the thing about it is this: When he would have gone, he would have been ready."
In San Antonio, when Pfc. Anthony Scott Miller finished high school, he liked to draw and to listen to rock music, but he was uncertain about what to do next, his brother, Patrick Miller, said. When he signed up for military service last March, he was searching for direction, Mr. Miller said.
"It was an educational opportunity," Mr. Miller said. "He saw an opportunity to better himself." Private Miller was 19 when he died in Iraq.
In Temperance, Mich., Pfc. Juan Guadalupe Garza Jr. 20, had always struggled in school. Academics were especially hard for him, his aunt, Jodi Bucher, said. After high school, he was drawn to the Marines: he always had loved war movies and he had relatives who had served.
It was a remarkable change, Ms. Bucher said. In just nine months since he went to boot camp, he seemed happier and more successful than he ever had before.
In Iraq, his aunt said, a sniper shot him in the chest.
"It took him five years to get his life together, and he finally had," she said. "And then this. Things were just getting good for him. You can't help but think that he was too young to have this happen."
In Natchez, Miss., Cpl. Henry L. Brown's mother pressed him to enlist. "I thought it would be good, he being a mama's boy," his mother, Rhonda James-Brown, said. "I thought it would be one way to mold him."
Once Corporal Brown got into the Army, his mother said, military life absorbed him. He loved it. He met his wife in the service. He said he wanted to become a sergeant some day. "I said, don't stop at sergeant," his mother said she told him. "Go to the highest rank you can get."
Corporal Brown, 22, had started talking about a career in the Army, Ms. James-Brown said, and he even seemed to be thinking beyond that.
She remembered him telling her, "Mama, when I retire, I'm going to come home and sit on my porch."

'No Idea What War Would Be'
Others had seen the service as a ticket to education, pure and simple. They needed tuition money, and the military had all sorts of aid packages promoted on Web sites and in television commercials.
Cpl. Bernard G. Gooden, smaller, at 5-foot-4, than some marines, had no intention of staying in the service forever. He believed the Marine Corps taught values like toughness and discipline, but he also wanted to become a corporate lawyer, a family friend, Patricia Johnson, said. 
So in June 2001, he enlisted. 
"He had a lot of dreams," Ms. Johnson said. "But he didn't have the money. He went in the Marines hoping to do his time and get on out. He had no idea what war would be."
Corporal Gooden grew up in Jamaica, then moved to Canada as a teenager, shesaid. He ran out of money for his education there, and moved to the United States, settling with family in Mount Vernon, N.Y. When he died in a firefight on April 4, he was 22. He had hoped to go to New York University or Fordham, Ms. Johnson said.
Pfc. Chad E. Bales, meanwhile, wanted both: an education and a career in the military. His plan was four years in the Marines, four years of college, then back to the Marines as an officer. When he died he was 20, and in the first year of his plan. 
His stepfather, John Wayne Metcalf, of Coahoma, Tex., initially had some concerns about Private Bales's choice to enlist. Then he saw Private Bales graduate from boot camp.
"It was so amazing," Mr. Metcalf said. "It made him so proud. I had no reservations after that."
The last time his family heard from him, Private Bales was calling from the desert in mid-March. The wind was whipping up. Static crackled on the line. "The last thing he told his mom was, 'If you think we have sandstorms back at home in Texas, you should see this,' " Mr. Metcalf said. Then the line went dead, leaving Private Bales's mother weepy. "That whole night all she could talk about was how she hadn't gotten to say goodbye or anything."

A 'Sense of Adventure'
The service members left personal plans unfinished, too, their own and those of other people. Some had not started families yet, but had told their parents that they wanted to. Others left children behind. One woman, who was separated from her husband when he left for Iraq, said she would forever wonder if the marriage might have healed some day.
Private Bellard's wife, Letricia, is eight months pregnant with their second child.
Before he left Louisiana for the war, Private Bellard tried to talk to his wife about issues like benefits. He wanted her to know where everything was. He sent her a tennis bracelet set with opals, and the bank card.
Ms. Bellard, 20, said her husband also asked her to make sure, in case something happened, that the children never forgot him. The new baby's name, she said, will be Wilfred Jr.
Second Lt. Jeff Kaylor married his college sweetheart -- a fellow member of the Virginia Tech Reserve Officer Training Corps' Ranger Company -- last July, and was shipped out a few weeks later. They did not have time for a honeymoon.
Lieutenant Kaylor was on a regular rotation when he left for Kuwait, long before the conflict in Iraq felt imminent. "He had no idea there would be a war," his mother, Roxanne Kaylor, said.
"Jeff had always expressed that he'd like to have some sense of adventure," Mrs. Kaylor said from the family's home in Clifton, Va. 
Lieutenant Kaylor, 24, had gone to Virginia Tech on an R.O.T.C. scholarship, graduating in 2001. He followed in the path of his father, who retired from the Army in 1992. 
Lieutenant Kaylor's wife, Jenna Cosbey, was on tour in the Persian Gulf when her husband's death was reported.
Sgt. Duane R. Rios had met his wife, Erica, in high school. He joined the Marines in 1999, as a way to get work experience and good benefits and as a chance for him and his new family to leave the Midwest.
Sergeant Rios, who loved motorcycles and rap music, wanted to be a highway patrol officer eventually, but that was still at least three years away. Meanwhile, he told his wife, he was glad to fight in Iraq. It was the right thing to do, he said. But the sunsets, Ms. Rios said, will be harder.
They had made it out of the Midwest, after all, and settled on the California coast. "We have an apartment with a beautiful panoramic view," she said. "I would fall asleep in his arms and watch the sun go down."

'He Loved It'
For the most certain among these service members -- the people who knew they wanted military careers -- their deaths meant an end to the march they had long anticipated through the ranks. 
Before they left, some of them expressed concern about what dangers might be ahead on the battlefield, while others took care of financial matters -- just in case. But they also told their families that they expected to come home. And when they did, they said, they planned to keep working their way along, the same as before, in the military.
Staff Sgt. Wilbert Davis, 40, had joined the Army a little later than some people. As a young man, he had worked for a Tampa utility company, his family said. But then, at his sister's suggestion, he tried out the military, his niece, Likeithia Davis, said.
"And he loved it," Ms. Davis said. "In the military you have great benefits as far as for your family and your retirement plan. The military is just good all the way around, as far as family. He always said that -- that he loved it."
Sergeant Davis seemed destined to stay until he finished his 20 years and retired, she said. In fact, he seemed to be making plans for other people's futures too: he often recommended the Army to young people in his old Tampa neighborhood, Belmont Heights, as one way out.
"He just wanted to show them that there is something outside," Ms. Davis said. "He went and said, 'You know, there's a future. It's O.K.' "
Sergeant Davis, she said, was never one to "bite his tongue as far as giving advice." 
Sergeant Davis died when his Humvee ran off the road and flipped into a canal in Iraq. A journalist, Michael Kelly, was with him, and also died.
Sergeant Davis served in the first Gulf War and in Afghanistan, Ms. Davis said. "Then when this one turned around, he was just like: this is my job, this is what I have to do. This is what my commander in chief has put on my plate."
Lance Cpl. Andrew Julian Aviles was far earlier in his military career, and, at 18, far younger. But he already viewed military service as his duty.
"Andy from an early age knew what he wanted out of life," his uncle, John Aviles, said. "His attitude was: after I graduate, I fulfill my military obligation, then come back and go into business, go into officer candidate school making the military a career. We talked about it. I was very proud of the fact he wanted to do this."
Military service ran through Corporal Aviles's family tree, Mr. Aviles said. "He took it as a moral obligation because of our ideals about the military. We're from the old school, we felt military service is something everybody in the family should do. He felt very strong about it, he liked the R.O.T.C., he liked what he saw."
Just out of high school, Corporal Aviles was to serve a nine-month assignment, as part of his plan to become a Marine Corps officer. A scholarship was waiting for him at Florida State University when he got back.
"Andy has always been a focused young man, involved from an early age," Mr. Aviles said.
School officials in Tampa, where he graduated from high school in 2002, said Corporal Aviles had been practically everything: student government president, a cheerleader, wrestler, naval junior R.O.T.C. program cadet, National Honor Society member, and ranked third in his class of 335.
He died on April 7 when an enemy artillery round struck the amphibious assault vehicle he was riding in. He would have turned 19 this month.

'Starting Something New'
First Sgt. Edward C. Smith, 38, of Vista, Calif., had lived out one of his plans already. As his 20-year Marine Corps service date drew close, he began planning for what he might do next, once he retired from the military. Like so many of his colleagues, he was drawn to law enforcement work.
So, a few years ago, he signed up for the Palomar College Police Academy in San Marcos, Calif. If he was older than most recruits, it did not show. He finished first in his class. 
Still on active duty in the Marines, Sergeant Smith went on to join the Anaheim Police Department as a part-time reserve officer, riding as a second officer on patrol rounds, becoming part of the special weapons and tactics team, and serving in the detail that stood guard when the Anaheim Angels played in the World Series. The city department named him reserve rookie of the year in 2000. A year later, the surrounding county, Orange, gave him the same award.
By this year, he was prepared to take a full-time slot with the police department. All he had to do was retire from active service in the Marines. 
"He was looking forward to that very much," Sandy Smith, Sergeant Smith's wife, said. "I think he had done the 20 years with the military, and that was enough. He was starting something new."
Months ago, before the war in Iraq, he submitted his retirement papers, Ms. Smith said. He had hit the 20-year service mark this past January, but then came word that the Marine Corps was not allowing retirements like his -- not in times like these, she said.
Sergeant Smith would have to wait one more year, until January 2004. 
Despite that, he did not object to being deployed to the war, his family said. He felt it was his duty, they said. "He was just going to go over there to take care of business," said Tony Toliver, his brother-in-law.
Then he would come back and get his full-time police badge. When they heard of Sergeant Smith's death, Anaheim police officers covered their own badges with black bands.

*Date of deaths uncertain. These eight were ambushed on March 23. Their deaths were announced April 5.

GRAPHIC: Photos: MARCH 23* -- GEORGE E. BUGGS 31, Barnwell, S.C. Army sergeant Third Division; ROBERT J. DOWDY 38, Cleveland Army master sergeant 507th Maintenance Company; RUBEN ESTRELLA-SOTO 18, El Paso Army private 507th Maintenance Company; JAMES M. KIEHL 22, Comfort, Tex. Army specialist 507th Maintenance Company; JOHNNY VILLAREAL MATA 35, Amarillo, Tex. Army chief warrant officer 507th Maintenance Company; LORI ANN PIESTEWA 23, Tuba City, Ariz. Army private first class 507th Maintenance Company; BRANDON U. SLOAN 19, Cleveland Army private 507th Maintenance Company Missing March 28; identified April 10.; DONALD R. WALTERS 33, Kansas City, Mo. Army sergeant 507th Maintenance Company; MARCH 28+ -- FERNANDO PADILLA-RAMIREZ 26, San Luis, Ariz. Marine sergeant Wing Support Group 37; APRIL 2 -- BRIAN E. ANDERSON 26, Durham, N.C. Marine lance corporal Second Division; JAMES F. ADAMOUSKI 29, Springfield, Va. Army captain Second Battalion Third Aviation; MATHEW G. BOULE 22, Dracut, Mass. Army specialist Second Battalion Third Aviation; ERIK A. HALVORSEN 40, Bennington, Vt. Army chief warrant officer Second Battalion Third Aviation; SCOTT JAMAR 32, Granbury, Tex. Army chief warrant officer Second Battalion Third Aviation; MICHAEL F. PEDERSEN 26, Flint, Mich. Army sergeant Second Battalion Third Aviation; ERIC A. SMITH 41, Rochester, N.Y. Army chief warrant officer Second Battalion Third Aviation; APRIL 3 -- CHAD E. BALES 20, Coahoma, Tex. Marine private first class First Transportation Support Battalion; WILBERT DAVIS 40, Tampa, Fla. Army staff sergeant Third Infantry Division; MARK A. EVNIN 21, Burlington, Vt. Marine corporal First Division; EDWARD J. KORN 31, Savannah, Ga. Army captain Third Infantry Division; NINO D. LIVAUDAIS 23, Ogden, Utah Army staff sergeant Third Battalion 75th Ranger Regiment; RYAN P. LONG 21, Seaford, Del. Army specialist Third Battalion 75th Ranger Regiment; ERIK H. SILVA 22, Chula Vista, Calif. Marine corporal First Division; APRIL 4 -- TRISTAN N. AITKEN 31, State College, Pa. Army captain Third Infantry Division; WILFRED D. BELLARD 20, Lake Charles, La. Army private first class 41st Field Artillery Regiment; DANIEL FRANCIS J. CUNNINGHAM 33, Lewiston, Me. Army specialist 41st Field Artillery Regiment; TRAVIS A. FORD 30, Ogallala, Neb. Marine captain Third Aircraft Wing; BERNARD G. GOODEN 22, Mount Vernon, N.Y. Marine corporal Second Division; DEVON D. JONES 19, San Diego, Calif. Army private 41st Field Artillery Regiment; BRIAN M. MCPHILLIPS 25, Pembroke, Mass. Marine first lieutenant Second Division; DUANE R. RIOS 25, Hammond, Ind. Marine sergeant First Division; BENJAMIN W. SAMMIS 29, Rehoboth, Mass. Marine captain Third Aircraft Wing; PAUL R. SMITH 33, Tampa, Fla. Army sergeant first class 11th Engineer Battalion; APRIL 5 -- STEVON A. BOOKER 34, Apollo, Pa. Army staff sergeant First Battalion 64th Armor; LARRY K. BROWN 22, Jackson, Miss. Army specialist First Battalion; EDWARD C. SMITH 38, Vista, Calif. Marine first sergeant First Division; APRIL 6 -- GREGORY P. HUXLEY JR. 19, Forestport, N.Y. Army private first class 17th Engineer Battalion; KELLEY S. PREWITT 24, Alabama Army sergeant Second Battalion 69th Armor; APRIL 7 -- ANDREW JULIAN AVILES 18, Tampa, Fla. Marine Corps Reserve lance corporal Fourth Division; LINCOLN D. HOLLINSAID 27, Malden, Ill. Army staff sergeant 11th Engineer Battalion; JEFFREY KAYLOR 24, Clifton, Va. Army second lieutenant 39th Field Artillery Battalion; JESUS MARTIN ANTONIO MEDELLIN 21, Fort Worth Marine corporal First Division; ANTHONY S. MILLER 19, San Antonio Army private first class Third Infantry Division; GEORGE A. MITCHELL 35, Rawlings, Md. Army specialist Third Infantry Division; APRIL 8 -- HENRY L. BROWN 22, Natchez, Miss. Army corporal First Battalion 64th Field Artillery; JUAN GUADALUPE GARZA JR. 20, Temperance, Mich. Marine private first class First Division; JASON M. MEYER 23, Swartz Creek, Mich. Army private first class 11th Engineer Battalion; SCOTT D. SATHER 29, Clio, Mich. Air Force staff sergeant 24th Special Tactics Squadron; ROBERT A. STEVER 36, Pendleton, Ore. Army staff sergeant Third Infantry Division (pg. B12); (pg. B13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); HELICOPTERS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (84%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (53%) DAVEY, MONICA 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (93%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); AMARILLO, TX, USA (79%); LAKE CHARLES, LA, USA (79%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (79%); JACKSON, MS, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); OGDEN, UT, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (74%); DURHAM, NC, USA (59%); EL PASO, TX, USA (59%); FLINT, MI, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003 



403 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: THE OPPOSITION; 
Both Iraqi Exiles and Residents Invited to Talks on Government

BYLINE:  By THOM SHANKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12 

 BODY:
About 100 Iraqis, drawn from those who have lived under the fallen government or in exile, have been invited by American officials to gather Tuesday in Nasiriya for talks aimed at building a new government while avoiding the appearance of anointing leaders, administration officials said today.
 Two-thirds of those invited to the session, the first since the war began, were "Iraqis who have been living in newly liberated areas of the country," a senior administration official said. He described the rest as "Iraqis living in freedom," including expatriates and people coming from semiautonomous Kurdish areas in the north. 
 The Bush administration was taking steps to avoid recent criticism that it was playing favorites with well-known opposition leaders, in particular Ahmad Chalabi of the Iraqi National Congress, based in London, who has close ties to a number of senior Pentagon officials.
Mr. Chalabi and several other outspoken opposition figures were asked to send representatives, but were not themselves invited, so that the others in attendance -- especially those who have spent their lives under the previous government -- would not feel overshadowed, the official said.
"The main point is to start a process where Iraqis can begin to discuss among themselves the shape of the government of a free Iraq," the official said. "The goal is to identify principles that Iraqis can agree on -- and in that context I would say that democracy takes many different forms.
"We are aware that foreigners cannot prescribe the form it should take in Iraq."
The administration is also trying to show that the Defense Department, the State Department and others in the government are broadly in agreement over how to proceed, despite recent frictions over the postwar management of Iraq, where the administration intends to create an interim authority to pave the way for an independent government.
Invitations to the daylong meeting were issued by Gen. Tommy R. Franks, the wartime commander, although he is unlikely to attend himself. Lt. Gen. Jay Garner, the retired Army officer chosen by the Bush administration to manage the initial Iraqi civil administration, will run the meeting.
Others who will represent the administration are Zalmay Khalilzad, the president's special envoy to the Iraqi opposition; Ryan C. Crocker, deputy assistant secretary of state for Middle Eastern affairs; and Larry Di Rita, special assistant to Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, officials said.
Britain, Australia and Poland, the three other nations that have contributed combat troops to the war, will send representatives, and Spain, which recently dispatched a field hospital, will send an observer.
The Nasiriya session, the senior administration official said, "is just the start of a process." The goal is to "transfer as much authority as possible as quickly as possible to the Iraqis," the official added.
Topics of the opening session are likely to include the role of law and legal institutions in a new Iraq, protections for civil liberties, choices for economic institutions and concepts for a constitution, the official said. "Democracy isn't built -- it grows," the official said. "And it doesn't grow in a day or week or a month."
The official declined to predict whether the future leadership of Iraq would emerge from the 100 people invited to this meeting, or whether the government would be drawn from those who might emerge at the next set of sessions.
"That is a complete unknown," the official said. "We thought it was very important to get the process started, even though the war is not over yet." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); ARMIES (77%); POLITICS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (71%); ARMED FORCES (66%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: SHANKER, THOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003 



404 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: ISTANBUL; 
Turks and Kurds Maintain a Mutual Suspicion

BYLINE:  By FRANK BRUNI

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, April 12 

 BODY:
Almost as soon as Kurdish forces streamed into the northern Iraqi city of Kirkuk this week, American diplomats were on the phone to Turkish government officials to assure them that allied forces would take control of the situation.
 That pledge had an immediate practical goal: to keep Turkish troops from entering the region, thus preventing the possibility of clashes between Turkish soldiers and Iraqi Kurds. 
 But it also recognized the bitter history between Turks and Kurds, a volatile relationship that preceded the war in Iraq, hovers around its edges and could threaten the stability of the region in the future.
Many Turks maintain a profound suspicion that Kurds in Iraq and Kurds in Turkey have long wanted their own state, one that could ultimately claim territory from Turkey. In that view, Kurdish control of Kirkuk and the nearby Iraqi city of Mosul, both rich with oil, could be a first, pivotal step in the process. 
"That's the worst-case scenario for Turkey," said Mensur Akgun, director of foreign policy at the Turkish Social and Economic Studies Foundation. "Although I don't think that it would ever materialize, Turkish leaders still worry about it."
Many Kurds in Iraq and Turkey, for their part, worry that Turkish leaders will spare no effort to repress them. They cite the long period of emergency rule under which the Turkish government placed the densely Kurdish southeastern region of the country, from the mid-1980's until recently. It was prompted by a separatist rebellion among some Kurds there that included guerrilla warfare and an aggressive crackdown by the Turkish military. The fighting left tens of thousands of people dead.
During that time, the Turkish government placed restrictions on Kurdish language and education, and human rights advocates say Turkish soldiers routinely tortured Kurds.
But the roots of the reciprocal animosity run deeper than that.
After World War I, when the victors drew the boundaries of the Middle East, they left the Kurds without a state of their own, dispersing them in Iraq, Iran, Syria and Turkey. In all those countries, Kurds were an ethnic minority. In Turkey, their expressions of ethnic identity -- including, for some, a devout adherence to Islam -- rivaled the insistence by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the first ruler of the Turkish republic, on a coherent, secular national identity.
Over the decades, there have been sporadic Kurdish uprisings in southeastern Turkey, coupled with swift reprisals by the Turkish government. But it was not until the late 1970's and early 1980's that Kurdish resentments in Turkey and neighboring countries took on a nationalist and separatist cast. That crystallized with the founding, in 1984, of the Kurdistan Workers Party, a militant group that waged its campaign of terror in southeastern Turkey.
By the late 1990's, Turkey had essentially crushed that rebellion, but human rights advocates and many Turkish political experts say the Turkish persecution of Kurds in the southeast continued.
They say it still does, despite the recent passage of laws here that eased restrictions on Kurdish language, education and broadcasting. Last month, a Turkish court shut down one of the leading pro-Kurdish political parties.
Other experts say the Turkish government, eager to draw closer to the European Union by improving the country's rights record, has made strides toward improving its treatment of the Kurdish minority.
Turkish government officials say they do not see most Kurds in Turkey as latent separatists and note that a majority of the country's roughly 12 million Kurds do not live in the southeast, where the worst tensions exist.
But they say that when Iraqi Kurds entered Kirkuk and Mosul this week, it fueled Turkish anxieties about a potentially rich, autonomous Kurdish state that Kurds in southeastern Turkey would want to join or emulate. "This fed a certain mentality, a kind of obsession," said one senior Turkish government official.
Political experts said there was yet another psychological dynamic at work: Turkey's preoccupation with the security of its borders and the safety of its territory.
"This is the legacy of the Ottoman Empire," Mr. Akgun said. "We lost an empire, and that's why we are so concerned with the fate of the country." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); WORLD WAR I (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); POLITICS (65%); ETHNICITY (65%); RELIGION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (93%) TURKEY (99%); IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003 



405 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: BackTalk; 
Opening the Books Should Open N.H.L.'s Eyes

BYLINE:  By STU HACKEL; Stu Hackel, a former N.H.L. director of broadcasting, is a freelance writer.

 BODY:
Four weeks ago, the Los Angeles Kings fan Phil Propper sat in a Midtown Manhattan restaurant explaining how he became the first fan to examine a team's financial records. The Kings' president, Tim Leiweke, had claimed that his team would lose at least $10 million, and to mollify skeptics who feared that the club would soon trade star players in a salary dump, he offered to open his books. 
 Viewed from this coast, Leiweke seems an eccentric among hockey executives. He utters profanity on radio programs and publicly blasts the Rangers for driving up player salaries, claiming he cheers for the Rangers to lose games as hard as he does for the Kings to win them (Alas, neither made the playoffs.). Further, he actively courts his fan base, especially the zealots who congregate on the Web site www.LetsGoKings.com. But Leiweke may not have figured that one of those zealots, Propper, would be a trained financial analyst who would take him up on the offer to look at the team's books. 
 Between bites of Asian duck, Propper explained, "I'm just a fan trying to help my team," and revealed he was no longer a skeptic about the Kings' financial situation. His examination showed the Kings were indeed losing money. His report, posted April 3 on LetsGoKings.com under Propper's nom de Web, Piston, is a complicated, intriguing hybrid of fact, analysis and opinion on the Kings' and the National Hockey League's business. It's the product of a passionate fan with a specific expertise and an agenda -- to avert a work stoppage when the labor agreement expires after next season. His report doesn't get all the facts right, tortures some analysis and is, in spots, as blunt as a puck in the face. But it's not all wrong, either.
 You can bet that the N.H.L. gave the report, and a yellow highlighter, to a knowledgeable staff member to punch holes in it. The league has reason for concern, for Propper singles out N.H.L. policies and programs as the fountainhead of the hockey's river of red ink.
 The league's first spin on the report was, predictably, to dismiss it, saying a glance at one team's numbers doesn't translate to the whole league. True, Propper didn't see all the books, but he understands more than most about the hockey business model and how the cash flows. From publicly available sources, he has estimated ticket revenue, player salaries and other key variables to get a picture of the N.H.L.'s economics. The picture is not pretty.
 Whatever flaws reside in Propper's report, he has articulated the core truth of today's N.H.L.: hockey's economics are broken, a claim the owners have made, but he puts the blame squarely on their expansion to 30 teams from 21. The owners, he writes, spent their $570 million in expansion fees, a nonrecurring source of revenue, on players, exploding the average salary from $271,000 in 1991 to $1.6 million today, a higher average than the far healthier National Football League. Since the 1994 lockout, salaries jumped 240 percent while revenue grew only 171 percent. Those expansion fees have now ceased, but the players must still be paid. It is a recipe for disaster.
 Propper has words for the N.H.L. Players Association, too. He found no evidence that the Kings hid revenue through transfer payments, a legal bookkeeping tactic that shifts money between subsidiaries of a company to decrease tax exposure. If that's true for other teams as well, admittedly a big if, it smashes a cornerstone of the N.H.L.P.A.'s appeal to its members, that the owners habitually cry poverty and hide profitability in negotiations. That charge lay at the heart of "Net Worth" (Viking), a 1991 book by David Cruise and Alison Griffiths that chronicled an exploitive history of owner-player relations. Although also flawed, "Net Worth" served as a primer for the 1992 players strike and sustained them through the 1994 lockout. Propper believes the union today seeks "to correct legitimate grievances from two decades ago rather than focusing on current problems."
 Propper's answer to hockey's problems is eliminating four to six failing teams. Neither labor nor ownership would welcome this economic Darwinism. The players could lose 150 jobs; the owners would most likely suffer a decrease, at least temporarily, in franchise value and an erosion of their television footprint. But however odious, Propper argues it is the most sensible way to a new agreement. He reasons that if the league aims to save the fiscally weak teams through a salary cap lower than current salary levels, it would be "the height of arrogance on the part of the owners" to assume that the players would accept a rollback. Furthermore, an artificially low cap would allow wealthy teams to reap huge profits and ultimately perpetuate the disparity between the haves and have-nots. Theoretically, Propper's trimmer N.H.L. maintains present salary levels and restores healthy, competitive franchises.
 Propper suggests the possibility of merging the two Florida teams (the Miami-based Florida Panthers and the Tampa Bay Lightning) and the two Alberta teams (Calgary Flames and Edmonton Oilers) and splitting home games between two sites. It's an example of his occasional fuzzy thinking, because players and members of management can live in only one city and it burdens those clubs with 50 percent more road games and escalated costs associated with a second market. Still, credit Propper with creative attempts to solve difficult issues.
 The perils of real world contraction can't be underestimated. In addition to legal hurdles and broken hearts, both players and owners would have to sacrifice and abandon long-held positions. Commissioner Gary Bettman has displayed great perseverance attempting to save weak franchises; he was less inclined to do so early in his tenure. Executive Director Bob Goodenow reformed and strengthened the union after an era of accommodation by Alan Eagleson. Bettman and Goodenow might balk, but their business is in a bad spot. 
 Propper believes they owe fans a dispassionate examination of his report, assessing its value to the game's future. On that, he is certainly right.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Philip Propper, a Los Angeles Kings fan, studied the team's financial state. (Robert Galbraith) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); STRIKES (71%) HOCKEY, ICE; FINANCES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (84%); NEW YORK RANGERS (83%); DALLAS STARS (54%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%) LOS ANGELES KINGS 

PERSON: HACKEL, STU; PROPPER, PHILIP; LEIWEKE, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003 



406 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
At Augusta, Burk Has Just Cause but Naive Blueprint

BYLINE:  By SELENA ROBERTS 

DATELINE: AUGUSTA, Ga., 

 BODY:
REMOVED from the fairway dogwoods with snowflake petals, a grassy pit alongside Washington Road became a Valley of the Dolls as Martha Burk's posse filed off a bus yesterday. 
 In a scene that was one Incredible Shrinking Head short of a carnival, polished patrol cars shone like hard candy under the sun, parked in rows to divide the protest freaks (the Ku Klux Klan's pro-Hootie contingent of one) from the protest meek (the two dozen Martha assembled for change). 
 Satellite trucks sent out the kooky contrast, each parked across from a Methodist church with a marquee that read: "Personality can open doors, but only character can keep them open." 
 Not true. It takes a good strategy to pry open some barriers. Burk's group had a just cause in protesting the all-male membership at Augusta National Golf Club, but a naive blueprint to process the message. 
 Burk underestimated the local hostility of Augusta residents who believed she was the one to blame for the dip in their annual economic boom even though Hootie Johnson instigated the fray by disclosing her private letter to the club last summer. 
 "She can't get out of here fast enough for me," said Maureen Robinson, a bystander taking in a view that included a police paddy wagon. "She has made us look bad." 
 Genius, that Hootie. For the last 10 months, the Augusta National p.r. machine has successfully demonized Burk, casting her as an attention-seeking troublemaker without addressing the issue of sexism at all. 
 Brilliant, that Hootie. He also used his 2-iron will on local politicians to push for a protest ordinance that kept the noise from disturbing Augusta National's peace. (Shhh Tiger is putting for the cut.)
 Burk never saw the bully tactics coming. And that brings us back to the soggy field on Washington Road, site of inconsequence. 
 After the volume from Helen Reddy's "I am Woman" was lowered over the loudspeaker, Burk pointed out that women can march in front of the White House, but not in front of the gate at Augusta National. "Even Bush let us get closer than a half-mile away," she said. 
 Out in the pit, Burk's band would be neither seen nor heard by the corporate club members they picketed. Kept from the menfolk, they would not be noticed, nor be relevant to any golfers who played.
 Marginalized on the outside of the gates to Augusta National as they have been on the inside by the club's all-male policy, they were powerless and pointless.
 As club members might cackle, "You would think a bunch of gals would know a vacuum when they saw it." They were operating in one. The only bold lady capable of affecting change at the event was in the shape and form of a Big Bertha driver by Calloway. Every other dangerous dame was corralled by patrol cars in the abyss. 
 Perfect placement. Wonderful lie. Only those with the perfectionist gene that was passed from Clifford Roberts, the holy creator behind the making of Augusta National, to Hootie Johnson, the current caretaker of its antebellum tradition, could appreciate the juicy juxtaposition. 
 Outside, chaos. Inside, calm. As long as the progressive real world and Hootie's version of Pleasantville didn't commingle, as long as there was not a gate-crashing demon in Burk's demonstration, the dividing line would remain intact. Men in, women out.
 To understand this savored degree of gender separation, realize that the difference between Hootie and Martha comes down to the tape measurements and chalk marks of a tailor: size 44 regular versus size 8.
 To allow a woman as a member would require putting darts in the sacred green blazer. To give a woman the secret password to power would mean altering the design of a pair of shoulder pads. To add a woman to the lineup of American influence would throw a female curve into the barrel-chested club pictures.
 Variances are not welcome here, a fact in every detail of this club's history, beginning with Roberts and ending with the man who embodies Roberts's spirit, Hootie Johnson.
 As the author David Owen explains in his book, "The Making of the Masters," Roberts was misperceived as a "tyrant who ejected a player from the Masters for a trivial infraction, sent members bills for course improvements they had been rash enough to suggest, withdrew the memberships of men who had dared to cross him, and administered nervous breakdowns to a succession of executives at CBS."
 Many accounts were tall tales, but Roberts was a man who couldn't tolerate the slightest visual imbalance. As Owen describes, "pictures at the club are still hung on two hooks, because crooked pictures drove him to distraction."
 When Roberts played the course, he took note of everything, from broken tree branches to wilting azaleas. Owen writes, "While playing the ninth hole once, he decided that the frame of the dormer that was then under construction on the west wing of the clubhouse was not plumb.
 "By the time the group had finished the round, there were carpenters on the roof banging hammers against two-by-fours."
 This is what Burk needed to execute her message: a few hammers on the inside to be heard. Infiltrators wanted. As history makes clear, alterations only come from within the gates of Augusta National Golf Club. By peaceably remaining in the Valley of the Dolls, Burk was too ladylike in her meekness.
 By shouting from the carnival midway, she was also exactly where Hootie wanted her: on the outside of the club, in an imperfect world.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Police cars, top, separated each protest group at "the pit" yesterday, a five-acre lot about a half-mile from Augusta National Golf Club. Martha Burk, right, the chairwoman of the National Council of Women's Organizations, organized a protest against Augusta's men-only membership policy. Burk drew about 40 people to support her, while others opposed her, including the "People Against Ridiculous Protests," bottom right, and those at an anti-Martha Burk protest site, bottom left. At left, the golf fan Frank Mizell was desperate for a ticket to watch the tournament. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); ATHLETES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); SPORTS FANS (68%); RIOTS (65%) GOLF; SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN); WOMEN; DISCRIMINATION; MASTERS GOLF TOURNAMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

ORGANIZATION: AUGUSTA NATIONAL GOLF CLUB 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SELENA; BURK, MARTHA 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (95%) GEORGIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) AUGUSTA (GA)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003 



407 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
LIEBRADER, MYRON LAWRENCE

 BODY:
 LIEBRADER-Myron Lawrence, Passed away Friday, January 31, 2003, age 73, after intrepid battle with leukemia. Born in Brooklyn, N.Y. Former resident of Sunnyside and Bayside, Queens. Son of Sol and Estelle Liebrader, beloved husband of 13 years to the late Barbara Liebrader. Survived by his son Andrew, daughter Donna, sister-in-law Ginny, brother-in-law Rick, and friend/companion Patricia Kobetts. His father, Sol, was a C.P.A. and his mother Estelle worked in real estate and for an attorney, named Lawrence Brinn. His parents also owned two candy stores in Queens. After his wife passed away in 1976, Myron Liebrader served as two parents to Andrew and Donna since Andrew was eleven yrs. old and Donna was eight. His family moved to Sunnyside from Brooklyn when he was eight years old. He graduated from Brooklyn Tech. H.S. He earned a B.A. Economics and M.A. Social Studies from N.Y.U. He also minored in math while in college. He spent two years in the Coast Guard during the Korean War. He also earned all the credits for a doctorate although never completing his dissertation. ABD, (All But Dissertation). Myron Liebrader started teaching social studies at Grover Cleveland H.S. in Ridgewood, Queens, N.Y. in 1954. His career at Cleveland lasted 47 years, which is a record for the most years spent by one person in the same high school building in the history of the N.Y.C. School System. He became Cleveland's principal in 1971 and remained in that position for 30 yrs. before retiring in 2001 as the most senior high school principal in the N.Y.C. School System. 
More teachers working under his direction went on to become supervisors and principals than any other principal in the history of the school system. He also taught a course at Q.C.C. at night for 37 years to prepare school secretaries for the N.Y.C. school system. Thank you, Dad, for teaching us to be decisive, not to look back too much, and to get the most out of life that we could get. Thanks also for teaching us to bring things to a closure and for being the exemplary man that you were. Contributions, in his memory, can be made to the Leukemia Fund, L.I.J. Medical Center, 270-05 76th Ave., New Hyde Park, N.Y. 11040 Attn: Dr. Kanti Rai. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (87%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (86%); REAL ESTATE (76%); KOREAN WAR (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (55%) 

PERSON: LIEBRADER, MYRON LAWRENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003 



408 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: SENIORITY; 
Lost in the Shuffle, a Sign of Strength for Social Security

BYLINE:  By FRED BROCK; Fred Brock is an editor at The Times. His column on the approach and arrival of retirement appears the second Sunday of each month. E-mail: fbrock@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE trustees of Social Security issued their annual report on March 17 -- the day President Bush gave Saddam Hussein an ultimatum to leave Iraq within 48 hours. Two days later, the war began.
 The Social Security report was little noticed in the news media, which were busy covering the conflict. That oversight was unfortunate, because the trustees had some good news. They extended by a year two important deadlines often cited by critics as evidence that the system faces real trouble: 
 * The projected point at which tax revenues will fall below expenses, forcing the system to dip into its trust fund to pay benefits, was moved to 2018 from 2017.
* The point at which the trust fund will be exhausted was put at 2042, instead of 2041 as cited in the report last year.
Oddly, the headline on the news release summarizing the report -- "Social Security Not Sustainable for the Long Term" -- seemed a tad pessimistic, given that a trustee report as recently as 1995 had put the date for the trust fund to be depleted at 2030. That's 12 years earlier than is now expected.
Sure, it's technically true that if nothing changes -- if Social Security taxes are never increased no matter how much the economy grows, and if all economic and demographic projections are perfectly on target -- then the system in 2042 will be able to pay only 73 percent of scheduled benefits. But that's a lot of ifs spread out over almost four decades.
The trustees' report actually peers 75 years into the future. To fill the gap created by the expiration of the trust fund in 2042 and to keep the system going until 2077 would require an additional $3.5 trillion, it says. That's $200 billion more than was estimated in the report last year.
That $3.5 trillion sounds like a lot of money, but it covers a 75-year period. To put it in perspective, Social Security taxes would have to rise today by 1.92 percentage points, half paid by workers and half by employers, to fill that gap. That would mean that both workers and employers would pay a rate of 7.16 percent; they now pay 6.2 percent. Of course, the longer we wait, the steeper the increase would have to be.
But there are alternatives. The government could enact a smaller tax increase, for example, but also raise the amount of a person's annual income that is subject to Social Security taxes. The ceiling is now $87,000; earn more than that and it's free of Social Security taxes. Raising the ceiling, however, would involve raising taxes on wealthier people -- not a popular idea in Washington these days.
All of this, of course, is based on very long-term projections by a government that has often had trouble predicting budget surpluses and deficits a year or two in advance.
"There is a tremendous amount of uncertainty in a 75-year projection," conceded John L. Palmer, one of two appointed public trustees for Social Security and Medicare. Mr. Palmer is an economist and the dean of the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse University.
THE Social Security system pays benefits out of current taxes, with the surplus going into a trust fund so money will be available for the expected large numbers of retirees as the baby boomers start collecting benefits in a few years.
That trust fund, which is invested in government bonds and is often misunderstood, has become a political football. Its expected depletion is cited by critics who want to "save" Social Security by privatizing it or are ideologically opposed to the concept of government-sponsored social insurance. That the fund is expected to start redeeming its bonds in 2018 to help pay benefits is often decried as a huge problem for Social Security because the payout would come from the Treasury.
But that's not Social Security's problem. It's a fiscal problem for the government, which has borrowed the money by issuing the bonds. Through 2002, the fund contained nearly $1.4 trillion in bonds, which earned interest of 6.4 percent last year -- or $80.4 billion. If Congress doesn't want to repay the money, it shouldn't have borrowed it. To see the redemption of those bonds as Social Security's problem is akin to borrowing money from a bank and then, when the debt comes due, declaring it the bank's problem.
Mr. Palmer agreed with that assessment but noted that the exhaustion of the trust funds in 2042 would be Social Security's problem.
Viewing those bonds as a Social Security problem also flirts with the assumption that the government could default on them, something that has never happened in the nation's history. A lot of people own government bonds; some rich people own a lot of them.
"Ross Perot has invested in U.S. Treasury bonds, and nobody is talking about his not being paid," said Mark Weisbrot, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research and co-author of "Social Security: The Phony Crisis" (University of Chicago Press). "Why should 150 million workers be treated any differently?
"What if Social Security had invested this money in private corporate bonds? We wouldn't even be having this discussion. They would just be cashed in."
Mr. Weisbrot also thinks that the Social Security system is basically in good shape and that future problems will be minor and readily solved.
"By 2042, people will be making 40 percent more than they are today, in real inflation-adjusted terms, according to the trustees' own projections," he said. "Is anyone really worried about paying an additional
1 percent of their income for a system that keeps our old people out of poverty? Maybe people who are ideologically opposed to the concept. But the Social Security tax has been raised by more than this is the past. The projected shortfalls are less than the shortfalls that were taken care of in the 50's, 60's, 70's and 80's. The system is more sound than it's been throughout most of its 67-year history."
He added: "I just wish the critics would be honest and tell people there is a small problem 40 years down the road that can be easily fixed. If it weren't for the powerful influence of Wall Street, which wants the commissions privatization would bring, and politically active ideologues, this wouldn't even be an issue." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (70%) SOCIAL SECURITY (US) 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) BROCK, FRED 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003 



409 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: The War Goes Well. So Where's the Dividend? 

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
THE images of military triumph from Baghdad last week, as Saddam Hussein's statue and his regime toppled, brought a measured sigh of relief from the business world. Economists' worst fears about the impact of the Iraqi war had not materialized. American casualties were limited. There were no big oil-field fires, and no terrorist reprisals yet on American soil. So far, so good, it seems. 
 Yet business executives and economists said in interviews last week that while the progress of troops in Iraq was unquestionably good news for the economy, as one source of uncertainty recedes, it remains to be seen whether the battlefield success will prove to have been a turning point. Still unclear is whether consumer confidence and business investment will not only revive from their war-jitter depths but also begin a more sustained recovery. 
 The answer, the executives add, will depend partly on the longer-term geopolitical ripples that extend from the conflict in the Middle East. Can the United States military greatly reduce its involvement in Iraq soon, or will the troops be mired there in a lengthy police action? Will ousting Mr. Hussein be a step toward greater stability in the region or bring an anti-American backlash and fresh waves of terrorism? 
Echoing the views of several executives, James M. Zimmerman, chairman of Federated Department Stores, said that it was "way too early to tell how the end of the war" would affect his company's chains, which include Bloomingdale's and Macy's. Yet Mr. Zimmerman said he was struck by the fact that stock prices barely moved after American troops seized control of the major government offices and the Hussein family palaces in Baghdad last Wednesday -- a Wall Street shrug, he said, that "clearly indicates that there are other factors at work in the economy that have as much, if not more, impact on what we can expect to see in the weeks and months ahead."
The economy, executives and economists note, faces a litany of uncertainties beyond the war -- including an alarming rise in jobs lost, rising state and federal deficits, and signs of a retreat from the commitment to free trade and globalization. Individual industries are confronting their own challenges, from the falloff in travel to Asia because of fears of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, to the enduring slump in the information technology and telecommunications businesses.
"We had this big cloud in front of us called Iraq," said David Wyss, chief economist of Standard & Poor's. "But we're still not sure what smaller ones are behind it."
The war has clearly hit American business -- trimming perhaps half a percentage point off economic growth in the first half of this year, economists estimate. 
The prospect of war in the early months of the year added to the uncertainty in an already shaky economy, prompting companies to put off some investments and some consumers to forgo costly purchases. Once the bombing began on March 19, the distraction effect took hold as people stayed home more to watch television news of the war. Advertising and retail sales fell.
Companies have issued profit warnings recently, saying quarterly earnings would be less than Wall Street had expected and blaming the war. Some, like Barnes & Noble, point to the war as the main culprit. Others, like Siebel Systems and PeopleSoft, which sell expensive software to corporate customers, cited the war as a contributing cause. "The environment for capital spending worsened in the first quarter with added concerns about the war and its impact on the already weakened economy," said Craig A. Conway, chief executive of PeopleSoft.
Now that a crucial chapter of the war seems closed, the outlook will hinge largely on consumer and corporate attitudes, according to the executives and economists. Since last fall, consumer confidence has dropped sharply. One widely watched confidence index produced by the Conference Board, a business research group, fell from 93.7 last September to 62.5 in March, an unusually steep slide.
Despite the soft economy of the last couple of years, the auto industry has held up comparatively well. "But we are definitely seeing a weakening of demand, and it tracks very closely with consumer confidence," said Rick Wagoner, chief executive of General Motors, who was among a few dozen executives who met with President Bush at the White House last Thursday. Mr. Bush was trying to garner business support for his tax-cut proposals. The House has approved the president's plan for tax reductions of $726 billion over 10 years, but the Senate trimmed the package to $350 billion.
Some critics of Mr. Bush, as well as some economists, fear that the administration's plan will mortgage the economy's future by drastically increasing the federal deficit.
Mr. Wagoner said he came away from the White House convinced of the wisdom of the Bush administration's recipe for recovery. A "very aggressive package," he said, will "greatly heighten the chance that the economy can get back on a more rapid growth pace."
CONSUMER confidence appears sure to rise with some of the uncertainty of the war in Iraq removed. The University of Michigan, which, like the Conference Board, compiles a widely followed barometer of confidence, reported on Friday that its preliminary confidence index for early April rose to 83.2 from 77.6 in March, which was the lowest level in nearly a decade. Indeed, after the Persian Gulf war in 1991, consumer confidence surged for a while but soon fell again because corporations continued to trim payrolls. Over longer periods, consumer confidence tends to track closely with job prospects.
Companies have been cutting their payrolls sharply the last two months, eliminating 465,000 jobs. Out of the two million jobs that theeconomy shed in the last two years, nearly a quarter of the loss came in the last two months.
With business weakening and some economists warning of a double-dip recession, executives have focused on cutting costs to try to shield profits before the situation worsens. The impulse is understandable, but some executives worry that the conventional wisdom -- that you can't go wrong by avoiding risk, cutting costs and trimming workers -- could bring a self-reinforcing deflationary cycle.
"A lot of people in business today feel frozen in the headlights of uncertainty," said Eric P. Best, a managing director at Morgan Stanley. "They feel that the only smart strategic decision is to do nothing, which may well not be the case."
Still, there are hopeful signs that things may improve somewhat as war uncertainty recedes. At Trammell Crow, the commercial real estate firm in Dallas, Bill Concannon, president of the global services unit, said, "The market was actually slower before the war started. We see some renewed sense of optimism that the nation is getting back to business now that some certainty has been brought to the Iraq standoff."
For Hyundai Motor America, which has 600 dealers, sales in March were the second best in its history. The only local markets where sales fell were ones with military installations, like San Diego. Robert Cosmai, vice president for national sales, said he was cautiously optimistic that the fall of the Hussein government would improve the business climate.
At Carlson Companies, a travel business whose holdings include the Regent and Radisson hotel chains, the military victories in Iraq last week were seen as an encouraging indication that the worst of the travel industry's woes were over. "I think with the war ending, we're going to have people more confident about travel and corporations more confident about putting people back on the road," said Marilyn Carlson Nelson, the chief executive.
DOMESTIC travel, she said, will improve first. "People are concerned especially about a backlash against Americans," she said. "We'll need a little more time before the number of Americans traveling abroad increases." In East Asia, Mrs. Nelson added, SARS, not war, is the chief preoccupation.
The slump in technology spending began in fall 2000 -- long before troops headed to Iraq and about a year before 9/11. The added uncertainty because of Iraq put a damper on all capital spending, and investments in information technology -- computer hardware and software -- are about 40 percent of all private capital expenditures.
"The economic uncertainty attributable to the war comes up in conversations with customers, and it casts another layer of doubt," said Bruce Claflin, chief of 3Com, a producer of computer networking equipment. "But it's not the core issue in technology capital spending."
Mr. Claflin says the industry is in a long period of slower growth, greater reliance on standard parts and relentless pricing pressure. 3Com's employment has fallen to about 4,000 from 12,000 in fall 2000.
Having pared back and farmed out most of its manufacturing to low-cost producers abroad, 3Com, Mr. Claflin said, is ready to pursue promising growth areas, which will mean renewed investment and selective hiring in the future. "But our industry," he said, "is never going to grow as it did before."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rick Wagoner of G.M. said the administration's recovery plan increases the chance "the economy can get back on a more rapid growth pace." (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 10); Bruce Claflin of 3Com, a maker of computer networking equipment, said the war in Iraq was "not the core issue in technology capital spending." (pg. 11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); RETAILERS (69%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (63%); SARS (60%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP 

TICKER: M (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (68%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (68%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); RICK WAGONER (64%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); WAGONER, RICK; LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003 



410 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
A Walk On the Supply Side Of a New Iraq

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
BY the Bush administration's reckoning last month, the cost of waging the war against Iraq will run about $62 billion. By contrast, the cost of rebuilding that country afterward is estimated at only $3.6 billion.
 For those who argue that the United States is either being stingy or unrealistic about the postwar costs, administration officials have invoked an analogy of the supply-side economic philosophy that they are using to sell tax cuts at home. 
 Just as President Bush's package of $726 billion in tax cuts can at least partly pay for itself by stimulating faster economic growth, they say, much of Iraq's reconstruction can be self-financed by the country's own postwar economic expansion. 
"Iraq is a relatively wealthy country," said Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., director of the White House Office of Management and Budget. "There is a lot of upside potential."
Rebuilding Iraq, administration officials say, is different from rebuilding a country like Afghanistan, which has fewer natural resources and a primitive infrastructure. Afghan leaders pleaded for $10 billion in assistance and got pledges of $4.5 billion from foreign governments and organizations.
By contrast, Iraq has 112.5 billion barrels of proven oil reserves. Its oil fields, though in need of extensive refurbishing, were pumping about two million barrels daily before the war and could be revved up to at least 2.5 million barrels a day in less than a year. 
Iraq's population is largely urbanized, its health care system is relatively advanced and it has much more than Afghanistan in terms of highways, electricity grids and telephone networks.
Administration officials have not said how much the Iraqi economy might expand. But they note that Iraq would benefit almost immediately from a lifting of the United Nations sanctions imposed since the end of the first Persian Gulf war. That, combined with an end to the corrupt repression of the government of Saddam Hussein, could mean that Iraq's economy is poised for a substantial rebound.
What administration officials do not mention are the elements of "downside potential" to Iraq's economy. Iraq still faces $172 billion in unsettled compensation claims that stem from its invasion of Kuwait in 1990. Under Saddam Hussein, the government also ran up foreign debt of $62 billion to $130 billion, according to analysts at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a research group.
Most of the foreign creditors wrote off their loans as uncollectible many years ago, but they have not abandoned their claims and are still looking to get back at least a few cents on the dollar. Iraq, meanwhile, faces compensation claims from Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and other countries that lost property during the first Persian Gulf war.
Under the United Nations' oil-for-food program, Iraq has been required to surrender 28 percent of its revenue from oil exports, much of that to pay down compensation claims. That has translated in recent years to annual payments of about $4 billion, or about $166 a person in a country with a per capita annual income of $2,500 in 2001.
"That is hard cash going to people outside Iraq," said Frederick D. Barton, an analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
White House officials have acknowledged that they will have to deal with the debt issue, but they have yet to hint at what they might do.
Even assuming that Iraq escapes most of its foreign debt -- Kuwait and Saudi Arabia account for 47 percent of the claims pending against Iraq at the United Nations Compensation Commission -- it needs to build a new financial system, along with a credible currency and legal infrastructure in order to gain investor trust.
 THOSE who anticipate a rapid rebound of Iraq's domestic economy can point to the so-called economic miracle of West Germany after World War II. 
But there is a more troubling analogy: Russia after the collapse of Communism in 1991. Like Iraq, Russia had vast oil reserves -- and many other natural resources. Even more than Iraq, it had an educated population and substantial industrial infrastructure. And Russia, much like Iraq, had been suffering from a toxic mix of totalitarianism, militarism and corruption.
But after "regime change," Russia's economy faltered. It contracted by a third in the mid-1990's, and the financial system all but collapsed in 1998. Only in the last two years has the economy begun to improve, thanks in part to rising prices for oil exports, though it still appears to be smaller than it was when the old system ended in 1991. Real wages for workers were twice as high then as they are now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); DESERT STORM (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); TRENDS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); HEALTH CARE (73%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); URBANIZATION (72%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); OIL EXTRACTION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; CURRENCY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); MITCH DANIELS (58%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); GULF STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); KUWAIT (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) IRAQ; RUSSIA; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003 



411 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
Iran Warily Confronts New Neighbors: Americans

BYLINE:  By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

 BODY:
AN American rocket killed a 13-year-old boy. A second injured three people; a third struck an empty Oil Ministry depot. These were not precision strikes in Iraq. They were rockets gone astray, landing in Iran.
 Yet Iran's Islamic Republic has chosen to ignore the attacks. Despite its troubled history with the United States, it has shown no inclination to provoke it militarily. 
 During the war next door, in fact, the official policy has been one of "active neutrality," which allowed the United States to prosecute the war even as Iran's officials denounced it. 
But last week, as the war appeared to be nearing a moment of decisive victory for the Americans, Iranians at all political, economic and social levels were asking one question: What happens to us now?
Certainly no one in Iran knows. But Iranian officials are determined to survive by getting along with whatever government emerges in the aftermath of an American victory -- and perhaps even by talking to the United States.
The civil disorder that followed the collapse of Saddam Hussein's authority was deeply disturbing for Iranians, who worried that it might spill across their borders. Iran fought its own eight-year war against Iraq two decades ago, a conflict waged largely on Iranian territory that crippled Iran's economy and killed at least 300,000 Iranians. That experience has left many Iranians ambivalent about America's triumphal entry into the center of Baghdad. Mr. Hussein, who was often described in Iran as "bloodthirsty," has no Iranian defenders. But the fact that he seems to have been so swiftly defeated by Iran's other arch-enemy is unsettling.
Night after night in the war's opening days, the conservative state-run television ran reports of heroic opposition by the Iraqi people to American tanks and fighter planes, predicting that the United States would fall into a quagmire.
But Iran is a place where, despite episodic repression, there is also a lively press -- both reformist and conservative -- as well as easy Internet access and illegal satellite television. After the Americans reached downtown Baghdad, the reformist newspaper Yas-e-No published the headline, "Saddam Ran Away," and the conservative paper Resalat wrote, "Baghdad was taken over without a fight." So the propaganda fell flat.
The official unease with the war was clearly illustrated in the stance of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's spiritual leader, who had referred to it as a "new form of Hitlerism." In a sermon on Friday, after saying that Iran is "happy about Saddam's departure," he added that American plans to install a transitional military administration in Baghdad amounted to "a bigger dictatorship" than that of Mr. Hussein.
Iranians at all levels know that their next-door neighbor is about to be occupied for an unknown period by the United States, and that this may change a great many things. Iran is still technically in a state of war with Iraq; both sides still hold prisoners of war, and Iran is still demanding billions of dollars in war reparations (an unrealistic goal given that Iran continued the war for years after Iraq wanted to end it). A grim illustration of the unfinished business of the Iran-Iraq war was the discovery by British soldiers last week of the remains of 200 people at a military base near Basra. They turned out to be Iranian soldiers killed in the 1980's.
Another major issue will be access to Najaf and Kerbala, two of the holiest shrines in Shiite Islam -- the faith to which 80 percent of Iranians subscribe. Mr. Hussein kept the shrines largely closed to Iranian pilgrims. A new government that represents all Iraqis, about 60 percent of whom are Shiite Muslims, would find it hard not to open up the shrines to the hundreds of thousands of Iranians a year who would want to come.
The fate of the Mujahedeen Khalq, an Iranian opposition group long based in Iraq under Mr. Hussein's protection, is unclear. Iran will also need a working relationship with Iraqi Shiite groups, who stand to gain a degree of political power. Finally, the fall of Mr. Hussein has raised the prospect of legally recognized autonomy for Iraq's Kurds, which frightens Iran as much as it does Turkey and Syria. All three have Kurdish populations bordering Iraq.
The war has also reignited an intriguing debate among Iranian officials and intellectuals about whether it is in Iran's interest to begin a diplomatic dialogue with the United States. The coordinating council of groups in the reformist camp issued a declaration last Thursday warning that "authoritarian regimes create the context for foreign involvement," adding that talking to the United States does not mean acceptance of its behavior. On the same day, a Web site connected to the reformist Mosharekat party, quoted Iran's elected president, Mohammad Khatami, saying in a closed meeting of cabinet and parliamentary leaders that "talking with the United States is in the interests of Iran." Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, a former president who is head of the powerful government oversight body known as the Expediency Council, is quoted by the same Web site as saying that if the parliament proposed talks with the United States and sent a plan to his council, "we will consider it."
There are, of course, huge issues that aggravate the American-Iranian relationship. The United States has long demanded that the Islamic Republic halt what American officials say is an active program to build nuclear weapons, and that it end support for anti-Israeli militias like Hezbollah. And many Iranians wonder whether, as part of what Mr. Bush has called an "axis of evil," they will be next on the list for a pre-emptive attack.
Many Iranians remember a C.I.A.-led coup half a century ago that overthrew the government of Prime Minister Mohammad Mossadegh and reinstated the monarchy. And such fears were only heightened two weeks ago, when Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld warned Iran not to allow Iraqi opposition troops based on Iranian soil to enter Iraq, saying that the United States would treat them as combatants and hold the Iranian government responsible.
Last week, though, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell tried to calm the waters, telling the London-based newspaper Al Hayat, "There is a constant desire by everybody to accuse us of invasion operations." That, he added, "won't take place."
No matter what the United States does, Iranian officials insist they will find a way to deal with whoever comes to power in Iraq. 
"We don't have a choice of neighborhood," said Javad Zarif, Iran's ambassador to the United Nations. "We have to do the best we can to live in peace and tranquillity with our neighbors."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iranian President Mohammad Khatami welcomed his Syrian counterpart, Bashar al-Assad, to Tehran last month. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); RELIGION (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (67%); NEWS BRIEFS (65%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (62%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (62%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (57%); ALI KHAMENEI (57%) SCIOLINO, ELAINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); SYRIA (79%); IRAN (58%) IRAN; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003 



412 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: War Dividend; 
Looking for Domestic Gains From the Success Abroad

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
AS anti-war protesters disrupted the Senate late Thursday afternoon with their chant, "No money for war," Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, wryly observed to colleagues on the floor that the protesters were Senate staffers driven mad by tortured budget talks.
 The senator was poking fun at the Cirque du Soleil contortions of Republican Congressional leaders, who devised a spending blueprint that could pass muster with Senate moderates who favor a smaller tax cut than President Bush and House conservatives, who want all the tax cuts they can get. The final result was an ugly two-headed thing that set one tax cut number for the Senate, a higher one for the House, with the twain to meet somewhere down the road. 
 There were plenty of reasons Republican leaders were willing to shed their fiscal dignity and discipline to push off the real tax fight for a while. And one was the chance that President Bush's standing in the wake of his Iraq triumph will translate into enhanced power on domestic issues, paying a sort of war dividend on Capitol Hill. 
Added standing, the theory goes, could provide political muscle to beat swords into bigger tax cuts. Not to mention permission to drill for oil in the Arctic, enact tort reform, confirm new judges and secure victory on other issues where the popular war-time president has run into stiffer than anticipated resistance on the home front.
"When you turn out to be right on a big issue like Iraq, it gives you a lot of political capital," said John Feehery, spokesman for House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert. "The fog of war is going to be lifted soon and attention will turn to the economy and the president's economic package will be the thing that is out there."
Other Republicans agree that the president will have a stronger hand because of the outcome in Iraq, especially when pictures of the toppling of Saddam Hussein's statue provided vivid testimony to the success of a strategy that even his allies conceded was fraught with risk. But they warn that foreign achievements have proven hard to transfer to pocketbook issues in the past and that such added power is fleeting if it is real at all.
"He has a lot of chits," said Representative Bill Young, the senior Florida Republican who chairs the House Appropriations Committee. "Even a lot of people who disagree with him say he has done a pretty good job here." Then Mr. Young nodded toward the swinging doors that open to the House floor. "I don't know how long that lasts. Once we get in here, all that outside stuff goes away and you fight the battle."
Another senior Republican flat-out dismissed the idea of a dividend. "I don't think it helps him at all," he confided.
Democrats, who have had their fill of talk about the power of a popular president, are not buying the war dividend concept either. They and others say the problem for Mr. Bush is he is going for broke on his domestic and social policy changes, with bold initiatives and a "my way or the highway" style that makes it hard to find consensus.
Even with the war raging, the president could not get his entire $726 billion tax cut, said one veteran House member who has seen the ups and downs of a few chief executives. "He couldn't get his budget passed in the Senate at the height of the war," said Representative John P. Murtha, Democrat of Pennsylvania and a crusty 28-year veteran.
Tom Daschle, the Senate Democratic leader who has been nothing but respectful of the president during the conflict after earlier criticism got him in hot water, said it remains to be seen if Mr. Bush gets new momentum for his domestic initiatives from what transpired overseas.
"He is a very able spokesperson," Mr. Daschle said. "But I think, at the end of the day, people are going to look at what those positions are, what are the issues, and they will agree with him or not agree with him based on their merit, not on the popularity of the president."
Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 House Democrat who has been strongly behind the president's Iraq policy, said that doesn't mean he is ready to buy a ticket on Mr. Bush's domestic bandwagon.
"I am proud of our accomplishments and the president, but that does not mean I support a irresponsible domestic policy that is undermining the security of our country," he said. He uttered the words that inevitably color any discussion of Mr. Bush's postwar prospects. "It didn't work for his father."
The idea that the first President Bush could not transform his immense post-war popularity into a second term is now a Washington cliche. Yet that does not make it any less true and the Republican Congressional hierarchy has plotted with the White House for months to try to make sure it does not happen again.
BUT the transition from wartime has historically been difficult for presidents -- though Dwight D. Eisenhower might have cashed the ultimate war dividend check with his election. The White House was not banking on a huge boost. 
Some savvy members of Congress say the influence of the war might be more subtle, giving Mr. Bush leverage not with Republicans who are already behind him, but with Democrats in conservative districts in the South and West whose constituents are enthralled with the president. With Congress so narrowly divided, even a few votes can make the difference.
"He doesn't have to get Roosevelt-landslide strength," said Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York. "All he has to get is one or two, here or there."
Billy Tauzin, the Louisiana Republican, said he is skeptical of the domestic payoff from Iraq but said he has already learned not to underestimate the president. He recalled that he didn't think Mr. Bush would get much of a return from his decision last year to put so much personal stock into campaigning for Congressional candidates around the nation.
"Nobody sensed that his personal strength with the American voters would carry House members into office and senators into office," said Mr. Tauzin. "He gambled with it and risked the political capital. He turned out to be right. He tends to over-perform expectations."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush does not seek to replicate problems his father faced after the gulf war. (Alex Wong/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); JUDGES (65%); TORT REFORM (51%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); CHARLES SCHUMER (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) HULSE, CARL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); ARCTIC (55%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003 



413 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
What Victory in Iraq Means for U.S. Foreign Policy

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
LAST week was victory week for the Cheney-Rumsfeld wing of the Bush administration, and to some minds it was the decisive moment in the 27-month-long struggle for the soul of the president of the United States.
 Instantly, talk of quagmire disappeared. And on television screens around the world, images that the administration's leading hawks long dreamed of appeared with shocking speed: The Republican Guard was on the run; Saddam Hussein's statue was pulled from its moorings and the Iraqi crowds -- small, tentative and nervous at first, but crowds nonetheless -- warily cheered the marines. 
 Even while warning that victory was far from complete, Vice President Dick Cheney could not help but mock the "retired military officers embedded in TV studios" who had so recently criticized the war plan. At the Pentagon, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld seemed to be looking toward the next fight when he twice warned Syria to mind its manners. Another administration hawk said privately that he only wished he could have seen Kim Jong Il, the North Korean leader, watching the week unfold. 
But listen closely to those who designed Mr. Hussein's demise -- the same people who wrote the aggressive National Security Strategy that said America would never again allow itself to be threatened by terrorists or dictators with weapons of mass destruction -- and there is plenty of reason to conclude that the three-week march to Baghdad could be followed by months of more circumspect American diplomacy. Odd as it seems, this could be, as one senior administration diplomat said late this week, "a Colin Powell moment on the way, as soon as the last shots are fired."
There are plenty of reasons to suspect that a strategic pause is next -- even if Mr. Bush remains determined to use American power in all its forms to reorder the world on his terms. Politics is one: Mr. Bush is more aware than most presidents of the fleeting political value of battlefield victories, which explains why he has talked about the economy throughout the weeks of war.
Then, too, the European alliances have rarely been stretched thinner. Many of Mr. Bush's aides expect him to do what he did after declaring the Kyoto treaty dead and finishing off the Antiballistic Missile Treaty -- repair the damage a bit.
George J. Mitchell, the former Democratic senator who has served as a peace envoy, said: "It's in our self-interest to involve others, both from the standpoint of money and manpower, but also to heal the breach in the Atlantic alliance. It can be done without yielding a pre-eminent role." And Mr. Bush is already being pulled deeper into the Israel-Palestinian peace process by Tony Blair; it is the price of Mr. Blair's steadfastness in his lonely alliance with Washington during the war.
Equally stretched is the American military: its reserves called up, its ordnance depleted, its job in Afghanistan far from done. Now it faces one of the most complex nation-building tasks since the reconstruction of Japan and Germany. By Friday, commanders were already being blamed for letting looters gain the upper hand -- early proof that once you invade a country, you own it and take the blame for the broken pottery.
Of course, Iraq has long been considered the most vulnerable target on the "axis of evil" list. Mr. Rumsfeld and Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, have made it clear they don't want a military fight with North Korea, a more fearsome adversary. While the world focused on Iraq last week, the administration backed down from insisting that the Security Council condemn the North's nuclear programs.
There is also Iran, racing ahead with its own nuclear program. There, the White House is talking of pressing for inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency, whose work it belittled in Iraq, while hoping that the country's reformers go critical before its weapons project does.
From the start in Iraq, Ms. Rice made it clear that in her view Saddam Hussein would never back down and that, sooner or later, military action would become necessary. Yet she makes the opposite argument about the other "axis of evil" members. Iraq, she insists, was "a unique case."
The big question coming out of the fall of Baghdad is whether America's other enemies, and its potential enemies, will take away the lessons Mr. Bush intends. Perhaps they will live in fear that they are next, and reconsider the wisdom of amassing fearsome arsenals. But they could as easily draw the opposite conclusion: that Saddam Hussein sealed his own fate when he took on the United States before he had nuclear weapons in his closet. That, they could conclude, is the only way to assure that the United States military stays away.
It is too early to answer that question. The North Koreans have been eerily quiet for the past three weeks. "Kim Jong Il has gone underground for months, and no one is sure why," said one senior official. Yet satellite photographs continue to show steady progress at his one known nuclear site. Similarly, the Iranian nuclear program appears to be speeding ahead.
The suicide bombings of American posts may portend, some administration officials fear, a more dangerous phase in Iraq. Mr. Rumsfeld and his deputy, Paul D. Wolfowitz, have charged Syria with "hostile acts" -- sending weapons into Iraq and perhaps helping leaders get out -- and have threatened unspecified consequences. The Syrians, Mr. Wolfowitz told Congress, "need to be reminded of that, and if they continue, then we need to think about what our policy is with respect to a country that harbors terrorists or harbors war criminals or was in recent times shipping things to Iraq."
If those criteria sounds familiar, they should. They sound a lot like the rationale for the war in Iraq.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dick Cheney and Donald H. Rumsfeld won, but Colin L. Powell's moment may come. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (68%); TERRORISM (65%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); KIM JONG IL (52%); TONY BLAIR (50%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (79%); FRANCE (67%) IRAQ; FRANCE; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003 



414 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: A Purge With a Purpose 

BYLINE:  By Ann Louise Bardach; Ann Louise Bardach is author of "Cuba Confidential: Love and Vengeance in Miami and Havana."

DATELINE: SANTA BARBARA, Calif. 

 BODY:
"Propaganda," Fidel Castro instructed a comrade in a letter written in 1954, "is the very soul of our struggle." What, then, was Mr. Castro, champion spinmeister, thinking last week when he tossed some 75 Cuban writers and dissidents into prison for up to 28 years, after a grim procession of quickie show trials worthy of Stalin? Or on Friday, when he summarily executed three men who had hijacked a passenger ferry on April 2? 
 Certainly, it would seem, his timing could hardly have been worse: Cuba has been lobbying to keep its place on the United Nations Human Rights Commission, and that commission has been preparing its annual list of violator countries -- Cuba is certain to make the grade, once again. 
 Fidel Castro is many things -- belligerent, Machiavellian, prideful -- but he is not stupid. Nor would he have thought, as some human-rights groups assume, that these recent actions would go unnoticed with the world focused on Iraq. It seems more likely that this purge was intended to make a statement, and even to win Mr. Castro some advantage.
The Cuban government, of course, claims the jailings were a response to Bush administration policy. It cited meetings held with dissidents at the residence of James Cason, chief of the United States Interests Section in Havana, which it calls "subversion by a foreign power." 
However, while Washington has hardened its views, Cuban exile groups in Florida have moderated theirs. According to several recent polls, a majority of Cuban exiles in South Florida now say they favor negotiations with Havana. The most influential exile group, the Cuban American National Foundation, is for the first time advocating a more pragmatic policy of limited engagement. 
Why would this worry Cuba's maximum leader? The overwhelming majority of Cuban dissidents has long claimed that the only beneficiary of the United States embargo is Fidel Castro himself. Elizardo Sanchez, perhaps the most prominent human rights advocate, has said that "the more American citizens in the streets of Cuban cities, the better for the cause of a more open society." For a long time I found this difficult to believe, but with each passing year the argument has grown more credible.
Indeed, whenever it looked as if Cuba was on the path to rejoining the world, Mr. Castro has done something to derail its progress. Recall that he relentlessly battled Mikhail Gorbachev over perestroika and glasnost. Mr. Castro warned that these changes would be the Soviet Union's downfall -- evidently missing the point. In a new, flattering documentary about Cuba's leader by Oliver Stone, "Comandante," Mr. Castro dismisses Mr. Gorbachev as a man "who destroyed his country."
Or consider what happened in 1996, after the Clinton administration and Cuba had settled on migration and drug interdiction accords. Mr. Castro (after months of warnings) shot down two planes operated by the exile group Brothers to the Rescue, killing four people. The result was the signing of the Helms-Burton Act, which tightened the embargo. Did Mr. Castro know that Congress would react this way? Of course he did.
In 1980 President Jimmy Carter opened the United States Interests Sections, the de facto embassies in Havana and Washington. Mr. Castro responded by sending 125,000 refugees into Florida in the Mariel boatlift. Likewise, in the mid-70's Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and his aide for Latin America, William Rogers, conducted secret negotiations with the Cubans over ending the embargo. Just as they believed they were closing in on a deal, Mr. Castro sent troops into Angola, scuttling the talks.
The changing attitudes of the exile community may not be Mr. Castro's only worry of the moment. He has obsessively watched the events in Iraq, and many people who have talked to him recently say he is concerned that the policy of "regime change" has become the Bush administration's preferred diplomatic tool. On Thursday the American ambassador to the Dominican Republic even told reporters that events in Iraq were a "very good example for Cuba." 
There is also concern over Washington's decision to transport hundreds of Qaeda terrorists halfway around the globe to the military base at Guantanamo Bay. Although Mr. Castro has not publicly protested this peculiar relocation, some of his aides say he views it as part of a larger American agenda: to beef up the United States military presence on the island. 
Another motivating factor might be the dictator's sustained rage over the arrests in 2001 of five Cuban spies known as the Wasp Network. Although all were regarded by American law enforcement as low-level operatives, they have been given harsh sentences ranging from 20 years to life. Their release has become an obsession for Mr. Castro, who may now believe he has some cards to play to effect a prisoner exchange. 
In the end, who are the beneficiaries of the Castro crackdown? Once again, only the hard-liners in Havana -- and in Miami. The Cuba Liberty Council, which sits at the far right end of exile opinion, has long dismissed many of the newly arrested dissidents as being pawns of the Cuban government. Yet now, in reaction to the arrests, the council has asked that all American travel to Cuba be suspended, seamlessly playing into Mr. Castro's hand. 
"Is it so bad to be a dictator?" Fidel Castro muses aloud to Oliver Stone toward the end of the new documentary. Somehow, the filmmaker never gets around to offering the only legitimate answer -- a resounding "yes." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (89%); LOBBYING (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); WRITERS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); FERRIES (56%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (56%) POLITICAL PRISONERS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (92%) BARDACH, ANN LOUISE; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) CUBA

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003 



415 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Not All Freedom Is Made in America 

BYLINE:  By ERIC FONER; Eric Foner, DeWitt Clinton Professor of History at Columbia University, is the author of "The Story of American Freedom."

 BODY:
THE war in Iraq seems to be heading for a successful conclusion. But the United States fought for more than military victory; it promised to bring freedom to the Iraqi people. This may prove more complicated than the Bush administration suspects. It may force us to think in new ways about what freedom is, and whether Americans have exclusive access to its meaning.
 Freedom lies at the heart of our sense of ourselves as individuals and as a nation. The Declaration of Independence lists liberty among mankind's inalienable rights. The Civil War, which began as a struggle to save the Union, became a crusade to extend freedom to four million slaves. The United States fought World War II for the Four Freedoms, the cold war to defend the free world. After a false start in which he gave the war in Afghanistan the theological title Infinite Justice, President Bush rechristened it Enduring Freedom. And we are now engaged in Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
 Freedom quickly emerged as the official explanation for the war against terrorism. "Freedom itself is under attack," President Bush announced in his speech to Congress of Sept. 21, 2001. The National Security Strategy issued last fall begins not with a discussion of global politics or the doctrine of preemptive war, but with an invocation of freedom, defined as political democracy, freedom of expression, religious toleration and free enterprise. These, the document proclaims, "are right and true for every person, in every society."
The Bush administration did not originate the conviction that American freedom is universally applicable. Deeply embedded in our culture is the idea that the United States has a mission to demonstrate the superiority of free institutions and to spread freedom throughout the world. Colonial Puritans thought they were establishing a "city upon a hill," a model to be adopted by the rest of mankind. Thomas Jefferson described the United States as an "empire of liberty," whose territorial expansion should not be compared with Europe's imperial aggrandizement. During World War II, Franklin D. Roosevelt promised a global New Deal based on the Four Freedoms.
Foreign observers have often been bemused, to put it politely, by Americans' refusal to consider that other people may have thought about freedom and arrived at conclusions that might be worthy of consideration. When Alexis de Tocqueville visited the United States in the 1830's, he was struck by Americans' conviction that "they are the only religious, enlightened, and free people," and "form a species apart from the rest of the human race."
Desire for freedom certainly seems to be universal. Even those who wish it had been accomplished without weakening international institutions cannot lament the fall of Saddam Hussein's bloody dictatorship. But as the United States embarks on the project of bringing freedom to Iraq, history suggests two notes of caution.
One is that far from being timeless and universal, our own definition of freedom has changed many times. The story of freedom is one of debates, disagreements and struggles rather than fixed definitions or uninterrupted progress toward a preordained goal.
Nineteenth-century Americans, for example, defined freedom in part as economic autonomy, achieved through owning a farm or small business. This was perfectly compatible with lack of freedom for those dependent on the male head of household, including the women in a family and, in the South, slaves. For much of the 20th century, many Americans thought economic security for ordinary citizens essential to freedom. In the 1960's, the civil rights and feminist movements redefined freedom as equality for those long held down by the larger society, and the counterculture called for freedom in lifestyle and culture.
In the last 20 years, in a kind of marriage of 60's personal liberation and free-market economics, the dominant meanings of freedom have centered on political democracy, unregulated free enterprise, low taxes, limited government and individual choice in matters like dress, leisure activities and sexual orientation. Rather than a set of universal principles, this constellation of values is the product of a particular moment and a specific historical experience.
A second point to remember is that freedom is more than a set of ideas. It must be embodied in institutions, popular values, and the law, and these only develop over time. 
"How is it," asked Dr. Samuel Johnson during the American Revolution, "that we hear the loudest yelps for liberty among the drivers of Negroes?" Despite all the paeans to American freedom, equality before the law regardless of race is a recent and still fragile accomplishment. So too are strong legal and cultural supports for civil liberties, and these have been significantly weakened since the Sept. 11 attacks.
Current American ideas about freedom certainly resonate abroad. Eastern Europeans embraced them after the collapse of Communist rule. Indeed, the years since 1989 have witnessed an unprecedented internationalization of current American concepts of freedom. The "free world" triumphed over its Communist rival, the "free market" over the idea of a planned economy, and the "free individual" over the ethic of social citizenship. 
The prevailing ideology of global free enterprise -- one element of freedom identified as timeless and universal in the National Security Strategy -- assumes that the economic life of all countries can and should be refashioned in the American image. This is the latest version of the nation's self-definition as a model for the entire world.
Nonetheless, other societies have their own historically developed definitions of freedom and ways of thinking about the social order, which may not exactly match ours. The unregulated free market, for example, can be profoundly destabilizing in societies organized on traditional lines of kinship, ethnicity or community.
At the height of the cold war, in his brilliant and sardonic survey of American political thought, "The Liberal Tradition in America," Louis Hartz observed that despite its deepened worldwide involvement, the United States was becoming more isolated intellectually. Prevailing ideas of freedom in the United States, he noted, had become so rigid that Americans could no longer appreciate definitions of freedom, common in other countries, related to social justice and economic equality, "and hence are baffled by their use."
Today, if Americans hope to cultivate the growth of liberty in Iraq, Hartz's call for them to engage in a dialogue with the rest of the world about the meaning of freedom seems more relevant than ever.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqi exiles in Detroit marched last week. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (78%); COLD WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SLAVERY (73%); RELIGION (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); TERRORISM (67%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) FONER, ERIC (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003 



416 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Cuban Crackdown on Critics Stalls a Drive to Ease U.S. Embargo 

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 12 

 BODY:
Cuba's recent jailing of dozens of dissidents and the execution of three ferry hijackers have stalled what had been an increasingly popular drive in Congress to ease trade and travel restrictions on the island.
 Many advocates of a relaxation of the four-decade-old embargo, which they said only increased hardships for ordinary Cubans while doing nothing to dislodge Fidel Castro, said support for change had been building. Conservative lawmakers from farming states were no longer willing to lose out on food sales, they said, while more libertarian-minded members saw the travel ban as an un-American infringement on individual rights. 
 But the momentum stopped abruptly this week as Congress voted 414 to 0 for a resolution demanding the immediate release of the 78 imprisoned dissidents. Although many lawmakers remain committed to lifting the embargo, that issue has been trumped for now by outrage over human rights abuses. The next step, all agree, depends on Mr. Castro.
"If the move to end the embargo was like a political campaign, we had a great candidate," said Brian Alexander, executive director of the Cuba Policy Foundation, which has worked with members of Congress to revise United States policy. "This dissident roundup is the candidate being caught with the intern. The fear is people will be less inclined to listen to a positive message. Because of the fear, distrust and justifiable outrage, the message of engaging Cuba will be lost." 
Relations between the United States and Cuba seem to be worsening with each day. The Cuban government has denounced the United States for financing dissidents whom it considers to be traitors and for encouraging hijackings. Bush administration officials, who have denounced the hijackings, countered that the dissidents were part of a homegrown movement and were not on the United States' payroll.
The recent crackdown has led more conservative foes of the Castro government to insist that the embargo stay in place. 
Members of the bipartisan Cuba Working Group, lawmakers who had been advocating for an easing of the embargo, said that the dissidents' arrests only underscored the need to engage in a dialogue with Cuba.
"The crackdown happened not under our proposed policy but under the policy we had for 42 years," said Representative Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, a member of the working group and sponsor of legislation to ease the travel ban. "We need a lot more American voices in Cuba, not fewer." 
Lawmakers worry that anger over the treatment of the dissidents will overcome a more reasoned approach, much as in 1996 when Cuba's downing of two civilian aircraft led to the revival of the Helms-Burton Act, which called for harsher penalties against Cuba.
Recent steps by the administration had already indicated a hardening approach toward Cuba. New regulations appear to cut back significantly on the "people to people" trips, promoted by the Clinton administration, that allowed Americans to visit the island for conferences and cultural and educational exchanges. 
Federal officials said the new rules were meant to curtail abuses by people who were more interested in tourism than seminars.
Representative Bill Delahunt, Democrat of Massachusetts, criticized the trials and lengthy jail terms handed out to the dissidents, some of whomhe had visited only a few weeks ago. But he said the restrictions on exchanges were a setback and ought to be reconsidered.
"There is a parallel here between this administration and the Castro government," he said. "They are both going backward." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (94%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HIJACKING (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%) EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (79%); JEFF FLAKE (57%) GONZALEZ, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%) CUBA; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003 



417 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: THE EGYPTIANS; 
At a Tea Shop in Cairo, Disbelief Over War Reports

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS 

DATELINE: CAIRO, April 12 

 BODY:
They just do not believe it.
 Those Iraqis who stamped and spit on the fallen statue of Saddam Hussein? Those were Kurds maybe, but not Arabs, insisted the men of Nasr Street, sipping sweet tea on the sidewalk on a sunny afternoon. 
 "I'm sure the Iraqi people did not do that themselves," said Hamdi Mahmoud, a Cairo accountant who was relaxing in a loose chocolate-colored robe on his day off. "Millions loved Saddam." 
American marines welcomed in central Baghdad? Another clever fabrication, his friends agreed. "The media must be hiding something," said Hanafi Abu Saleh, a television repairman. "If Iraqis are so happy, why are they still fighting?"
It was Friday afternoon in the Imbaba section of central Cairo, and the men were in their usual chairs at the Saafan tea shop.
The butcher sliced meat from a haunch of beef hanging in his doorway. Clothes flapped in the breeze on the balconies like multicolored flags. Cars honked as they passed donkeys pulling carts piled high with fragrant fresh garlic or watermelons.

Conflicting Views of a War
Far away in Washington, President Bush was proclaiming the liberation of Iraq. Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld was telling Arabs that the televised images from Baghdad were proof that "America is a friend to the Arab people."
The men at the cafe were having none of it. The images they remembered from satellite television and Egyptian stations during the war left an entirely different impression.
"After the Egyptian people have seen this, all this killing of women and children, they think that Bush is a bloodsucker," said Mr. Mahmoud, who was convinced that the United States would never be trusted in the region.
"Bush decided to launch this war because of weapons of mass destruction," he said. "Where are they? This war was launched to protect Israel. What about the Arab countries? Aren't we threatened by Israel's mass destruction weapons?"
A few tables away, two men concentrated on a chess game, using worn wooden pieces from a battered cardboard box. Waiters delivered steaming cups of sweet coffee and glasses of tea. Slowly a crowd gathered to hear the conversation.
Nearby stood a young man wearing a T-shirt that declared, "No attack on Iraq."
"He wanted to go and fight in Iraq," said Mr. Saleh, pointing at him. "Tell them."
But the younger man, seized with paralyzing shyness, just nodded.
"All the Egyptian people wanted to go," continued Mr. Saleh, a veteran of the Egyptian Army's war in Yemen in the early 1960's. "I would go, to defend the Arab nation and the Islamic religion."
The talk grew more heated. Why did Mr. Bush do this? they asked. Why did so many Iraqi children die? "Didn't you see the little girl in the hospital with all the blood?" asked Tarek Ali, a construction worker.
Abruptly, another middle-aged man stalked off. "My blood pressure gets too high when I think of this war," he said as he left. "Anyway, the Americans brought Saddam Hussein to power, and now they are just hiding him to justify staying in Iraq as occupiers."

Debating Iraq's Fate
With his departure, the men turned to the mysteries of the fall of Baghdad, a subject they embraced with relish and humor. They wondered about the Iraqi information minister, who had so delighted them each night on television with his colorful invective against the Americans.
They speculated on the whereabouts of Mr. Hussein. Maybe the Russians are hiding him, one man volunteered. No, said another, there was a deal with the Americans.
The men, all in their 50's and 60's, rejected the idea that the outcome in Iraq was a humiliation for all Arabs. They had lived through the 1967 war against Israel.
That was a bad time, said Saleh Soleiman, a shopkeeper. "But we had our victory in 1973," he added, referring to Egypt's early rout of the Israelis from the Sinai in the first stages of a war Israel eventually won. Those days are relived constantly here.
The men worried out loud about the looting in Iraq, about the deadening effects of the war on Egypt's tourism industry, about the possibility of Iraq's spinning apart into warring factions.
Maybe, they suggested hopefully, Iraq might soon hire Egyptian laborers, as it used to do before the gulf war in 1991, when some six million Egyptians worked there.
The talk turned to the United Nations, and Mr. Soleiman began an analysis of the speech in which Secretary of State Colin L. Powell told the General Assembly that Iraq was hiding banned weapons. "He looked bad, don't you think?" asked Mr. Soleiman, the only one in the group to speak in English. "Weak evidence. Not convincing."
Much of the rage and passion that the men of Imbaba had been feeling about the war over the past three weeks had clearly begun to dissipate. No one cast an eye on the television set.
Mr. Ali shrugged off whether the Iraqis were better off without Mr. Hussein. "Don't ask us this question," he said. "The Iraqis have their own feelings. They are living there. And whether they would overthrow him or not, it's too late to discuss it. I'm just sad to see the Iraqis suffering now."
The crowd of onlookers was thinning out. Men returned to their tea and quiet chats.
"America is a big empire, but it's thinking in terms of the imperialism of centuries ago," Mr. Soleiman said. "O.K. now, with this globalization we have economic occupation. But America has returned to the idea of military occupation."
He leaned back. "God makes us to enjoy life, not to kill people. In Egypt we have 7,000 years of civilization. Another country with just 200 years of civilization will not stand for a long time against the whole world."

GRAPHIC: Photo: SALEH SOLEIMAN EGYPT (right) (Mohamed El-Dakhakhny for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); ARMIES (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (69%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (67%); RELIGION (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) SACHS, SUSAN; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) EGYPT (95%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (92%); YEMEN (79%) IRAQ; EGYPT; CAIRO (EGYPT)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003 



418 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: THE FRENCH; 
In the Heart of France, Anti-U.S. Mood Softens

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: ORLEANS, France, April 11 

 BODY:
Patrick Lebel watched the television images this week of a statue of Saddam Hussein toppled in Baghdad as joyous Iraqis danced about and he thought, as Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld did, of the Berlin Wall. 
 "It was purely symbolic, of course," said Mr. Lebel, 46, a heating systems technician, "but I thought of 1989." 
 Julien Vazzoleretto saw the same images, yet his reaction was equivocal. "One tyrant less," said Mr. Vazzoleretto, 25, who is unemployed. "But at what price?" 
Even after the collapse of Mr. Hussein's rule, French disapproval of the war is overwhelming. Yet conversations with people in this industrial city along the Loire River show that they have not been left unmoved by the images from Baghdad this week. 
Many remain shocked by the bloodshed and destruction. Others said that in their circles of friends, rejection of the war was softening as British and American successes mounted.
Many continue to mistrust American motives and to defend President Jacques Chirac, who opposed military action. They contend that the war, rather than drying the swamp in which terrorism grows, might distract from that task.

Mending Relations
All those interviewed said France and the United States must not let differences over the war translate into a permanent divide, though they acknowledged that mending the torn fabric would be arduous.
Mr. Lebel staunchly opposed the war yet appreciated the removal of a tyrant. The words that came to his mind when asked about American motives were dark: "hegemony," the "imperial idea" and "guardian of the world," he said. "If something threatens you, you have to eliminate it," he said. "It is justified politically; humanly, less so."
Mr. Lebel said he remained convinced that alternatives existed to war like "the United Nations inspections, maybe freezing Saddam Hussein's assets."
America is mistaken, he said, if it thinks a military response to terrorism suffices without attacking social and economic ills that fuel militancy. "There has to be a political response," he said. "Terrorism doesn't come from nowhere, it's not the Immaculate Conception."
Yet he conceded that the British and American military success and the collapse of Mr. Hussein's government had already swayed some in France toward the American view, particularly conservatives, though sentiment could shift again if Iraq sinks into chaos. Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin warned against the virus of anti-Americanism this week; Mr. Chirac welcomed the collapse of Mr. Hussein.
Nicolas Poschard, a 35-year-old accountant, was less forgiving of the United States. "There are many economic dangers," he said. "Now you have to attack the whole world -- Korea, Iran." No trace of chemical arms or unconventional weapons was found, he said, and broad swaths of Iraq lay destroyed. "Who is going to rebuild it?" he said. "We, the developed countries."
Nicole Keene is one of a minority among the French who says the war is justified. "I don't mean I was for it," said Ms. Keene, 59, the director of the local social security office. "But it was needed, in a sense." Mr. Hussein, she said, was no less a dictator than the former Communist rulers of Eastern Europe. 
But she criticized the United States for being selective in the injustices it sought to mend.
"I see the Palestinian issue, why don't they intervene there?" she said. "The Americans have lots of interests in the region. Yet the Palestinians have only rocks to defend themselves."
The collapse of Mr. Hussein had led some in her circle of friends to soften their criticism. "It is one thing if you see images of a child in blood on the ground," she said. "Yesterday, people saw images of the statue falling. Now they're changing their minds. It is good."
France and America must mend their relations, Ms. Keene said. Mr. Chirac's obstinacy was grounded in a desire to spare France terrorist attacks. But, she said, he would find it difficult to take the first steps toward reconciliation. "Chirac has apologies to make," she said. "Whether he will, is another question."

Weighing Antiwar Sentiment
That doubt was shared by a 33-year-old woman, employed at a shipping company, who bitterly opposed the war yet said she believed that the differences should not permanently divide France and America. "This is no good reason to question our historic ties," she said. 
As for Mr. Hussein's fall, she said: "At what price? And why him, and not another?" Yet Mr. Chirac and President Bush, she said, "are grown-ups; we belong to the same world."
Mr. Vazzoleretto said Mr. Chirac had been driven by a mix of anti-Americanism and genuine antiwar sentiment. "He was not in favor of Saddam, but he wanted to work with the United Nations," he said.
Guillaume Percheron, 20, an engineering student, said he had believed from the start that war was justified. "The regime there was disturbing," he said. "I thought it was right." 
While most people in France say the principal American motivation for war was oil, he said he saw it as a reaction to the terrorist threat. "Sept. 11 was sort of the drop that made the bucket overflow," he said.
Strains in French-American ties would be temporary, he said. As for Americans boycotting French products, he was skeptical. "I don't think you can resist our wines," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); INSPECTIONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); CONSERVATISM (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); JACQUES CHIRAC (74%) TAGLIABUE, JOHN; CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (95%); IRAQ (94%); GERMANY (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) IRAQ; FRANCE; ORLEANS (FRANCE)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003 



419 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Photo Shops Find the Bright Side of Digital Technology

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
A couple of years ago, Oregon Photo Supply looked to be a goner. Its sales peaked at $1.3 million in the late 90's. Then, digital photography soared as the economy plunged. Sales sank so low that Oregon Photo closed four of its five stores.
 But now things at the last store, just outside Portland, are looking way, way up. In fact, Wayne Welch, Oregon's president, says sales may hit $400,000 this year -- within striking distance of the store's $449,000 sales peak in 1998. Why? Oregon Photo, which now uses the name Oregon Photo and Digital, installed new equipment, revamped its Web site and rewrote its advertising, all to get users of digital cameras to come in for their prints. Finally, customers are doing just that. 
 "Digital photography and the Internet have opened possibilities we never dreamed of," Mr. Welch said.
Apparently, the Cassandras were wrong: digital photography has not made photo retailing obsolete. Granted, people still print very few of the digital pictures they take -- and most of those, they print athome. But photo retailers are finding their niche. The clunkiness of much photo-related software, the slowness of photo printers, and the chancy quality of homemade prints have discouraged people from printing photos at home. So has the high cost of paper and ink: print-it-yourselfers spend upwards of $1 a print -- two or three times what stores charge.
Also, women are snapping a lot more digital pictures these days. That has retailers clapping, as studies show that women are more likely than men to want lots of prints and less likely to make those prints themselves.
"For women, photography is about memories, not technology, and that is definitely good for us," said Judy Strauss-Sansone, vice president for photo and consumables for the CVS Corporation. 
The photo-shop industry sorely needs an uptick. Sales of film, developing and processing have been flat at best, while people have been buying digital cameras in computer stores.
"No question, every store's lost revenues because of digital," said Edward Y. Lee, a photography analyst at Lyra Research. Many independent stores have been forced to close, said Ulysses A. Yannas, an analyst with Buckman, Buckman & Reid. "It's just getting more difficult to compete," he said. 
The retailers that toughed it out still rely heavily on sales of double sets of prints from rolls of film. But now they can also burn those images on CD's, archive them on Web sites or print them on T-shirts or greeting cards. 
And now, with digital developing labs and interactive Web sites, they have learned to turn digitally captured images into prints, CD's and other lucrative products. 
"Before, someone dropped off a roll of film, you gave them prints, that was it," said Mitchell Goldstone, president of 30 Minute Photos Etc., a photo specialty store in Irvine, Calif. "Now we do our version of 'Would you like fries or a shake with that?' "
The upshot is that while no store is boasting huge profits from digital photography yet, few still worry that its ascendance will drive them out of business. "Finally, it is a good time to be a photo retailer," said John Larish, president of Jonrel Imaging Consultants in Rochester. 
Well -- not entirely. The retailers now occupy a chaotic world in which the lines of competition between vendors, wholesalers, mom-and-pop stores and megastores have blurred. Some 1,800 of the 2,500 Wal-Mart stores with photo centers now process digital photos, and the rest will be equipped to do so by November. Wal-Mart customers can also upload their digital images to www.walmart.com and pick up the prints at the nearest Wal-Mart store. 
Kodak sells digital labs to retailers, and operates Web sites for several. But it also owns Ofoto, an online service that makes prints and stores electronic photos, at prices that often undercut those offered by its retail customers. 
Similarly, District Photo, a mail-order photo processor in Beltsville, Md., used to get most of its revenues from handling processing for other retailers. Now it operates Web sites under the brands Snapfish, York and Clark, on which consumers can store electronic pictures, set up online albums and order prints, CD's and gifts, like calendars or cookie tins imprinted with their photos. In December -- traditionally a big time for taking pictures but a slow one for printing them -- nearly 40 percent of District Photo's revenues came from gifts.
"Anyone who says that digital wasn't bad news is lying, but at least it is a growing business," said Neil D. Cohen, District Photo's president.
Retailers themselves are tackling what has to date been the worst impediment to growth: letting the world know what they offer.
"Hewlett and Epson have done a wonderful job of telling consumers that they can make photos at home, while our industry has done an extremely poor job of letting them know that we can make pictures from digital files," said Mr. Welch, of Oregon Photo.
The manufacturers, who want retailers to buy their digital developing equipment as well as their ink and paper for making prints, are helping out. Kodak, for one, is spending nearly $30 million in Atlanta to educate consumers about the ease with which local retailers can convert their digital images to prints.
"A lot of people are printing photographs at home because they don't know there is a retail alternative," said Jude Rake, Kodak's chief operating officer for consumer imaging in the United States and Canada.
Fuji Photo Film U.S.A. is tackling that problem, too. Visitors to its Web site can enter their ZIP codes and get driving directions to the nearest retailer that has Fuji equipment for making digital prints. This summer, Fuji plans to set up links that let customers upload photos directly from the Fuji site to the nearest retailer, then pick up the pictures the same day. And, they could split the order up among different stores.
"That way, customers can pick up one set of prints at their local Duane Reade, even while their mom in California picks up a duplicate set at her local Ritz Camera," said Manny Almeida, a vice president for commercial imaging at Fuji.
The retailers themselves have grown savvier about marketing. For example, 30 Minute Photos Etc. now markets a digital printing service to families of troops who are overseas and who presumably would want to swap photos. Mr. Goldstone also has gotten permission from I.B.M., Canon and some other large companies to market directly to their employees via their intranets.
Using consumer receptivity to digital bargains as a guide, such efforts are working. In December, Fuji Photofilm USA offered $2 coupons in newspapers, redeemable at retail stores that use Fuji equipment to make prints from digital cameras.
"The redemption rate killed our budget," Mr. Almeida said. He quickly added, "It was just great."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wayne Welch tells of the challenges his business, Oregon Photo and Digital of Tualatin, Ore., faced in switching from all-film work. (Shane Young for The New York Times) Graph: "Digital Prints"Although hurt by sales of digital cameras, photo retailers have been able to attract an increasing number of customers for the processing of digital prints. Graphs track Digital prints ordered online, then picked up at retailer, Digital prints processed at kiosks located at retailers and All other digital prints processed at retailer (includes walk-in customers) since 2000.(Source: Photofinishing News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIGITAL CAMERAS (93%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CAMERA & PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES STORES (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMPUTER & SOFTWARE STORES (77%); PHOTOFINISHING SERVICES (77%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); WOMEN (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%) PHOTOGRAPHY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; WOMEN; COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

COMPANY: CVS CAREMARK CORP (64%)

TICKER: CVS (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (64%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (64%)

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%) OREGON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003 



420 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Calpers to Invest $200 Million in Japan Turnaround Fund 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 13 

 BODY:
Betting that Japan's battered stock market has finally hit bottom, the California Public Employees' Retirement System will invest $200 million in a fund managed by W. L. Ross & Company, the turnaround specialists, people involved in the deal said.
 W. L. Ross hopes to raise an additional $800 million in private equity for the fund, which will seek to revive small Japanese companies. The fund, which hopes to make its first investments in May, will be managed jointly with Taiyo Pacific Partners in California. 
 The deal, which is to be announced on Monday in New York, comes days after Japanese stock prices fell to 20-year lows. It is the latest foray by foreign investors seeking a slice of corporate Japan, which is struggling to shed unproductive assets and increase flagging sales and profits. 
W. L. Ross already manages $1.6 billion of investments in Japan, including three funds and stakes in several companies. Though the California pension system, known as Calpers, holds about $4 billion worth of Japanese stocks, this is only its second investment in Japan aimed at actively revitalizing companies. Calpers invests in similar funds in the United States and Europe. As of Jan. 31, its total investment portfolio was valued at $131.4 billion. 
Ross and Calpers work together on several other investments. In this new arrangement, it and Taiyo Pacific will seek to outperform the Topix stock index by more than one and a half percentage points. Calpers will keep 80 percent of anything above that benchmark, while W. L. Ross and Taiyo will divide the rest.
Since the banking crisis of 1998, foreign investors have poured billions of dollars into Japan in hopes of scooping up bargains before the market ends its bear run, now 13 years old. Foreigners have bought stakes in nationalized banks, manufacturers, hotels and golf courses. Recently, too, foreign investors have concentrated on companies that produce low yields but have excess cash on their balance sheets.
The surge in interest in Japan has coincided with the slowly dissolving ties between Japanese banks and their corporate borrowers, who for decades held large chunks of one another's shares. The sale of these holdings has driven down stock prices but also freed up previously unavailable shares. As these cross-shareholdings have come undone, more Japanese companies have turned to foreign investors to replace or supplement their main lenders.
Over the last five years, Sony, Hitachi and others listed on stock exchanges overseas have heeded calls from their foreign investors and added outside board members, set up independent audit committees and taken other steps common in the West. The success of the Nissan Motor Company has also made the Japanese more receptive to outside management ideas. Its foreign-born president, Carlos Ghosn, has taken the carmaker, which is now 44.4 percent owned by Renault of France, from the brink of collapse to record profits in four years.
"Now that Ghosn has become a cult figure in Japan, there's a growing awareness that some degree of Western notions might not be a bad thing," said Wilbur Ross, chairman of W. L. Ross & Company. "Restructuring is no longer the dirty word it used to be."
While export-focused manufacturers are more accustomed to working with foreign investors, small companies are still largely insulated from outsiders. Most survived for decades on the largess of their bankers and others in their corporate groups, or keiretsu. With little need to work with foreign investors, few produced detailed earnings reports or adopted Western-style accounting standards. Even today, most companies have no separate investor relations division.
Stoked by the Japanese media, many managers and some lawmakers still fear that foreign investors will mercilessly shut factories, fire workers and replace top executives once they obtain a majority stake in a company. Skeptics of American management techniques point to a rancorous proxy fight last year between a Japanese company advised by foreigners, M& A Consulting, and a clothing company, Tokyo Style.
To allay those fears, Mr. Ross and Calpers say they will take a conciliatory, not combative approach.
"We're not here to be the ugly American," said Brad Pacheco, a Calpers spokesman in California.
Whatever the public perception, there is growing evidence that increasing openness by appointing outside board members and adopting Western accounting techniques improves profitability. Companies that took these steps were also more likely to hire workers rather than fire them, according to a survey of listed companies by the Japan Corporate Governance Research Index Research Group.
Many of the companies that emphasized corporate governance also dealt with outside investors. The Calpers fund, though, will focus on smaller firms that often have little experience with foreigners.
"The smaller companies are an untapped group," said Christina Ahmadjian, a professor at Hitotsubashi Graduate School of International Corporate Strategy and an author of the corporate governance survey. "The trick will be finding the good ones."
While several funds have left Japan in recent years, frustrated by the economy's continued decline, W. L. Ross has done relatively well. Last week, Ross and a team of investors sold a substantial part of their stake in an Osaka-based lender, the Kansai Sawayaka Bank, just two years after taking over its bankrupt predecessor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); TRENDS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); NATIONALIZATION (72%); BANK FAILURES (69%); AUTOMAKERS (67%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (67%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: W L ROSS & CO LLC (94%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (61%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (95%) ROSS, W L, & CO; CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM 

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (61%)

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (58%) BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (70%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003 



421 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Nightly News Feels Pinch of 24-Hour News 

BYLINE:  By BILL CARTER 

 BODY:
With the most televised war in history winding down, executives at TV news organizations are noticing one startling detail in how Americans are watching the coverage: viewers are increasingly tuning out the broadcast networks' evening newscasts.
 During previous periods of intense news interest, most recently in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, viewers have tended to flock to the network news. There they found what they considered the best information but also the perspective and context from the anchors and reporters they trusted the most. 
 But in the first 16 days of the war with Iraq, the networks not only saw the gains of the first days vanish, they in fact suffered a drop-off from the average viewership during the preceding weeks of the television season. CBS and ABC together lost nearly two million viewers, or a combined 10 percent, during the period, according to Nielsen Media Research. Only NBC, which unlike the other networks has a cable news operation, recorded a slight increase. 
The overall decline in the evening news programs' ratings, coming at the same time as the three cable news networks achieved gains of more than 300 percent, could be a watershed moment in how Americans get their news on television.
"Going back the 15 years that I have researched it," said Andrew Tyndall, founder of the Tyndall Report, which monitors network newscasts, "the networks always show an increase of about 10 percent in viewing during heavy news periods. This would be an unprecedented event."
Certainly, the cable networks are trying to cast it that way. This weekend, CNN, a unit of AOL Time Warner, included word of the drop in network newscast ratings in the crawl of "breaking news" headlines spooling across the bottom of its screen.
But executives at the broadcast networks urged caution before jumping to sweeping conclusions based on the evidence of a few weeks. The nature of the war in Iraq -- much of it fought during nighttime in the United States, more than half a day away from the start of the evening newscasts -- worked against the broadcast networks, they argued. And the technological advances in the coverage, which allowed for many more live shots of action at the front, provided another advantage to the cable networks, which could put them to use 24 hours a day.
Executives at ABC, a unit of Disney, dismissed the shrinking numbers as insignificant, if not completely irrelevant, saying slight declines over a small period of time cannot be interpreted as a trend. Indeed, viewing levels for the networks' newscasts, which totaled about 28 million people for the three networks, dwarfed the combined average of 7.3 million viewers attracted by the Fox News Channel, a unit of News Corporation, CNN and MSNBC, which is owned by Microsoft and General Electric, the parent of NBC.
ABC executives also noted that the network's other news programs, "Good Morning America" and "Nightline" added viewers, demonstrating that the overall appeal of the network's news division was not diminished.
At CBS, a unit of Viacom, where the declines were most significant, executives were a bit more willing to acknowledge that the drop-off was real. Not only did the "CBS Evening News" lose more than 15 percent of its viewers, but its morning news program, "The Early Show," was beaten in the ratings race last week by Fox News Channel's morning program, despite being available in 20 million more homes. CBS executives, however, argued that the development was likely unique to this war.
Andrew Heyward, the president of CBS News, said the Bush administration's new policy of placing reporters with the military units engaged in the fighting, was the most significant factor driving the decline. It introduced a new element of live, often visceral, coverage that had a profound impact on viewers, he said.
The decline in the number of people viewing the network newscasts was in stark contrast to what took place during the last sustained story of compelling national interest. "After 9-11, viewers looked to the network anchormen to help knit the fabric of the nation back together," Mr. Heyward said.
In contrast, he said, "This was a reporters' war, not an anchor war; this involved a series of very profound individual vignettes."
And while those carefully tracking news reports from Iraq found themselves drawn to the powerful images of developing battlefield action, Mr. Heyward said, for other viewers, especially some women, "the extraordinary and very upsetting imagery was simply too much."
Preliminary findings of research into viewing habits of the war that CBS commissioned showed that occasional viewers of the news still came to network newscasts in large numbers during the war, said David F. Poltrack, the executive vice president of research for the network. But, he said, awide segment of what he called "core news viewers" felt compelled to keep up with the war regularly all day. "This group had no motivation to switch over and go the network newscasts to get a lot of the same story," he added.
That does not account for the ability of NBC to add viewers to its newscast while the others were losing them. NBC, though, does have the advantage of its own 24-hour news cable channel, MSNBC, which has been able to keep up with the story all day while urging viewers to watch the broadcast network's newscast each evening.
"The reason I think we're up is we can show what's happening on two different channels," said Neal Shapiro, the president of NBC News. "We know these news people are clicking all over the place. We have the peacock up in both places. We have our key people on the air in both places. That creates a comfort level. ABC and CBS don't have that."
Mr. Heyward agreed that NBC enjoyed a certain advantage in having a news operation that included both broadcast and cable outlets. "I've always said having the additional option of a cable network is valuable," he said. Among other reasons, he said, is savings that come from sharing the costs of news coverage. Both Mr. Heyward's network, CBS, and ABC have in the past sought to gain those advantages by combining operations with CNN. Those deals fell through. So far the war in Iraq has not led to a resumption of the partnership efforts.
Mr. Poltrack of CBS added that NBC had another unique advantage. "NBC already has the highest-rated newscast," he said. "They have the leading morning show in 'Today' and that can drive viewers to their other programs throughout the day."
"Today" did pull in some additional viewers during the war. But the real growth has been on the cable news channels. During the first three weeks of the war, MSNBC vastly increased its normal average audience, which had been a minuscule 300,000 viewers a day. MSNBC showed the biggest percentage increase in viewers during the period, growing by more than 350 percent to more than 1.4 million viewers. CNN's ratings jumped more than 300 percent, while the cable news leader, Fox News, increased its viewership by nearly 300 percent.
What happens to all those additional viewers once the war coverage fades away will become a crucial economic question for the broadcast networks, which will try to convince advertisers that when news events become closer to normal, so too will viewing habits.
"I think you have to be careful about making grandiose claims for the cable news networks," Mr. Heyward said. "Remember, after the gulf war CNN seemed poised to soar, because everyone thought they had done so well on that story. We all have seen the issues and problems they've had since then. I think you'll see cable settle back into a more normal pattern."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The ratings for the nightly newscasts of Dan Rather, Tom Brokaw and Peter Jennings have surged in past crises. But early in the the war in Iraq, they did not. Chart: "Reversal of Fortune"Since the war in Iraq began, two of the broadcast networks nightly newscasts have lost viewers, while the cable news channels have picked up viewers. NBCNightly NewsAverage daily viewers: Sept. 23 to March 19 -- 11.06Average daily viewers: March 20 to April 4 -- 11.37CHANGE -- +2.8% ABCWorld News TonightAverage daily viewers: Sept. 23 to March 19 -- 10.52Average daily viewers: March 20 to April 4 -- 9.91CHANGE -- -5.8 CBSEvening NewsAverage daily viewers: Sept. 23 to March 19 -- 8.83Average daily viewers: March 20 to April 4 -- 7.48CHANGE -- -15.3 Fox NewsAverage daily viewers: Sept. 23 to March 19 -- 0.85Average daily viewers: March 20 to April 4 -- 3.30CHANGE -- +288.2 CNNAverage daily viewers: Sept. 23 to March 19 -- 0.61Average daily viewers: March 20 to April 4 -- 2.65CHANGE -- +334.4 MSNBCAverage daily viewers: Sept. 23 to March 19 -- 0.29Average daily viewers: March 20 to April 4 -- 1.39CHANGE -- +379.3 (Source: Nielsen Media Research) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (93%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); TRENDS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%) TELEVISION; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (83%); AOL INC (66%); NEWS CORP (60%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CBS CORP; NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO; ABC INC; FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC; MSNBC; CABLE NEWS NETWORK 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (66%); NWS (NASDAQ) (60%); NWS (ASX) (60%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (83%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (66%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (66%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: ;BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CARTER, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003 



422 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Report Shows a Decline In U.S. Tax Investigations
Investigations and prosecutions of suspected tax criminals have fallen by half over the last decade, even as cheating has grown, according to an annual assessment of the performance of the Internal Revenue Service.
 The data also show a continuing shift of tax burdens away from businesses and onto individuals. Last year, corporations paid 10.5 percent of all the taxes collected by the Internal Revenue Service, down from 16.4 percent in 1973. National Report, Section A. 

Calpers to Invest in Japan Fund
Betting that Japan's battered stock market has finally hit bottom, the California Public Employees' Retirement System will invest $200 million in a fund managed by W. L. Ross & Company, the turnaround specialists, people involved in the deal said. W. L. Ross, whose chairman is Wilbur Ross, hopes to raise an additional $800 million in private equity for the fund, which will seek to revive small Japanese companies. The fund, which hopes to make its first investments in May, will be managed jointly with Taiyo Pacific Partners in California. Page C7.

War Films Falter Next to Real Thing
Nearly every military-related film to hit theaters this year has been a box office disappointment, leaving some in Hollywood to question how much coverage of the war in Iraq has hurt the appetite for images of combat. C14.

Hazards Are Seen in Tiny Particles
A new review of research suggests that nanoscale particles, which are far smaller than human cells, are often toxic because they are easily ingested, inhaled or absorbed through the skin and can pose health hazards, especially to workers making them. C8.

Photo Shops Find a Digital Niche
Despite predictions, digital photography has not made photo retailers obsolete. While sales of film, developing and processing have been flat at best, photo stores have learned to turn digitally captured images into prints, CD's and other lucrative products. C4.

Debt Showdown Looms in Mexico
Ricardo B. Salinas Pliego, who bought Mexico's second-largest TV broadcaster a decade ago and expanded his chain of home appliance stores into everything from banking to telecommunications, faces a debt showdown as his company, Azteca, struggles to negotiate an exchange offer with bondholders. C14.

Cyberattacks With Offline Damage
Most experts think of cyberattack as something that will happen in the virtual world, with effects on computer networks or access to bank accounts, for instance. But a recent paper by a computer security researcher at Johns Hopkins University suggests that there are plenty of gateways that connect the cyberworld to the offline world. New Economy. C4.

Tax Sites Show Signs of Growth
Online tax preparation services are starting to show signs of significant growth, thanks in part to a strategic move by the I.R.S. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C12.

Some Optimism Seen for Advertising
Debate over the economy and the war dominated the closing general session of the conference of the American Association of Advertising Agencies. Mel Karmazin, Viacom's president, offered some hope when he predicted robust demand for commercial time sold by his company. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C16.

An Inventor's Memoir as Road Map
Randice-Lisa Altschul, who is being sued by creditors for control of her patents for a disposable cellphone, has published a memoir that is a road map for inventors looking to bring a product to market. Patents. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 8,203.41 down 73.74Nasdaq composite -- 1,358.85 down 24.6610-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.98% up 0.03The euro -- $1.0758 up 0.0024The dollar -- 120.44 yen up 0.54

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAX AUDITS (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); PHOTOFINISHING SERVICES (89%); CYBERCRIME (89%); CAMERA & PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES STORES (86%); TAX PREPARATION SOFTWARE (78%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); NEW ECONOMY (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); DRAMA FILMS (71%); BONDS (70%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); RETAILERS (68%); IRAQ WAR (66%); PHOTOGRAPHY (66%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (63%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (60%); VIRTUAL REALITY (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: W L ROSS & CO LLC (83%); JAPAN FUND (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALINAS, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003 



423 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: The Iraq Money Tree 

 BODY:
Invading, occupying and rebuilding Iraq will cost American taxpayers more than $100 billion. But for some lucky companies, Iraq is emerging as a profit center. The administration has begun farming out contracts, and politically connected firms like Halliburton are among the early winners. This looks like naked favoritism and undermines the Bush administration's portrayal of the war as a campaign for disarmament and democracy, not lucre. 
 Despite the limited damage of this war, the ravages of earlier conflicts and sanctions have left much of Iraq in ruins. Roads, ports and schools must be rebuilt, the oil industry revived and power grids and communications networks repaired. Some emergency contracts need to be awarded right away. But that does not mean this should be done without competition or that such contracts should be long term. Moreover, by grabbing much of the first year's money, the favored American companies may have a leg up for signing future deals as well. Reconstruction is expected to cost some $20 billion a year for the next three years. 
 With so much money involved it is vital that bidding be competitive, transparent and open to all. That has not happened so far. Shortly before the war began, the Army Corps of Engineers awarded a no-bid contract to fight oil fires for the next two years to a subsidiary of Halliburton, the company Vice President Dick Cheney ran from 1995 to 2000. The deal could be worth as much as $7 billion.
Federal contracting regulations allow normal rules to be bypassed when time is short and national security concerns are involved. Those exceptions may apply to oil fields set aflame during the fighting, but it's hard to see how they justify a multiyear contract. Congress has rightly asked the corps to provide details on the Halliburton contract and on why no competing firms were allowed to bid.
Over at State, the Agency for International Development has limited bidding to a short list composed mainly of government contracting insiders. These include the Bechtel Group, on whose board sits George Shultz, a former secretary of state, and the Fluor Corporation, whose recently retired chief executive is being considered by the Pentagon to run Iraq's oil industry. 
Companies unfairly excluded from bidding for these contracts are justifiably upset, including those based in Britain, America's most important military ally in Iraq. Under World Trade Organization rules, procurement contracts are supposed to be open to all bidders, domestic and foreign.
Even if a legal basis can be found for these closed bidding arrangements, they are unacceptable. The Iraq war was fought in the name of high principles. Victory should not turn into an undeserved financial bonanza for companies that have cultivated close ties with the Bush administration. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTS LAW (87%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (77%); ARMIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); ETHICS (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); TERRORISM (71%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (69%); ENGINEERING (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; EDITORIALS; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); TERRORISM; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: BECHTEL GROUP INC (84%); ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES INC (63%); FLUOR CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (55%)

TICKER: ANR (NYSE) (63%); FLR (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (63%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (63%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (63%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (63%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (63%); SIC1541 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (63%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003 



424 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: A RESPIRATORY ILLNESS: CASHING IN; 
The Internet Is Awash in Ads for Products Promising Cures or Protection

BYLINE:  By MELODY PETERSEN 

 BODY:
Type "SARS" into an Internet search engine and advertisements from a variety of companies pop up offering products as diverse as health supplements, disinfectants and special protective suits that marketers say will keep the new disease, severe acute respiratory syndrome, at bay.
 One company offers a disinfectant that it says "kills SARS supervirus." A supplement maker advertises a pill that it says will ward off SARS by bolstering the immune system. Another Web site offers the "SARS protective kit," including a respirator, antimicrobial hand-cleaners and a pair of latex gloves, all on sale for $155. 
 Entrepreneurship may be the pulse of the American economy, but federal health officials warn that consumers should be wary of claims like these and unswayed by companies that seem to be playing on fear.
Dr. Mark B. McClellan, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, said on Friday in an interview that the risk of contracting the disease in the United States was "very, very low." The best defense, he said, is to avoid traveling to China, Singapore or other countries where the cases have been concentrated.
"The evidence on SARS is very limited today," Dr. McClellan said. "We have no evidence so far that any specific drug is effective against it."
One Internet advertiser, Antec International, a British company, and its American distributor, BiosafetyUSA, is selling Virkon, a disinfectant that it says kills the agent that causes SARS.
Dr. Ronald B. Turner, a professor at the University of Virginia and a specialist in infectious diseases, said Antec could not have tested the disinfectant because so little is known about SARS.
The cause of the disease remains unknown, although scientists with the World Health Organization strongly suspect that it is a previously unknown member of the coronavirus family that may have mutated or jumped into humans from animals.
Heinz J. Niedermaier, chief executive of BiosafetyUSA, confirmed that the company had not tested Virkon in relation to SARS. But Virkon, he said, has been proved to kill strains of the coronavirus, which is best known for causing the common cold. The claim that Virkon kills SARS, Mr. Niedermaier acknowledged, may be an exaggeration.
Young Again Nutrients, which also advertises on the Internet, says its supplement, Beta Glucan, can bolster the immune system and help protect against SARS.
"We're just saying that a strong immune system is your best defense," said John Livingston, the company's chief executive.
But Dr. Turner said the company's advertising claims were speculative. He said it was not clear that the product would actually strengthen the immune system, and if it did, whether that would even help against SARS. People do not become infected with SARS, he said, because their immune systems are weak.
Companies can buy ads and help improve their placement in the results of Internet searches at sites like Google and Yahoo. Google permits companies to choose the keywords that they want to bring up their ads. The most prominent ad placement goes to those who bid the most on that keyword, in this case SARS, and to those ads that are clicked on by the most users. Google advertisers pay only when someone clicks on their ads.
On Saturday, SARS was the second-most searched phrase on Yahoo, after the television series "American Idol."
Some of the companies now advertising are established safety equipment businesses that sell respiratory masks, antimicrobial skin wipes, gloves and protective suits to companies and law enforcement agencies. But with SARS, some have set up Web sites to sell to the public.
ANI Safety and Supply in Lincolnwood, Ill., is advertising a myriad of products to help protect against SARS.
Krikor Topouzian, the company's vice president, said that when he heard about SARS, he ordered as many extra respiratory masks as he could. Buying the masks from the manufacturers now is hard, he said, because they say they have a backlog of two weeks or more.
"There are people out there who may be making unreasonable and irresponsible claims," Mr. Topouzian said, "but we're trying to be careful."
Companies like ANI have benefited from other recent biological scares. It was anthrax-contaminated mail in 2001. Then came the buildup to the war with Iraq and a run on duct tape. Now it is SARS.
News reports showing people wearing masks in Hong Kong and jets quarantined on runways because of SARS have helped increase Americans' anxieties.
More than 160 suspected cases of SARS in the United States have been reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, but officials say the number of actual cases is probably far lower because authorities are casting a wide net in looking for those infected. So far, no one in the United States has died.
Federal health officials have said that it is far too early in the epidemic to predict whether the United States will escape its worst effects.
Dr. McClellan said that masks might be needed by health care workers caring for patients with suspected cases of SARS, but that most people do not need them.
The best precaution, he said, is simply washing the hands frequently and using an alcohol-based cleanser when washing is not possible.
Dr. McClellan said the F.D.A. had found a similar increase of exaggerated advertising claims in the anthrax scare. The agency sent warning letters to several companies that made questionable claims about their products' anthrax-fighting abilities. Regulators also sent letters to companies that were selling foreign-made ciprofloxacin, the generic name for the antibiotic Cipro, a treatment for anthrax.
"This is something we'll be keeping a close eye on," Dr. McClellan said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ANI Safety and Supply sells to businesses but has a new Web site for consumers. (Anisafety.com); Dr. Mark B. McClellan is commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESPIRATORY DISEASE (93%); SARS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); VIRUSES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); SEARCH ENGINES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); COMMON COLD (77%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (66%); EXECUTIVES (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) RESPIRATORY DISEASES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME (SARS); CONSUMER PROTECTION; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) 

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); ANTEC INTERNATIONAL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (54%) FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION 

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%)

PERSON: PETERSEN, MELODY; MCCLELLEN, MARK B (COMR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003 



425 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: More Energy Follies 

 BODY:
Given the war in Iraq, the possibility of further turmoil in the Middle East and the volatility of oil markets, this would seem the right moment for a reassessment of the nation's energy strategy. Unfortunately, the uninspired energy bill approved by the House on Friday would do little to rescue the country from its precarious dependence on imported oil. One hopes for more enlightenment from the Senate. 
 There are bound to be a few good things in a bill that runs to 772 pages and carries a price tag of $50 billion over 10 years, and there are. While bowing deeply to the needs of the energy producers, the bill gives at least a nod to energy conservation, allocating one-third of its $18 billion in tax breaks to increasing energy efficiency and alternative energy sources like wind power. There is also, thanks to Representative Sherwood Boehlert of New York, serious money for "coal gasification" -- the one technology that shows any promise of making coal burn more cleanly and efficiently. 
 But like last year's energy bill, which mercifully disappeared when the Senate and House failed to reconcile differences, this year's measure is on the whole a compendium of tired ideas favoring the oil and gas industries and special-interest groups like farmers. These include a $3 billion subsidy to encourage the environmentally destructive extraction of coal-bed methane, as well as subsidies of dubious value for the producers of corn-based ethanol. In addition, the bill would erode environmental protections for public lands, primarily in the West, to encourage oil and gas exploration in wilderness areas that are best left alone.
Even worse is what the bill does not do. It does little to encourage industry to reduce the greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming, but its most serious defect is its failure to require meaningful improvements in fuel economy -- the quickest and surest way to ease America's dependence on foreign oil. And while the bill provides money for aggressive research on a hydrogen-powered fuel-cell car, it fails, perversely, to provide the tax breaks President Bush had requested for buyers of fuel-efficient hybrid cars.
Alarmingly, the White House said it was generally pleased with the bill and was particularly "gratified" that it would open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling. The Senate, which has already rejected drilling in the refuge, will now have to do so again. Indeed, it will have to do much more than that if it is to bring the country the rational energy policy it deserves. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); WILDERNESS (88%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (85%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); WIND ENERGY (77%); COAL GASIFICATION (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (74%); EROSION (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (73%); ETHANOL (73%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (73%); ALCOHOLS (73%); METHANE (73%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (72%); APPROVALS (72%); CLIMATE CHANGE (70%); GREENHOUSE GASES (70%); BIOFUELS (69%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (69%); WILDLIFE (69%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (60%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EDITORIALS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; AUTOMOBILES; FUEL EFFICIENCY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ENERGY AND POWER 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%); ARCTIC (90%) ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE; UNITED STATES; ALASKA

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003 



426 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: REBUILDING; 
World Bank and I.M.F. Say They'll Send Experts to Iraq to Investigate Postwar Needs

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13 

 BODY:
The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund announced today that they would send teams to Iraq to assess needs for reconstruction as soon as it was safe.
 The announcement amounted to a concession to the Bush administration, which wants as much support as possible from the two international financial institutions to rebuild Iraq. Earlier this week the leaders of both institutions said they would need the approval from their boards before agreeing to send teams of experts to assess the shape of the Iraqi economy and its needs. 
 That approval came over the weekend, with strong pressure from the United States, the major shareholder in both institutions. 
James D. Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank, said any help given to Iraq would not deflect from his institution's main mission to fight the war on global poverty. He even said he hoped the estimated $20 billion needed immediately for Iraqi would not come from the bank.
"Most people think it's coming from oil revenue -- or from somebody else," said Mr. Wolfensohn, adding that it would not come out of "our base money."
But on this last day of the annual spring financial meetings, protesters and charity groups argued that Mr. Wolfensohn was a victim of wishful thinking if he believed that the war in Iraq would not drain resources from the war on poverty.
"The speed with which political will and resources are mobilized to invade, bomb and possibly reconstruct Iraq stand in stark contrast to the willingness of the rich countries to tackle poverty in Africa," said Phil Twyford, advocacy director of the private charity Oxfam International.
His critique was mild compared with accusations from a crowd of protesters that gathered near the two institutions on a sparkling spring day to complain that the World Bank and I.M.F. continued to favor wealthy nations to the detriment of the developing world.
"We think the real war isn't the war on Iraq but the war on poverty, and they've been promising to wage it for years but they haven't," said Jamie Drummond, executive director of Debt, AIDS, Trade in Africa, a nonprofit group affiliated with Bono, lead singer for the rock group U2. 
World Bank officials agreed that the onus was clearly on wealthy countries to help the poor and that they have not given up the fight against world poverty.
Nicholas Stern, the chief economist at the World Bank, said, "The battle will be won by collaboration and not confrontation."
He then praised developing nations for improving their policies and institutions, especially for the health and education of their citizens.
"There has been stronger momentum by the developing nations than the rich nations," he said.
If wealthy nations lowered their trade barriers and increased their foreign aid, which is at record lows, then global poverty could be cut in half by 2015, he said. 
The worst trade barrier is the $300 billion in agricultural subsidies given to farmers in the world's wealthy nations, Mr. Stern said. Those subsidies drive down the world prices of staple commodities and allow wealthy nations to dump inexpensive food in poor countries and make it difficult for poor nations to ship to wealthy nations one of their few exportable products: agricultural goods.
But so far the United States and Europe have failed to agree on a formula for reducing those subsidies as part of the World Trade Organization's latest negotiations on opening up trade known as the Doha round.
Foreign assistance is now less than half what it was in the 1960's, when wealthy nations had a much lower gross national product.
Because of the trade barriers and the drop in foreign aid, the World Bank estimates that it will require an additional $50 billion to reach the 2015 goals set by the United Nations.
The World Bank today released its world development indicators, an annual compilation of statistics that showed there was steady progress in the 1990's in reducing the number of poor people living on less than $1 a day, the World Bank's definition of poverty. Most of those gains were achieved by India and China. In sub-Saharan Africa, the number of poor was 315 million, up from 241 million.
The World Bank and I.M.F. focused their private deliberations on the need to do more for Africa, but there were no pledges of new funds to fight poverty.
Already the run-up to the Iraqi war and the war itself have cost the world economy roughly $75 billion to $100 billion. That sum is similar to the economic reaction after the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 
Mr. Stern said the "risk is there" that the war in Iraq will divert attention and money that might otherwise go to the World Bank's efforts against poverty. "It is our job to stay the course," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Washington yesterday, Alice McKeown and Robert Jaspersen, left, made signs for a rally against the International Monetary Fund and World Bank as the World Bank president, James D. Wolfensohn arrived at a news conference at the I.M.F. ahead of Finance Minister Trevor Manuel of South Africa. (Getty Images); (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (96%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); APPROVALS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (66%); TERRORISM (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); POP & ROCK (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (55%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%) WORLD BANK; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

INDUSTRY:  SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS; 

PERSON: BONO (50%) BECKER, ELIZABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); AFRICA (92%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003 



427 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
Puerto Rico Enjoys Day in Sun

BYLINE:  By RAFAEL HERMOSO 

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R., April 13 

 BODY:
Couples carrying palms from Mass walked past Las Lomas Park this morning at 9:30 as teenagers played baseball inside on the dirt infield. Here in this residential neighborhood about five miles from Hiram Bithorn Stadium, the Montreal Expos' home for 22 games this season, it was difficult to find a skeptic about Major League Baseball's return to Puerto Rico.
 "We've been to the big leagues in the United States and it's not the same," Anita Ronda said as she rested from running the concession stand here. "To enjoy it with your people is different. Seeing it with Puerto Ricans is glorious. The United States is nice, but watching it with Puerto Ricans is something historic. We're enjoying it tremendously." 
 Boricuas, the native Taino name that Puerto Ricans have proudly maintained, have supplied the major leagues with talent since 1942, and baseball has promoted the Expos' games here as a way to return the favor, while increasing revenue for the cash-starved team. Tickets prices are as high as $85, far more than in Montreal and other major league cities.
 After falling about 1,500 short of a sellout Friday for the Expos' first game against the Mets, officials announced that Saturday's game drew a sellout crowd of 18,264, though that is still short of capacity. With a game-time temperature of 95 degrees today, the crowd was 16,332. A crowd of 19,891 was announced for the first major league regular-season game in Puerto Rico -- the Texas Rangers against the Toronto Blue Jays in 2001.
 Many here this morning shared Ronda's attitude that Puerto Ricans were willing to pay the high prices, treating these games like an event. All 22 Expos games are being televised here in Spanish, and cable television allows fans to watch the opponents' broadcast in English. Most, though, doubted that Puerto Rican pockets were deep enough to sustain that interest and were curious to see the attendance once the Mets departed and the novelty wore off.
 Few here have complained publicly about price gouging or have said they have felt an economic divide from the mainland. They consider tickets a necessary expense. 
 "It's fantastic," said William Vazquez, a 49-year-old from nearby Rio Piedras, whose son, Michael, 15, was playing baseball this morning. "Everybody supports the decision. It's not expensive. It's sensitive to everybody's means."
 Vazquez has tickets for the Mets' final game here Monday, and he said he planned to see more games once the crowds lessened and the traffic subsided. 
 Ronda, whose husband, Willie, runs the Las Lomas Potros youth league here, had four tickets for Friday. She turned away when she could not find parking and left her husband and two sons to watch the game as she drove home.
 "Puerto Ricans are united and those that can't go watch on television," said Willie Ronda, 50, whose son Willie Joe, 17, plays in his youth league. "What's good for Puerto Ricans is good for everyone."
 Edwin Montanez, 39, president of one of the teams here, bought $70 seats for all 22 Expos games. He said he envisioned gains in tourism and the economy and said the games were an inspiration for young players, but he added that he was unsure how long people could tolerate high ticket prices.
 "We understand it's a costly event," Montanez said. "If they come back with the same prices, I'm not sure how they'll draw."
 Puerto Rican baseball has other inherent problems. Tony Bernazard, a former major leaguer from nearby Caguas who works for the players association, has worked to turn around the slide of player development. He says he does not want children to abandon their studies for baseball -- as many do in the Dominican Republic to sign professionally at 16 -- but he wants to reverse the decline in the professional players Puerto Rico produces.
There were 38 Puerto Ricans on opening day major league rosters this year compared with 55 in 1989, the first year they were subject to the draft.
 Bernazard was asked if Puerto Ricans felt disenfranchised by the numbers. "Of course they do," he said. "Parents, kids gets discouraged by the lack of opportunity."
 The Expos' 22-game experiment could easily be seen as a major North American corporation's raiding Puerto Ricans, whose per capita income ($8,185 in the 2000 census) is about a third ofmainland Americans'. Officials from the Expos and Major League Baseball, which owns and runs the team, said their goal was to make more money here than would have been made in Montreal.
 San Juan poured $2.6 million into Hiram Bithorn Stadium for improvements, and the Expos are guaranteed to make $350,000 a game, or $7.7 million this season. In return, local officials estimate that at least $8 million will be pumped into the economy in hotel revenue and player taxes.
 Those figures were beside the point at Las Lomas this morning.
 "Nobody's going to say anything bad," Willie Ronda said. "Are you looking for somebody that doesn't agree? You won't find him."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Luis Gonzalez waving the Puerto Rican flag at Hiram Bithorn Stadium yesterday as the Expos won. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); YOUTH SPORTS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%) BASEBALL; FINANCES; STADIUMS AND ARENAS; BITHORN, HIRAM, STADIUM (PUERTO RICO) 

ORGANIZATION: MONTREAL EXPOS (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%) MONTREAL EXPOS 

INDUSTRY:  SIC4424 COASTAL FREIGHT; SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES; 

PERSON: HERMOSO, RAFAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) QUEBEC, CANADA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%) PUERTO RICO (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%) PUERTO RICO

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003 



428 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Nicholson and Sandler Offer Summer Preview 

BYLINE:  By RICK LYMAN 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 13 

 BODY:
After four sluggish weekends in a row and a box office that is down by 8 percent from the same period last year, Hollywood finally found something that audiences wanted to see: Jack Nicholson humiliating Adam Sandler. 
 "Anger Management," a comedy about a simmering milquetoast (Mr. Sandler) who falls into the clutches of a gleefully malicious therapist (Mr. Nicholson), sold an estimated $44.5 million worth of tickets in its opening weekend despite mixed reviews and an opening date in early April not known for producing blockbusters. The film opened in 3,551 North American theaters for a per-theater average of $12,532. 
 "This is the movie everyone was counting on to turn the year around at the box office, and it looks as though it's certainly done that," said Paul Dergarabedian, president of Exhibitor Relations, a Los Angeles company that monitors the movie box office.
This Columbia Pictures release, made by its producing partner, Revolution Studios, claimed a raft of box-office records, though many of them could be explained away by the impact of inflation and higher ticket prices.
This film was the biggest April opening ever (beating last year's "Scorpion King," which made $36 million). But while it also appeared to be the biggest opening for Mr. Sandler (beating 1999's "Big Daddy," $41.5 million) and for Mr. Nicholson (beating 1989's "Batman," $40.5 million), those records turn out to be illusory.
"Big Daddy" would have earned $44.6 million in today's dollars, and "Batman," which opened on thousands fewer screens than "Anger Management," would have made $58.5 million today. 
Still it was a solid opening and led some marketing executives to wonder whether the summer movie season, which traditionally began on Memorial Day but has in recent years been creeping earlier in May, might be edging farther into the spring. 
"If the picture is there, this definitely shows that you can go earlier and get summer numbers," said Rory Bruer, Columbia's president for distribution.
Mr. Dergarabedian said he was not so sure. "This is so early that I'd hate to call it a summer opening, but it certainly looks like a good warm-up to the summer," he said.
The expensive franchise movies of summer are just a few weeks away, beginning with 20th Century Fox's "X-Men 2" on May 2, followed two weeks later by Warner Brothers' "Matrix: Reloaded."
Some Hollywood marketing executives have speculated in recent weeks that the round-the-clock coverage of the war in Iraq has been partly responsible for keeping audiences home. But the more common opinion is that this was just studio executives grasping for excuses, and that the real culprit was several weeks of movies that simply were not very good. There was no such box-office downturn in the early weeks of either the 1991 Persian Gulf war or the conflict in Afghanistan after the Sept. 11 attacks.
"I think this really proves that the war had no effect on the box office," Mr. Dergarabedian said. "If you give audiences something that inspires them to go to the theaters, they will go."
Tom Sherak, a partner in Revolution Studios, said that the war did influence movie attendance and that last week's taking of Baghdad provided a sense of national relief that helped drive the numbers higher for "Anger Management."
"I think people were really scared by this war in a way that they weren't in 1991," Mr. Sherak said, "and that now they are beginning to feel that they can relax a little bit." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); FILM (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%) MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (61%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (61%)

PERSON: ADAM SANDLER (90%) LYMAN, RICK; SANDLER, ADAM; NICHOLSON, JACK 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

TITLE: ANGER MANAGEMENT (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003 



429 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk; 
Medicare Caught Up In Politics

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11 

 BODY:
Medicare is a fiscal time bomb, unsustainable over the long haul and badly in need of major structural changes to save it. That, at least, is what Republicans are arguing as they begin yet another effort to pass Medicare legislation, a central element of President Bush's domestic agenda.
 The Bush administration has set the bar very high this year, demanding that Congress pass not just a new prescription drug benefit, a feat hard enough, but also sweeping changes in Medicare to get more private health plans involved. The quest for that kind of structural change is fraught with political danger: many Democrats assert that it would amount to privatizing a fundamentally sound and popular program and eventually throwing millions of elderly people onto the mercies of the private insurance industry. 
 Administration officials are acutely aware of the political risk. They know that many members of Congress, an exceedingly risk-averse crowd, would rather just pass a prescription drug benefit and be done with it by the 2004 elections. Many members have, after all, promised a drug benefit for six years.
Moreover, for all the promise of "choice" in the new Medicare marketplace envisioned by Mr. Bush, such a plan is easy to demonize; health maintenance organizations do not rank high in the public's esteem. 
But Republican leaders, inside the administration and on Capitol Hill, are beginning to make the case that maintaining the status quo in Medicare is not an option. "Steps must be taken," said Representative Bill Thomas, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, "to ensure the sustainability of Medicare over the long haul."
Mr. Thomas made his comments at a hearing last week that featured the heads of the Congressional Budget Office and the General Accounting Office, both warning of long-term fiscal and demographic strains on the Medicare program.
"As this committee well knows, Medicare is projected to consume an ever-larger piece of our national income just in delivering its current set of benefits," said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, director of the budget office. "Under current law, Medicare spending, measured as a share of the economy, is projected to nearly quadruple by 2075, growing to more than 9 percent of gross domestic product, from its current level of 2.5 percent."
Citing a recent report by the Medicare trustees, David M. Walker, who as comptroller general heads the accounting office, noted, "Medicare in its current condition, with no prescription drug benefit, already faces a huge projected financial imbalance that has worsened significantly in the past year."
But there are few absolute truths in the Medicare debate that are unaffected by partisanship. Democrats maintain that Medicare is in better fiscal shape today than it has been for much of the recent past. More to the point, they assert that the Republicans' solution -- relying on competition among private health plans to hold down costs -- is unlikely to work any better than it has in the private sector, where health care costs are also rising rapidly.
Democrats argue that the Republicans are operating out of ideology rather than pragmatic concern for the health of one of the last pillars of the Great Society.
"Privatizing Medicare is the sun, the moon and the stars for them," said Representative Sherrod Brown of Ohio, a Democrat active on issues involving the elderly. "It's Iraq, domestically, for them: just as Perle and Wolfowitz wanted to go after Iraq for 10 years, the far right, the insurance industry, the drug industry, have wanted to privatize Medicare for 20 years."
None of this bodes well for the prospects of a major Medicare overhaul this year. House Republicans are hoping to pass a bill before the Memorial Day recess, but how far it will go beyond adding prescription drug benefits is not clear. Senate leaders are considered more ambitious, but given that the Republican majority is so narrow, it is not clear how realistic those ambitions are either. 
As Robert D. Reischauer, former budget office director and now president of the Urban Institute, argues, Medicare spending is rising rapidly for the same reasons that health care spending is rising rapidly among the population at large: new technology, the general aging of the population, the greater use of medical services.
There are few fixes that are very palatable politically. Even a president coming off a wartime surge in popularity may have trouble breaking the deadlock. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (87%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (79%); HEALTH CARE LAW (79%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); INSURANCE (74%); POLITICAL RISK INSURANCE (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (74%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (73%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); AGING (71%); ACCOUNTING (63%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; PRIVATIZATION; MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE; FINANCES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) TONER, ROBIN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003 



430 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3278 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: THE PRESIDENT; 
How 3 Weeks of War in Iraq Looked From the Oval Office

BYLINE:  This article was reported and written by Elisabeth Bumiller, David E. Sanger and Richard W. Stevenson. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13 

 BODY:
It was the morning of March 19 in the White House Situation Room, just hours before President Bush's 48-hour ultimatum to Saddam Hussein to get out of Iraq was to expire. President Bush had just polled his war council for any last-minute reservations about the war plan. Hearing none, he issued the "execute" command to Gen. Tommy R. Franks, who saluted back via a flickering video screen from his headquarters in Qatar.
 But in a White House that invariably seeks to project unwavering confidence and to portray the commander in chief as always resolute, what participants in the room that morning say they remember was the anxiety. 
 "You could have heard a pin drop in that room," said a senior administration official who was there. "It was silent for a couple minutes." Then the administration's warrior-turned-diplomat, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, reached out to touch the president's hand. It was a gesture of support, but it was born, perhaps, of an understanding that the risks ahead were beyond the president's experience. 
So much rested on the answer to the question that one of Mr. Bush's top national security aides had posed a few weeks before.
"How long will this go on?" he asked. "Three days, three weeks, three months, three years?" Duration, they all knew, would probably determine casualties, the risk of attacks using chemical or biological weapons, the stability of the Middle East, relations with allies. And, of course, the presidency of George W. Bush, who, some of his advisers acknowledged, was gambling his political future on a quick victory.
The past 25 days have been among the most stressful, emotional and turbulent of the second Bush White House, from the first, audacious attempt to kill Mr. Hussein to the toppling of his statue to the discovery today of seven prisoners of war. A White House that worships order had to react to the chaos of war and a script that kept changing. Sandstorms, unexpected resistance from the enemy and verbal grenades lobbed at the war plan by armchair generals at times forced the White House into a defensive crouch. 
Although it was Mr. Bush's second war in two years, it was different in nearly every way from the first, in Afghanistan. This war involved hundreds of thousands of American troops. It was being fought over the objections of a vocal minority of Americans and many of the country's most steadfast allies. It had elements of a family psychodrama, with a second President Bush completing a job left unfinished by his father -- and trying to correct his father's mistakes.
Those 25 days have shown Mr. Bush to be short-tempered with criticism of the war plan in the days when the campaign did not appear to be going well, and downcast when confronted with American battlefield deaths and the capture of women as prisoners of war. With disgust, he told a member of his war council that the Iraqis "fight like terrorists." 
But he has also shown patience in giving the plan a chance to work, much as he did in Afghanistan, and in his determination to leave battlefield tactics in the hands of his battlefield commander, General Franks.
As always, he was a creature of the routines that make his own world orderly, even as chaos streamed across the television screen. He stuck to his rituals: first briefings by 6 a.m., war council meetings, daily exercise, regular prayer, early bedtimes, weekends at Camp David. His travel was limited to military bases, where he could rally the troops and comfort their families, and to a trip to Northern Ireland as a payback to his most faithful foreign ally, Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain.
By this past Wednesday, as Mr. Bush stepped out of a meeting in the Oval Office with the president of Slovakia and watched on television as celebrating Iraqis dragged Mr. Hussein's statue through the streets, the war routine seemed to break. "They got it down!" Mr. Bush exclaimed. One of the aides with him said, "He knew it wasn't the end, but he could finally see the beginning of the end."
By this afternoon, stepping out of his helicopter, Mr. Bush looked happier than he had in weeks. He had celebrated the discovery of the P.O.W.'s and delivered this message to the Iraqi people: "You're free! And freedom is beautiful." 
Next week, Mr. Bush is to spend a long Easter holiday at his ranch in Texas, a sure sign that even if the war is not over, his most perilous period as commander in chief appears to be, at least for now.

The First Hours
A Plan Is Put In Motion, Quickly
The war plan that Mr. Bush approved in the situation room on the morning of March 19 remained intact for about six hours.
By early afternoon, George J. Tenet, the director of central intelligence, had learned of a stunning tip from an Iraqi spy: Mr. Hussein was very likely to be in a bunker in southern Baghdad that night. Mr. Tenet raced to the Pentagon to discuss the information with Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld and Gen. Richard B. Myers, the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff. General Franks, meanwhile, had received the same information from C.I.A. officers in the field, and ordered two F-117 stealth fighter-bombers aloft in case the president ordered a strike.
By 3:30 p.m., all three men had gathered in the Oval Office, along with Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, and Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff. Mr. Bush listened impassively, advisers said, as the group discussed the source of the information and the risks of the operation. "It had huge possibilities," one of the participants in the conversation said. "You know, huge, positive outcomes." But they spent time, this participant said, discussing how an early strike would "affect the rest of what is planned" -- and the damage that could be done if the information was wrong.
For hours the group talked through the possibilities. "You know -- that the Iraqis might do the baby-milk factory thing again," the participant said, a reference to a famous moment in the 1991 gulf war when Western reporters were taken to see the injuries at a supposed civilian location. The president worried that there would be propaganda that "you struck women and children." 
Ms. Rice, according to the official who was at the meeting, reminded the group that Iraqis "love to propagandize and lie about what's just taken place." 
By 7:12 p.m., three minutes before what General Franks said was the deadline for making a decision, Mr. Bush determined it was worth the risk. "Let's go," he said, according to an aide. By 9:30 p.m. Washington time, the bunker had been bombed. Some 45 minutes later, Mr. Bush addressed the nation. "On my orders, coalition forces have begun striking selected targets of military importance," he said in a four-minute speech from the Oval Office.
At least outwardly, Mr. Bush took it all in stride. Before his Oval Office address that Wednesday night, he gave a little pump of his fist and said "feel good" to an aide in the room. By 10:40 p.m., he was back in the White House residence watching television with his wife, Laura. At one point a crawl line on one of the cable news channels informed viewers that the president and first lady had gone to sleep -- the it's-all-under-control spin being dispensed downstairs in the press room.
"Whoops, we'd better go to bed," Mrs. Bush said, according to a friend who spoke to her afterward.
That Friday, March 21, just as his father had done on the first weekend of the first gulf war, Mr. Bush went to Camp David. He asked Roland W. Betts, his old fraternity rush chairman from Yale and one of his closest friends, to come along. The two spent hours that Saturday walking the trails, working out in the Camp David gym,watching the battle news on television and talking of little else but the war.
"He is just totally immersed," Mr. Betts said after coming off the mountain.

Lowering Expectations
A Rolling Start Turns Rough
But it turned out that Mr. Bush was entering the tactical and emotional low point of the war. He was awakened early in his cabin at Camp David that Sunday, March 22, and informed that American soldiers had apparently been captured in the Iraqi town of Nasiriya, and that one of them was a woman, Specialist Shoshana N. Johnson. "That troubled him," Mr. Betts said. Specialist Johnson was one of the P.O.W.'s found alive today.
The president returned to the White House that afternoon as scheduled, and in his first give-and-take with reporters since the start of the war he tried to lower expectations. "It is evident that it's going to take a while to achieve our objective, but we're on course, we're determined and we're making good progress," he said. But he seemed almost too emphatic, and inside the White House some aides were already concerned that the warm welcome Mr. Cheney had predicted for the troops in the south was not materializing.
By midweek, critics were beginning to question the relatively small size of the allied force in Iraq and to ask why the C.I.A. had not foreseen the fierce paramilitary resistance in the south. Mr. Bush's aides say the president never shared those doubts, even as he was pressing them incessantly for updates. When a reporter was visiting one top aide for 20 minutes that Tuesday, the president called twice pressing for new details.
On Wednesday, on his way to a speech at the headquarters of the United States Central Command in Tampa, Fla., Mr. Bush scratched from his remarks an assessment that the battle plan was ahead of schedule. Instead, he changed tones.
"The path we are taking is not easy, and it may be long," he said in the speech.
On Thursday, Mr. Bush seemed peevish during a news conference at Camp David with Mr. Blair, whose combination of passion and artful articulation dominated the event. At one point, Mr. Bush was reduced to standing by silently as Mr. Blair made an ardent speech about the success of the war. "I have nothing more to add to that," the president said.
By Friday, explosive comments made in Iraq by the commander of the Army forces in the Persian Gulf, Lt. Gen. William S. Wallace, were all over the front pages of the newspapers. "The enemy we're fighting is a bit different than the one we war-gamed against," General Wallace said, an assessment that was widely interpreted to be supportive of the criticism that Mr. Rumsfeld had ignored his generals' warnings that they did not have enough troops.
The White House went into public relations attack mode. A senior administration official described the president as "irritated" and said that Mr. Bush thought questions about whether the conflict was going more slowly than planned were "silly."
The administration was annoyed in part at the news media for filling empty air time with doubts -- "Imagine if F.D.R. had to put up with this between D-Day and the fall of Berlin," one snapped -- but also at retired officers who were offering critical assessments as part of the round-the-clock television coverage. 
At 2 p.m. that Friday, March 28, Mr. Bush stepped out of the Oval Office and across the hall to the Roosevelt Room to meet with a group of veterans -- and everyone in the room knew that American forces were now heading toward Baghdad, which was defended by much-feared Iraqi units like the Medina division of the RepublicanGuard.
"I don't know when the Medina battle will begin; Tommy hasn't told me yet," Mr. Bush told the veterans, referring to General Franks.
The president's point, aides said, was that he was not going to micromanage the war the way Lyndon B. Johnson had during Vietnam -- and he was not going to bow to pressure to rewrite the plan every time it hit a bump.
"We don't second-guess out of the White House," Mr. Bush told the veterans. "We don't adjust the plan based on editorials." Then he headed for Camp David.

The Turnaround
Fighting Words And Good News
By Monday, Mr. Bush was fighting back. He traveled to Philadelphia and told cheering members of the Coast Guard that in just 11 days, "coalition forces have taken control of most of western and southern Iraq." "Day by day," he said, "we are moving closer to Baghdad. Day by day, we are moving closer to victory." 
The next day, the turnaround began. Shortly before 5 p.m., Mr. Rumsfeld called Mr. Bush to inform him that Pfc. Jessica D. Lynch had been safely rescued from a hospital in Nasiriya. "That's great!" the president said, according to an aide. The news of the rescue saturated coverage the next day, and was treated at the White House as a harbinger that the terms of the conflict were in flux. The following day, April 3, American troops seized parts of Baghdad's international airport, an enormous strategic and psychological victory, putting the forces within sight of the capital. The rapid progress inspired a buoyant mood.
"Our task now is changing from managing irrational skepticism to managing irrational exuberance," a senior administration official said. That same day, an obviously more ebullient Mr. Bush traveled to Camp Lejeune, N.C., to tell 12,000 cheering marines that "a vise is closing" on Mr. Hussein. 
He also met privately with the families of some of the marines who had died, hearing their stories, going through family pictures, talking to children whose fathers would never return. "It broke his heart," said one aide who was there. "It's the hardest moment of the job."
The next day, troops from the Army's Third Infantry Division were in control of the airport as Mr. Bush met in the Roosevelt Room with a dozen Iraqi exiles eager for a financial and political stake in a new Baghdad. Mr. Bush, his mood chipper, told the group that the United States was "slowly peeling" the hands of Saddam Hussein and his "thugs" off Iraqi throats, a participant in the meeting said. 
After nearly an hour, the participant said, Mr. Bush concluded the meeting by saying, "Listen, I've got to hop," and then headed quickly for the door. But before leaving the room, he turned to the group and, unasked, gave what the visitors took to be a reference to when he thought the war would be over.
"Soon," he said, before disappearing down the hall.

Internal Debate
Battling Over Who Runs Iraq
The start of the war suspended several debates within the White House, notably the one between Mr. Powell and the administration's hawks over how to disarm Iraq without wreaking more harm than necessary on America's strained alliances.
But quickly, a new argument took its place. It was about postwar Iraq -- who should run it, who should determine which Iraqi leaders should emerge from the seed-corn democracy the United States intended to sow. "Same players, same departments, just a different version of the same fight," one senior White House official said.
The plan Mr. Bush approved before the war called for an interim authority that had a mix of all kinds of Iraqis -- the exiles and the "newly liberated." But in the first week of April Mr. Rumsfeld reopened the issue, writing a letter to Mr. Bush saying that he wanted to fly the exiles into the country and give them control of the south. That would give Pentagon favorites, including Ahmad Chalabi, the head of the Iraqi National Congress, a huge advantage in the eventual leadership of the country. 
Mr. Powell was alarmed. "He saw this as an effort by the hawks to get their own guys on the ground where they could dominate events," one of Mr. Powell's senior aides said. The C.I.A., also suspicious of the exiles, had similar concerns, though it had ways -- including money and advice on the ground in Iraq -- to help its favorites.
The revelation of the Rumsfeld letter forced Ms. Rice to come into the White House press room on April 4 to describe what the new government would look like. "She had to set down the law for a lot of these guys," one senior official said. No sooner had she done so, though, than Mr. Chalabi was flown to southern Iraq with a group of lightly armed supporters, to the surprise of American diplomats. "This will get nastier," one senior diplomat predicted.
Meanwhile, a parallel fight broke out over how to describe the role of the United Nations. Ms. Rice said that only countries that had spilled "blood and treasure" would run Iraq. She said the United Nations would have a "major role," but one limited to humanitarian relief. "She was clearly speaking for the president," one official said. "The U.N. doesn't have the juice to get this done. And he's not about to hand the place over to French and Germans." 
Yet Mr. Blair needed to show that he had a firm hand on the process. Meeting in Northern Ireland early last week, the president and the Prime Minister finally settled on the words "vital role" to describe the United Nations' future in Iraq -- although even Mr. Powell has said he does not know what that means.

Then and Now
The Father, the Son And the Legacy
In some important ways, Mr. Bush's conduct of the war over its first three weeks was about trying to correct mistakes made by his father during and after the first gulf war.
On the afternoon after the first strike against Mr. Hussein, Mr. Bush convened a cabinet meeting to set out the plan for the early stages of the war -- and to keep his domestic agenda alive. He warned against focusing so much on the war that issues like education, Medicare and above all the economy got lost or forgotten.
It has become a political cliche to say the current president is obsessed with avoiding the fate of his father, who was turned out of office after one term in part because he was perceived as ignoring the economy. But the story's familiarity does not make it any less compelling to this White House.
Throughout the war, the administration has not only tracked the economic fallout closely but has also tried to keep up the pressure on Congress to pass the centerpiece of Mr. Bush's economic plan, his $726 billion tax cut proposal. But with Mr. Bush consumed by the conflict in Iraq and Democrats hanging together despite pressure from the White House not to buck a wartime president, the administration lost a big round in Congress. It failed, for now at least, to stop the Senate from cutting his tax cut to $350 billion.
As he has tried to avoid the economic political trap, Mr. Bush has also openly distanced himself from his father's decision not to push harder for Mr. Hussein's overthrow after the 1991 gulf war. The president has shown a more hawkish, unilateralist tendency than his father ever did: the elder Bush wanted to restore world order, while the younger Bush wants to reorder the world.
But it was still remarkable last week, during a news conference with Mr. Blair, when Mr. Bush seemed to criticize his father's conduct in encouraging a rebellion against Mr. Hussein a dozen years ago and then failing to follow through with sustained support for the rebels.
The second Bush administration, he implied, could be trusted by the people of Iraq to finish the job in a way the first one could not be.
"These are people in the south of Iraq that had been betrayed, tortured, had been told they were going to be free, took a risk in the past and then were absolutely hammered by the Iraqi regime," Mr. Bush said. "They were skeptical, they were cynical, they were doubtful. Now they believe, they're beginning to understand we're real and true."
Even this afternoon Mr. Bush could not help reminding reporters that Iraq will not be rebuilt in a day.
"You know, it's amazing," he said. "The statue comes down on Wednesday and the headlines start to read, 'Oh, there's disorder.' "
"Well, no kidding," he continued. "It is a situation that is chaotic because Saddam Hussein created the conditions for chaos. He created conditions of fear and hatred. And it's going to take a while to stabilize the country."

GRAPHIC: Photos: MEETING WITH THE TROOPS -- A visit to Camp Lejeune, N.C., with Laura Bush on April 3. (Associated Press); AN END IN SIGHT? -- With reporters on the South Lawn of the White House yesterday after returning from Camp David. (Agence France-Presse); ALLIES -- Meeting with Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain in Northern Ireland on April 7. (Eric Draper/White House); BATTLE PLAN -- At Central Command headquarters in Tampa, Fla., on March 26. (Doug Mills/The New York Times); FIRST STRIKE -- President Bush announcing the beginning of the war in Iraq on March 19. (Associated Press)(pg. B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); TERRORISM (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; PRISONERS OF WAR; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); TONY BLAIR (50%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; SANGER, DAVID E; STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FRANKS, TOMMY (LIEUT GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); QATAR (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003 



431 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: RELIEF; 
As Chaos Continues, U.S. Sends Aid to Iraq

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: KUWAIT, April 13 

 BODY:
The first team of American health workers flew into Baghdad from Kuwait today on a military aircraft and brought with them medical supplies for one of the city's looted hospitals.
 Dr. Frederick M. Burkle, a deputy assistant administrator at the United States Agency for International Development, and George Havens, a pharmacist from the Public Health Service, plan to assess the needs at the hospitals in Baghdad and then order more medical supplies to be flown in from Kuwait, Michael Marx, an official for the agency said here. 
 The arrival of the Americans came after the International Committee for the Red Cross said the health system in Baghdad was on the verge of collapse after many of the hospitals were looted or closed by fearful staff members. 
In an unusual appeal, the Red Cross called on the American military to protect the hospitals. A senior official at the Agency for International Development in Washington said his agency had been pushing the military to place soldiers outside hospitals. 
Today, 3 medical facilities of the nearly 40 hospitals in the city were guarded by marines, according to reports from the capital.
Dr. Burkle and Mr. Havens were the first members of a team of several hundred American aid experts, diplomats and military personnel to go to Baghdad and help in the aid effort that the Bush administration has said will show the Iraqis the good intentions of the United States. 
The remainder of the officials, most of whom are under the direction of Lt. Gen. Jay Garner, retired, the man designated by the Pentagon to run postwar Iraq, waited here in Kuwait for security to improve in Baghdad. 
Dr. Burkle and Mr. Havens were accompanied by doctors from the American military in what A.I.D. called a co-ordinated effort with the Pentagon. The American agency, which delivers foreign aid around the world, has sought to make clear that it will operate alongside, and not under, the Pentagon in Iraq.
Mr. Marx said Dr. Burkle and Mr. Havens carried a World Health Organization medical kit that was capable of caring for 30,000 patients for one month. The agency was ready to send a dozen more large-scale W.H.O. kits in the coming days from Kuwait, depending on the needs in Baghdad and the airlift capacity of the military, he said. 
"We are trying to avoid a humanitarian health crisis, and we want to respond sooner rather than later," Mr. Marx said.
But securing Baghdad's hospitals from further destruction was the first priority. "If the security of the hospitals is notaccomplished, it could degenerate into a major crisis, including an epidemic," he said. 
Mr. Marx said that until the hospitals were safe from looters, the agency would not provide new supplies. "Until security of hospitals is assured, it's useless to put equipment in there," he said. 
In the citywide looting rampage, hospitals have been popular targets, with medical equipment, from surgical implements to baby incubators, ripped from wards and operating theaters. Some hospitals have closed because their staffs stayed home to safeguard their own property. At one hospital, workers were issued AK-47's to keep the looters at bay. At another, a surgeon brandished a rifle inside the wards. 
Mr. Marx said civilian casualties from sporadic fighting were still being brought to the hospitals. 
The Red Cross said patients with chronic illnesses were too scared to go to hospitals where they received regular care. "Because of the chaos many people, especially the most vulnerable, are simply too afraid to attempt to reach hospitals for medical care," the Red Cross said. 
The United Nations aid agencies are largely absent from Iraq so far. 
The United Nations has said that except in a small section in the south around the port of Umm Qasr, Iraq is not safe enough at this time for its aid workers. The major United Nations aid agencies, like Unicef, the World Food Program and the World Health Organization, must receive a green light from the United Nations Security Coordination Office before they can return. 
World Food Program officials met on Saturday in Umm Qasr with several A.I.D. workers to try to determine how to get the United Nations oil-for-food program running again, Mr. Marx said.
That program has provided most of the nutritional needs for up to 60 percent of Iraqis in the last decade. Through the program, tens of thousands of small stores distributed food to individual households. There have been arguments within the American bureaucracy about whether the Iraqis involved in the oil-for-food distribution were die-hard supporters of the governing Baath Party and thus whether they should be trusted to be involved in reactivating the program.
The United Nations was not the only agency that found Iraq too dangerous for its workers. The private aid group CARE said today that about 20 of its workers were still stranded in Jordan, and were waiting for the restoration of law and order before returning to Iraq. 
At Central Command headquarters in Doha, Qatar, on Saturday, the military responded to complaints about the lack of aid by showing videos at its daily briefing of a ship filled with grain from the United Arab Emirates arriving at Umm Qasr, and of a ship with Australian wheat docking at a port in Kuwait. It was not made clear how those stocks of grain would be delivered to individual Iraqis.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqis arriving at Saddam Medical Center in Baghdad are searched by American marines. Most hospitals in the city have been ravaged by looting. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); PHARMACISTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); TERRORISM (60%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; HOSPITALS; LOOT AND LOOTING; FOREIGN AID; MEDICINE AND HEALTH 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (58%); PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE (58%) RED CROSS 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%)

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (97%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%); KUWAIT (95%) IRAQ; BAGHDAD (IRAQ); KUWAIT

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003



432 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: Restore Commuter Tax 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It's understandable that business leaders urge reinstating the commuter tax ("Pataki Asks Business Group to Postpone Backing Tax," news article, April 9), given the brutal cuts to New York City's schools ("Budget Ax Threatens 3,200 School Workers," news article, April 9). 
 A well-educated city means a better work force, safer streets and an economically strengthened market. 
 We commuters who rely on the city economically should pay our share to keep the city and its schools as strong as possible.
The commuter tax is, for us, a solid investment.

ELLEN MACDONALD
Pelham, N.Y., April 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); LABOR FORCE (87%); BUDGET CUTS (85%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) TAXATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

PERSON: MACDONALD, ELLEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



433 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Grundig, the Radio Maker, Is Insolvent 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: BERLIN, April 14 

 BODY:
Germany's protracted economic woes claimed one of its postwar corporate icons today as Grundig, the illustrious but faded maker of television sets and radios, filed for insolvency.
 The company, based in Nuremberg, sought protection from its creditors after its efforts to find a foreign buyer fell through. Electronics companies from Turkey and Taiwan had negotiated for a controlling stake, but pulled out over doubts about the company's prospects. 
 The latest suitor, Beko Electronik of Turkey, said it dropped its bid because of "diverging ideas about the price."
Grundig has been searching for an investor since 2001, when it lost more than $160 million. Although the company was once the largest maker of radios in Europe, with a name known from the United States to Asia, it lost ground to low-cost competitors from Japan, Taiwan and other Asian countries.
Its insolvency is one of a rising tide of corporate bankruptcies in Germany, as consumers have stopped spending and banks have stopped lending. Among other pillars of German industry that have tumbled in the last year: the media tycoon Leo Kirch and the construction giant Philipp Holzmann.
Grundig's demise may strike a chord, at least with older Germans, because its cheap, but well-made, radios symbolized the rebirth of a consumer society here after the destitution of World War II.
Founded by Max Grundig, a Bavarian radio dealer, the company originally made instruments to repair radios. Mr. Grundig later expanded into radios themselves, as well as tape recorders, record players and TV sets.
His goal, according to his biographer, Christa Bronnenmeyer, was to produce "a radio for every man, at a price every man could afford."
"Max Grundig awoke the consumer dreams of an entire generation, and to a large extent, was able to fulfill those dreams," said Ms. Bronnenmeyer, who wrote a 1999 biography, "Max Grundig: Made in Germany."
As Germans became more affluent in the 1950's, Grundig kept pace by producing television sets. By the 1980's, it had sales offices in Sweden, Portugal, Italy, Spain, France and Taiwan.
By then, however, it was also feeling the pinch from the Japanese, who could turn out competitive products at lower prices. An investment by Royal Philips Electronics of the Netherlands in the 1990's ended badly because Grundig resisted pressure to cut costs by overhauling its operations.
Although Grundig has 2,800 workers and sales of nearly $1.3 billion, analysts said, the company was too small to compete with global giants like the Sony Corporation or Samsung Electronics.
Recognizing it had no future as an independent company, Grundig began courting potential buyers, including Beko of Turkey and Sampo, one of Taiwan's major appliance makers. But those talks foundered, analysts said, after the potential buyers burrowed into Grundig's red-ink-stained books.
Last week, the company named a bankruptcy lawyer, Eberhard Braun, as its chief executive. Mr. Braun said today that Grundig would keep looking for a buyer, and that the bankruptcy filing might actually help its chances. "A series of obligations have been set aside," he said.
Some analysts predicted the company would be broken up, although its brand name and sales network still have value. With bankruptcy filings here running at a record clip, some experts said the fall of Grundig would be seen less as a novelty than as one more sign of Germany's weakness.
"For older people, Grundig means something special," said Andreas Vogel, a researcher at the Institute for Media and Communications Studies at the Technical University in Ilmenau. "For the majority of Germans, however, Grundig is justanother company."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A technician repairs a Grundig radio in Essen. Grundig is one of a rising number of German companies seeking protection from creditors. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); WRITERS (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (64%); WORLD WAR II (50%) TELEVISION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: GRUNDIG INTERMEDIA GMBH (92%); SONY CORP (61%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (58%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS) (52%)

ORGANIZATION: GRUNDIG (CO); BEKO ELECTRONIK 

TICKER: SON (LSE) (61%); SNE (NYSE) (61%); 6758 (TSE) (61%); SMSN (LSE) (58%); 005930 (KSE) (58%); PHIA (BIT) (52%); PHIA (AMS) (52%); PHG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (61%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%); NUREMBERG, GERMANY (74%) GERMANY (94%); TURKEY (94%); TAIWAN (94%); ASIA (90%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); SWEDEN (79%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%); NETHERLANDS (56%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



434 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL HEALTH; 
Stress: It's Impossible to Avoid, but Possible to Conquer

BYLINE:  By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
I pick up my morning newspaper and flip directly to the sports pages because almost every article on Page 1 is about the war. I turn on the radio to get the traffic and weather reports only to hear that American troops have been hit by fire from their own side or that they have killed Iraqi civilians trying to escape the war zone.
 Throughout New York City and elsewhere, there are subtle reminders -- police officers carrying gas masks, soldiers with rifles at airports and toll booths -- that any of us at any time could be struck by another terrorist attack equal to the devastation of Sept. 11, or worse. 
 Bankruptcy or insurmountable debt seems to be looming everywhere, resulting in growing unemployment and reductions in services vital to our quality of life.
Then there are the daily reports of a deadly and highly contagious respiratory ailment called SARS that seems to be spreading rapidly worldwide, despite valiant attempts to contain it. A person coughs on a train or in a theater or, worse yet, on a plane, and a thought leaps to mind: does he have SARS? 
Members of my East Coast family, including my twin grandsons, are about to fly to California for a joyous family event, and I can't help but wonder whether we'll all arrive and return without incident.
And I know I'm not alone.
These are unusually stressful times. The depressed economy is not the only reason for widespread cancellations of nonessential travel that have left Caribbean beaches, hotels and cruise ships half empty. And more and more employees are working from home, while companies conduct virtual meetings.
Stress, to be sure, is a normal part of life. Stressful events, good and bad, happen all the time.
People become ill, injured or die, marry, divorce, miscarry, give birth, change jobs, move, lose money, struggle to make ends meet, fail at important tasks or work against impossible deadlines.
Somehow, most of us learn how to weather or adapt to such stresses or at least cling to the hope that this, too, shall pass and the future will be brighter.

Coping With Excessive Stress
Sometimes the burden of ever-increasing stresses can overwhelm a person's ability to cope, resulting in depression, confusion, anger, paralyzing fears and even suicidal thoughts. Certainly, the uncontrollable stress of war, even a war being fought on other soils, and fears of terror at home, compounded by economic uncertainty and a ravaging, mysterious disease, can easily mount to the point of being overwhelming. 
Stress is particularly challenging if you can do nothing to change the circumstances that provoke it, when your only choice seems to be to find some way to escape it.
"If you are feeling overwhelmed, confused or distressed by the war in Iraq or the uncertainty of the future, or if you're having anxious thoughts and occasional nightmares, that is normal," said Dr. James Gordon, a psychiatrist and director of the Center for Mind-Body Medicine in New York.
"Feeling in shock, not able to take it all in, feeling irritable, anxious, depressed, experiencing mood swings -- these reactions are temporary and normal, how our bodies respond to too much information, uncertainty and lack of control," explained Dr. Barrie Cassileth, a psychologist and a medical social worker who is the director of integrative medicine at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
Even though these feelings are normal, you can still take steps to alleviate them, she and Dr. Gordon said.
Dr. Cassileth works daily with patients and families facing life-threatening disease, teaching them how best to cope with what life has handed them. Dr. Gordon has worked for six years in war and postwar situations in Bosnia, Kosovo and Macedonia, and he works with firefighters who lost friends and family members on Sept. 11. The two are experts in mind-body techniques and other readily accessible methods for alleviating stress, fear and anger.

STAY WELL-INFORMED -- Ignorance is not bliss. Whether the issue is war or illness, what you imagine may well be worse than the reality. Knowing what is actually happening and how you can best deal with the situation or protect yourself and your family from harm may be difficult and painful but can help you stay grounded.

AVOID OVEREXPOSURE -- Don't spend hours reading, listening to or watching coverage of the war. Get the bare facts and move on to something else, lest you become overwhelmed, numbed or both. My home and car radios are set to an all-music station. I read mostly about news in the arts, sports and science. Our television set plays old movies that we rent or borrow from the library.

SEEK OUT SUPPORT -- Turn to friends, family, colleagues and groups, and talk with them, Dr. Cassileth suggested. Share your concerns. Dr. Gordon noted that "people in Bosnia and Kosovo, and also in New York City post-9/11, who did not discuss their feelings had significantly more emotional and physical problems than those who did." Even without talking, it helps to be with someone you feel comfortable with. On a particularly stressful day this month, I called a friend and asked if I could come over and knit with her for an hour.
ADOPT A ROUTINE "Structure is crucial to normal functioning," Dr. Cassileth said. "People can feel very uncertain without any pattern to their lives." She urges people to schedule regular times for meals and sleep. "Having a schedule, a routine, is essential to well-being."

GET OUT AND EXERCISE -- Not just you -- get your friends and family to join you. "Physical exercise releases stress, makes you feel stronger and can become part of a pattern of existence," Dr. Cassileth said.

SET PRIORITIES -- It is easy to feel overwhelmed when too many things happen at once and you don't know where to begin. "Prioritize: take things one at a time, deal with what you have to deal with, and gradually things will fall into place," Dr. Cassileth suggested.

EXERCISE THE MIND-BODY CONNECTION -- If you can relax your mind, your muscles will follow and vice versa, Dr. Cassileth said. Learn techniques like slow, deep breathing and meditation, tools that relax the mind that you can take with you and use whenever you need them.
Dr. Gordon teaches: "Close your eyes, breathe deeply, in through the nose and out through the mouth. Imagine your belly is soft. Say to yourself 'soft' as you breathe in and 'belly' as you breathe out. If thoughts come, let them come and let them go." Relax your body through massage or yoga or, as Dr. Cassileth also advised, "by taking a warm bath with a scented bath oil while listening to music: the more senses you indulge, the better."

VOLUNTEER -- "Reaching out to help others is very healing," Dr. Cassileth said. It gives you a sense of control, makes you feel useful and productive and takes your mind off other things for a while.

SPEAK OUT -- If you feel strongly about the war, don't keep it to yourself, Dr. Gordon advised. "Those who take action, whether writing members of Congress or demonstrating in the streets, deal with the stress of war and its consequences better than those who stay silent."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Sara Schwartz) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SARS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); WEATHER (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TERRORISM (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); DEPRESSION (69%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); SUICIDE (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); CRUISES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



435 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Unwanted Attention for Korea 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: SEOUL, April 13 

 BODY:
Convinced that American attention will soon turn from Iraq to the Korean Peninsula, South Korean financial officials are waging a sales blitz this week on investors in New York.
 The team, led by the finance minister, Kim Jin-Pyo, is trying to overcome the effects of a bad first quarter for the economy, Asia's third largest, caused in part by international concern over North Korea's nuclear weapons program. 
 For years, South Korea was one of Asia's stars, but both its stock market and its currency turned in terrible performances for the first quarter. The main stock gauge, the Kospi index, declined 16.4 percent, and the currency, the won, lost 5.5 percent of its value against the United States dollar. The total value of stocks in the Kospi has fallen more than $45 billion since the recent peak on Dec. 2. 
Frustrated by these declines, foreigners were net sellers of South Korean stocks in February and March, reducing their holdings by $1 billion.
Various economic problems, a corporate scandal and uncertainties about policy under a new administration all contributed to the decline, but the market's attention is fixed on geopolitics. "If we can get a meeting of North Korea and the U.S. on the nuclear issue -- that one meeting is worth $10 billion," said David Roddy, an American economist who edits the Korean Stock Market Newsletter.
For the first quarter, foreign direct investment was down 48 percent from the period a year earlier. High oil prices created a rarity for the country's export-driven economy: three consecutive months of trade deficits.
"The economy is facing harder times due to the impact from the war, and North Korea's nuclear problems remain an urgent issue to be resolved," President Roh Moo Hyun said on Wednesday in a speech.
For years, South Korea treated North Korea the way Dick Van Dyke blithely ignored a massive rock in his living room while showing his house in a famous television comedy sketch. But now, with the last days of North Korea's 90-day notice of withdrawal from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty ticking down to Thursday, it is clear that South Korea's economy has stumbled over its "invisible" rock.
Recognizing the inevitable, the nation's central bank, the Bank of Korea, trimmed its outlook for economic growth this year to 4.1 percent, well below the 6.1 percent growth recorded last year, but also well above the 2 percent expected this year in the United States.
"There is a very big gap between those of us who live in Korea and people who live abroad," the finance minister said in a recent speech to foreign reporters here. South Koreans, he said, "have the faith and conviction that the nuclear issue with North Korea will be solved in a peaceful manner."
Overseas, Mr. Kim is expected to emphasize South Korea's recovery from the financial crisis of 1997 and 1998: it now has $124 billion in foreign reserves, a government budget surplus, and per capita income that has recovered from its losses in the late 1990's and broken through the $10,000 barrier again.
Although South Korea is passing through something of a downturn, many analysts see little risk of the kind of downward spiral that took hold in 1997, when the won plunged and the banking system imploded. The accounting scandal at SK Global, the trading arm of one of the country's giant conglomerates, has evoked memories of the 1999 collapse of Daewoo under $80 billion of debt; SK Global said last month that it had understated losses by at least $1.2 billion. That has reminded investors of the continuing lack of transparency at the big conglomerates, known as chaebol. But though it soured the stock and bond markets, it has not seemed to threaten a wider crisis.
"The reserves are big enough for Korea to take a massive hit with external confidence and still not come close to default," Thomas J. Byrne, senior Korea analyst for Moody's Investors Service, said here on Wednesday.
In February, Moody's shocked South Korea by changing the country's long-term ratings outlook to negative from positive, citing heightened security concerns from North Korea's nuclear weapons program.
"The foreign investment climate will be nervous as long as there is an unfolding situation with North Korea," Myron Brilliant, executive vice president of the United States-Korea Business Council, a private group, warned on a recent visit here.
During the first quarter here, American investment was down about two-thirds. Bucking the trend, Prudential Financial, the American life insurer, concluded a preliminary agreement last month to buy two financial services units from the Hyundai group for $400 million.
With more investors -- South Korean and foreign -- turning to China for opportunities, foreign investment in South Korea fell to $9 billion last year from $15 billion in 2000. Wages are part of the reason: they rose an average of 16 percent last year, in a country where inflation is running at 3 percent to 4 percent, according to the Korea National Statistical Office.
Just a decade ago, South Korea exported more merchandise to Japan than China did. But while South Korea's market share in Japan has been stable at around 5 percent, China's has expanded to 18.3 percent.
This diversion of investment and jobs to China has hit entry-level workers hard. Among the major developed economies, South Korea's youth unemployment rate of 12.3 percent is now second only to that of France.
While foreigners worry about North Korea, South Koreans worry about their own economy. Indexes of consumer and business confidence are at two-year lows. Retail and wholesale sales shrank 1.8 percent in February, the first decline in four years.
Consumer spending is being damped by the bursting of a credit card bubble. Ten percent of accounts are overdue, owing $9.5 billion; credit card companies are cutting jobs, closing offices and raising rates as high as 30 percent to stem losses and raise cash.
South Koreans now look beyond the country's borders more than in the past. Some 22 percent of a typical household's purchases are of imported goods, twice the level of 1996, and the amount South Koreans spend overseas by credit card has quadrupled since then, to $2.45 billion in 2002.
To mitigate some of the tourism spending binge, South Korea developed a thriving tourism partnership with Japan. But first the Iraq war and now the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome has cut the number of Japanese visitors here as much as one-quarter, emptying hotels and thinning department store crowds.
For South Korea, the world's fourth-largest oil importer, the impact of the war in Iraq is as concrete as gasoline prices of $4.35 a gallon.
Because of high oil prices, South Korea had a trade deficit of $849 million in the first quarter, the first time since 1997 that it was in deficit for a full quarter. Still, exports rose about 22 percent in the period. If oil prices fall further with the ebbing of fighting in Iraq, the country is likely to return quickly to surplus.
Another benefit from the war's end may be work for the country's construction industry, which has a long track record in the Middle East but has had little luck lately landing work overseas. To open the way, President Roh, on his third try, won parliamentary approval to send about 660 military doctors, engineers and other noncombat support troops to help the American-led coalition in Iraq, though opinion polls found that 80 percent of Koreans opposed the idea.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kim Jin-Pyo, the South Korean finance minister, is urging foreign investors to keep their money in the country. (Agence France-Presse); Falling stock prices were one sign of a troubled first quarter for South Korea's economy as the nation deals with the effects of global concerns about the political tensions involving North Korea. (Chung Sung-Jun for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); TRENDS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (52%); SCANDALS (52%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

COMPANY: BANK OF KOREA (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%)

PERSON: KIM JIN-PYO; BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (93%); IRAQ (92%) SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



436 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 DOLLAR FALLS. The dollar fell on speculation that the United States economy will not expand fast enough to prompt foreign investors to invest more here. In New York, the euro settled at $1.0775, up from $1.0758 on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since November 2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%) CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



437 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Travelers Are Scarce in Turkey, and So Is Business 

BYLINE:  By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: ZELVE, Turkey, April 11 

 BODY:
Year after lucrative year, Bayram Coskun watched a seemingly endless convoy of buses rumble toward his roadside cafe here, disgorging tourists by the hundreds. He busily filled their cups with tea, and they readily lined his pockets with money.
 But today the road was empty, and he slumped in a white plastic chair with nothing to do but finger a set of worry beads, a gesture in keeping with his mood. 
 "I don't think we can survive much longer like this," Mr. Coskun said, pointing to half a dozen other merchants around him, all of them idle, all of them desperate. 
They had set up shop in this tiny town amid the grand, crazily shaped canyons of Turkey's fabled Cappadocia region because, they figured, nothing could keep travelers from topographical splendor like this.
But the war in Iraq has done precisely that.
"I haven't sold a single piece today," said Murat Ozturk, who had retreated from his souvenir stand, beside Mr. Coskun's cafe, to sit in the shade. His business partner was studying a Japanese grammar book and said he was mulling a new career in a different country.
The American-led invasion of Iraq has badly hurt tourism here and throughout Turkey, as it has in many of the countries surrounding Iraq.
Flights have been canceled, hotel rooms are empty and many of the stoplights in this town and ones nearby seem superfluous.
For Turkey, it is an especially cruel blow. Tourism is a major engine of the economy, which is already buckling under too much debt and a recession in 2001 that was Turkey's worst in more than 50 years.
For the United States, it is cause for considerable concern. Turks' overwhelming opposition to the war, which has severely strained the two countries' alliance, hinged largely on Turkish fears about the economic impact of fighting in Iraq.
Now, as some of those fears come true, Turkey's predicament creates the possibility of even more resentment toward the United States, which has long depended on Turkey as a strategic ally in a volatile region. Many Turkish officials still complain about the tens of billions of dollars they estimate they lost from diminished trade and tourism after the gulf war in 1991. They say the United States never came through with enough aid to compensate the country.
"We saw how the economy was damaged back then, and no country was affected like Turkey," said Omar Tosun, who owns several hotels, a travel agency and an antique carpet store in Urgup and Uchisar, two other towns in Cappadocia.
"That's why we didn't want another war," Mr. Tosun said. "We knew." He added that the travelers started disappearing in January, when war began to seem likely, and that his revenues had declined 80 percent this year from the same period last year. "In the last four months," he added, "I have not sold a single carpet. Not one."
Government tourism officials have not released statistics on the industry's performance this year, and one of them, who refused to be identified, insisted in an interview that business was more robust than ever. "Unfortunately, our people usually tend to cry and complain," the official said.
But that assessment was contradicted by reports from travel industry officials in many European countries, who said that bookings to Turkey were down anywhere from 15 to 40 percent so far this year.
It was also undercut by the tourism official's own admission that Turkey was embarking on a public relations campaign to convince travelers that while Turkey borders Iraq, it remains a safe tourist destination.
There is enough time between now and the summer, when Europeans typically flock to the Turkish coast, for the war to wind down and for tourism, which brought about $12 billion to Turkey last year, to recover. But Turks in the Cappadocia region, which welcomes tourists year-round, said enormous damage had already been done.
Late Thursday morning, in the town of Kaymakli, a famous cave city was almost completely deserted.
"It used to be really crowded," said Omer Burunkaya, who was selling tickets at the entrance to the ancient labyrinth, one of several in the region. At this time last year, he said, he sold about 600 a day. Now, he said, he was selling fewer than 90.
That represented many more people than Mr. Coskun was seeing on a daily basis in his cafe here.
Without customers, he had ample time to monitor news reports that suggested the war might end soon. He was trying hard to believe that.
"It is not possible to live without hope, right?" he said. "We are all waiting, hands tied."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With its open-air museum, Goreme, in the Cappadocia region of Turkey, has long been a favorite of travelers. But this year, the merchant who owns these camels has had trouble finding tourists to ride them. (Frank Bruni/The New York Times) Map of Turkey shows surrounding area: Merchants in Zelve say the war has damaged their livelihoods. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (88%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); RETAILERS (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); DESERT STORM (73%); FLOOR COVERING STORES (70%); TRENDS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); TRAVEL AGENTS (68%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (68%); AIRLINES (65%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TURKEY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; HOTELS AND MOTELS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

PERSON: BRUNI, FRANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ; TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



438 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Rose 60% in Quarter At Fannie Mae 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Fannie Mae, the nation's largest mortgage financier, said that its earnings surged 60 percent as Americans took advantage of low interest rates and signed up for more home loans in a busy housing market.
 The company's chief executive said the housing market would gradually slow down. 
 First-quarter net income was $1.94 billion, or $1.93 a share, compared with $1.21 billion, or $1.17 a share, a year earlier. 
Under generally accepted accounting principles, companies like Fannie Mae must report the current market value of derivatives even though the gains or losses from such investments have yet to be realized. 
Excluding changes in the value of its investments, its earnings rose to $1.85 billion, or $1.84 a share, compared with $1.52 billion, or $1.48 a share, a year earlier. This was well above the $1.73 a share analysts had expected.
The chief executive, Franklin D. Raines, said that the housing market would undergo a correction over the course of the year. "We are going to see the natural process of gradual slowdown, which we have seen in the past," he said in an interview with CNBC.
But analysts said the company should still post strong earnings because housing market activity will remain near historically high levels for a while. 
"When he's saying things are already softening some, he means we're not going to keep this torrid pace of 8 to 9 percent home price appreciation, but we will still see appreciation," said Caren E. Mayer of Banc of America Securities. 
Because its business is so influenced by interest rates, Fannie Mae is a heavy user of derivatives, and accounting for them makes results appear more volatile. The company and analysts say that such investments must be excluded for an accurate picture of Fannie's results. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ACCOUNTING (70%) COMPANY REPORTS; HOUSING; MORTGAGES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FANNIE MAE 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%) SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES; 

PERSON: FRANK RAINES (74%) RAINES, FRANKLIN D 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



439 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: City Has a $100 Million Plan To Develop Downtown Brooklyn 

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL 

 BODY:
New York City will invest roughly $100 million over the next 7 to 10 years to make Downtown Brooklyn a vibrant commercial and residential hub, officials said yesterday, as part of a Bloomberg administration plan to keep jobs within the five boroughs, and to attract others.
 At a time when the talk at City Hall is mostly about pending service cuts and looming layoffs, Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff and other officials offered a more hopeful vision at a news conference at the Metrotech Center in Downtown Brooklyn. 
 "We can't predict the future, when the economy's going to rebound," said Mr. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding. "But we know that in the last boom, this city did not have the space for companies who wanted to stay here or relocate here. And we paid the price and we paid it, and we're still feeling the pain of that." 
Under the city's plan, which calls for rezoning several areas to encourage new commercial and residential construction, officials envision three new office towers, with as much as three million square feet of space, abutting a new 1.5-acre park on Willoughby Street west of the Flatbush Avenue extension. Another office development, potentially accommodating 850,000 square feet, would rise on the west side of the commercial area at Boerum Place.
Officials also said they hoped to see new residential buildings in several areas, including along the eastern side of the Flatbush Avenue extension, on Livingston Street and on Myrtle Avenue, across the street from the Raymond V. Ingersoll public housing complex.
At the same time, officials said, they would work to preserve the small-scale residential feel of the surrounding neighborhoods, like Boerum Hill and Brooklyn Heights. 
The plan would also require shop owners to meet certain design requirements for their storefronts and would require improvements to subway entrances as a condition for development, said Amanda M. Burden, the city planning commissioner. 
The plan also provides for more than 1,000 new parking spaces, officials said, and the Department of Transportation will conduct a study and appoint a traffic coordinator specifically for Downtown Brooklyn.
Still, some officials, while praising the proposal over all, say that it does not go far enough. "There is still a very big gap in their plan," said City Councilman David Yassky, who represents part of the surrounding area. "To make it really successful as a commercial core, the plan needs to be more aggressive about traffic and transportation measures to ease congestion."
City Councilman James E. Davis also had high praise for the plan but balked at the notion that the new zoning would allow office buildings to rise without limit, potentially soaring beyond the unofficial ceiling of 34 stories and 512 feet set by the Williamsburgh Savings Bank building, on the edge of Fort Greene.
Yesterday, Mr. Doctoroff pledged to work with local advocates as the plan moves ahead. An environmental impact study will begin this month, he said, with the first public forum on the proposal held in May. Officials said they hoped to have the zoning changes approved by next April. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ZONING (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); TRENDS (65%); RETAILERS (62%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; HOUSING; LABOR 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) CARDWELL, DIANE; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); DOCTOROFF, DANIEL L (DEPUTY MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



440 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Mounting Debt Forces Closing Of Noted New Jersey Theater 

BYLINE:  By MARIA NEWMAN 

DATELINE: ENGLEWOOD, N.J., April 14 

 BODY:
Citing mounting debt that they could not overcome, officials of the John Harms Center for the Arts announced today that their theater, which opened in 1926 as a silent movie and vaudeville house and became the cornerstone of this city's revived downtown business district, was closing its doors for good.
 As many of the center's 25 employees and 135 volunteers listened tearfully, Robert Stern, the president and chief executive officer of the center's board, said that officials had tried all weekend to come to a last-minute payment arrangement with bankers to keep from closing the 1,400-seat theater. 
 "I'm very sorry to inform you that negotiations over the weekend failed to resolve our $2.3 million debt crisis, which originated and has been looming over this center since the 1990's," Mr. Stern said. "Therefore, this morning we were left with no other choice but to close operations, terminate staff and cancel all scheduled performances effective immediately." 
The center, considered one of the leading cultural institutions in northern New Jersey, has offered a variety of performances and events, from concerts to ballet to comedy to children's theater. Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo was to perform there this week. The saxophonist David Sanborn was scheduled to appear next month, and in June there was to be a production of "West Side Story."
Like many other cultural centers, the John Harms suffered a decrease in ticket sales and donations after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Last summer, ticket sales had decreased by $100,000 from the previous year, and corporate donations were down $150,000. Those decreases only added to problems the center already had in eliminating a huge debt acquired during a $6.6 million renovation of the theater that included a new roof, air-conditioning, a new sound system and marquee, and additional seating.
In 2001, a new fiber optic cable linked the theater to the nearby Bennett Recording Studios used to record performances by Tony Bennett and K. D. Lang.
Few of those gathered in the ornate lobby of the Victorian-style theater today wanted to lay blame for the debt on anyone. But after a board meeting in August, Jerry Bakal, the director of operations, and Mary Oleniczak, who was hired in April 2001 as C.E.O. and president, both departed.
Mr. Stern, a dentist and musician who lives in Englewood, was brought in to try to get the center out from under the hovering debt. But today, he said that board members were resigned to the realities of harsher financial times for the arts, especially as state and county budgets take a harder hit in a wartime economy.
"It's a cruel environment," Mr. Stern said. "My feeling is that while we are defending a culture, we don't pay attention to maintaining one. We're all going to suffer irreparable losses."
Many of the employees and volunteers who listened to Mr. Stern were stunned and hurt by the news.
Anne Garfinkel, who with her husband, Irving, has been volunteering here as a ticket taker for 13 years, suggested that board members solicit donations from residents of Englewood, a wealthy community.
"Talk to the public. If they were aware that the theater was closing, they might stick their hands in their pockets and take out 10 bucks, 50 bucks, 100 bucks," she told Mr. Stern. "This is going to be a big, big loss for Bergen County and all of northern New Jersey. People would rather come here than go into the city."
Cathy Roy, the director of education, began her association with the center in 1987 by working with costumes and acting as a member of a theater equity company. Her husband, Chad Spies, grew up in Englewood and has told her about riding his bicycle to the theater when it was a movie house and his job was to change the marquees. He went on to work as operations director at the theater, and is now executive director of the Jones Beach Theater, she said.
"We've been through four or five executive directors," Ms. Roy said. "The saddest thing is that right now the way it operates is the best I've ever lived through. The board is fantastic; they're so supportive. The staff is great. Our school is getting better than ever. That's what's so horrible. You have this little jewel, but then you also have this albatross that we just can't get rid of."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Officials of the John Harms Center for the Arts announced its closing yesterday. They cited a $2.3 million debt they cannot pay off. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); CLOSINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CORPORATE GIVING (77%); TICKET SALES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COUNTIES (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); RECORD INDUSTRY (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (66%); MUSIC (66%); LOBBYING (65%); TERRORISM (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); CHILDREN (51%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); FIBER OPTICS (50%) CULTURE; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); CREDIT 

ORGANIZATION: HARMS, JOHN, CENTER FOR THE ARTS 

PERSON: NEWMAN, MARIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) ENGLEWOOD (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



441 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Squeezed Colleges See Credit Ratings Drop 

BYLINE:  By GREG WINTER 

 BODY:
Though its natty campus may not show it, Clarke College is in an admittedly tight spot. Its student body has shrunk, its endowment even more. At the moment, the college has more debts than money. 
 "We're all just hanging in there, trying to streamline where we can, yet maintain the academic quality we're known for," said Catherine Dunn, Clarke's president, noting that the college in Dubuque, Iowa, only has enough cash on hand to cover about two months of operations. "We have overcome what seemed like insurmountable things before. Hopefully, this will be no different." 
 Last week, Clarke became one of 11 colleges and universities to be downgraded by Moody's Investors Service, which analyzes the financial health of institutions to gauge their credit worthiness. Williams College, Illinois Wesleyan University, Mills College and Tougaloo College were among the other institutions to slip at least a notch on the credit scale in the first quarter of 2003. Three others, including Georgetown University, were put on a "watch list" for possible downgrades should their fortunes continue to slide.
It was a record number of downgrades, nearly three times what Moody's reported for the same period last year, and more than five times as many as in the first quarter of 2001. What it reflects, the rating service said, are the competing pressures on private colleges to spend heavily on their campuses despite waning endowments, to keep classrooms filled amid competition from public universities and to raise tuition without frightening away students who seem to be more price-conscious than ever. 
"For small, less-wealthy colleges there is definite concern," said Naomi Richman, head of Moody's higher education rating team. "Most institutions will get through this period and remain strong, but there are some that are facing real strain."
While all institutions take it seriously, being downgraded hardly means a college is likely to fold. For a richly endowed college like Williams, the mark is a slight taint on an otherwise sterling financial reputation. Some other colleges, like Mills, say they have few, if any, major building campaigns in the works, so the higher interest rates such ratings bring may not hamper them for now. 
Regardless of the impact, the ratings offer a fiscal barometer for colleges in a trying economy, the toughest environment many college presidents say they have ever encountered. Chief among the concerns is the fate of their endowments, a principal source of revenue for colleges that has continued to dwindle with the sagging stock market. 
Illinois Wesleyan, for example, has lost nearly half its money in the last two years, with total resources falling to $53 million from $103 million between the 2000 and 2002 fiscal years. The university has since brought in consultants to stem the loss, but the interest the money once generated has been sorely missed, opening a budgetary hole begging to be filled.
"That really leaves you with tuition and gifts," said Kenneth Browning, Illinois Wesleyan's vice president for business and finance, adding that the university's tuition went up 6 percent this year, compared with the national average of 5.8 percent for private colleges. 
"We've never felt that we could just increase tuition to whatever we wanted to," Mr. Browning said, "but we have over the last several years gone up slightly faster than the national average."
Whatever fears colleges may have of driving students away, particularly to public universities, widespread budget shortfalls have yielded even higher tuition increases. Nearly a third of the colleges Moody's rated run operating deficits from one year to the next, making some combination of cutbacks and higher price tags virtually inevitable. 
"You have to remember, there is also the possibility of scaring away students who wonder why we're less expensive than our peer institutions," Janet L. Holmgren, president of Mills College, said in defense of the decision to raise undergraduate tuition 8.4 percent for the coming year, and as much as 10 percent after that. Moody's expects the college to break even by the 2005 fiscal year. 
For all their financial troubles, colleges are borrowing more money to beautify their campuses than they did in flusher times, mostly to ensure a steady flow of students. In the first quarter of 2003, universities took on more than $5.5 billion worth of debt, Moody's reported, a 58 percent increase over the same period last year and more than twice as much debt as in the first quarter of 2001. 
"We have to maintain our competitive edge," Helen Ouellette, Williams's treasurer, said about the decision to take on the $100 million in debt that cost the college its perfect credit rating from Moody's. "We have a perfectly fine student center that's been here for 50 some years, but you never want to rest on those laurels."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "UPDATE: Downgrading Colleges"Several colleges have had their creditworthiness downgraded this year. Here is the rating activity for higher education institutions through the first quarter of this year compared with the first quarters of the two previous years. 2001UPGRADES: 15DOWNGRADES: 2 2002UPGRADES: 11DOWNGRADES: 4 2003UPGRADES: 6DOWNGRADES: 11 (Source: Moodys Investors Service) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); BUDGETS (77%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (73%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; CREDIT; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; FINANCES; TUITION 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (70%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%) MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE 

INDUSTRY:  SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: WINTER, GREG 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



442 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
Hotels Doing Well, Despite Slump

BYLINE:  By DONNA ROSATO 

 BODY:
The same forces that are mauling the airlines are taking a heavy toll on the hotel business.
 "We're seeing an unprecedented drop in demand," said Paul Whetsell, chief executive of Interstate Hotels and Resorts, the largest independent operator of hotels in the United States and Canada "This is the worst I've seen in 30 years." 
 There is a big difference between the industries, though: while the sour economy, the terrorist attacks, the war in Iraq and now severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, have pushed some airlines to the brink of insolvency, hotels are, comparatively, thriving.
"Despite the fact that the business has never been in worse shape and the demand for hotels rooms has never been weaker, the industry is surprisingly financially healthy," said Michael J. Rietbrock, head of lodging at Smith Barney. PricewaterhouseCoopers projects the sector's earnings this year at $15 billion, down from $16.1 billion in 2002 but still a startling performance when measured against the airlines' expected losses of $10 billion and the hotels' own losses of $5.7 billion in 1991, in the aftermath of the Persian Gulf war. 
Business travelers do not have to look far to discover the reasons for that success: an almost obsessive drive to slash costs and an equally grim determination to stop self-destructive price-cutting.
Consider Interstate Hotels and Resorts, which manages nearly 400 hotels including Hiltons, Westins, Sheratons and Hampton Inns. Mr. Whetsell says his hotels have experienced a steady erosion in room rates over the last three years and are often just two-thirds full.
In response, Mr. Whetsell says, the company has eliminated 15 percent of 38,500 jobs (many of them part time) and has trained many of the remaining employees to handle multiple tasks. For example, a front-desk person may also take phone reservations and an administrative person in the back office will help check people in during busy times. On a recent Friday at the Hilton Embassy Row in Washington, no one was working at the bar in the lobby, even though several potential customers were sitting nearby.
Mr. Whetsell, who acquired Interstate Hotels last summer and merged it with MeriStar Hotels and Resorts to add more than 100 properties to its management roster, has also reduced staff -- and thus costs -- by centralizing reservations and purchasing for all hotels. 
Such belt-tightening has been so effective that last year, the industry's break-even occupancy rate dropped to 47 percent, down from 60 percent in the mid-1990's, a PricewaterhouseCoopers study found.
But what is effective for the hotels can be annoying to their guests. "I'm paying the same rates as last year, but I'm getting much less service in restaurants and at the front desk," said Roger Wright, an automobile insurance executive who lives in Greensboro, N.C., and who travels on business every week. "I'm a platinum member at Marriott and a diamond member at Hilton. I don't like having to wait a long time to check in."
Likewise, Edward Reagan, a consultant in suburban Philadelphia who stays in hotels 150 to 170 nights a year, has noticed fewer waiters in restaurants, fewer bellhops in lobbies and even torn curtains in the rooms. Still, he is generally pleased with the service he gets, and says Marriott, where he is an elite member, has been responsive to complaints. "They have to be," he said. "Customers vote with their feet." A silver lining, he says, is that it is easier than before to be upgraded to a suite.
Whatever the grumbling about service cutbacks, hotels have little choice. They cannot raise rates. And the war was almost the last straw in a tough year, forcing some hotel companies to abandon their already modest earnings forecasts for this year. Last month, Starwood Hotels and Resorts withdrew its earnings forecast for the first quarter and for 2003, and Hilton Hotels cut its estimated earnings for the same periods. Both blamed the war.
Nobody foresees an early rebound. The number of business trips this spring is expected to fall 2.5 percent from the spring of 2002 and 13 percent from spring 2001, according to the Travel Industry Association. Occupancies have fallen to an average 60 percent from 63 percent last year, and the average room rate to $83, from $84 in 2002, Smith Travel Research says. And hotel loan delinquencies are at their highest level since the early 1990's, according to PKF Consulting.
In response, hotels are aiming at new markets. Interstate, for example, is going after more group and government business, like trade associations and the military, though they typically pay lower rates. It is even offering local residents discount cards at its restaurants.
More important, hotels are acting to stop the widespread discounting of the last three years. "Hotels are realizing that discounting doesn't stimulate demand," said Bjorn Hanson, hotel analyst at PricewaterhouseCoopers. "It just shifts market share around."
Hotels are also trying to rein in the sale of their rooms at steep reductions on Web sites like Hotels.com and Priceline.com. "We've seen a tremendous change in the number of ways hotel rooms are sold, and with demand so low, hotels have lost their pricing power," Mr. Whetsell said. To fight back, some companies, including Hilton, Mariott and Hyatt, , banded together to start Travelweb.com, their own Web site aimed at pulling business back from online rivals.
Cendant, the largest franchiser of hotels in the United States with more than 6,000 economy and mid-level hotels, including Days Inn, Ramada, Howard Johnson and Super 8, will hold revenue management classes in 45 cities later this month to teach its franchise hotel employees how to better manage room rates. "We don't own or operate any hotels, but we have a vested interest in franchisees doing well," said Steve Rudintsky, Cendant's hotel group president, noting that Cendant earns an average of 4 percent for every room rented.
Hotels are also cutting back on property improvement projects to save money. Nationally, hotels will reduce capital spending for renovations and upgrades this year to about 2.9 percent of revenues, Mr. Hanson of PricewaterhouseCoopers said, down from 3 percent to 3.75 percent before 2001.
Accor, which operates the Sofitel, Novotel, Motel 6 and Red Roof Inn chains, says it has postponed the planned construction of Sofitel hotels in San Francisco and Dallas. Accor also says it has frozen hiring, reduced jobs by attrition and plans to hire fewer summer employees.
Hotel companies say they are being careful not to cut too drastically. "We are more focused on being in good shape for when the market rebounds," said Georges LeMener, chief executive of Accor North America. "We don't want to do something extreme now that will hurt us when there is a rebound."
Accor is keeping its marketing budget steady and is going ahead with plans to build a $23 million headquarters and training center in Dallas. And, last week, Cendant sent 100 of its corporate employees out in teams to conduct half-day seminars on improving customer service at 5,000 of its franchise hotels. "Good isn't really good enough anymore," Mr. Rudintsky said.
At Interstate, Mr. Whetsell says he is careful to walk a fine line between cost-cutting and keeping customers happy. He says Interstate's guest satisfaction scores, measured in monthly surveys by the brands it operates hotels for, have actually risen in the last six month despite the cutbacks. "People will not tolerate bad service today," he said. "We don't want our customers to walk away from us; there are so few of them."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 16, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the financial health of the hotel industry misspelled the surname of the chief executive of the Cendant Corporation's hotel group. He is Steven Rudnitsky, not Rudintsky.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Whetsell, chief executive of Interstate Hotels and Resorts, says his hotels have experienced a steady erosion in room rates over the last three years. The company has eliminated 15 percent of 38,500 jobs. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); AIRLINES (90%); RESORTS (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (76%); DESERT STORM (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (71%); TERRORISM (71%); SARS (70%); PRICE CUTTING (70%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (65%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; FINANCES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: INTERSTATE HOTELS & RESORTS INC (84%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS; INTERSTATE HOTELS CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721310 ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (84%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: WHETSELL, PAUL; ROSATO, DONNA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (90%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



443 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Hughes Narrows Its Losses As DirecTV Adds Customers 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
The Hughes Electronics Corporation said yesterday that its first-quarter loss narrowed and that revenue rose on stronger-than-expected results at its DirecTV unit.
 The improvements led the company, in which the News Corporation agreed last week to buy a controlling stake, to raise its financial and subscriber estimates for 2003. 
 But Michael J. Gaines, the company's chief financial officer, said he was cautious about the rest of the year and was awaiting reactions to a price increase made toward the end of the quarter. 
"I'm not sure we're ready to predict that we'd have a second quarter that keeps pace with the first quarter," Mr. Gaines said in an interview. "I don't think anybody is out there saying that the economy has turned the corner or consumer confidence is up."
Hughes, which is based in El Segundo, Calif., said its net loss narrowed to $50.9 million from $837.7 million in the 2002 quarter. The company, which trades as a tracking stock of General Motors, its parent, does not report earnings per share.
The results in the quarter last year were hurt by charges related to the DirecTV Broadband Internet service and DirecTV Latin America, the bankrupt broadcaster in which Hughes has a 75 percent stake.
First-quarter revenue rose 10 percent, to $2.23 billion from $2.02 billion.
Hughes said it expected to report revenue of $9.5 billion to $9.6 billion in 2003, compared with its previous estimate of $9.3 billion to $9.5 billion. It also raised its estimate for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to $1.15 billion to $1.2 billion from $1.1 billion.
The company raised its 2003 outlook for net added DirecTV subscribers to 800,000 to 850,000 from previous estimates of 750,000 to 800,000 subscribers.
DirecTV ended the quarter with 11.4 million subscribers, including those in rural areas where it resells its service. Excluding its rural resellers, which lost 30,000 subscribers, DirecTV added 275,000 subscribers.
Shares of Hughes rose 33 cents, to $10.85.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A maintenance worker cleans up around a DirecTV receiver in Venezuela. Hughes owns 75 percent of DirecTV Latin America. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EBITDA (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (61%); EXECUTIVES (56%); BROADBAND (51%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: DIRECTV (95%); NEWS CORP (84%); DIRECTV BROADBAND INC (55%); DIRECTV LATIN AMERICA LLC (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: HUGHES ELECTRONICS CORP 

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (95%); NWS (NASDAQ) (84%); NWS (ASX) (84%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (95%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%) SIC3679 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS; 

PERSON: GAINES, MICHAEL J 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



444 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Prices Draw Some Share Buyers as Others Await Reports

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Investors attracted by lower prices but still wary of first-quarter earnings sent stocks soaring yesterday. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed more than 140 points but volume was light, a sign that many investors want to see more profit reports before making any major moves. 
 "I think guys are going to stay flexible until they see some conviction," said Michael Murphy, head trader at Wachovia Securities. "There is a reluctance by large institutions to really commit to the market. This isn't a momentum-driven market." 
 Although stocks were quite a temptation, Wall Street was still concerned after hearing companies say that first-quarter and yearly results will be soft. The market is again focused primarily on earnings and economic news, paying less attention to the war in Iraq.
Amid extremely light trading, the Dow closed up 147.69 points, or 1.8 percent, at 8,351.10.
The broader market also finished sharply higher. The Nasdaq composite index rose 26.10 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,384.95. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 16.93 points, or 2 percent, to 885.23. 
The gains put the Dow and the S.& P. 500 back into positive territory for the year. The Nasdaq has been on positive ground for the last month. 
Despite yesterday's advance, analysts do not expect many big upswings on Wall Street for quite a while. But they predict the market will hold up rather well in the coming weeks as companies report their results; analysts say the numbers will look far better than those of last year's first quarter. 
A. C. Moore, chief investment strategist for Dunvegan Associates in Santa Barbara, Calif., said: "The markets have some reasonably good comparisons to work off of and expectations are fairly low. And that being the case, we might get through this earnings season without too much psychological damage or market damage." 
In economic news, the Commerce Department reported that business inventories grew 0.6 percent in February, while sales declined 1 percent, the biggest drop since November 2001. 
Citigroup climbed $1.08, to $38.43, after posting first-quarter earnings that surpassed analysts' expectations by 2 cents a share. Bank of America rose 66 cents, to $72, on profits that beat Wall Street's forecast by 11 cents a share. I.B.M. advanced $1.32, to $80.07, in advance of its earnings report. After the market closed yesterday, I.B.M. posted profits of 79 cents a share, a penny shy of expectations. Its stock rose as high as $81.24 in after-hours trading. 
Intel rose 40 cents, to $17.16, ahead of its quarterly results, expected today. 
But Abercrombie & Fitch fell 20 cents, to $31.20, and Coach declined 8 cents, to $38.42, after Merrill Lynch downgraded the retailers.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Fall
(By Bloomberg News) -- Treasury prices fell yesterday, as some investors speculated faster growth would keep the Federal Reserve from cutting interest rates.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 10/32, to a price of 98 28/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.02 percent from 3.98 percent on Friday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 14/32, to 105 30/32. The bond's yield rose to 4.98 percent from 4.95 percent on Friday.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of three-month and six-month bills.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.706	99.406	High Rate	1.165	1.175	Investment Rate	1.186	1.202	Low Rate	1.14%	1.15%	Median Rate	1.15%	1.16%	Total applied for	$34,023,893	$36,307,560	Accepted	$19,863,051	$20,336,500	Noncompetitive	$1,474,048	$879,791	

Both issues are dated April 17, 2003. The three-month bills mature on July 17, 2003, and the six-month bills mature on Oct. 16, 2003.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks heldby largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "3-Month Treasury Bills"High rate at weekly auction. Graph tracks bills from December-April (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (73%); INVENTORIES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); IRAQ WAR (68%); RETAILERS (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE 

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (80%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); INTEL CORP (50%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (80%); AFT (FRA) (80%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (80%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (80%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



445 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE ROAD; 
Spam: The Next Frontier In Booking Your Trip

BYLINE:  By Joe Sharkey 

 BODY:
HENRY H. HARTEVELDT knows a whole lot more about online travel booking than I'll ever know, but on the other hand Mr. Harteveldt doesn't have to wade through my e-mail in basket. 
 For example, I was traveling most of last week. When I got back, I spent two hours sorting out the e-mail messages I wanted to read from a five-day accumulation of spam, working my delete key like a machine-gun trigger. 
 In all, there were more than 900 desperate junk-mail spams, ranging from those with message lines that wink with coquettish come-ons ("I really enjoyed last night!") to those that, taken together, seem to imply that the receiver is a swashbuckling sybarite, as well a prime candidate for male and female anatomical enlargements and/or reductions, not to mention a debt-ridden, obese loner who gambles excessively but is nevertheless sufficiently flush to attract trusting offers from various relatives of Mobuto Sese Seko who require help in laundering $70 million in cash that's been laying around since the fall of Kinshasha. 
So the old eyebrow shot up recently at a travel industry conference when I heard Mr. Harteveldt, the principal travel analyst at Forrester Research, assert, "E-mail is the most important tool in the travel industry's recovery."
Sure, I thought. And the Three Tenors? Those guys are all at the top of their game.
But then I remembered the last e-mail sort-through I'd done, dispatching all those spams to the delete bin. When I was finished, the only advertising e-mail messages that remained were a handful of promotional offers, or heads-up messages about travel, from various airlines and hotels.
According to Mr. Harteveldt, airlines, hotels and other travel suppliers have discovered something remarkable about frequent travelers, who tend to be people who are also high users of the Internet (and subscribers to broadband Internet services). We actually want to get e-mail messages from these companies. 
E-mail is proving to be "the most immediate vehicle you have to reach out to customers, to segment and communicate with customers in a relevant, compelling and timely manner," Mr. Harteveldt told industry suppliers at the Travel Commerce conference in New York earlier this month. 
"The e-mail-engaged traveler," said Mr. Harteveldt, doesn't much like pop-up ads or big ad displays that eat up the whole screen. These travelers want marketing information, not jive. They are, he said, people who book a lot of travel online and who "like receiving e-mail" about travel offers. The lesson to suppliers: "E-mail is no longer an acquisition tool; it is a retention tool, too, to facilitate your relationship with your customer," he said.
Travel advertising e-mail messages that are welcomed rather than spurned appear to be one unanticipated outgrowth of the most profound change in travel-buying behavior in at least a generation -- the surge in online travel booking, which got traction a few years ago and now represents about one of every four domestic travel reservations. Last year, out of a total of $73.2 billion spent on e-commerce, online consumer travel bookings alone -- the vast majority of that by leisure travelers -- accounted for $30.2 billion, up 56.3 percent from the previous year, said Graham Mudd, an analyst at ComScore Networks.
According to Mr. Harteveldt's research, business travelers booked $13 billion in travel online last year, about equally divided between managed bookings on corporate-sponsored online travel sites and unmanaged bookings by individuals. That figure will rise to $27 billion in 2007, he estimated. Airlines got about $7.7 billion of last year's total, while hotels accounted for about $4.5 billion, he added. (The rest went to car-rental firms and Amtrak.)
Business and leisure travelers were the first consumers to accept e-commerce, lured by the almost perfect universe of information, especially for air fares, available online. In the last two years, corporate travelers fed up with paying sky-high standard business fares have been avidly researching, and booking, cheaper air fares online, which is one of the major reasons for the current state of near collapse in the finances of major airlines.
To date, while they are moving to aggressively cut costs and trim services, none of the major airlines have tackled the fundamental business-fare-structure problem, though most have selectively reduced business fares on certain competitive routes. As a result, a business traveler still faces a bewildering range of fares on many routes, and a growing challenge in trying to figure out how much it really costs to get from here to there, and under what conditions. 
"The continuing disparity in the marketplace for the corporate travel market isn't a perception, it is real; there is huge pricing chaos," said Krista Pappas, the senior vice president of FareChase, a company that provides search-engine technology for corporate travel departments.
With the Internet, and the constant flood of information it offers, the airline business has changed forever. "Business travelers have become far too smart" to allow airlines to return to the days of business fares that routinely cost five to seven times more than leisure fares on the same trip, Ms. Pappas said.
Meanwhile, corporate travel managers are battling to keep their well-informed employees booking through the company site, where in-house travel management policies and accounting are easier to monitor. To assist them, FareChase markets a weekly Web survey that evaluates fares in 350 domestic business markets from all Web sites and other sources. The idea is to provide a reliable, easy way for corporate travel managers to compare fares, not just always for the cheapest price but for other variables like schedule convenience.
"The Internet is knowledge, and it's giving business travelers more power every day," she said. "I truly believe that the more sophisticated the travel buying public becomes, there is no way they'll go back to saying, I'll pay $2,200 to fly on a ticket that the person in the seat beside you may have paid $600 for."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); EMAIL MARKETING (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); AIRLINES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (77%); BROADBAND (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); TRADE SHOWS (66%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (61%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ELECTRONIC MAIL 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC 

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE; HARTEVELDT, HENRY H 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



446 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Inventories Rose in February; Some Relief Is Seen for March 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14 

 BODY:
Business inventories rose for a 10th consecutive month in February as snowstorms led to a drop in retail sales, the Commerce Department reported today. Total business sales fell the most in 15 months. 
 A 0.6 percent increase in stockpiles, to $1.6 trillion, followed a 0.3 percent rise in January. Sales fell 1 percent, to $836.4 billion, the most since November 2001, after rising 1.3 percent. 
 Blizzards over the Washington's Birthday weekend deterred shoppers, leading to a buildup in supplies of automobiles, building material and food. 
"A lot of the increase was just the effect of the snowstorms, which held down sales," said James O'Sullivan, an economist at UBS Warburg in Stamford, Conn. "I think there's plenty of room for inventories to be rebuilt." 
The inventory-to-sales ratio, which measures the time that goods remain on shelves, rose to 1.38 months in February from 1.36 months in January. That was the highest since March 2002. 
Initial reports for March showed retail sales rebounding. A Commerce Department report on Friday showed sales up 2.1 percent, the most since October 2001. That may have helped companies clear excess merchandise and prompt new orders. 
"We are in a period of delicate transition" as the Iraq war winds down, said Anthony Santomero, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, at a conference on global economic growth. "There is no way to tell how much of our current slow path of recovery is attributable to circumstances surrounding the war and how much should be assigned to weak dynamics, such as persistent unemployment and slow capital spending prior to the hostilities."
Mr. Santomero said he expected the economy to accelerate to a "healthy and sustainable pace of around 3 to 4 percent" by the end of 2003. In separate comments to a trucking conference, he cautioned that the recovery won't be a "smooth, even process."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Inventory-Sales Ratio"Total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted. Business Inventories and SalesBillions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. InventoriesFeb.: $1,155.44Jan.: $1,149.07 SalesFeb.: 836.38Jan.: 844.43 (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (92%); SALES FIGURES (92%); INVENTORIES (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (90%); WEATHER (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); IRAQ WAR (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SALES; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (67%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



447 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Lawyer Discusses the Timing Of HealthSouth Revelations 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, Ala., April 14 

 BODY:
The former chief executive of HealthSouth, Richard M. Scrushy, first learned of an accounting fraud at his company March 17, a day before the company's chief financial officer secretly recorded him for the F.B.I., a lawyer for Mr. Scrushy said today. 
 William T. Owens, the ex-chief financial officer who later pleaded guilty to the fraud, disclosed it to Mr. Scrushy two days before the Securities and Exchange Commission accused Mr. Scrushy of orchestrating an inflation of company earnings, the lawyer, Donald V. Watkins, said. 
 "March 17 was the first clue," Mr. Watkins told reporters outside of federal court in Birmingham during a hearing on whether to unfreeze Mr. Scrushy's assets. "If there is fraud, we didn't do it. We can't vouch for all 51,000 employees." 
The comments by Mr. Watkins came during the fourth day of hearings on Mr. Scrushy's bid to win release of about $10 million in living expenses and $30 million to pay his defense lawyers and forensic accounting experts. Mr. Owens and seven former executives at HealthSouth, the largest operator of rehabilitation hospitals, have pleaded guilty to fraud or conspiracy charges. 
In other testimony, Mr. Scrushy's accountant said that her predecessor had an affair and admitted he stole money before he committed suicide last summer. 
William Massey made the admissions before shooting himself July 30, said Mary Schabacker, controller for Marin Inc., a private company run by Mr. Scrushy. She said the amount of Mr. Massey's reported theft was unclear. 
"It's still an ongoing process, but at least a half million" dollars, Ms. Schabacker said in response to questioning by one of Mr. Scrushy's lawyers, Scott Balber, about the extent of Mr. Massey's theft. 
The F.B.I. has said that the circumstances of Mr. Massey's suicide are among the areas it is investigating, along with the accounting fraud, possible insider trading at HealthSouth, and the possible existence of offshore assets owned by Mr. Scrushy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (91%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); REHABILITATION HOSPITALS (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LAWYERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); LITIGATION (78%); WIRETAPPING (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TESTIMONY (76%); INSIDER TRADING (71%); ETHICS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SUICIDE (70%); LARCENY & THEFT (69%); FORENSICS (67%) SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; WIRETAPPING AND OTHER EAVESDROPPING DEVICES AND METHODS; ASSETS, FROZEN 

COMPANY: HEALTHSOUTH CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) HEALTHSOUTH CORP; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 

TICKER: HLS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (90%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (90%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (90%); SIC8093 SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, NEC (90%) SIC8093 OTHER SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES; 

PERSON: WATKINS, DONALD V; SCRUSHY, RICHARD M; OWENS, WILLIAM T 

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (71%) ALABAMA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



448 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Kmart Faces Hurdle on Plan To Exit Bankruptcy Soon 

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
Kmart, which began presenting its reorganization strategy before a federal judge in Chicago yesterday, said that the majority of its creditors had approved its plan to emerge from bankruptcy.
 But the company, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in January 2002, could face fierce opposition from a small group of creditors. Before the hearing began yesterday, those creditors filed about 175 objections to the company's plan and how they would be reimbursed. 
 Kmart said it considered this opposition to be immaterial. But the retailer will still have to contend with disenchanted firms like Capital Factors Inc., a creditor whose lawyers filed an emergency motion to delay the hearing yesterday. 
The proceedings, which are taking place in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Illinois, are expected to last at least two days. But the hearing could easily stretch into tomorrow, people close to the case said.
If Kmart's plan is approved by the court, the company could come out of Chapter 11 in as little as 10 days. Kmart has said that it plans to leave bankruptcy protection by April 30 and return to profitability by 2004.
Under its reorganization plan, Kmart will receive about $300 million from two investors, Edward S. Lampert and Martin J. Whitman, who are known for putting money into companies they consider undervalued. The men will also control four of the nine seats on the company's board. 
Kmart is already trying to reposition itself in the marketplace. The company is closing a total of 599 stores and trimming its work force by 57,000. It will still have 1,500 stores when it emerges from bankruptcy. Kmart is also trying to attract customers by offering a variety of incentives.
Kmart filed for bankruptcy after a series of missteps, including the initiation of a price war with Wal-Mart. Concerns reached an apex in late January 2002 when some Kmart suppliers feared that the company would not be able to pay for goods it had ordered and stopped shipping products to the retailer.
But Kmart's troubles date back much further. In the last two decades, Kmart has struggled to maintain its customer base. The chain has lost ground because of increased competition from Wal-Mart, which has a grip on cost-conscious suburbanites, and from Target, which appeals to hip, trendy shoppers who are more fashion-conscious. 
Shortly after Kmart filed for bankruptcy, charges of accounting irregularities surfaced at the company, the economy worsened and Martha Stewart, the personality behind one of Kmart's best-selling product lines, came under scrutiny by the Securities and Exchange Commission for her stock trades.
Some analysts said that Kmart, perhaps because of pressure from its lenders, was seeking to come out of bankruptcy protection too quickly. 
"They haven't articulated a strategy," said Walter K. Levy, the managing director for retail trends and positioning at Kurt Salmon Associates. "All they've done is have a series of tactics. They still haven't defined why the customer should shop there rather than Wal-Mart or Target. That really is the bottom line." 
The company has also been criticized for hiring inexperienced chief merchandising and chief store operations officers.
"That's one of the reasons their same-store sales continue to trend downward," said Burt Flickinger III, a managing partner of the Strategic Resource Group. "Target and Wal-Mart have at least stabilized during this recession."
As Kmart works to shed its Chapter 11 status soon, it faces a tough marketplace in which retailers have recorded disappointing sales and consumers, concerned about the war and the weak economy, have been spending less.
Given the challenges ahead, some analysts suggested a worst-case situation in which Kmart could stumble badly and wind up back in bankruptcy in a few years. Companies that have slipped back into bankruptcy include Montgomery Ward, which declared bankruptcy in 1997 and again in 2000; and Bradlees, which came out of bankruptcy protection in 1999 and re-entered in 2000. Both companies ultimately went out of business. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); JUDGES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); TRENDS (65%); LABOR FORCE (64%); ACCOUNTING (60%) BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: KMART CORP (94%); CAPITAL BUSINESS CREDIT LLC (71%); KURT SALMON ASSOCIATES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: KMART CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (94%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (94%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (71%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%) SIC5331 VARIETY STORES; 

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (59%); EDDIE LAMPERT (59%) DAY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



449 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: THE MONEY TRAIL; 
Accused Helper of Al Qaeda Pleads Guilty

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, April 14 

 BODY:
A Muslim charged with aiding Al Qaeda pleaded guilty today to a lesser charge and agreed to help in the investigation of a long-sought imam in London, Sheik Abu Hamza al-Masri.
 The defendant, James Ujaama, pleaded guilty to violating a ban on sending materials or money to Afghanistan when the Taliban governed it. Mr. Ujaama's lawyer, Peter Offenbecher, said his client had provided computers and money to a girls' school. 
 The government dropped other charges, including one that accused him of trying to set up a terrorist training camp in Oregon. Other suspects in that case might be charged, said a spokesman for the Justice Department, Bryan Sierra. 
The plea agreement closes a chapter in the journey of Mr. Ujaama, 37, who in a few years moved from a respected member of the African-American community here to a target of antiterrorism investigations.
If convicted on the original charges, Mr. Ujaama could have faced 25 years in prison and $250,000 in fines. With credit for time served and good behavior, he could now be freed in less than a year, his lawyers said. 
"We were satisfied enough from what we've heard so far, enough so that we are happy to reach this agreement," Mr. Sierra said.
The accord entered today before Judge Barbara J. Rothstein of Federal District Court here says Mr. Ujaama has to "cooperate completely and truthfully with the government in the investigation and prosecution of other individuals involved in criminal and terrorist activity."
That commitment could run 10 years. Mr. Ujaama also has to give "debriefings" to investigators, an obligation that extends to foreign governments.
The most likely target is Mr. Masri, who was removed in February as imam at the Finsbury Park mosque in north London. Among the worshipers there were Zacarias Moussaoui, a Frenchmen who was arrested in a hotel in Minneapolis and faces conspiracy charges in Alexandria, Va., in the Sept. 11 attacks, and Richard C. Reid, the Briton who pleaded guilty in Boston to trying to blow up a Miami-bound jet in December 2001 with a shoe bomb. 
Securing the cooperation of Mr. Ujaama, who prosecutors say pledged an oath of loyalty to the Mr. Masri while living in London, could contribute to securing an indictment against Mr. Masri on terrorism charges, according to a federal law official in Seattle.
"Hamza would be a logical target to go after with what we get from Ujaama," said the official.
Federal officials have long sought an indictment against Mr. Masri, who prosecutors say is "perhaps one of the best-known terrorists in the world." He is wanted on terrorism charges in Yemen.
A previous federal indictment, made null by the plea, charged Mr. Ujaama with setting up a Web site for Mr. Masri that advocated jihad. Before that indictment, Mr. Ujaama, an activist, defended himself in a letter on a Web site.
"I have not changed except that I chose to be Muslim and work on economic development issues overseas in communities where people are very economically disadvantaged," he wrote. "I will join those who fight in the cause of Allah for truth and justice to be supreme, irregardless that some American thinking that it is more patriotic to accuse and convict without a fair and just trial."
In court today, Mr. Ujaama said he was confident of his innocence of the charge of aiding terrorists, saying he could "still hold his head up high" after the plea deal. 
"In retrospect I did do some incredibly dumb things," he said. "I wish I had not done some of the things that I did, and I wish had not said some of the things that I said. My family has always taught me to do what is right."
Attorney General John Ashcroft said: "We expect his cooperation to lead to the arrest of additional terrorists and the disruption of future terrorist activity. An important part of our war against terrorism is to obtain the cooperation of insiders who have direct knowledge of the activities of dangerous terrorists." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Ujaama, in a 1991 photo, agreed to cooperate in a case. (Michael Lutzky/The Seattle Times, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUILTY PLEAS (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (84%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); ARRESTS (73%); JUDGES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (68%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PLEA BARGAINING 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%) TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: UJAAMA, JAMES; MASRI, ABU HAMZA AL- (SHEIK) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); YEMEN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) AFGHANISTAN; GREAT BRITAIN; LONDON (ENG)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



450 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: American Airlines Unions Vote Today on Concessions 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:
The three major unions at American Airlines said yesterday that they would conclude voting on concessions by this morning and try to get results to the company before 11 a.m. in Texas.
 That is the deadline that American, based in Fort Worth, Tex., has set to get a vote tally. If the votes are not counted by then, or if any labor group votes down concessions, then the company will file for bankruptcy-court protection "very soon," said Bruce Hicks, a company spokesman. 
 American, the world's largest carrier, is trying to get its workers to ratify agreements for $1.8 billion in labor cuts. To get those agreements, American threatened its unions with imminent bankruptcy, saying it could ask for the power to void union contracts if it had to file for Chapter 11 protection from creditors. 
In late March, American, a unit of the AMR Corporation, was working on putting together $1.5 billion in financing to keep its operations going while in bankruptcy. Yesterday, the company had virtually concluded talks with four lenders for a loan in that amount, said a person in the finance industry who had been briefed on the discussions. Citibank, a unit of Citigroup, would provide $750 million, with the remaining $750 million split equally among Citibank, J. P. Morgan Chase, Merrill Lynch and the CIT Group.
Citigroup is taking the lead because it issues the credit card linked to American's frequent-flier program.
The loan could be increased to $1.75 billion if all the lenders agreed to it, the person said.
"Whenever the company's ready, it's there," he said.
The Allied Pilots Association said yesterday that it would conclude voting this morning rather than yesterday, as it had planned, but still expected to meet American's deadline. The pilots are voting on $660 million in cost cuts.
The union had been asked by the American Arbitration Association, which is organizing the phone vote system for all the unions, to extend the voting time, said Gregg Overman, a union spokesman. The association had received a lot of calls from workers asking for details on the voting process, he added.
The pilots have the greatest incentive of the three unions to avoid going to bankruptcy court, partly because their lucrative pension plan would likely be radically altered or eliminated in a Chapter 11 restructuring. This happened to the pilots at US Airways, which emerged from bankruptcy-law protection last month after entering court last August.
But there are pilots who are vehemently opposed to the concessions. Three pilots filed a complaint yesterday morning in federal district court in Fort Worth to halt the voting, arguing the union had not disclosed enough information about the new contract.
In the afternoon, Judge Terry R. Means denied the request and said that extending the voting time would push American to file Chapter 11. He said a bankruptcy filing would have a "devastating effect" on the local and national economy.
Mr. Overman, the spokesman for the pilots' union, said that the union had put enough information on its Web site to educate voters.
On the Web site of the Transport Workers Union, which represents 34,000 employees at American, a union leader urged members to vote in favor of $620 million in concessions.
"Upon rejection, we will be in bankruptcy court dealing with a far harsher proposal with far more jobs and benefits lost," James Little, director of the air transport division, said in a letter.
The T.W.U. represents eight different labor groups at American, including about 16,000 mechanics and 16,000 baggage handlers. The mechanics were the last of those groups to agree tentatively to concessions in the final week of March. They are the most militant of the T.W.U. workers, and there are worries at American that they -- like the mechanics at the UAL Corporation's United Airlines -- could vote against concessions and push the airline closer to a bankruptcy filing.
The Association of Professional Flight Attendants, which represents 19,000 workers, said yesterday that voting at its union would finish by 10 this morning Central time.
In late March, American reached tentative agreements with all its work groups on $1.8 billion in annual concessions, as part of a total of $4 billion in cost cuts that Donald J. Carty, the chief executive, has said is necessary to avoid bankruptcy.
Of the $1.8 billion, $660 million would come from the pilots, $340 million from the flight attendants, $620 million from the T.W.U. workers, $80 million from agents and representatives and $100 million from management.
The cuts would include layoffs of 2,500 pilots, about 2,000 flight attendants and 1,400 or so ground workers. Most workers would have to take wage cuts starting May 1 of 16 percent to 17.5 percent off current base salaries. The pilots would take a 23 percent cut in the first year, with that lessening to 17 percent in the second year. In most cases, there also would be changes to benefits and work rules.
Workers would get to take part in a profit-sharing plan and stock options, so compensation would be more closely tied to the company's performance.
"I think there will be a rush of people voting at the last minute, based on the last, best information they're able to develop," said Robert W. Mann, an industry consultant based on Long Island. "It's a very difficult choice. It's a classic Hobson's choice. There's no real palatable option."

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Northwest Plan Criticized
(By Reuters) -- The mechanics union at Northwest Airlines said last night that the carrier's recent cost-cutting proposals were unjustified.
The Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association said in a statement that the airline's proposal, delivered yesterday afternoon, calls for $173 million in additional yearly labor cost savings over seven years. It also calls for an additional 1,000 layoffs, a 16.7 percent reduction in base pay for mechanics, a 10.6 percent pay cut for cleaners and custodians and elimination of a 4 percent pay raise scheduled for May 2004, the union said.
Officials at Northwest had no immediate comment.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald J. Carty, the chief executive of American Airlines, has asked employees to accept cost cuts to avoid the airline's filing for bankruptcy. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (68%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING); BANKRUPTCIES; PILOTS; FLIGHT ATTENDANTS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); AMR CORP (84%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); CITIGROUP INC (55%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (54%); CIT GROUP INC (54%); AMERICAN ARBITRATION ASSOCIATION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (59%) AMERICAN AIRLINES; AMR CORP; ALLIED PILOTS ASSN; TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION; ASSN OF PROFESSIONAL FLIGHT ATTENDANTS 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%); CIT (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (54%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (54%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (53%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: CARTY, DONALD J; WONG, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (88%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



451 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1793 words

HEADLINE: County Says It's Too Poor to Defend the Poor 

BYLINE:  By ADAM LIPTAK 

DATELINE: MARKS, Miss., April 11 

 BODY:
Diana Brown met her court-appointed lawyer for the first time on the day she pleaded guilty to several serious crimes five years ago. They spent five minutes together and have not spoken since.
 "You are guilty, lady," the lawyer, Thomas Pearson, told Ms. Brown, according to her sworn statement, as he met with her and nine other defendants as a group, rattling off the charges against them. 
 He told her she was facing 60 years in prison for assault, drunken driving and leaving the scene of an accident, and should accept a deal for 10 years, court papers say. He gave her five minutes to decide. Offered no other defense, she took the deal. 
Lawyers say cases like Ms. Brown's are not unusual here in Marks, the seat of Quitman County, a patch of Mississippi Delta farmland about 60 miles south of Memphis. But now the county is trying to do something unusual about it. 
The county is suing the state because it says it cannot afford to provide defendants with anything more than assembly-line justice. Mississippi is among a handful of states that provide no money for the defense of the indigent in noncapital cases.
The lawsuit, which will go to trial here this month, is in its way a commemoration of the 40th anniversary of the Supreme Court's landmark decision in Gideon v. Wainwright, which held that poor people accused of serious crimes are entitled to legal representation paid for by the government. 
The new case is being litigated by the same firm, Arnold & Porter, that represented Clarence Gideon, a Florida drifter accused of breaking into a poolroom who was tried and convicted without a lawyer. (The firm was appointed after the Supreme Court agreed to hear the case based on Mr. Gideon's handwritten petition.)
And the lawsuit is seeking answers to some questions left open by Gideon that legal scholars, government officials and advocates for the poor have been asking for years: How decent a lawyer does the constitution require? Who should pay for that lawyer? And how much money should be paid?
Abe Krash, 75, who worked on Mr. Gideon's case and remains a partner at Arnold & Porter, said the court's unanimous decision in Gideon was important but, in retrospect, painfully incomplete.
"There was a gap between our great hope and what was realized," he said. "It is simply not sufficient to say you're entitled to a lawyer. You have to have a lawyer who is competent and experienced in trying criminal cases. Equally important, the lawyer who is appointed has to have the resources available to adequately defend the case." 
"The problem," he continued, "is that in a number of states the representation is treated with indifference."
Prosecutors around the nation, however, say that poor defendants generally get passable representation and were not promised more.
"We are looking at a completely different world than Clarence Gideon saw," Joshua Marquis, district attorney in Astoria, Ore., said. "In noncapital cases, indigent defendants get anywhere from an A to a C defense. I think they're entitled to a C-plus level defense."
Counties and states have varied approaches to legal defense for the poor. Twenty-seven states pay all or most of the bill; 22 rely mostly or entirely on counties; and Alabama depends on fees collected from others using the court system. Only a small number of states pay nothing toward indigent defense in noncapital cases: Mississippi, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Utah and Wyoming.
States also use different systems. Some states and many larger counties have institutional public defender offices with resources and expertise that match and sometimes exceed those of prosecutors.
Here in Quitman County, on the other hand, two lawyers are paid $1,350 a month each to represent every indigent defendant who comes along. In the first nine months of 2002, there were 45 cases involving serious charges; in all of 2001, there were 20; in 2000, 35. The fee is to cover trials, appeals, investigators, experts and every kind of overhead.
"We're providing a bare-bones public defense for these people and it's not enough, and we can't afford it," Thomas Scipper, the county administrator, who is known as Butch, said. "I've seen some people slam-dunked in drug cases. I've seen some people plead because they don't have confidence in the system."
Ms. Brown, who was sentenced to three 10-year sentences for running her car into three pedestrians, was recently released and is back home here. The sentences ran concurrently and were partly suspended.
Mr. Pearson, the lawyer who handled her case, said he did not remember her. But Mr. Pearson, who no longer works for the county, defended his approach.
"They got an adequate representation," he said of his clients. "If they want Clarence Darrow, they should hire Clarence Darrow."
Others say it is barely possible to call the representation that clients receive in places like Quitman County "legal work."
"They are not being represented," said Stephen B. Bright, director of the Southern Center for Human Rights in Atlanta and an expert witness for Quitman County in this month's lawsuit. "They're being processed through the system."
In Quitman County, for example, Roderick Applewhite, 32, is facing a series of charges, including resisting arrest. He says he has no money for a lawyer and has not seen one in the two and a half months he has spent in Quitman County Jail.
"I said, 'I want a lawyer,' " Mr. Applewhite said. "And they don't want to hear about it."
A report commissioned by the Mississippi Legislature says that the state and county governments pay $3.19 per capita for indigent defense. Only North Dakota spends less. Texas spends $4.65 per capita; Florida spends $11.70.
These sums represent an enormous increase from those of recent decades, said Robert L. Spangenberg, president of a consulting firm that studies indigent defense systems for governments, bar associations and others. In 1983, 20 years after the Gideon decision, state and local governments spent $625 million on such expenses, or $2.76 per capita. Spending today is estimated at $3 billion, representing more than $10 per capita.
But he and other legal experts say that as the economy has faltered, spending has not kept up with the need. About 80 percent of the more than one million criminal defendants prosecuted in state courts on felony charges each year are indigent. 
Bryan Stevenson, executive director of the Equal Justice Initiative in Montgomery, Ala., said the problems were most pronounced in certain parts of the country.
"We have made substantial progress in a lot of areas and a lot of places, but there are other areas that are underserved, in the deep South and the rural West, where we have not," Mr. Stevenson said.
"In some communities there is downright hostility to making sure poor people get adequate representation," he added. "In counties in Alabama, Georgia and Mississippi, it is not uncommon to see people meeting counsel for the first time and pleading guilty with no investigation and serving much longer sentences than if they could afford counsel."
There are three ways to provide lawyers for poor defendants.
Most experts say that formal public defender offices, with their professional staffs, institutional continuity, opportunities for specialization and economies of scale, are preferable to the alternatives where there is enough work to justify them.
The second alternative, appointing individual lawyers in given cases, is subject to cronyism and can be an incentive for lawyers to be less than zealous to move cases along to stay in an appointing judge's good graces, experts say.
The third method, used in Quitman County, is the flat-fee contract. For $1,350 a month, Mr. Pearson said, he handled all the work that came his way, including trials and appeals, a along with "travel, books, supplies, phones, secretarial, everything."
"If I put too much time or money into these cases at these prices, I wouldn't be able to keep going myself," Mr. Pearson testified at a deposition in Quitman County v. Mississippi.
Some legal experts say that the amount of money a state puts into defense of the poor is more important than the kind of defense program it has in place.
"There are a lot of good programs around the country, and they're not all public defender programs," Mr. Spangenberg, the consultant, said. "What they have in common is state funding."
Though the Supreme Court has guaranteed the poor a lawyer, it has made individual challenges to the adequacy of those lawyers difficult. 
People who feel they did not receive effective assistance are required to prove not only that the lawyer was incompetent, but also that the incompetence affected the outcome of the case. And they need to typically prove this after conviction in a proceeding in which they are not entitled to a lawyer.
Systemic challenges brought on behalf of criminal defendants or public defenders who say they are underpaid have met with limited success in Arizona, Connecticut, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Pennsylvania, generally bringing small increases in financing. Cases are pending in Michigan, Montana and New York. 
The Quitman County lawsuit is the first, legal experts said, in which the plaintiff is the government itself.
For Quitman County, the appeal for state aid is not only about the quality of defense work for the poor, it is also an effort to use money for other pressing needs. 
Mr. Scipper, the Quitman County administrator, said that an earlier capital trial nearly ruined the county. To pay the $250,000 cost of the defense of two men with no connection to the county beyond having committed four murders in it, the county had to raise taxes three years in a row and take out a bank loan that took years to repay.
"We lost four members of our community, including two adults who were taxpayers," Mr. Scipper said. "They were murdered and their house was burned down on top of them. And we're supposed to pay for the defense?"
The state has since then assumed most capital defense costs. Still, Quitman's finances are severely strained, another lawyer at Arnold & Porter representing the county, Kathleen Behan, said. 
"Quitman is down to those minimal essential services it's essential to have to run a county -- the county library, the county school," she said. 
Harold E. Pizzetta, a special assistant attorney general who represents Mississippi in the Quitman County lawsuit, is dismissive of the county's concerns.
He said the defense provided to poor defendants here was adequate "in the overwhelming majority of cases." If it is not, he added, it is up to the county to fix it.
"Is there a component of the right to counsel that protects a county from making tough budget decisions?" Mr. Pizzetta asked. "They can either take it from existing funds or raise revenues."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 3, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 15 about a Mississippi county's lawsuit seeking to require the state to pay for lawyers for poor people accused of crimes referred imprecisely to legal counsel appointed in the 1963 Supreme Court case establishing the right to court-appointed defense. Abe Fortas, a Washington lawyer who was himself later named to the Supreme Court, was appointed to represent Clarence Earl Gideon. the petitioner in the 1963 case. The court did not appoint Mr. Fortas's firm, then known as Arnold, Fortas & Porter.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thomas Scipper, administrator of Quitman County in Mississippi.; "I said, 'I want a lawyer,' " said Roderick Applewhite, awaiting trial. "And they don't want to hear about it." (Photographs by Rollin A. Riggs for The New York Times)(pg. A15) Chart/Map: "WHAT IT COSTS: Legal Aid for the Poor"Although the Supreme Court has held that states must provide legal aid to people accused of serious crimes who cannot afford it themselves, only 23 states bear the full cost; the rest require the counties to provide financing. Map of the United States shows ANNUAL SPENDING FOR INDIGENT DEFENSE, Years available vary from 1997 to 2001.(Source: Spangenberg Group)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEFENDERS (91%); LAWYERS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); LEGAL AID (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PETITIONS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%) LEGAL AID FOR THE POOR; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATES (US); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: ARNOLD & PORTER LLP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: ;SUPREME COURT (US) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: LIPTAK, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) MISSISSIPPI; QUITMAN COUNTY (MISS); ALABAMA; PENNSYLVANIA; SOUTH DAKOTA; UTAH; WYOMING; 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



452 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

War News Summary B2

In China's Interior, 47 More Cases of SARS
Reported cases of severe acute respiratory syndrome, known as SARS, rose sharply in Shanxi, an interior province of north-central China, heralding the possible spread of the disease through the country's vast, medically underserved hinterlands. The ministry of health said 47 more cases had been reported from Shanxi on Sunday. A6

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention became the second group to map fully the genome of the virus most suspected of causing SARS. The confirmation was described as "a critically important" step. A6

Zimbabwe Accusations
Human rights groups and Western diplomats accuse President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe of turning the young men from Zimbabwe's National Youth Service into violent thugs and unleashing them on political opponents. President Mugabe dismisses the accusations. A3

Quebec Winds of Change
The federalist Liberal party took an insurmountable lead in provincial elections to wrest control of Quebec away from the separatist Parti Quebecois. The vote should shelve the possibility of another divisive referendum on independence for the foreseeable future. A11

French Inmates Take Flight
A chain of spectacular jailbreaks, five since the start of the year, at French prisons reached what authorities are determined will be a climax when accomplices of three inmates descended on a prison in central France in a helicopter, ripped through security netting and freed the prisoners. A11

Tourism Hurt in Turkey
The American-led invasion of Iraq has badly hurt tourism throughout Turkey, as it has in many of the countries surrounding Iraq. For Turkey, it is an especially cruel blow as tourism is a major engine of the country's already troubled economy. A9

Premier, Arafat Deadlocked
The new Palestinian prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas, remained deadlocked with Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, over his proposed ministers for a new government, as senior members of their Fatah movement tried to broker a compromise. A8

"The Road to Jenin," a strongly pro-Israeli documentary about the combat a year ago in Jenin in the West Bank, was broadcast on Israeli television after Israel's High Court ruled that the film could air. A8

NATIONAL A12-15

Mississippi Court Revisits Defense Rights of the Poor
With the nearing of the 40th anniversary of the Supreme Court's landmark decision in Gideon v. Wainwright, which held that poor people accused of serious crimes are entitled to a lawyer paid for by the government, Quitman County, Miss., is suing the state because it says it cannot afford to provide defendants with more than assembly-line justice. A1

School Shooting Leaves 1 Dead
A gunman with an AK-47 assault rifle and three accomplices entered a New Orleans high school protected by four security guards and a police officer and sprayed bullets into the school gymnasium, killing a 15-year-old boy and wounding three girls. A12

Fear of Leaks to China
Counterintelligence officials fear that an F.B.I. informer in Los Angeles tipped off the Chinese government to a covert United States effort to plant listening devices aboard China's version of Air Force One, several government officials said. A12

Cruise Line Buys U.S. Ship
The United States, the fastest passenger liner in the world in its heyday, has been bought by Norwegian Cruise Lines for conversion into an immense cruise liner. The conversion is part of the company's plans to offer the first ships registered in the United States in 50 years. A12

Credit Crisis for 11 Colleges
Clarke College in Dubuque, Iowa, recently became one of 11 colleges and universities to be downgraded by Moody's Investors Service, which analyzes the financial health of institutions to gauge their credit worthiness. A14

Pipe Company Fined $196,000
The federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration announced that McWane Inc., an Alabama-based pipe manufacturer with one of the worst workplace safety records in America, has been fined $196,000 for new violations at Tyler Pipe, a sprawling foundry with 1,200 employees in Texas. A15

Budget Cuts Hinder Payments
A report to Congress said that payments to people suffering from cancer and other illnesses as a result of work on cold war-era atomic weapons projects may be delayed. 14

NEW YORK/REGION D1-8

New Jersey Reports Show Abuse of Foster Children
New Jersey officials made public the state's own confidential files on the deaths and abuse of more than a dozen children in its care, offering for the first time its own, fully detailed look at how child welfare officials, and often others, failed some of New Jersey's most vulnerable children. A1

Mother Charged With Murder
The mother of a 7-year-old girl in Branford, Conn., who died after being shot while she lay in bed ten days ago was charged with her murder, police officials said. The mother had originally told the police that an intruder shot the girl, but court records revealed that the mother changed her story and told the police that she had shot her daughter because of frustration with her daughter's behavior and learning problems. D1

Suit Filed Against Diocese
Lawyers for nearly three dozen sexual-abuse victims filed a pair of lawsuits in Nassau County against the Diocese of Rockville Centre on Long Island. The suits accuse diocesan officials of knowingly covering up molestation from the late 1960's to the mid-1990's. D6

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

An Etruscan Rebirth
If Etruscans were once considered a "lost" society they are now being found in new excavations and a closer examination of the wealth of artifacts that have been uncovered over the last century. The Etruscans, who occupied much of north-central Italy in the first millennium B.C., are now being cited as a major influence on future Roman society and arts. F1

Health & Fitness F5

ARTS E1-8

SPORTS S1-9

New North Carolina Coach
Roy Williams, who extended the legacy of Kansas men's basketball in his 15-year tenure as coach there, has been hired to restore a similar legacy at North Carolina. S1

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Lower Bond for Philip Morris
An Illinois judge cut in half the amount that Philip Morris must post while it appeals a court judgment. The ruling ensures that Philip Morris will make a promised payment to state governments. C1

Profits Up at I.B.M.
I.B.M. reported solid gains in both profit and sales for the first quarter, showing again that the company has become a bulwark of comparative stability amid the deep slump in the technology business. C1

AOL Facing Two Lawsuits
Two law firms representing shareholders in AOL Time Warner are filing extensive complaints accusing the company of defrauding investors by overstating revenue by as much as $1.7 billion. C1

Strong Quarter at Citigroup
Citigroup reported strong results as low interest rates spurred consumers and businesses to borrow more, but analysts worry that earnings growth could slow later this year, especially if interest rates rise. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

OBITUARIES D9

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: The road to Damascus; making the tax system fairer; sacking the past; the mayor's mistake on workfare.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Nicholas Kristof.

Crossword E6
TV Listings E7
Public Lives D2
Weather S2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SARS (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); DISEASE REPORTING (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); SHOOTINGS (88%); LITIGATION (86%); ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL (74%); LAWYERS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); REFERENDUMS (67%); HELICOPTERS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); AL FATAH (63%); FIREARMS (61%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (61%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (57%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CENTRAL CHINA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (91%); SHANXI, CHINA (90%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); ZIMBABWE (94%); ISRAEL (93%); TURKEY (93%); IRAQ (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); CANADA (91%); ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



453 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: A Hotel With Buzz, or Is It a Din?; 
Along With the Glamour, Noise Complaints in SoHo

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
It is one of the brightest new stars in Manhattan's hotel firmament, with its stylish decor and monogrammed toilet paper. It is one of SoHo's hottest traffickers in bohemian sang-froid, too, with its celebrity guests and regular bar crowd of aesthetes. Russell Crowe liked the $3,500-a-night penthouse duplex so much, he offered to buy it.
 But just off the main stage, beyond the wide-angle lenses of the paparazzi's cameras, the hotel 60 Thompson is attracting notice these days for a far less glamorous reason: its supposedly shabby treatment of its neighbors. 
 First there was the construction of the hotel itself, which neighbors say caused structural damage to nearby buildings. Then there were complaints about the hotel's use of the basement next door. But worst of all, there was the concussive noise from the hotel's revelers, night after late night, that compelled some sleep-deprived neighbors to walk over to the hotel in their nightgowns, begging for quiet. "It's like taking the worst neighbor in your apartment building, and multiplying it by a thousand," said David Ruth, who lives next door, at 64 Thompson Street. 
This is a pronouncement that the hotel's owner, Jason Pomeranc, and chief operating officer, Stephen C. Brandman, are eager to challenge. They say that they are very sensitive to community concerns, and are spending hundreds of thousands of dollars to muffle the noise. But they also say they feel exasperated, adding that many of the complaints have been exaggerated or distorted by a small band of cranky neighbors who have opposed the hotel from Day 1. "It's been a bit of a mob mentality, this piling on, and I really feel victimized in this process at this point," Mr. Pomeranc said. "Some people are always going to be antiprogress, antidevelopment, antichange."
In New York, neighbors must tolerate some sights, sounds and smells of other neighbors as part of the social contract for living in such close quarters. But when some behavior becomes "too much," battle lines are drawn. The bad blood between the Thompson hotel and its neighbors is thus a classic New York tale of discord. So elected officials are beginning to weigh in.
"This is the worst violator we've seen in the neighborhood, and I've seen many awful violations," said City Councilman Alan J. Gerson, who represents the SoHo district but has not yet met the hotel's management. "It's pure inconsideration and greed at the expense of neighborly quality of life."
The 12-story hotel, which takes its name from its address, is on a mostly residential stretch of Thompson between Spring and Broome Streets that, until recently, was saturated with longtime Italian-American immigrants. The hotel's site -- once a forlorn metal shop -- had such poor soil that contractors had to dig deep into the bedrock and sink caissons.
Neighborly relations started badly when residents said that the hotel's construction resulted in cracks in their walls and sent rats and cockroaches scurrying into their apartments. In 1999, the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development found 72 violations in one building alone, 64 Thompson; Barry Mallin, a lawyer representing the tenants, said most of them were apparently related to construction.
Once the $25 million hotel did open in February 2001, however, it quickly won acclaim for everything from the sleek staff uniforms, designed by Nino Cerruti, to the sumptuous rooms, which offered Frette bed linens and Dean & DeLuca gourmet snacks. Last year, Conde Nast Traveler called 60 Thompson, with rates starting at $370 a night, one of the five hottest hotels in the world.
Several local businesses, meanwhile, have credited the hotel for reinvigorating the block, and making it safer, thanks to round-the-clock doormen and high-end customers. "I think it's been good for the neighborhood," said Henry Buhl, founder of the SoHo Partnership, a nonprofit group that helps homeless people find jobs and housing. "It wasn't so good down there before, but it's coming around now because they now take care of it, and it's clean."
But if the hotel's appearance has been impeccable, its attitude has been imperious, even arrogant, say neighbors, who range from tenants paying $350 a month for rent-stabilized apartments to wealthy artists in Olympian lofts worth millions. Since the hotel opened, neighbors have complained incessantly about the loud music, particularly from a second-floor bar that is only partially covered by a bamboo-like canopy. 
They have also complained about hotel guests spilling out onto the street and acting boorishly until 3:45 a.m. or later, said Irene Da Costa, president of the Thompson Street Community Association. Marilyn Karp, an art professor at New York University, sleeps in a bedroom facing the rear of the hotel. "When you're in bed," she said, "it's concert-hall realism, and shutting the windows doesn't help, even if you turn the air-conditioning on." 
Because of the nature, gravity and frequency of complaints, the New York State Liquor Authority has decided to hold off renewing the hotel's liquor license, said J. Mark Anderson, deputy commissioner for the authority. And in the last year or so, the Department of Environmental Protection cited the hotel three times for noise violations, totaling $12,800 in fines. "It is a lot for one establishment, and it screams out that something has to be done about it," said Charles G. Sturcken, a spokesman for the department.
In response, the hotel says that it is spending $300,000 to $400,000 on noise abatement measures like a glass enclosure for the second-floor bar, extra sound insulation and an upgraded stereo system that mutes vibrations.
"We're doing all this stuff because we don't want to disturb our neighbors," Mr. Pomeranc added.
And yet, Mr. Pomeranc and Mr. Brandman are frustrated that they have become targets for people who may not like gentrification. Sometimes, Mr. Brandman said, people even complain about "the clinking of the silverware in our restaurant as a noise issue." 
"You have to be realistic," Mr. Brandman said. "We're near Greenwich Village, not Greenwich, Conn."
Unfortunately for all parties involved, noise is not the only nettlesome issue. From the outset, the tenants of 64 Thompson have groused about the fact that their landlord leased the basement to the hotel for storage space of food, Duraflame logs and employee lockers. They have also complained that the backyard, already holding some of the hotel's air-conditioning units, is also where hotel workers smoke and chat loudly late into the night, said Mr. Mallin, the tenants' lawyer.
So the owner has sued the hotel in housing court for using the basement space illegally. The tenants have sued the owner for jeopardizing their health and safety. Both cases are scheduled to be heard again in Manhattan housing court at the end of this month.
In response, the hotel says that while it believed its use of the facilities would hold up in court, it removed the employee lockers last week as a gesture of good will. At the same time, though, the hotel says that its critics may be failing to consider the broader impact of its success.
The hotel pays $2 million a year in taxes and has more than 100 employees. It is sold out nearly every night, and has served as an economic boost for the battered post-9/11economy in Lower Manhattan.
Mr. Pomeranc still hopes that the relationship between the hotel and its neighbors can improve. 
"It's very frustrating, and I sometimes say to myself, 'Could I have said hello to more people on the street?' " he said. "But then I realize, the crux of the matter is, the core group of opponents to this hotel is the same core group that has opposed most of the development in SoHo. So there's only so much you can do."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The 12-story, $25 million hotel, right, opened in 2001 on a mostly residential stretch. Its second-floor bar, below, has drawn complaints over loud music. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times); The next-door neighbor of the SoHo hotel 60 Thompson has sued its owner over its use of the neighbor's basement. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOISE POLLUTION (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); HERD BEHAVIOR (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; NOISE 

ORGANIZATION: SIXTY THOMPSON (NYC HOTEL) 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W; POMERANC, JASON; BRANDMAN, STEPHEN C 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



454 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: CORPS HEADQUARTERS; 
An Iraqi-Born Officer Of the U.S. Army Helps To Bridge Cultural Gaps

BYLINE:  By BERNARD WEINRAUB 

DATELINE: V CORPS HEADQUARTERS, in northern Kuwait, April 14 

 BODY:
When Lt. Col. Frank J. Miskina speaks to intelligence and military officers about Iraqi prisoners of war, his words carry unusual resonance: the Baghdad-born officer served as an officer in the Iraqi Army in the 1970's.
 Colonel Miskina serves in the 308th Civil Affairs Brigade, which coordinates between the Army and Iraqi municipal and civilian organizations restoring education, health care, utilities and food distribution. But his opinions and guidance are in wider demand in a military short of Arabic speakers and those with firsthand knowledge of Iraq, and in recent weeks he has worked with psychological operations and military intelligence. 
 His basic advice: be courteous.
"I tell them to say slonek, which means 'how are you,' " said Colonel Miskina, who is 54 and from West Bloomfield, Mich. "I teach them gestures. I tell them when you are sitting with an Iraqi soldier or officer, treat them with dignity, treat them as one human being to another, don't treat them as an inferior, don't treat them as an interrogator talking to an Iraqi.
"You are in his country, and he sees you as an external force," Colonel Miskina said. "Offer him some water. Offer him some tea. Act like the American ambassador in Iraq. Behave yourself. Use common sense. You will get information."
He grew up in Baghdad, the son of a sergeant in the Royal Iraqi Air Force who retired as a warrant officer in 1962. The Baghdad he knew was a comfortable, middle-class world. He graduated from the University of Baghdad in 1973 with a degree in veterinary medicine and was drafted into the Iraqi Army for two years, 1973 to 1975. 
As a lieutenant and a company commander, he was assigned to northern Iraqi cities like Kirkuk and Erbil, where units were locked in clashes with the Kurdish minority at the time.
It was during the government of Saddam Hussein's predecessor, Hassan al-Bakr. Even then, Colonel Miskina said, an atmosphere of fear permeated the military. He said phone conversations between officers were monitored for signs of dissidence.
"Iraq has been called the Republic of Fear for many years," he said. "People have been living in fear their whole lives. People fear their neighbors, their brothers, their friends. They don't know who the enemy is." 
His civilian life in the 1970's, Colonel Miskina said, was one of privilege. His world was free-spirited and relatively secular. He sometimes flew to Athens to buy shoes and clothes. There were parties. Young women in Baghdad, he recalled, wore miniskirts and makeup.
"We did not care much about ethnicity or religion," he said, seated in the headquarters of his unit in the desert here. "There is a misconception about Iraqis. Iraqis like Americans. When I was a young boy I used to listen to Tom Jones. I used to dance and listen to Elvis. I can dance better than the average American. We were very Western. We always wanted to know more about your country than Americans wanted to know about Iraq."
After teaching veterinary medicine at the University of Baghdad, Colonel Miskina joined the Iraqi brain drain -- as many as four million Iraqis with doctorates have become emigres, he said -- in 1977, because his fiancee (and now wife), Lamia, had moved with her family to West Bloomfield, which has a large community of Iraqi expatriates.
Colonel Miskina now owns three veterinary clinics in the Detroit area, which are operated by his wife while he serves on active duty. The couple have three children, Jessica, 18, George, 15, and John, 12.
He said his life in the United States was, in many ways, a fantasy come true. He sees his 18 years in the Army Reserves as a way of repaying a debt to the country.
"In Iraq I would be seen as a millionaire," he said. "I live in a nice house on the lake. I have a four-car garage. But believe it or not, I know only a few people in my neighborhood. On my right-hand side is a neighbor whose dad was born in Iraq. As soon as we moved in, he came over to introduce himself. He welcomed me to the neighborhood. It is a very Iraqi thing to do. On my left-hand side, I never met my neighbors. They are not Iraqi."
Colonel Miskina said he believed that numerous midlevel Iraqi civil servants, including members of the governing Baath Party, could serve as the basis for the infrastructure of a new government. "A lot of them will be good Iraqi citizens," he said.
On the other hand, he said, Iraqis will eventually start taking revenge on one another. "If you have blood on your hands, the neighborhood will know about it," he said. "They will weed them out."
Colonel Miskina plans to visit his old neighborhood in Baghdad and was looking forward to a reunion with several cousins to whom he has been sending money since the economic penalties and trade embargo imposed in 1990 by the United Nations after the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait.
He said he was well suited to working with American officers engaged in interrogating Iraqi prisoners as well as those seeking to forge a new civilian government. "I have the benefit of the doubt," he said. "I have both cultures. I am the bridge between you and them." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lt. Col. Frank J. Miskina, an Iraqi-born officer in the United States Army, showed his identification card from his time in the Iraqi military. (Sgt. Amy Abbott/U.S. Army) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (78%); INFORMATION WARFARE (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); AIR FORCES (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%); RELIGION (60%); TERRORISM (59%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; PRISONERS OF WAR 

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (59%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) WEINRAUB, BERNARD; MISKINA, FRANK J (LT COL) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); KUWAIT (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



455 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing Connecticut: Hartford: 'Extreme' Poverty Worsens, Study Says 

BYLINE:  AP (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

 BODY:
 The number of people living in extreme poverty in wealthy Connecticut increased 38 percent between 1989 and 1999, University of Connecticut researchers have found. 
Researchers, using data from the 2000 census, said the "extremely poor" were defined as those making about $7,200 for a single adult and two children, or less than half the federal poverty level. An increase of people living in extreme poverty was seen in 120 of the state's 169 towns in the 10-year period. But the 2000 census used income data from 1999, before the economy sagged, meaning the problem could be worse than has been thought.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); CENSUS (90%); POOR POPULATION (88%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



456 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: CONTRACTS; 
Firm Wins $62 Million Deal To Restore Education in Iraq

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14 

 BODY:
Creative Associates International Inc., a firm based in Washington, has won a $62 million contract from the United States Agency for International Development to improve primary and secondary education in Iraq.
 The first goal will be to open Iraqi schools on schedule this fall, with enough equipment and supplies for all students. In the long term, the firm will retrain teachers and school officials and introduce teaching methods to "lay the foundations for democratic practice and attitudes among students, parents and teachers," according to the aid agency. 
 Education is considered a critical area for shaping postwar Iraqi society, with a focus on ridding the schools of the close-minded environment established during the reign of Saddam Hussein.
"We're very pleased to have this," said Robert Gordon, a spokesman for the company, which has worked in more than 60 countries.
Creative Associates already does education work for the aid agency in Morocco and Afghanistan, according to Mr. Gordon, who said that 90 percent of the firm's business came from the agency.
The agency's Iraq program will take at least a year to complete.
When the situation is considered safe in Iraq, the company will send advance teams to assess the state of the country's schools. Nearly 25 percent of school-age children in Iraq do not attend school, and the company will be charged with ensuring that those children return to class and helping them catch up on their education. There will also be a strong push to see that girls as well as boys are able to attend school.
The contract does not include school textbooks, which will be awarded in a separate contract.
This is the fourth of eight contracts to be awarded by the development agency for the reconstruction of Iraq. A $4.8 million contract to manage and repair seaports like Umm Qasr in southern Iraq was given to Stevedoring Services of America in Seattle, and a $7 million contract to help plan for emergency relief went to the International Resources Group of Washington. The Research Triangle Institute of North Carolina won a $7.9 million contract to help restore local governments in Iraq. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONTRACT AWARDS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); TEXTBOOKS (72%); TERRORISM (59%) FOREIGN AID; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

COMPANY: CREATIVE ASSOCIATES INTERNATIONAL INC (93%); STEVEDORING SERVICES OF AMERICA (53%); RESEARCH TRIANGLE INSTITUTE (52%); INTERNATIONAL RESOURCES GROUP LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%) CREATIVE ASSOCIATES INTERNATIONAL INC; AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) 

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); SIC4491 MARINE CARGO HANDLING (53%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (52%); NAICS541618 OTHER MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) BECKER, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (50%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); MOROCCO (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



457 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section S; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4572 words

HEADLINE: A Basketball and a Dream 

BYLINE:  By HARVEY ARATON 

 BODY:
Relishing the occasion of his American professional debut and a moment he recognized as classically Kodak, the rookie from the Republic of Georgia sauntered onto the court to face a player who certainly needed no introduction.
 "You know who I am?" Kevin Garnett, the Minnesota Timberwolves' All-Star forward, asked the bewildered rookie, just to make sure.
 Of course he knew. Back home in Tbilisi, Georgia, Nikoloz Tskitishvili's long-distance hero, his stylistic role model, had been Garnett. Now, face to face at the Target Center in downtown Minneapolis, Garnett was suddenly his snarling antagonist, filling the air with profanity, taunting Tskitishvili, a 19-year-old rookie with the Denver Nuggets: "You think you can guard me? You can't guard me." 
 With no time to think, much less back down, Tskitishvili returned four-letter fire, only to wonder later why Garnett had challenged him at all. "I love the American black players and I always want to be like them," Tskitishvili said. "But how can you say such thing? You are All-Star and I am just kid."
 The Nuggets, one of the worst teams in the N.B.A., bet the fifth pick of the 2002 draft that the 7-foot Tskitishvili (pronounced TSKEE-tish-VEE-lee) would grow into stardom, as have other imported players like Dirk Nowitzki (Germany) of the Dallas Mavericks and Pau Gasol (Spain) of the Memphis Grizzlies. For a team in need of wholesale help, Tskitishvili was a radical choice, considering that months before he was drafted, even N.B.A. insiders had never heard of him.
 His selection emphasized the increasing confidence and even preference N.B.A. teams are showing for international players. Nearly 20 percent of the N.B.A. is foreign-born, more than double the number five years ago. In a league with about 348 active players, 66 international players from 34 countries have appeared in games this season. The 2002 draft began with Houston selecting Yao Ming, the 7-foot-6 Chinese center; current projections indicate that as many as eight first-round picks could come from outside the United States in the June draft.
 Tskitishvili's on-court impact this season has been negligible compared with Yao's, and even compared with that of Tskitishvili's rookie teammate, the Brazilian forward Nene Hilario. But if Tskitishvili, known affectionately as Skita around Denver's home court, the Pepsi Center, eventually lives up to his draft standing, teams will no doubt expand the search for the most obscure potential talent. The prediction once made by Tskitishvili's Connecticut-based agent, Marc Fleisher -- that the N.B.A. will eventually be half foreign-born -- will appear more unavoidable than audacious.
 "You have great life here," Tskitishvili said in his stiff yet confident English, one of six languages he speaks. "You have opportunity. Everybody wants to come."
 He was speaking of a generation of young foreign players raised on televised images of Michael Jordan and American popular culture. Finishing a rookie season that ends tomorrow while watching bombs rain on Baghdad has been unsettling, he said. Childhood memories of civil war in Georgia remind him that television reports resembling coverage of a sports event are far from reality.
 During his first year in the United States, Tskitishvili has embraced everything American, from his favorite city (San Francisco) to his favorite singer (Tupac Shakur) to his favorite television show (Jerry Springer). This is understandable for a young man who was left fatherless at 2, who at 15 considered himself his family's breadwinner and who was handed a three-year, $7 million contract just months after his 19th birthday, along with the perks of celebrity immigrant status.
 In late October, the Nuggets helped his 12-year-old half-brother, Giorgi Kipiani, obtain an education visa that allowed him to leave Georgia, where publicized wealth created kidnapping fears. Hours after Garnett rudely introduced Tskitishvili to the American form of athletic diplomacy known as trash talking, he parked his Lincoln Navigator outside a hotel in downtown Denver. It was early Halloween morning, a blanket of snow already down.
 He walked briskly through the lobby, his boyish face reddened by the cold and the excitement of his family reunion. When the door of Room 303 opened, a 12-year-old rushed past his mother and took wide-eyed measure of the brother he had not seen in more than a year.
 "Nika!" Giorgi cried. "You got taller."
 In size and in stature, for Nikoloz Tskitishvili, a kid from Tbilisi, a product of that N.B.A. global generation, had made it to America against incalculable odds. Back home in Georgia, and in countries worldwide, young boys were reminded that all they needed was a ball, a dream and the chance to be seen.

Scouting for Players, Selling a Dream
 Pushing 100 miles an hour, his left hand steady on the wheel of his BMW, Reed Salwen glanced at the dash to determine the origin of the incoming call, then mixed and matched the appropriate language and greeting.
 From Italian to Russian, Spanish to French to an occasional "My man," Salwen, a 36-year-old New Yorker and the main European operative for the agent Marc Fleisher, chatted into his wireless headset with a fraternal recognition, a cool confidence. Factoring in the easy smile and the stylish shades, the most flattering imagery was Tom Cruise. Or truer to character: Jerry Maguire, gone continental.
 The calls were constant: a Ukrainian playing basketball in France in need of a pep talk, a Frenchman in Bologna deserving a lecture, a Croat in Trieste begging for a bed.
 Young men relocated across cultural lines required an agent's comforts, coddling and companionship, and not necessarily by phone. "My second home," Salwen called the autostrada, as Milan, his base, faded in the rearview mirror on the way east. In Treviso, a city of 85,000 just south of Venice, another Georgian gem would be making his Euroleague debut for the powerful Benetton club, as Tskitishvili had the previous season.
 "From a basketball perspective, Skita just came out of nowhere," said Jeff Weltman, the Nuggets' assistant general manager, who scouted Tskitishvili when he played, sparingly, for Benetton last season.
 Salwen had first seen Tskitishvili at a tournament in Slovenia after being tipped by a Georgian sports entrepreneur on a boy soaring toward 7 feet tall who had the raw but unmistakable skills of a 6-footer and whose lightness afoot was traceable to youthful years performing in a Tbilisi dance troupe.
 Now that Tskitishvili was safely delivered to the N.B.A., it was time to nurture Manuchar Markoishvili, also hailing from Tbilisi, and following in Tskitishvili's choreographed steps, from dance stage to slam dunk. Markoishvili, all of 16, was already signed and sealed to Fleisher.
 Everywhere, it seems, boys barely adolescent are being "tagged and identified" -- as Weltman put it -- though the difference abroad is that the talent hunt is unburdened by ethical debate regarding the need for a purely amateur experience, much less a college degree or even a high school diploma.
 Outside the United States, and especially in the Republic of Georgia, little doubt is left that it is truly about the money. "I remember reading that Shaquille O'Neal signed for $76 million a few years ago," said Markoishvili, a 6-foot-6 guard with the face of a cherub atop the body of an adult fitness fanatic. "They said in the paper that O'Neal has more money than the whole Georgian economy."
 At La Ghirada, a stretch of land on the outskirts of Treviso on which the Benetton clothing giant operates an impressive sports complex it even calls its campus, Markoishvili was studying Italian, absorbing English and living in an austere, dormlike room, where the only visible reading material was an Italian-Georgian dictionary, an Italian N.B.A. magazine and the Bible he brought from home.
 "He doesn't have to worry about anything except basketball," said Ettore Messina, the Benetton coach this season and a fixture around the Italian game. "He is lucky to be here."
 This is the inverse of the American system, where ostensibly amateur high school and college programs profit as showcases for the gifted and talented. Extreme case in point: LeBron James, the Akron, Ohio, scholastic star, whose games for St. Vincent-St. Mary High School this season became news media spectacles, national referendums on ethics in sports. The view from Europe is that the American system has become inimical to comprehensive player development, lavishing undue enticements and empowerment on impressionable teenagers when what they most need is an apprenticeship to better grasp fundamentals and team play.
 "That's what I find college coaches telling me," Messina said. "They get to a point where they can't stand it. The players are too spoiled. They've got leverage: 'You don't want me, no problem, I'll go someplace else. I'll go to another team, another school. I'll get drafted.' The coaches have to beg. Once the big pride of Americans was the education and teaching, but it's no more like that."
 As an 18-year-old last season, Tskitishvili averaged 12.7 minutes a game for Benetton. On the night the team won the Italian League title, he served teammates Gatorade and the only moves he made were the graceful Georgian pirouettes he performed as a child -- "strong dance, with knife, no tutu," he said -- at a team celebration. Only at practice could Tskitishvili flaunt the size and skills that sent American scouts home raving about him as the next Nowitzki.
 In December, Weltman, the Nuggets' assistant general manager, returned from another scouting trip to Italy with the opinion that Markoishvili had the potential to follow Tskitishvili to the N.B.A. -- more good news for Fleisher, Salwen and even Mauricio Gherardini, the Benetton general manager, who in the fall of 2001 signed Tskitishvili, then with a Slovenian team, to a seven-year, $1.2 million contract with a $1 million buyout clause.
 This is now standard practice, as European teams adapt to the mining of their market by deep-pocketed Americans. "When you go after young players like Skita, you make the investment, mature the player and hope he gives you two to three good years," Gherardini said. In Tskitishvili's case, Gherardini got half a season of service -- 11 games, 73 points -- but the return of $1 million.
 Tskitishvili, for his part, lived the good Italian life last season, toured the Continent and, in effect, won the American basketball lottery. "He calls me all the time, saying, 'Thank you, Reed, thank you so much,"' Salwen said. "These kids, they're amazing, how grateful they are, what they'll do, and the obstacles they have to overcome."
 Salwen could still picture the small, decrepit gym in St. Petersburg, Russia, where Andrei Kirilenko, the Utah Jazz's long-limbed forward and the first client he signed for Fleisher, learned to play. "He took a trolley 45 minutes every day and walked in snow knee-high to get there," Salwen said. "Let me tell you, for all the talk about how bad things are in urban America, I lived a year and a half in Los Angeles, I've seen Compton. It's still not Russia."
 Salwen studied Russian, economics and political science at McGill University and Oxford, and moved to Moscow during the early 1990's, working in tennis and hockey and later for Nike. He met a Georgian, Zurab Bokolishvili, who was trying to establish a sneaker outlet in Tbilisi, and who would later summon him to Slovenia to see Tskitishvili in a junior tournament.
 Only when Salwen signed with Fleisher in 1999 did he leave Russia after seven adventurous years in the new cradle of capitalism. If Italy and Spain were not the big European basketball markets, he would never have left the region he calls "the wild east."
 "Sometimes I miss the States," he said, "but I don't know where I fit into that fat, S.U.V. culture anymore. I love to hustle."
 Treviso one night, Bologna the next, Siena, Rome -- or jetting off to Barcelona, Belgrade or Vilnius, Lithuania. It is a hectic, crazy life, Salwen acknowledged, even sacrificial, considering 40 is not far ahead on life's autostrada.
 He keeps going, Salwen said, because the physics of basketball have changed forever, and somewhere out there is another Tskitishvili, a teenager ready to bound improbably onto the radar and maybe all the way into the N.B.A. draft.
 When Tskitishvili went from nowhere to No. 5 and all the way to Denver, it told Salwen that anything was possible, that the world was shrinking and that an agent had better be willing to go anywhere, anytime, even places like Tbilisi, in the heart of the Caucasus, which Salwen had already mined as a fertile hunting ground with the best of conditions.
 "Great people," he said. "No rules." 

Beginnings in Art Give Way to Sports
 Guliko Tskitishvili craned her neck outside on the narrow terrace of her apartment on the sixth floor of 2 Nutsubidze Plato on the outskirts of Tbilisi. The steady pounding of a basketball could be heard on the cracked cement of a ramshackle play area below, but she had to see for herself, make sure her younger son was still there.
 "I don't worry for me, only if they will take Giorgi," she said, as her sweet-faced boy with the shock of dark hair and a Denver Nuggets jersey with "Tskita" on the back hoisted shots with friends at a netless rim attached to a fraying wood backboard. "When he plays in the yard, I am always near."
 As if contradicting her concern, the afternoon sky was cloudless, conceived for the carefree. A tall, robust woman, Guliko Tskitishvili was laying out a Georgian-style holiday spread, or supra, under a striking chandelier. Behind the table stood an upright piano. Tasteful paintings adorned the walls.
 "We are people of art," she said, explaining that she, like Nikoloz, had danced as a younger woman, while her husband, Misha, sang and acted before a fatal auto accident in 1985. Their daughter, Nino, had been a model and competed in a European beauty pageant as Miss Georgia.
 When their Soviet-style housing complex was built more than 20 years ago, the location, on a hill with a view of the Mtkvari River running through the heart of Tbilisi, was a sign of prestige, a reward for the artistic. Now, as they are all across the city, such buildings are architectural blemishes across the undulating landscape, their exteriors giving the appearance of rotting hulks.
"After the Communists fell, nobody has the money or the desire to do anything," Guliko said.
 Conversely, she knew the name Tskitishvili in Georgia was now synonymous with new wealth, and while there had been no formal threat made by organized crime, it was not difficult to conjure up fear. At a downtown soccer stadium that same week, Zurab Bokolishvili, the Georgian sports agent who had led Tskitishvili to Reed Salwen, pointed out the captain of the Georgian national team, Kakha Kaladze, who is a well-paid star for the Italian power. 
 "His brother was taken more than a year ago," Bokolishvili said. The kidnappers, believed to be bandits operating near the border with Chechnya, demanded $600,000. The brother, a medical student, has not been heard from since.
 In Georgia, the state of affairs as it struggles to establish democracy might best be described as murky, and occasionally dark. At halftime of the soccer match, a 0-0 European qualifying grudge match with Russia, the stadium lights died.
 "Maybe politics," Bokolishvili said, considering that the Russians were controlling play, a defeat for Georgia would have meant elimination and lights were shining elsewhere in a city infamous for power failures.
 Almost an hour later, the no-frills stadium, having survived the rampant lighting of newspapers into flaming torches in a crowd of chain-smokers, emptied despite no announcement of the game's postponement. With a way-of-life shrug, Bokolishvili made his way to a Dodge Durango, parked across the street, right on the sidewalk, with apparent police blessing.
 His brawny driver proceeded to tear through town at hair-raising speeds, ignoring traffic lanes and red lights. "No problem for us," Bokolishvili said -- either a boast that men with connections in the right places and handguns in their waistbands need not worry about potential consequences, or a simple assurance that this was what passed here for expert driving.
 Whatever the mores, whatever the unseen dangers, the city these days was practically Singapore compared with Tbilisi in the early 1990's, when street fighting broke out after the fall of the Soviet Union and armed rival gangs roamed the streets.
 The preadolescent Nikoloz Tskitishvili was then following his mother's lead in the Georgian national dance. But by his 12th birthday, already 5 feet 9, he was outgrowing the disciplines, and the modest basketball court Giorginow roamed became his new stage, until he was good enough to venture downtown, to places like the Vere Basketball Hall, with its regulation court, 2,500 seats and no heat.
 "No coaches in America would train in such cold," said Vaja Kvarachelia, while watching a scrimmage of young boys.
 Bundled in old sweats, Tskitishvili had trained under Kvarachelia, his first coach and volunteer surrogate father, who himself had been an orphan at 5. "It is why there became such a relationship between Nika and me," he said. "I was always jealous of those children who had fathers, so when I saw how gifted a child he was, I always wanted to somehow substitute for his loss."
 In the dark and cold, he would walk his prize pupil home, a couple of miles, so Tskitishvili's mother would not worry. He would fill the disbelieving teenager's head with possibilities of going beyond the Georgian league and Europe, and all the way across the Atlantic. Kvarachelia's eyes moistened when he said: "Because of the dance, I could see his movement. I felt it was destiny."
 He also knew that the transition to the N.B.A. would be difficult for a still-developing young man from a country incapable of fitting all its players with appropriate footwear. Kvarachelia hoped people in both countries would have patience, but back at 2 Nutsubidze Plato, where Giorgi had returned from the basketball court and Guliko's guests had sat down to eat, Zurab Bokolishvili -- the table's tamada, or toastmaster -- raised his glass and said, "To Nika, our great natural resource." 
 To a guest he added, "In one or two years, better than Nowitzki."

Seeking Sense of Home Amid Trappings of Wealth
 On the night Mike D'Antoni came to visit in Denver, Tskitishvili was excited to show off the trappings of his new, suburbanized American life, which included the Lincoln Navigator with the customized television, the $2,800-a-month condo in trendy Cherry Creek and his regular dinner haunt, the local sushi restaurant.
 D'Antoni, who was Tskitishvili's coach with Benetton last season, had also made the jump to the N.B.A., as an assistant coach with the Phoenix Suns. Tskitishvili had a special fondness for D'Antoni; as a parting gift, he had presented him with the special knife he used for his Georgian dance at the team's championship party.
 While Guliko picked at a salad and Giorgi at his brother's California rolls, D'Antoni and Tskitishvili reminisced and caught up.
 "Are you still in touch with Laura?" D'Antoni asked.
 Tskitishvili blushed. Laura Mori, a 17-year blonde Benetton hostess and model, had been his girlfriend in Treviso, apparently without his mother's blessing. ("No Laura, Georgian girl!" Guliko had declared when asked in Tbilisi about the budding romance.)
Tskitishvili smiled shyly. "You know, I break girls' hearts all over the world," he said. "Georgia. Slovenia. Italy."
 "You need to find one here," D'Antoni said.
 Tskitishvili shook his head, and explained that he and the other rookies had been warned at the league's orientation program about women who prowl the N.B.A. circuit to exploit young players for money. "I am so scared of American girls," he said.
 With an affectionate laugh, D'Antoni told another dinner guest: "Typical Skita. His charming innocence."
 And yet this teenager whose only home appliance during his first four months in the United States was a PlayStation for his video games had also eased into the roles, from the moment his mother and brother landed in Denver, of family provider, mother's helper and father figure. 
 He awakened many mornings at 7 to drive Giorgi to school, and made time on weekends to attend his brother's middle school basketball games. He helped his mother, who spoke little English and for months would not test the maze of suburban roads, with neighborhood shopping or the Russian market downtown.
 "I feel like young man but already old man, in the mind," Tskitishvili said. "I am so busy, sometimes so tired."
 In Europe, he had played no more than two games a week, with far less travel. "It's more time to relax in Europe," he said. "Here, it so much, all the time."
 His one Georgian friend in Denver -- a 28-year-old insurance contractor named Nick Chachkhiani -- said the most difficult adjustment for a Georgian in America was the fast pace of life. "Here, life is work, pay bills, make so much to afford anything," Chachkhiani said. "In Georgia, the economy's not so great but the culture is old, the relationships are good."
 Tskitishvili conceded as the season dragged on that he sometimes missed his home turf, his old friends. This was obvious one wet and otherwise dreary night when the Nuggets were in New York, as Tskitishvili stood on the sidewalk deep in the heart of immigrant Brooklyn, looking up with elation at the sign atop the storefront restaurant that said "Tbilisi." 
 Inside, there were wall-to-wall murals of hometown landmarks. Familiar aromas filled the air. A crooner belted out Georgian folk songs. A large table of diners, recognizing Tskitishvili, insisted he join them. Soon, a 300-pound bald giant named Kakha Gogoladze toasted him in grand Georgian style, long and fervent.
 "He is telling him that America is good for earning, to make the money," a young woman translated, as Gogoladze -- entirely believable when identifying himself as a former bodyguard of the Georgian President Eduard Shevardnadze -- clasped a massive hand around the misty-eyed player's neck. "He is telling him to succeed here with his strong Georgian heart."
 Through a numbing repetition of Nuggets defeats, it was Tskitishvili's head that the Nuggets most worried about, his many rookie mistakes and one embarrassing civilian misadventure.
 Tskitishvili was driving his Lincoln Navigator to the airport for a team flight to Los Angeles on Feb. 10 when a police officer pulled him over for having expired license plates. Upon running a check, the officer discovered that he had an outstanding violation for speeding, reckless driving and failing to yield to an emergency vehicle.
 Tskitishvili had, after all, learned to drive in Tbilisi. "If the police stop you in Georgia, you give them five bucks, everything's O.K.," Tskitishvili said. He wisely offered no bribe but was handcuffed and detained. The headlines circulated nationwide, and across the Atlantic, the underlying message suggesting that Tskitishvili's days of American innocence had ended. His American dream was in reverse: first came the rewards, then the harsher realities of N.B.A life.
 It did not help that the unquestioned Nuggets star of the 2002 draft, at least for this season, was Nene Hilario, the seventh overall pick from Brazil, with his samba-like footwork and inside power game. Playing behind other, less-heralded young players for most of the season, Tskitishvili has posted modest averages of 3.8 points and 15.8 minutes. A veteran Denver sports columnist, unimpressed, labeled him "The Big Bust."
 "How can someone say this about me and I am only 19?" Tskitishvili, who turned 20 yesterday, wondered. "Of course it has been harder in N.B.A. than I thought, but I am smart. I have talent. I trust future."
 KikiVandeweghe, the Nuggets' general manager, who made the final draft call on Tskitishvili, drew on his experience of having worked in Dallas as the rookie Nowitzki stumbled about. That was in 1998, before there was precedent, before places like Treviso, Italy, had become as much a stop on the talent-hunting trail as Tobacco Road. 
 Now two N.B.A. scouts could sit courtside in Denver and watch the Georgian with the tongue-twister last name drive the ball at the Chinese center, Yao, and coolly pass off to his Brazilian teammate, Hilario, for a slam dunk. And from that one Tskitishvili move in an otherwise undistinguished cameo role, one scout could tell the other: "That kid's some athlete. He's got a chance."

Learning the Ways Of the N.B.A.
 It takes a visionary basketball mind to imagine the finished product, a highly skilled 7-foot "small" forward, especially when Tskitishvili has this season been the diffident Georgian, drifting out by the 3-point line, symbolically positioned on the N.B.A. threshold, as if waiting for an invitation to step inside.
 His coaches have tried to accelerate the process of making an N.B.A. man out of him, with extra workouts and a training regimen that has packed a dozen pounds onto the 212-pound frame with which he began the season. But far from the distorted sense of entitlement plaguing many American players, Tskitishvili has never been the star of any team, arriving more as an N.B.A. fan than a player, reaching out and touching Jordan during a preseason game because, as he explained, "I just had to."
 "He's got to get over the star-struck phase and realize he's being paid to do a job,"' Jeff Bzdelik, the Denver coach, said.
 They had a private talk in January, after which Tskitishvili vowed, "I'm going to be more aggressive, play like American guys." It was a New Year's resolution the Nuggets would not hold him to, at least not until next fall, when another highly regarded draft pick -- possibly even LeBron James -- struts into camp. Then Tskitishvili will have to begin throwing gratitude and caution aside. He will have to start shedding the passivity that froze him one wintry afternoon, when, browsing with his brother in a Denver record store, he looked up to find a familiar and intimidating sight.
 Partially camouflaged but unmistakably cool in a furry hat and long dark coat was, of all people, Kevin Garnett.
 While Giorgi pressed his brother to say hello, Tskitishvili wavered, as if he were an indecisive rookie running down the shot clock. Soon Garnett was gone and the social opportunity was lost, at least until the next night, when a Nuggets official ushered Giorgi into the Minnesota locker room for a formal meeting with the big, bad Timberwolf.
 "So now you come over," Garnett woofed, before dropping his veneer, charming the fear out of the child. Later, Garnett set his sights on the older brother. After Minnesota rallied to win the game, he made a beeline cross-court and once again positioned himself in Tskitishvili's face.
 This time, he offered his hand. "Not regular way but this way," Tskitishvili said, thumb up, fingers bent -- the brotherly shake of choice for many African-Americans.
 There was delight in Tskitishvili's face as he recounted the moment he had been waiting for. Welcome to the N.B.A., Garnett seemed to be telling the stranger with the strange name. Welcome to the league of opulence in the land of opportunity, where you can live large and loud, for as long as you survive.

GRAPHIC: Photos: BACKYARD HOOPS -- Nikoloz Tskitishvili's half-brother, Giorgi Kipiani, played outside his home in Tbilisi, Georgia.; AT HOME -- Tskitishvili's family has added sports memorabilia to its well-appointed home.; MEETING THE HERO -- Nikoloz Tskitishvili went up against his hero, Kevin Garnett, as a 19-year-old rookie this season. (Photographs by RICHARD PERRY/The New York Times)(pg. S1); A GEORGIAN FEAST -- Amid a table set for a holiday meal in the family apartment in Tbilisi, Georgia, was Nikoloz's autographed rookie card with the Nuggets.; THE COACH -- Vaja Kvarachelia became Nikoloz Tskitishvili's first basketball coach and his volunteer surrogate father.; THE REUNION -- Nikoloz Tskitishvili was greeted by his mother, Guliko, and half-brother, Giorgi, in Denver. "You got taller," Giorgi said.; THE BROKER -- Zurab Bokolishvili tipped off an American, Reed Salwen, to an athletic boy who was soaring to 7 feet tall.; THE AGENT -- Reed Salwen, cruising in his BMW on the autostrada -- "my home away from home" -- scours Europe for the next prospect. (Photographs by RICHARD PERRY/The New York Times)(pg. S6); THE MOTHER -- Guliko, Tskitishvili's mother, protects her younger son; she also wishes for a Georgian girlfriend for Nikoloz.; THE BROTHER -- Giorgi Kipiani took in the sights at the Pepsi Center in Denver before watching his half-brother in an N.B.A. game.; AT HOME IN BROOKLYN -- Amid wall-to-wall murals of hometown landmarks, Nikoloz Tskitishvili dined with friends from Georgia in the restaurant Tbilisi. (pg. S7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); ATHLETES (63%) BASKETBALL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (SPORTS) 

ORGANIZATION: DENVER NUGGETS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (82%); MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES (58%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (54%) DENVER NUGGETS 

PERSON: KEVIN GARNETT (90%) ARATON, HARVEY; TSKITISHVILI, NIKOLOZ 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (93%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (66%) GEORGIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (78%); SPAIN (74%) TBILISI (GEORGIAN REPUBLIC); GEORGIA (GEORGIAN REPUBLIC)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



458 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
SMEAL, FRANK P.

 BODY:
 SMEAL-Frank P., 84, died April 8, 2003 at his home, after a long illness. Mr. Smeal was born in Sykesville, PA. He lived in Jackson Heights, Queens, NY and New Shrewsbury before moving to Rumson, NJ in 1969. Mr. Smeal, a 1942 Phi Beta Kappa graduate in economics at Pennsylvania State University, went on to earn a Master's in Business Administration from Harvard University in 1947 and a law degree from New York University in 1952. A retired partner of Goldman Sachs, Inc., he spent his 38 year career on Wall Street as an expert in the municipal bond market. As Executive Vice President and Treasurer of Morgan Guaranty Trust Co., he was instrumental in counseling New York City through its 1975-76 fiscal crisis. He became a partner and member of the Senior Management Committee of Goldman Sachs in 1977 and retired in 1985. Frank was a past-president of the Municipal Bond Club of New York and former Chairman of the Government and Federal Agencies Securities Committee of Public Securities Association. He was treasurer of the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa and of the Phi Beta Kappa Foundation. Frank also served as Chairman of the Greater New York Councils of Boy Scouts of America, Chairman of the Penn State Development Councils, and Chairman of the Citizens Budget Commission, NYC, NY. He was also a member of the Board of the Mount Nittany Society. Frank was named a Distinguished Alumnus of Penn State University in 1974 and an Alumni Fellow of the College of the Liberal Arts in 1986. 
Penn State's Smeal College of Business Administration was named in Honor of Frank and his wife, Mary Jean. They were also recognized by the National Center for Disability Services, Albertson, Long Island, NY where the Frank P. and Mary Jean Smeal Learning Center was established. Mr. Smeal was predeceased by his wife of 55 years, Mary Jean (nee Popp); his brother, Ted; a sister, Pauline Alexander, and his parents Samuel and Mary Smeal. He is survived by his daughter, Mary Margaret "Maggi" Smeal, MD; his son, Henry "Hank" F. Smeal; two grandchildren; sisters Dorothy Schwabenbauer and Olga Stormer; and three nieces, Janice King, Josephine Caylor, and Judy Olsen. Funeral service will be private and under the direction of the John E. Day Funeral Home, 85 Riverside Avenue, Red Bank, NJ 07701 (1-888-747-0332). The family asks that, in lieu of flowers, memorial contributions be made to: Boy Scouts of America, New York Council Office, 350 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10018 (212-242-1100) or Inner-City Scholarship Fund, 1011 First Avenue, Suite 1400, New York, NY 10022-4134 (212-753-8583) or Smeal College of Business Administration, Penn State University, Development Office, 501 Business Administration, University Park, PA. 16802 (814-863-0345). Expressions of condolences may be sent to 12 Beekman Place, New York, New York 10022. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); CHILDREN (78%); BUDGETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); BOND MARKETS (70%) 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: PHI BETA KAPPA (91%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (55%); BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: SMEAL, FRANK P. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



459 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Profit Up at Bank of America; Fleet's Results Meet Estimates 

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
A strong retail banking performance helped the Bank of America Corporation record a first-quarter profit above analysts' estimates, it reported yesterday. But profit at FleetBoston Financial fell though it was in line with projections. 
 Spurred by a 21 percent increase in consumer loans, Bank of America reported earnings of $2.42 billion, or $1.59 a share, up from $2.18 billion, or $1.38 a share, in the quarter a year earlier. This easily exceeded the $1.48 a share forecast by analysts. 
 Revenue rose to $8.89 billion, up 3.5 percent from $8.59 billion in the first quarter of 2002. 
The bank, based in Charlotte, N.C., benefited from low interest rates on mortgages, which have encouraged home purchases and refinancing. 
Kenneth D. Lewis, the chairman and chief executive, said that profit increased at all three of the bank's major businesses in the quarter. 
James H. Hance Jr., the chief financial officer, said in a conference call with investors that he expected quarterly profits to rise modestly through 2003. "Once the geopolitical uncertainty is resolved," Mr. Hance said, "we believe the economy will slowly regain its momentum. We have positioned ourselves to benefit from that occurrence." 
But David West, an analyst at Davenport & Company in Richmond, Va., said some investors had hoped for a more optimistic forecast from the bank. "Their remarks were pretty cautionary in an uncertain economy and subject to event risk," he said. "The bank did not say its outlook was bad, just that it would be lumpy." 
Bank of America said that credit losses eased, and its loan-loss provision ebbed to $833 million from $840 million a year earlier. 
The bank began treating employee stock options as expenses this quarter and reported a pretax impact of $26 million. 
FleetBoston cited the sluggish economy as one factor in a 23 percent decline in earnings. The company earned $567 million, or 54 cents a share, in the quarter compared with net income of $735 million, or 70 cents a share, a year earlier. 
Income from continuing operations totaled $577 million, or 55 cents a share, compared with $736 million, or 70 cents a share, a year earlier. That matched the consensus forecast of analysts.
Revenue for the period was $2.76 billion, down from $3.135 billion a year earlier. 
"All in all it was a decent quarter, with the highlight being the improvement in credit quality," said Gerard Cassidy, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets in Portland, Me. "The company most significantly showed a meaningful decline in nonperforming assets in the last quarter." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RETAIL BANKING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MORTGAGE RATES (54%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%) BANKS AND BANKING; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (96%); DAVENPORT & CO LLC (55%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (51%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF AMERICA CORP; FLEETBOSTON FINANCIAL CORP 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (96%); BAC (LSE) (96%); 8648 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%) SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; 

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (73%) LEWIS, KENNETH D; HANCE, JAMES H JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (69%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (50%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



460 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup Reports Strong Results For First Quarter 

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
Citigroup reported strong results for the first quarter yesterday as a recent acquisition in California bolstered results in its consumer banking business and low interest rates encouraged consumers and corporations to borrow more. The bank was also able to set aside less for problem corporate loans.
 Despite the encouraging news, which contributed to a rise in stock prices over all yesterday, net income at the bank declined 15 percent because the results a year earlier had included a one-time gain. Stock analysts also worried that the company's earnings growth could slow later this year, particularly if interest rates rise and the demand for mortgage refinancings wanes. 
 Citigroup reported net income of $4.1 billion, or 79 cents a share, down from $4.8 billion, or 93 cents a share, a year earlier. The quarter in 2002 included a one-time gain from the public offering of stock in the Travelers Property Casualty unit. Profits from continuing operations rose 18 percent in the latest period from a year earlier.
Stock analysts as well as the company's executives expressed relief that the company appeared to have finally put a long list of problems behind it.
"Earnings should be better in 2003 because the environment has gotten less bad," said Henry McVey, an analyst at Morgan Stanley.
Last year, Citigroup had to cope with losses in Argentina and the bankruptcies of large companies like Enron and WorldCom. The company was also distracted by a long investigation by regulators into conflicts of interest by research analysts. A settlement in principle was reached at the end of last year, and the final details are expected to be completed soon.
"Over the last 20 months, we have been bombarded by a whole host of issues," Sanford I. Weill, Citigroup's chief executive, said in a conference call with analysts yesterday. "We think this year is off to a good start."
With many problems behind it, Citigroup's shares rose $1.08 yesterday, to close at $38.43, on a day when the stock market overall posted strong results. Citigroup's shares have risen more than 9 percent this year.
But some analysts are worried that the the bank will have slower growth in some of its consumer businesses, which have been dominating its results for the last several quarters. "There is not much revenue growth in financial services now," Mr. McVey said. 
Expenses increased 5 percent, or $496 million, for the quarter, largely a result of costs associated with the acquisition of Golden State Bancorp last year. Other factors included higher severance payments, changes in accounting for options, and more conservative assumptions related to the company's pension plan.
The Golden State purchase bolstered Citigroup's consumer profits, which were up 26 percent. The strongest performance in this area came from retail banking, where earnings rose 54 percent. 
The bank's credit card business, the world's largest, reported a 27 percent profit increase, but expenses rose 9 percent as Citigroup spent more on marketing. Earnings fell 8 percent at the consumer finance business, partly a result of rising losses in Japan.
Analysts worry that Citigroup's consumer profits may have peaked, especially if a rise in interest rates slows mortgage financings later this year.
"The second half of the year on the consumer side is going to be tough," said Michael Corasaniti, head of research at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, a brokerage firm specializing in financial services.
But Todd Thomson, Citigroup's chief financial officer, said the bank had anticipated that problem. 
"At some point rates are going to go up, and you'll see an end to the refinancing boom," he said in an interview yesterday. If fewer individuals refinance their mortgages, Citigroup will make more servicing those loans, he said. 
An improving economy could also encourage consumers to use their credit cards more. "This quarter was pretty weak for consumer spending," Mr. Thomson said. Outstanding credit card balances rose 8 percent, possibly indicating that the bank's marketing campaign was showing results.
Another piece of good news for the bank came from signs that problems had peaked among large corporate lenders. Citigroup set aside $506 million less for loan losses than it did a year earlier. In the first quarter of 2002, the bank took $644 million in write-downs and additional reserves related to Argentina. 
Mr. Thomson said the bank had already seen the worst of its problems among borrowers in the technology and telecommunications industries, and that encouraging steps were being taken by energy companies to refinance their debts.
Citigroup, which issues a credit card tied to American Airlines' frequent-flier program, is expected to lead a $1.5 billion financing for the company if American files for bankruptcy, according to executives briefed on that plan.
Profits rose 22 percent for Citigroup's corporate lending and investment banking business, aided by strong results from bond trading as well as new bond offerings. Revenues dropped for stock offerings and mergers and acquisitions advice. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (90%); RETAIL BANKING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (55%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (53%); SEVERANCE PAY (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS; BANKS AND BANKING 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); GOLDEN STATE BANCORP INC (61%); TRAVELERS COS INC (56%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CITIGROUP INC 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); TRV (NYSE) (56%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (61%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (59%) WEILL, SANFORD I; ATLAS, RIVA D 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



461 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: POLITICAL STRATEGY; 
Bush to Use Ratings in War To Sell Proposed Tax Cut

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14 

 BODY:
With hostilities in Iraq apparently winding down, the White House signaled today that it would put President Bush's wartime popularity to work immediately on behalf of his beleaguered tax cut plan, reflecting deep anxiety among Republicans about the political peril in the weak economy.
 Administration officials said Mr. Bush would re-engage in the fight over economic policy in earnest on Tuesday, when he gives his first speech focused on domestic matters since the start of the war, an address in the Rose Garden intended to build support for his proposal to cut taxes by $726 billion over the next decade. They said he would follow up on Wednesday by talking about jobs, as well as the war, in a visit to a Boeing fighter-jet factory in St. Louis. 
 The administration also disclosed plans to blanket the country with its argument for deep tax cuts on Tuesday, the federal tax-filing deadline, by sending cabinet secretaries and lower-ranking officials to appearances in 10 states. They said they would keep up the public relations offensive for the two weeks that Congress remains on its Easter break.
The point, they said is to re-establish Mr. Bush's authority on the economy after several weeks in which the centerpiece of his domestic agenda, his plan to cut income taxes and eliminate the taxation of stock dividends, was whittled down on Capitol Hill over his objections.
Administration officials and Republican strategists said the quick pivot from the war to the economy was also driven by the continued loss of jobs in recent months and by polls showing that less than half of Americans approve of the way the president is handling the economy, even as they give him high marks over all.
The president's quick return to the economy stands in marked contrast to the course chosen by his father, who played down the nation's economic problems after the 1991 gulf war and did not begin serious consideration of a legislative package to get the economy back on track until six months later.
"The state of the economy now moves to the front of the line among everyone in the White House," said Scott Reed, a Republican consultant. "The challenge is to harness the president's strong national poll numbers and leverage them with the razor-thin margins in Congress to get a growth initiative."
If the president cannot get a substantial tax cut out of Congress this year to give the economy a boost by Election Day 2004, Mr. Reed said, "next year's campaign could be very difficult, because at the end of the day people vote their pocketbook."
White House officials said Mr. Bush remained focused on Iraq, and was not ready to return to politics as usual. But if he is reluctant to shed his above-the-fray, commander-in-chief role for the give and take of domestic politics -- the ground on which Democrats are eager to confront him -- he has little choice, some Republicans said.
Not only does he face difficulty winning a tax cut of more than $350 billion from the Senate, but also Americans have made clear again where their priorities are; the latest New York Times/CBS News poll, conducted Friday through Sunday, found that 33 percent say the economy and jobs are the biggest problems facing the country, while 16 percent say it is foreign policy, war and terrorism.
Acutely conscious of how a weak economy helped doom his father's re-election in 1992 after the American victory over Iraq a year earlier, Mr. Bush has kept a close eye on the economy and the impact of the war on jobs and markets, even as he has focused on the military situation. 
While his war council meets downstairs in the White House situation room, his economic team has been gathering regularly several floors above, even calling in Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, to bring the latest economic data.
So far, the war, by itself, does not appear to have had a major negative impact on the economy. But it has not helped, and many forecasters are predicting slower economic growth, fewer new jobs and bigger federal budget deficits than they were a few months ago, raising the prospect of the presidential campaign next year being fought against the backdrop of an economy too weak to bring down the unemployment rate. Unemployment is currently 5.8 percent, up from 4.1 percent when Mr. Bush took office.
Administration officials have been increasingly forthright in describing the economy in negative terms in recent weeks, in part to build pressure on Congress to give Mr. Bush as big a tax cut as possible. But some White House officials profess to be sanguine about the politics of the economy, saying there are many differences between Mr. Bush's position and his father's 11 years ago.
One senior White House official said the president had an economic plan and was fighting for it, while his father had not had much of an economic agenda -- and spent considerable time in 1991 fighting an extension of unemployment benefits, hardly a step that helped signal sympathy with rising unemployment.
The first President Bush raised taxes in 1990, deflating his party's conservative base, while the current president has proven to be a committed tax cutter, the official said. 
"The dream of 1992 is the best dream the Democrats have, so let them dream it," the official said.
The current White House has also proven not shy about using the wartime nature of this presidency to its political advantage. Ari Fleischer, Mr. Bush's spokesman, has linked the economy directly to the war, saying Mr. Bush wants to make sure the troops have jobs to come home to.
Mr. Bush has avoided addressing domestic politics on trips to military bases, but on Wednesday he will use a quasimilitary setting -- a factory that produces F/A-18 fighters -- as a backdrop for a speech in which he is expected to put pressure on the Senate to heed his call for a bigger tax cut while also drawing attention to the success of the Iraq campaign.
The White House has also signaled that it plans to start turning up the heat, though only slightly, on the two Republicans most responsible for the Senate limiting the tax cut to $350 billion, Senators Olympia J. Snowe of Maine and George V. Voinovich of Ohio. Samuel W. Bodman, the deputy commerce secretary, will speak about Mr. Bush's tax cut on Tuesday in Portland, Me., and William Lash, an assistant commerce secretary, is to speak in Ohio. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, left, with Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, has been consulting with the administration about the economy. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (93%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); INCOME TAX (72%); RANKINGS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); TERRORISM (59%); DIVIDENDS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (56%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



462 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1640 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: THE NATIONAL MOOD; 
Americans See Clear Victory in Iraq, Poll Finds

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JANET ELDER 

 BODY:
Americans overwhelmingly consider the war in Iraq a success, and a majority say the victory will stand even if Saddam Hussein remains at large or if the United States fails to unearth chemical or nuclear weapons, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll. 
 But a majority remains opposed to a policy of pre-emptive attack like the one President Bush invoked in invading Iraq, and see the White House, emboldened by its success, as now very or somewhat likely to turn the nation's military might on North Korea, Syria or Iran. 
 At home, the fall of Baghdad has fortified President Bush's political standing. The poll found that 73 percent of Americans approve of his job performance -- up from 59 percent the week before the war -- and that his approval rating among Democrats was 61 percent. The finding is reminiscent of the spike in popularity Mr. Bush's father enjoyed for the first few months after the Persian Gulf war of 1991. 
 The poll, taken over the weekend, found that for the first time since 2001, a majority of Americans, 62 percent, believe that the nation is winning the war on terrorism. And there has been a sharp drop in the number of people who fear terrorist reprisal attacks in the United States because of the invasion in Iraq. The poll found that 79 percent of respondents approve of Mr. Bush's handling of Iraq, the most support Mr. Bush has received on his Iraq policy.
 From a political perspective, the Times/CBS News poll pointed to a number of signs, on both the domestic and foreign policy front, of the difficulties the Democratic Party faces as it tries to win the White House and Congress next year.
 The nation has rallied around its president and is confident about the state of the country, a not-uncommon occurrence at a time of war. But beyond Mr. Bush's approval rating, a figure that typically gyrates with changing times, the number of Americans who believe the country is heading in the right direction has jumped nearly 20 percentage points since February, to 56 percent. That measure is closely watched by pollsters as a reliable indicator of the re-election prospects of an incumbent. 
 The Times/CBS News poll found evidence that the Democrats are not in as strong a position as they presumably would like on the issue that they believe could return them to power -- the economy. Americans are exactly divided, 42 percent to 42 percent, on which party would do a better job in managing the economy.
 And there has been a jump of 7 percentage points since January, to 54 percent, in the number of Americans who said they had confidence in Mr. Bush's ability to make the right decisions about the economy. That sentiment was voiced even as respondents expressed concern about the decline of the economy under Mr. Bush, and even though just 46 percent said they approved of his handling of the economy. 
 The improving view of Mr. Bush on the economy appears to be a dividend of the overall jump in Americans' perception of Mr. Bush during the war. Mr. Bush's political advisers have argued that any voter concerns about the economy would ultimately be outweighed by a perception that Mr. Bush is a strong and grounded president, created by his handling of the war in Iraq. 
Mr. Bush's father, at a similar point after the previous war in Iraq, also enjoyed relatively favorable marks for his management of the economy. That perception, along with his own approval rating -- which was even higher than the figure enjoyed today by his son -- swiftly deteriorated as images of the war were supplanted by concerns about a troubled economy.
 The Times/CBS News telephone poll was conducted Friday through Sunday, and involved 898 adults. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
 Several Democrats have suggested that Mr. Bush's standing would begin to erode if American troops were stranded in Iraq, or if the United States failed to find or kill Mr. Hussein, or find the weapons of mass destruction that Mr. Bush said was the rationale for his invasion.
 But nearly 60 percent of respondents said the United States would have won a clear victory in the war in Iraq even if no weapons of mass destruction were ever found, and 51 percent said they would consider it a victory even if Mr. Hussein is neither caught nor killed.
 "We have all of Iraq right now," said Carol Hayward, 59, a Democrat from New York City. "We don't need Saddam Hussein or his weapons. "We have all the oil fields under control and the cooperation of the people."
 And, there does not appear to be any great pressure on Mr. Bush to end the American presence in Iraq any time soon, a finding that could prove significant as the presidential race begins. Forty-six percent of respondents said they expected American troops to remain in Iraq for at least a year.
 The poll found that Americans believe that their nation would continue its aggressive effort to police the world. About 6 in 10 said they thought it was very likely or somewhat likely that the success of the war in Iraq would prompt the United States to intervene in Korea or Syria, while 3 in 10 said it was not very likely. Half foresaw a very or somewhat likely military intervention in Iran.
Ina Urness, 71, of Higginsville, Mo., said in a follow-up interview that she approved of the administration's moving pre-emptively against nations that posed a threat to the United States. "We ought to nip it right in the bud, because it's better them than us," she said. "Get over there and get them before they can have a chance to turn those missiles loose on us over here."
Adam Coleman, 25, a Democrat from Alexandria, Va., also said he expected the United States to intervene in one of those countries, though he said he was not happy at the prospect. "This current administration doesn't particularly follow through on diplomatic policies, therefore I think they're rather quick to rush to military action, particularly against nations that they really do have a strong hold over," he said. "We kind of bully them."
Still, a majority of Americans said future interventions should be done as part of an international coalition. And while most Americans said that the United States had the responsibility to ensure that a new government is put in place in Iraq -- and to police the country to guard against looting -- they said the rebuilding effort should be led by an international coalition. Two-thirds of respondents said the United Nations, rather than the United States, should have lead responsibility in rebuilding Iraq.
And the nation has yet to embrace the tactical doctrine of pre-emption Mr. Bush advanced to justify the war in Iraq and, potentially, an invasion of Syria, North Korea or Iran. For example, 51 percent said the United States should not invade another nation unless it was attacked first. And 48 percent said it was wrong for the United States to try to change a dictatorship to a democracy.
The White House yesterday stepped up its criticism of Syria, accusing it of harboring Iraqi fugitives. But the Times/CBS News poll found that among Americans who said they believed another country posed a serious threat to the United States, North Korea was of far more concern than Syria: 39 percent of those respondents named North Korea, compared to just 5 percent who cited Syria. One percent named Iran.
That could change soon. The poll found that 81 percent of respondents said that Iraq probably had weapons of mass destruction, and of those in that group, 27 percent said they believed the weapons had been spirited off to another country. The White House yesterday suggested that that country was Syria.
By most measures, Americans feel triumphant about the way the war has gone. Even as Americans view further military action by the United States in the Mideast as likely, they say they believe the ousting of Hussein would lead to more stability in Iraq and throughout the region. 
And if there were any concerns about how the White House was waging this war, they fell with Baghdad. For example, in the space of two weeks, there has been a turnaround in the number of Americans who believe the United States correctly assessed the resistance it would encounter from the Iraqis. Fifty-nine percent now say the United States was accurate in its prewar assessment, compared to 31 percent who said it underestimated the fight the Iraqis would put up. And 44 percent said there were fewer casualties than they had expected.

How the Poll Was Conducted
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Friday through Sunday with 898 adults throughout the United States.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country. Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variation in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, age and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
For smaller subgroups the margin of sampling error is larger.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results. Complete results are online at nytimes.com/washington.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A majority of those polled expressed approval of President Bush's handling of his job but opposed a general policy of pre-emptive attack. (Associated Press)(pg. B10) Chart: "American Reaction To the War With Iraq"Do you approve or disapprove of the way George W. Bush is handling his job as president? Graph shows a 73% approval rating. Will the war against Iraq have been worth the loss of American life and other costs if . . . . . . the United States and its allies never find any weapons of mass destruction in Iraq? WORTH IT: 57%NOT WORTH IT: 37NO OPINION: 7 . . . the coalition forces in Iraq never capture or kill Saddam Hussein? WORTH IT: 51%NOT WORTH IT: 42NO OPINION: 8 After the war in Iraq, do you think the United States should not attack another country unless the U.S. is attacked first, or the U.S. should be able to attack any country it thinks might attack the U.S.?* SHOULD NOT ATTACK: 51%SHOULD ATTACK: 38NO OPINION: 11 Should the United States try to change a dictatorship to a democracy where it can, or should the United States stay out of the affairs of other countries? CHANGE: 29%STAY OUT: 48DEPENDS: 16NO OPINION: 7 How likely is it that the success of the United States and its allies in the war will cause the U.S. to intervene militarily in . . . Syria?VERY: 21%SOMEWHAT: 37NOT VERY: 31NO OPINION: 12 . . . North Korea?VERY: 18%SOMEWHAT: 42NOT VERY: 31NO OPINION: 8 . . . Iran?VERY: 17%SOMEWHAT: 33NOT VERY: 42NO OPINION: 7 Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted from April 11 through 13 with 898 adults. *Asked of half of the respondents.(pg. B10) Chart: "Public Opinion of the Political Parties"Regardless of how you usually vote, do you think the Republican Party or the Democratic Party is more likely to . . . . . . make sure United States military defenses are strong?*REP.: 63DEM.: 21BOTH: 8NEITHER: 2NO OPINION: 7 . . . make the right decisions when it comes to dealing with terrorism?*REP.: 52DEM.: 22BOTH: 9NEITHER: 3NO OPINION: 13 . . . ensure a strong economy?REP.: 42DEM.: 42BOTH: 1NEITHER: 4NO OPINION: 11 . . . keep the United States out of war?*REP.: 21DEM.: 55BOTH: 2NEITHER: 4NO OPINION: 17 Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted from April 11 through 13 with 898 adults. *Asked of half of the respondents. (pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (95%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); POLITICS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%) NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; ELDER, JANET; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SYRIA (92%); GULF STATES (73%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



463 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: The Road to Damascus 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is right to be alarmed and angry about Syria. There is reason to believe that both military equipment and potential suicide bombers have been sent from Syria for use in Iraq against American troops. Now, American officials are convinced that Syria is permitting Saddam Hussein's top lieutenants to escape across its border. As the United States begins to exercise its new role as godparent of a new, freer government in Iraq, it will have to figure out how to handle many hostile neighbors, starting with Syria. 
 Syria, like Mr. Hussein's Iraq, is a totalitarian state run by a religious minority that has not shied away from relying on repression to maintain power. The former president, Hafez al-Assad, was often a shrewd operator, however, who joined the American-led coalition in the first war against Iraq in 1991 and later considered a peace deal with Israel while financing and arming anti-Israel groups in Lebanon. 
 It is a tribute to Hafez al-Assad's reasonableness as a diplomat and irresponsibility as a leader that Syria is the only country called a sponsor of terrorism by the State Department that has diplomatic relations with the United States.
Mr. Assad's son, Bashar, who assumed power after his father's death in 2000, was at first viewed as a potentially more progressive and thoughtful leader, but he has failed to meet those expectations. He did offer cooperation against Al Qaeda after Sept. 11, but he has also raised anti-American and anti-Israel feeling to new heights while doing nothing to improve Syria's pathetic economy or oppressive political regime.
One of the biggest concerns facing American troops in Iraq is that a combination of suicide bombings and internecine warfare could paralyze efforts to stabilize the country. Syria helped engineer just such a nightmare for Israel in Lebanon in the 1980's by financing and arming Shiite Muslim groups. In addition, Syria has long given refuge to anti-Israel terror groups, like the Palestinian Islamic Jihad. It may also have an active chemical weapons program.
War against Syria, however, makes no sense. The United States has its hands full in Iraq. More important, Washington will only live up to the worst expectations of the Arab world if it now adopts a belligerent military approach to every nation in the region that it dislikes. It may be possible, however, to use the threat of diplomatic or economic sanctions to encourage Damascus to reconsider its hostile policies in the wake of the fall of Mr. Hussein. 
But President Assad, like his father, has shown little interest in pulling his people out of the misery in which they exist, and Syria may turn out to be one of the most complex problems facing the Bush administration as it rebuilds Iraq. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); RELIGION (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); AL-QAEDA (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); PEACE PROCESS (55%) EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); SYRIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (92%); LEBANON (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%) SYRIA; IRAQ; ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



464 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: The Mayor's Mistake on Workfare 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael Bloomberg was widely praised last year when he said that the city was moving away from a welfare policy whose main goal was bouncing people from the rolls by any means necessary. Instead, the mayor promised an approach that would embrace training and education programs to move people from dependency into real, lasting jobs. After more than a year, his administration's actions have yet to match its words. 
 Mr. Bloomberg came down on the wrong side when he vetoed a City Council bill that would broaden educational opportunity for welfare recipients. His opposition is confusing given the positions he supported in a welfare speech given not long after he took office. 
 Nearly 60 percent of New York City's welfare recipients do not have even high school diplomas and will remain locked out of the economy without education.
The new law, passed by the City Council over Mr. Bloomberg's veto, seeks to expand training opportunities and offers aid to the small, but significant, number of welfare recipients who have the drive and the ability to better themselves by going to college, usually to get two-year degrees.
Current federal and state rules allow localities to let welfare recipients satisfy work requirements by counting class time, work-study jobs and internships. These programs are working well, not just in liberal parts of the state, but in some of New York's most conservative upstate counties. The law passed by the council takes a similar approach. The mayor's charge that the council does not require enough work -- and that some welfare recipients will get by without doing any -- relates to an exceedingly rare kind of case, like that of a single mother who carried a heavy courseload and got credit for study time as well.
Mr. Bloomberg's contention that the city may lose federal money for failing to comply with the welfare laws also seems unfounded. The new law specifically states that welfare recipients can participate only in education and training programs to the maximum extent permitted in state law, a provision that is in keeping with federal regulations.
The administration is caught between those who favor the educational approach and those who fear that it would allow critics to label this administration as "soft" on welfare. So far, those who wish to cling to the status quo appear to be winning. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%) WELFARE (US); EDITORIALS; WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



465 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Unions at American Airlines To Conclude Voting Today
The three major unions at American Airlines said that they would conclude voting on $1.8 billion in labor concessions by this morning and try to get results to the company before 11 a.m.
 That is the deadline American has set for a vote tally. If the votes are not counted by then, or if any group rejects concessions, the company will file for bankruptcy protection "very soon," said Bruce Hicks, a company spokesman. Page C2. 

Bush to Campaign for Tax Cut Plan
With hostilities in Iraq winding down, the White House signaled that it would put President Bush's popularity to work immediately on behalf of his beleaguered tax cut plan, reflecting deep anxiety among Republicans about the political peril in the weak economy. B10.

Resignation May Hurt Merger Talks
Stephen Fraidin, a partner at the New York law firm Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson, has defected to Kirkland & Ellis. The departure is said to complicate merger negotiations between Fried, Frank and London-based Ashurst Morris Crisp. C3.

Hotels Doing Well, Despite Slump
The same forces that are hurting the airline industry are taking a toll on the hotel business. Even so, the industry is expected to earn $15 billion this year, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers. Business Travel. C6.

Kmart Plans to Exit Bankruptcy
Kmart said the majority of its creditors had approved its plan to emerge from bankruptcy, and if the court approves the plan, it could emerge from bankruptcy in 10 days. C2.

Capellas Steering Leaner WorldCom
WorldCom filed a reorganization plan that envisions it emerging from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection "later this year as a leaner, stronger competitor," chief executive, Michael D. Capellas, left, said. WorldCom also plans to change its name to MCI, the name of the residential long-distance company it purchased in 1998. C4.

Plan Uses Software to Fight Piracy
A computer security research group has proposed a technical solution aimed at forging a middle ground in the battle by Hollywood and Silicon Valley over the best way to protect digital content from consumer piracy. C5.

Stock Gauges Up More Than 1.8%
Investors sent stocks soaring. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 147.69 points, or 1.8 percent, to 8,351.10. The Nasdaq composite index rose 26.10 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,384.95, and the Standard & Poor's 500 advanced 16.93 points, or 2 percent, to 885.23. C8.

Profit Climbs 60% at Fannie Mae
Fannie Mae, the nation's largest mortgage financier, said that its earnings surged 60 percent as Americans took advantage of low interest rates and signed up for more home loans in a busy housing market. C5.

Inventories Rose 0.6% in February
Business inventories rose 0.6 percent, to $1.6 trillion, in February as snowstorms led to a drop in retail sales, the Commerce Department reported. But total business sales fell 1 percent, to $836.4 billion. C8.

E-Mail Is a Big Factor in Recovery
Airlines, hotels and other travel suppliers have discovered that frequent travelers, who tend to be people who are also high users of the Internet, want to receive e-mail messages from these companies, according to Henry H. Harteveldt. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. C7.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,351.10 up 147.69Nasdaq composite -- 1,384.95 up 26.1010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.02% up 0.04The euro -- $1.0775 up 0.0017The dollar -- 120.30 yen down 0.14 Graph: "TODAY" shows industrial production.March figures due at 9:15 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.2% Graph tracks share prices of AMR for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); TAX LAW (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); MERGERS (73%); INVENTORIES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); TAX RELIEF (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (62%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (62%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (91%); FRIED FRANK HARRIS SHRIVER & JACOBSON LLP (84%); ASHURST LLP (83%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (62%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%); KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (56%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (82%); VZ (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (62%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (62%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); MICHAEL CAPELLAS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



466 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR/AN OVERVIEW: APRIL 14, 2003; 
End of 'Major' Combat, Fall of Tikrit, Anxiety Over Syria

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA 

 BODY:
The northern city of Tikrit fell without a battle and American military commanders declared that major fighting in Iraq had come to an end. American forces started to pull out of Iraq and those that remained began a transformation from combat to postwar reconstruction. The work of keeping the peace and forming a new government proceeded slowly, but the victory in Iraq pushed up President Bush's approval ratings at home. 
 MAJOR COMBAT OVER -- The Pentagon said that major combat operations in Iraq were over and it began sending some some forces home. Some combat troops are to be replaced by military police officers and civil affairs soldiers. 
 Air Force officials said the four B-2 bombers that were in the region had already flown home, as had half a dozen F-117 stealth fighters and other warplanes. Navy officials said two aircraft carriers, the Kitty Hawk and the Constellation, had received orders to sail for their home ports. A third aircraft carrier, the Abraham Lincoln, is already on the way home and has been replaced by the Nimitz.
Although they will have to root out remnants of Iraqi forces, troops stationed in Iraq will increasingly assume peacekeeping duties. Other nations may be willing to help. The Netherlands said it might send 600 Dutch Marines to stabilize Iraq. 
TIKRIT OVERRUN -- It was expected to be a fight to the bitter end, but when thousands of marines finally stormed Saddam Hussein's ancestral home, Tikrit, they found empty streets and vacant buildings. Marines entered a lavish presidential compound, one of the grandest of the many palaces that Mr. Hussein had built for himself throughout Iraq. 
The opulence of Mr. Hussein's Xanadu stunned Iraqis and Americans alike. Two miles of lush riverfront property with about 90 buildings, all once off limits to the ordinary Iraqis who came by to gape at the extravagance, or to carry off everything that was not cemented down. 
Outside the palace, the marines tightened their control of the city, still wondering what had happened to the 2,500 troops loyal to the government that they had expected to encounter. There were a few firefights overnight, but then nothing. "We're not sure where they all went," said Maj. Chris Snyder of the Marines. 
TERRORISTS AND SYRIA -- American intelligence officials said members of Hezbollah, a terrorist group, entered Iraq from Syria in recent days and could threaten a new government backed by the United States. Officials also continued to accuse Syria of taking in members of the former Iraqi government. 
Among the Iraqis who American intelligence officials believe have taken refuge in Syria in recent months are scientists trying to avoid questioning by United Nations weapons inspectors. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell warned Syria it could face economic or diplomatic sanctions if it did not stop providing "safe haven" to former Iraqi leaders. 
MILITARY AND POLITICAL VICTORY -- A New York Times/CBS News poll found that Americans overwhelmingly view the war in Iraq as a success, and that has helped push up President Bush's approval rating to 73 percent, compared with 59 percent the week before the war started. 
Despite that strong level of support, a majority of Americans remain opposed to a policy of pre-emptive attacks like the one invoked in the invasion of Iraq. And a majority believes that the White House, emboldened by the victory in Iraq, is now more likely to consider attacking North Korea, Syria or Iran. 
The poll, taken over the weekend, also found that for the first time a majority of Americans believes that the nation is winning the war on terrorism.
POLICING BAGHDAD -- To help solidify the return to order in Baghdad, 20 Iraqi police officers patrolled neighborhoods in East Baghdad jointly with marines. They reportedly arrested several looters. It was but a small step toward normality in the sprawling city, and mayhem persisted in many areas. In the Iraqi Health Ministry, vandals ripped out and hauled away the large refrigeration units that held Iraq's entire supply of vaccines against polio, German measles and other childhood diseases. 
With criticism mounting over the looting of the National Museum of Iraq in Baghdad, Mr. Powell said the United States would help recover the priceless antiquities and assist in rebuilding the museum. 
REMAKING IRAQI POLITICS -- Lt. Gen. Jay Garner, picked by the Bush administration to run postwar Iraq, flew to Nasiriya for meetings with more than 70 Iraqis and exiles who were invited by American officials to help establish a representative government. 
One of the most prominent exiles, Ahmad Chalabi, leader of the Iraqi National Congress, will not attend the meeting but will send a representative. American military commanders have not given General Garner the go-ahead to set up his operation in Baghdad because the city is too dangerous. ANTHONY DePALMA

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (84%); NAVIES (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (63%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); HEZBOLLAH (60%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%) DEPALMA, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); SYRIA (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



467 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: A Nation at War 

 BODY:
 On the Battlefield

CAPTURING TIKRIT -- The end came for the last and most formidable redoubt of Saddam Hussein's reign, as thousands of American marines poured into his hometown after a supposed collection of his staunchest bitter-enders finally gave up or ran away. A1

IRAQI OFFICIAL SURRENDERS -- Lt. Gen. Tahaseen Rafan, an Iraqi domestic intelligence official, arrived at the makeshift United States military base in Mosul along with five mid-level Iraqi military and intelligence officials to negotiate their surrender and ask for protection from revenge attacks. B4

CLERIC ASSUMES CONTROL -- Sayed Abbas, a Shiite Muslim cleric, took up residence at city hall in Kut about a week ago, appointing himself mayor and refusing to leave. B4

JOURNALIST DIES -- An Argentine freelance reporter died in a car crash near Baghdad. B5

AN EXTRAORDINARY OFFICER -- Lt. Col. Frank J. Miskina, who serves in the American Army's 308th Civil Affairs Brigade, was born in Baghdad and served as an officer in the Iraqi Army in the 1970's. B5

The Iraqi Capital

THE STATE OF BAGHDAD -- Order took a slightly firmer hold as American soldiers and a few Iraqi police officers patrolled the capital's devastated streets together for the first time. A1

SADDAM CITY -- A wasteland of low dust-laden buildings and garbage-strewn streets, Saddam City remains one of the most dangerous corners of Baghdad. B1

PATROLING THE CITY -- For three weeks, Lt. Col. Rock Marcone's armored battalion led the way as the Army clawed a path to Baghdad. But, it rumbled into the Iraqi capital with an entirely new mission: providing security for thousands of residents alarmed by the breakdown of order. B5

BURYING LOVED ONES -- Although Baghdad is awash with corpses, there is no one there to put them in the ground. Their mournful survivors must wield shovels on their own. B5

Stabilizing Iraq

REMAKING IRAQ -- Retired American general Jay Garner, who will run postwar Iraq for the Bush administration, flew to Iraq on a mission to remake the country's politics. A1

POSTWAR PUBLIC RELATIONS -- Margaret Tutwiler, the United States ambassador to Morocco, left Rabat for Baghdad to assume a temporary position overseeing all public relations and information operations in postwar Iraq. B8

Borders and the Region

SYRIA LOOKS TO THE FUTURE -- Residents of Damascus, Syria, wonder aloud if the United States Army plans to march on their city. B1

In Washington

AN END TO COMBAT -- The Pentagon declared that major combat operations in Iraq were over after U.S. forces took control of Tikrit, the last bastion of the old government. A1

INTELLIGENCE REPORTS -- Syria is allowing some members of Hezbollah, a Shiite Muslim militant group based in Lebanon, to transit from Syrian-controlled south Lebanon to Iraq. B2

U.S.-SYRIA RELATIONS -- Secretary of State Colin L. Powell threatened economic and political sanctions if Syria continued to offer safe haven to Iraqi leaders or to defy the United States' demands on chemical weapons and terrorism. B3

EDUCATION IN IRAQ -- Creative Associates International Inc. has won a $62 million contract from the United States Agency for International Development to improve primary and secondary education in Iraq. B8

BUSH'S ECONOMIC PLAN -- With hostilities in Iraq winding down, the White House signaled that it would put President Bush's wartime popularity to work immediately on behalf of his beleagured tax cut plan. B10

Excerpts from a question-and-answer session with Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld. B12

On the Home Front

STRAINED RELATIONSHIPS -- For couples, the war in Iraq has led to fear, loneliness and pain, in both the soldiers and their spouses at home. A1

THE NATION SPEAKS -- According to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll, Americans overwhelmingly consider the war in Iraq a success. B1

CNN'S SECRETS -- Several journalism professors and commentators said CNN's chief news executive, Eason Jordan, had compromised the network's journalistic mission by withholding some accounts of Saddam Hussein's brutality for years to protect the lives of Iraqi sources. B2

THE P.O.W. FAMILIES -- The families of the seven freed soldiers from the 507th Maintenance Company are revelling in the good news, planning homecoming celebrations and generally catching their breath. B9

IN NEW YORK CITY -- An improvised memorial grew in front of the Washington Heights building where Staff Sgt. Riayan Tejeda of the Marines was raised. B9

IN SEATTLE -- James Ujaama, a Seattle community activist charged with aiding Al Qaeda, pleaded guilty to a lesser charge in federal court in exchange for his help in prosecuting a London cleric long sought by federal investigators. B11

IRAQI CHARGED AS ILLEGAL AGENT -- The son of a former Iraqi diplomat at the United Nations was charged with working secretly on behalf of Iraqi intelligence officers. B11

Around the World

IRAQI DIPLOMATS TO LEAVE SPAIN -- Spain has ordered six Iraqi diplomats to leave Madrid after the top diplomat reportedly told the Spanish authorities about a cache of illicit guns in the Iraqi Embassy. B11

IN AFGHANISTAN -- While United States forces have been busy in Iraq, there has been an alarming spate of violence in southern Afghanistan. B11

INDICTMENT IN INDONESIA -- Prosecutors in Indonesia indicted a radical Islamic cleric, Abu Bakar Bashir, on charges of treason and plotting to overthrow the Indonesian government and establish an Islamic state. B11

OVERVIEW OF THE WAR B1

PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE WAR B6-7

MAP OF IRAQ B12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CITIES (74%); MAYORS (74%); HEZBOLLAH (74%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (69%); WRITERS (69%); POLICE FORCES (58%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); SYRIA (93%); MOROCCO (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



468 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: THE POSTWAR TASK; 
U.S. OVERSEER SET TO REMAKE IRAQ

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: KUWAIT, April 14 

 BODY:
The retired American general who will run post-war Iraq for the Bush administration flew to Iraq today on a mission to remake the country's politics, a process he predicted would be messy and contentious.
 But Lt. Gen. Jay Garner insisted that American-style democracy could sprout on the shards of President Saddam Hussein's government. "I don't think they had a love-in when they had Philadelphia" in 1787, he said in an interview here before his departure. "Anytime you start the process it's fraught with dialogue, tensions, coercion, and should be." Iraq, he suggested, could be the richest country in the Middle East within a few years. 
 The general will preside over a meeting of Iraqis and Iraqi exiles in Nasiriya on Tuesday, the first of many meetings that the Pentagon says are intended to form the basis of a representative government for Iraq. 
The invitations to about 70 to 80 people, including prominent exiles like Ahmad Chalabi and Iraqis unknown to the outside world, were issued in the name of the war commander, Gen. Tommy R. Franks, to whom General Garner reports.
For General Garner, who will spend his 65th birthday in Nasiriya, greeting and cajoling Iraqis he has never met before, the politics of Iraq is just one of the major tasks ahead.
General Garner, appointed by President Bush in January to oversee aid, reconstruction and civil government in Iraq, will be the most visible American face on what many in the Middle East and Europe view as a singularly American enterprise which, in their opinion, should be more international in scope and sensibility. Many European governments believe that the United Nations should play a more central role.
General Garner will oversee how $2.4 billion authorized by Congress last week will be spent in Iraq. He will pass judgment on problems like setting up television stations and selecting a police force for a population of 24 million in 17 provinces. His voice will be important when Washington decides how to revive the Iraqi oil industry and how quickly to seek to lift United Nations sanctions. One of his deputies, Lewis Lucke, a former official of the United States Agency for International Development, is in charge of the bidding process for reconstruction contracts. 
The major irritation among the general's staff today seemed to be that the Central Command, citing security concerns, was keeping him in Kuwait instead of letting him go to Baghdad. After presiding over the conference on Tuesday, the general will return to Kuwait. 
Once he gets to Baghdad, the general acknowledged, "there will be a lot of problems" -- law enforcement, getting services working, preventing revenge killings, particularly "if severe Baathists try to return to communities." 
The general appeared confident that, with help from talented Iraqis, he would succeed.
"Arabs are very proud people," he said. "Proud as we are." In particular, the Iraqis are "pretty sophisticated" and have a "lot of wealth, it's just not been shared among them."
"There's an intelligentsia," he added. "The Arabs are great traders, they're organized." He believes, he said, that the Iraqis are "motivated, even though they've lived under a mushroom for 25 years." 
He is prepared for resentment at the American presence. "The way you get over that is by your actions," he said, "by showing that things will get better, that we will give it back to them as rapidly as we can."
"Within 90 to 120 days" he would like to "transition elements back to the Iraqis," he said. "In my heart of hearts, I think it will go fairly rapidly."
The role of the United Nations has not figured much in the general's planning for Iraq, according to some of the several hundred retired generals and officers, diplomats and aid experts who are with him here. 
But today, General Garner said he was in favor of a Security Council resolution that would allow the revenues from Iraq's rejuvenated oil production to be used for "reconstruction of the country and the betterment of the citizens of Iraq." 
Those revenues, he said, should be "managed by a neutral agency, like the World Bank" where it could be properly audited and "transparent." 
No decision has been made on who should run the oil industry and how it should be structured, officials in Washington said.
But there is little question, the general said, that oil will be the basis of new wealth in Iraq. "In the next few years they will be able to double, triple their production of oil," he said. "They may become the richest country in the Middle East."
The general said he believed that Iraq needed a new currency, and advisers from the Treasury Department who have come to Kuwait with him are considering the question. "One of the things I'd like to do is ask them, What do you want as a currency and whose picture do you want on it?" he said. The dinars now in circulation, with Mr. Hussein's image on them, were easily counterfeited, he said, noting "We don't know where the plates are." 
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld chose General Garner for his position. The two men know each other well from the late 1990's when the general served on a missile defense commission headed by Mr. Rumsfeld. They now talk every other night by video teleconference, and sometimes Mr. Rumsfeld calls directly, the general said. 
By getting out of Iraq fast, the general said, the United States can avoid repeating past mistakes. "We're notorious for telling people what to do," he said. An example? "Start with Vietnam and the strategic hamlet concept." 
General Garner served two tours in Vietnam, first in 1967-68 as an infantry adviser in the central highlands, and as a district senior adviser in 1971-72 in the strategic hamlet program, which involved relocating Vietnamese in remote villages into areas heavily defended by American forces, he said. Over all, he said, the war in Vietnam was a failure because the United States had the "wrong military objective."
"It took too long," he said. "We should have taken the war north instead of waiting in the south. Just like here. If President Bush had been president, we would have won."
The general retired from the military in 1997 after serving from 1994 to 1996 as commander of the Army Space and Strategic Defense Command. He joined SYColeman, a missile systems contractor that gives technical advice on a variety of systems, including the Patriot, which was deployed in Iraq. It was bought by L-3 Communications last year. He enjoyed his business career, he said, because "most of the guys are former military, and you make a lot of money." 
After the 1991 Persian Gulf war, the general ran a mission that helped the Kurds and resulted in the creation of the semiautonomous Kurdish enclave in northern Iraq. At that time, General Garner worked closely with an experienced civilian expert in delivering aid, Fred Cuny, who was later killed in Chechnya. The effort was deemed by many in Washington to be a success. 
General Garner appeared unperturbed at the prospect of running all of Iraq, under much more intense scrutiny. He is prepared, he said, for bickering on Tuesday among Iraqi exile groups and local Iraqis. Mr. Chalabi, the head of the Iraqi National Congress who was flown to Nasariya almost two weeks ago by the Special Forces, will not attend, but has said he would send an adviser.
The general seemed to relish the prospect. The Tuesday meeting represents, he said, the first time in perhaps "several hundred years" that Iraq has had such an "open season" for dialogue. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lt. Gen. Jay Garner, a retired Army officer, is scheduled to meet with Iraqis and Iraqi exiles today in Nasiriya. (Mark Wilson/Getty Images)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (62%); POLICE FORCES (62%); TRENDS (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (59%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) ;UNITED NATIONS 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) PERLEZ, JANE; GARNER, JAY (LT GEN); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); KUWAIT (93%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) IRAQ; NASIRIYA (IRAQ); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



469 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: MILITARY; 
PENTAGON ASSERTS THE MAIN FIGHTING IS FINISHED IN IRAQ

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT with BERNARD WEINRAUB 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14 

 BODY:
The Pentagon declared today that major combat operations in Iraq were over after United States forces took control of Tikrit, the last bastion of the old government. 
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, meanwhile, accused Syria of harboring fleeing officials of Saddam Hussein's government and threatened Damascus with economic or diplomatic sanctions. Other administration officials accused Syria of backing terrorists and amassing chemical and biological weapons. 
 The White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer, used even harsher language, calling Syria "a rogue nation" and its president, Bashar al-Assad, an "untested leader" who now has his chance "to be a leader who makes the right decisions."
Current and former Bush administration officials said Mr. Hussein's family members have fled Iraq into Syria in recent weeks, a contention Syrian officials have denied. 
American officials also expressed alarm that Syria was developing chemical weapons, though Damascus denies that. As an example of the close ties between the Lebanese guerrilla group Hezbollah and the Syrian government, they said intelligence showed that some members of Hezbollah had entered Iraq from Syria in recent days.
In Damascus, the administration's warnings, combined with the presence of the American military in neighboring Iraq, left many unsettled. Page B1. 
The United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, warned that "the recent statements directed at Syria should not contribute to a wider destabilization in a region already affected heavily by the war in Iraq." He added that "any claim of threats to international peace and security should be addressed in conformity with the provisions" of the United Nations Charter.
Pentagon officials said that there were no plans to attack Syria, and that the military's focus, now that major combat has ended in Iraq, was to send some troops home and reposition others in the country for the long-term mission of making the country stable and secure.
"I would anticipate the major combat engagements are over because the major Iraqi units on the ground cease to show coherence," said Maj. Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, the director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
"There will be a requirement for combat power for some period of time," he added. "But clearly, the requirements for civil affairs, engineer organizations, military police will be significant." 
A senior administration official said that Jaffar al-Jaffer, the head of Iraq's nuclear program, had in recent days turned himself in and was now in American custody, though it could not be determined to whom he surrendered, or where he was being held. 
With Iraq and its borders still less than secured, Mr. Powell echoed warnings voiced on Sunday by President Bush, who demanded Syrian cooperation in tracking down fugitive Iraqi leaders.
"In light of this new environment they should review their actions and their behavior," Mr. Powell said of the Syrians, after meeting in Washington with the Kuwaiti foreign minister, Sheikh Mohammad al-Salem al-Sabah, "not only with respect to who gets haven in Syria and weapons of mass destruction but especially the support of terrorist activity."
It was unclear today how many troops would remain in Iraq and for how long. But signs of a shifting mission were already evident, with ground forces increasingly assuming peacekeeping duties even as combat troops rooted out remnants of Iraqi military and irregular forces. 
That included those Iraqi forces in Tikrit, a major northern city, where the fierce resistence that American forces had anticipated today largely evaporated after battles that lasted into the night on Sunday. 
As part of the ongoing operations to secure the country, military officials said today that the Fourth Infantry Division, which has the Army's most advanced Abrams tanks, would be assigned control over northern Iraq. The Third Armored Cavalry Regiment, a force that includes tanks, attack helicopters and reconnaissance helicopters, will be assigned to protect the western flanks.
Marines in the next few days will relieve a brigade of the 82nd Airborne Division in southern Iraq, allowing the rapid-response force to head home. Over the next several weeks, the First Armored Division is expected to relieve the Third Infantry Division in and around Baghdad. The Army's V Corps headquarters is likely to move to Tikrit from Kuwait, military officials said.
Pentagon officials warned that some of those assignments could change. There are now 120,000 or so American ground troops in Iraq, and military officials' estimates of what might be needed in a postwar security force have ranged from 75,000 to several hundred thousand.
Many combat forces are already leaving the area. Navy officials said today that two aircraft carriers deployed for the war had received orders to sail for their home ports, leaving three carrier battle groups within striking distance of Iraq.
Air Force officials said four B-2's, half a dozen F-117 stealth fighters and a squadron of F-16C fighters had already flown home. Dozens of the 600 war planes will leave in the coming weeks, officials said.
In an example of the dangers still facing American forces, two Army soldiers were killed and two others were injured in a grenade accident at a checkpoint south of Baghdad today, military officials said. One soldier was killed and another injured near Baghdad's international airport in an accidental weapons discharge.
Given the complicated security situation in Iraq, where military forces may move almost hourly between zones of high threat and areas of relative calm, commanders have not yet ordered a change in the rules of engagement from those that guided forces at the height of the war, a senior Pentagon official said today.
Some senior commanders in Iraq complained, however, that the military was shifting from combat to peacekeeping too quickly, under pressure from Washington. 
Senior military officers defended their handling of security in Baghdad as troops moved into the city last week. They argued that some looting was a natural result of the citizenry's pent-up anger toward Mr. Hussein's government, and that commanders did not have enough forces to put troops everywhere while combat operations continued. "Over next week, the situation will dramatically improve," a senior officer predicted.
Mr. Powell promised to help rebuild the city's National Museum and recover stolen Mesopotamian treasures. "The United States understands its obligations and will be taking a leading role with respect to antiquities in general, but this museum in particular," Mr. Powell said. 
Clerics have helped to maintain order in cities like Najaf and Karbala. But it has been more difficult elsewhere, where coalition forces are conducting joint patrols with Iraqi police officers who have returned to their jobs. 
General McChrystal said the coalition was still in the "organizational phase" of identifying and vetting a credible civilian police force in Baghdad. "This will be a long process," he said.
The State Department has begun recruiting American policemen for Iraq and could eventually field a force of as many as 1,000 police officers, according to a State Department spokesman.
The police officers must be American citizens and have at least 10 years of experience, according to a recruitment notice posted last week on the Web site of the State Department's Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs.
Gen. Tommy R. Franks, the allied commander in the Persian Gulf, has already turned to fighters assembled by Ahmad Chalabi, a leader of the opposition Iraqi National Congress, for missions to pacify the southern Iraqi town of Shatra.
About 300 of the "Free Iraqi Fighters" operating under the command of American Special Operations forces swept Shatra in recent days, uncovering a large cache of French-made antitank missiles and rounding up a number of fedayeen fighters identified by local residents, a senior Defense Department official said today.
The 300 Iraqis were part of a 700-member force that deployed near Nasiriya just over a week ago. They have been armed with captured weapons and American military equipment, the official said.
The Pentagon official said General Franks was considering deploying the force to help maintain order in Karbala, Najaf and perhaps Kut, although coordination with fighters loyal to Mr. Chalabi has raised concerns that the Pentagon is playing favorites among Iraqi opposition leaders vying for a role in the new government.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Colin L. Powell at a news conference yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); ARMED FORCES (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); IRAQ WAR (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (71%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (82%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) SCHMITT, ERIC; WEINRAUB, BERNARD; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); FLEISCHER, ARI; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (94%) SYRIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); LEBANON (79%) IRAQ; TIKRIT (IRAQ); SYRIA

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



470 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 he New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: DAMASCUS; 
Syria Fears the Unknown: What's Behind U.S. Threats

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria, April 14 

 BODY:
Last week, Syria's main scientific research institute staged its first air-raid drill in recent memory. 
 Damascus residents, who just days ago were either bemoaning the humiliation of Baghdad's rapid collapse or whispering about the chances of it provoking change at home, now wonder aloud if the United States Army plans to march on their city. 
 The Syrian foreign minister, Farouk Al-Sharaa, in his sole news conference since the war began, expressed bewilderment this weekend over what, exactly, Washington wanted from its barrage of threats against his country. 
These are unsettled days in Damascus, a city that has long prided itself as the capital not just of Syria, but of all things Arab. The government of the young president, Bashar al-Assad, gained widespread popular support for its heated oratory against the United States over the war against Iraq. Indeed, hundreds of Syrian and other Arab volunteers rushed to fight in Iraq's defense. 
But now Syria finds itself caught between burnishing its pan-Arab credentials by criticizing America and facing a new, painful fact: the United States is now on Syria's doorstep, across the border in Iraq, and the American administration has already shown it is ready to flex its muscles again even before the battlefield smoke clears. 
Some reflective souls still muse about the chances of change in Iraq rattling the Baath Party's iron grip here, but the debate on possible American military action garners more attention. 
"Some might believe that Rambo can move in many directions at once, but this is incorrect," Imad Fawzi Shueibi, a Damascus University professor and analyst, said on television last week. "Damascus has grown accustomed to political pressure."
Such confidence began to fray under the daily threats from Washington, however. 
The warnings -- issued by President Bush himself, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and other senior advisers -- mostly seem to reflect American concerns that the Iraqi leadership might escape to Syria. But for good measure, the Bush administration is warning Damascus, in terms once reserved for Baghdad, against providing a place where groups the United States accuses of terrorism might find weapons of mass destruction. At the same time, the Bush administration has made clear it is not contemplating military action against Syria.
The United States issued no specific details about which senior Iraqi officials might have gone to Syria. Diplomats report no confirmation that any of the 55 most wanted members of Saddam Hussein's government, including Mr. Hussein himself, have entered the country. Rather, there is a sense that the repeated American warnings could be preemptive or could be based on information that rarely surfaces publicly.
There have been scattered press reports in Europe and the Middle East suggesting two possible scenarios. First, that the Russian diplomatic convoy that was fired on as it left Baghdad on April 6 actually smuggled out several senior Iraqis. Second, that Mr. Hussein's first wife, Sajida, traveled through Syria on her way to Moscow with several daughters, grandchildren and truckloads of goods. 
Syria denies that senior Iraqis of any stripe have crossed the border. When American military officials noted that one of Mr. Hussein's half brothers was caught Sunday near the Syrian border, Buthaina Shaaban, the foreign ministry spokesman, noted drily that he was still in Iraq. 
Damascus seems the most likely haven due to its broadsides against Washington over the war. But Syrian officials argue that senior Iraqis would not be welcome here. 
First, the two countries have long been ruled by bitterly competitive branches of the Baath Party. Baghdad used to refer to the late President Hafez al-Assad as the "dwarf ruler" for joining the military coalition to evict Iraq from Kuwait, although trade relations have improved dramatically in recent years. 
In addition, there has also been a marked public backlash against the tens of thousands of Iraqis living here, with Syrians cursing them in the street for failing to go back to fight for their country. 
As to the other accusations, Syria denies facilitating the travel of any volunteer fighters across the border or allowing weapons across. Top American military officers have said they know of no official Syrian role in recruiting volunteer fighters, although Syrian identification papers have been found on some of the dead. 
But there is a belief in Washington that Syrian businessmen made a lot of money procuring banned goods for the Iraqi military, like night vision goggles. That trade could not have proceeded without at least the tacit knowledge of the government. 
The United States has long accused Syria of having chemical weapons and the Scud missiles to deliver them, charges that Syria has always strongly denied.
Such issues used to be buried in the background when the United States was seeking Arab-Israeli peace. But they have gained new prominence since the Bush administration began focusing on Iraq and the whole question of weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East. The United States has long accused Damascus of supporting groups it calls terrorists, especially Hezbollah. But analysts here note how fast Washington turned to Syria for help in fighting Al Qaeda and how positively Syria responded to those requests for assistance.
Indeed, governments in the Middle East and beyond say they are at a loss to explain why the United States is being quite so vociferous in comparing Syria to Iraq. The brewing crisis with Syria has already alarmed moderate Arab states worried that a prolonged American presence in Iraq would create greater regional instability.
Mr. Hussein, they point out, was a vicious ruler bent on dominating the region. They believe Syria's sole regional objective is to get back territory occupied by Israel since 1967.
"They just want to get back the Golan Heights, not fight the United States," said Mohamed Ismail, the Egyptian ambassador in Damascus. 
Syrians believe that what seems like an orchestrated campaign from Washington is intended to thwart that very goal. Having weakened the Arabs by occupying Iraq, they think the United States wants to undermine Syria.
"I tell you frankly, sometimes they don't know what they want," Mr. Sharaa said in a news conference on Saturday, the only time a senior official responded. "Sometimes they say you have weapons of mass destruction smuggled from Iraq to Syria, the next day, in the Israeli press, they say the opposite."
Mr. Sharaa said Washington had yet to present any evidence.
Washington's pique likely also stems from its experience with Syria's past record of wily meddling, in Lebanon and Iraq. Syria denied pumping some 200,000 barrels of Iraqi oil during the past two years -- bargain-priced oil that kept its economy afloat but put money in Mr. Hussein's coffers. 
With the war, Mr. Assad made some rather pointed remarks, expressing the wish that the United States would either be defeated militarily or forced to flee by internal resistance. His comments clearly had some resonance across the Arab world. At a demonstration at Al Azhar mosque in Cairo last Friday, the chant booming off the walls was "Bashar, Bashar, set the world on fire!"
Some analysts believe that such popular sentiment will help Syrians overlook the fact that the president has not delivered much by way of promised economic or political change in the nearly three years since he inherited the presidency from his late father. But it clearly also drew the ire of Washington. 
One Western analyst expressed puzzlement as to "why senior Syrian leaders had gone far beyond what was necessary to satisfy regional public opinion in backing the dying regime of Saddam Hussein."
"It would seem to leave Syria in a very exposed position," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, met yesterday with Mike O'Brien of the British Foreign Office. (Agence France-Presse); In Damascus, newspapers discuss developments in Iraq, but residents wonder about their own country's fate. (Reuters)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ARMIES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); IMMIGRATION (76%); REFUGEES (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%); SMUGGLING (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); TERRORISM (65%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; SYRIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (58%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) MACFARQUHAR, NEIL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (97%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); SYRIA (97%); IRAQ (95%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) IRAQ; SYRIA; ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003 



471 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: The Bicoastal Difference That Really Isn't 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"East Coast, West Coast, and Where the Twain Meet" (news article, April 13) revealed that New York and Los Angeles have much in common. 
 In both cities, economic growth and neighborhood renewal are being fueled by new immigrants. 
 Even with overwhelming Democratic Party enrollment, both elected Republicans as mayor -- Richard J. Riordan, a former mayor of Los Angeles, and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York. 
Growing Hispanic and Asian populations are challenging both whites and African-Americans for political leadership. 
New York and California state governments have budget shortfalls and cannot provide additional aid. And there are well-developed public bus transportation systems in both cities.

LARRY PENNER
Great Neck, N.Y., April 14, 2003

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ingo Fast) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (87%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (72%); BUDGETS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) PENNER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



472 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE MENU 

BYLINE:  By Florence Fabricant 

 BODY:
Busier Than Ever
 Wylie Dufresne's long-awaited WD-50 has opened at 50 Clinton Street (Stanton Street). Squid linguine, steamed sea bass and kumquat confit are among the menu items. 
 A few blocks north, Chubo has opened at 6 Clinton (Houston Street). The chef and owner, Claude Chassagne, adds Asian and Latin touches to bistro standards on prix fixe menus at $20 and $24.

Doing Lunch Again
March, 405 East 58th Street, is now serving lunch, including a $39 prix fixe menu. "It seems that people prefer business lunches instead of dinners," said Joseph Scalice, an owner. The restaurant served lunch when it opened 13 years ago. "It didn't work then," he said, "but economics and lifestyles have changed."

Theo Out, Truffles In
What was Theo, 325 Spring Street (Greenwich Street), is now Spring Street. Jonathan Morr's consultant in the venture, Clement Bruno, owns truffle restaurants on the French Riviera and supplies the truffles that are strewn over many dishes.

Short Orders
Dan Silverman, who was the chef de cuisine at Union Square Cafe, will be the chef at Lever House, a restaurant to open in June in the Park Avenue building of the same name. 
Brasserie Central, at 53rd Street and Seventh Avenue, has a new name, Maison, and new decor, Art Deco. Larry Kolar, who was at Commune and Commissary, is cooking brasserie style. 
About the only connection that Azaza, a new Asian restaurant at 891 First Avenue (50th Street), has with the former tenant, Wylie's, is that it also serves ribs, specifically baby back, Hong Kong pork and beef, all sold by the pound for takeout. 
The Restaurant at Splashlight Studios is a handsome modern cafe on the ground floor of a digital photo studio at 535 West 35th Street. Creative Edge Parties, a catering company, is doing the food. 
Peter Spyropoulos, who had been the chef at Dias, 103 West 77th Street, which closed, is now an owner of the place, renamed Pelagos. He offers fish dishes cooked in clay pots. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 23, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Off the Menu column last Wednesday about the hiring of Dan Silverman as chef at Lever House, a restaurant opening on Park Avenue in June, misstated his role in another restaurant. He was executive chef at the Union Square Cafe, not chef de cuisine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); MENU PRICES (77%); CATERING SERVICES (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY (65%) RESTAURANTS 

ORGANIZATION: WD-50 (NYC RESTAURANT); MARCH (NYC RESTAURANT); LEVER HOUSE RESTAURANT (NYC) 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE; DUFRESNE, WYLIE; SILVERMAN, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



473 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: RESTAURANTS; 
The Tough Club, Reborn as a Gastro-Pub

BYLINE:  By William Grimes 

 BODY:
NEW YORKERS are spoiled. Whether the Dow rises or falls, whether the economy goes boom or bust, they refuse to relax one nonnegotiable demand, that the city supply them with one good restaurant after another. 
 Pushy people get what they want. Over the last 15 years, culinary standards have risen to the point that a merely good restaurant in New York would probably be, hands-down, the best restaurant in any midsize city in the United States. 
 Kloe is a case in point. It's the kind of place that New Yorkers take for granted, with imaginative food, good service and, because it's downtown, quirky, clublike decor. In a city with a thousand dining distractions, it could easily go unnoticed. New York can be hard on unassuming restaurants that do good work quietly. 
Kloe won me over the old-fashioned way, with a plain dish executed correctly. Its tomato, mozzarella and basil tart is as simple as A B C, but the puff-pastry crust is ideally flaky and the tomatoes, slow-cooked to concentrate their flavor, have a firm, acidic grip, complemented by sweet, syrupy balsamic vinegar. Small pleasures like the tart are scattered throughout the menu. French fries, flavored with vinegar and herbs, come to mind immediately, a comically large pile of crisp potatoes that seem intended for four but can have a party of two fighting for the last fry. Blue corn spoon bread is another gem, the hidden power in an entree of seared salmon surrounded by a bright-orange pepper coulis. 
This is gastro-pub cuisine, with a setting to match. In bygone days, Kloe was a mysterious institution called the Tough Club. It was reputedly a hangout for Mayor Jimmy Walker, although historians seem to have a hard time placing him there, or shedding much light on the place, which dates to 1865. Like many social clubs at the time, it gave big clam chowder dinners for its members, who would drink freely and sing "The Sidewalks of New York" and "Annie Rooney" at top volume.
The owners have kept some of the Tough Club details, like oak beams and painted mottos, while installing a few wiggly room dividers and smart banquettes. It's an odd-looking place, part saloon and part lounge, with lots of cozy corners.
Erica Miller, the chef and a partner in Kloe, covers the basics without being a bore. The vinegar-herb fries show that she knows how to update one of the most vernacular foods in the American culinary language, and her Southwestern take on spoon bread hits the target dead center. Occasionally she gets carried away. Sweetbreads with a thick crust of macadamia nuts seem like a strange new meat candy bar, and the onion marmalade that comes with them is both too pungent and too sweet. The sweetbreads are also overcooked. I have a sneaking fondness for the bright-red spicy jelly that accompanies the baby lamb chops, but it overwhelms the main part of the dish, and a little turnover stuffed with mushroom and foie gras gets lost in the shuffle.
Ms. Miller regains her footing with tender slices of duck breast dusted with zaatar, the Middle Eastern mixture of herbs and spices that turns out to be an elegant solution to the eternal challenge posed by duck: how to balance the richness and the fat. Acidic fruit is one way, and zaatar, by a totally different route, arrives at the same destination. The unexpected payoff is a crisp phyllo tube stuffed with cumin-accented sweet potato and heated up, subtly, with chilies. It's a Southwestern samosa, and a winner.
Pastas are straightforward and well prepared, especially the seafood linguine, heaped with calamari, shrimp, mussels and scallops that taste like scallops. The garlic level is gauged perfectly. Most dishes in the linguine and clam sauce family throw on the garlic like cheap perfume. Ms. Miller uses it like Chanel No. 5. She's not shy, though, with the truffle-accented tomato sauce that comes with her oversize ravioli stuffed with mushrooms and ricotta. It's dense, potent and entirely appropriate to the situation. 
Desserts disappoint. A creme brulee of kaffir lime and lemon grass has a bitter, slightly chemical taste. Warm Valrhona chocolate cake convincingly makes the argument that this fad dessert needs to be phased out, and soon. Too often, as at Kloe, the cake itself is unimpressive and the interior ooze simply seems like unbaked batter. This is the chicken Kiev of the dessert world. Enough.
Honor is saved with a tall, round vanilla cheesecake set on a glorious double-thick, double-dark graham cracker crust. A topping of ripe strawberries, raspberries and blueberries in thick fruit syrup completes the equation. Perhaps the dormant spirits of the Tough Club rose up and demanded that the cheesecake, the New York dessert par excellence, not be allowed to fail. Whatever the motivation, the Kloe version is an inspired addition to the genre. It makes you wonder what Ms. Miller might come up with in the way of a clam chowder.

Kloe
* Rating: one star
243 West 14th Street; (212) 255-5563.

ATMOSPHERE -- Eclectic new American cuisine in a converted bar that feels halfway between a lounge and a pub.
SOUND LEVEL -- Medium loud to loud.
RECOMMENDED DISHES -- Tomato and mozzarella tart; poached shrimp with white beans; mushroom and ricotta ravioli; zaatar-crusted duck breast; vinegar and herb frites; lamb chops with mushroom and foie gras turnover; salmon with blue corn spoon bread; vanilla cheesecake.
SERVICE -- Casual but attentive.
WINE LIST -- A small, interesting international list; a dozen wines by the glass.
HOURS -- Lunch, Tuesday through Friday, noon to 4 p.m.; brunch, Saturday and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.; dinner, Tuesday through Sunday, 6 to 11 p.m.
PRICE RANGE -- Lunch, appetizers, $4.75 to $6.95; entrees, $7.50 to $9.75; desserts, $7. Dinner, appetizers, $6 to $10; entrees, $14.95 to $23; desserts, $7.
CREDIT CARDS -- All major cards.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS -- Two steps down to the dining room and restrooms.

WHAT THE STARS MEAN:

(None) Poor to satisfactory
* Good
** Very good
*** Excellent
**** Extraordinary

Ratings reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.

PAST REVIEWS from The Times, with additional capsule reviews by Times critics: nytimes.com/dining

GRAPHIC: Photo: IF WALLS COULD TALK -- Kloe, on West 14th Street, has kept some of the decor of its previous life as a social club. (Monika Graff for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (86%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (63%); HISTORY (50%) RESTAURANTS 

ORGANIZATION: KLOE (NYC RESTAURANT) 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



474 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Canada Raises Interest Rate on Inflation Concern 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: TORONTO, April 15 

 BODY:
The Bank of Canada raised its benchmark interest rate for the fifth time in the last 13 months, citing prospects for a renewed burst of economic growth later this year and concerns about inflation. 
 The move stands in sharp contrast with monetary policy in the United States and other industrial countries, where central banks have held off on raising interest rates or even cut rates to stimulate sluggish economies. Canada is the only country in the Group of Seven to increase rates in the last two years. The quarter point increase by the Bank of Canada puts its benchmark overnight rate at 3.25 percent, 2 points higher than the benchmark in United States, Canada's biggest trading partner. 
 Indeed, Canada has been different: its economy was the strongest performer among major industrial countries last year, with gross domestic product, adjusted for inflation, growing by 3.3 percent, compared with 2.4 percent in the United States. The growth rate in the year to January 2003 was 3.4 percent.
"The domestic economy still has a lot of tail wind behind it," said Aron Gampel, deputy chief economist at the Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto. 
Still, several economists said they detected a note of caution in today's Bank of Canada statement. Edward Carmichael, chief economist at J. P. Morgan Chase Bank Canada, said in a note to clients that the downturn in industrial activity in the United States and the impact of the respiratory disease known as SARS, which has significantly damaged Canada's travel and tourism market, could dampen economic growth over the next two to three months. 
Before today's announcement, economists had been divided on whether Bank of Canada policy makers would emphasize holding down inflation over spurring growth, given recent signs of weakness in the domestic economy especially in businesses, like the automotive industry, that depend heavily on exports to the United States. 
Announcing the increase in interest rates, the central bank said that with the end of the war in Iraq and the recent fall in oil prices, "the risks confronting the global economy are now better balanced" than at the time of its last interest-rate announcement, in early March. The overnight rate stood at 2 percent in March 2002. 
Canada's inflation rate, measured by the consumer price index, climbed 4.6 percent in the year to February. The central bank's core rate, which excludes volatile items like food, fuel and mortgage interest, rose 3.1 percent, compared with the bank's 2 percent target. The average increase in 2002 was 2.3 percent. 
Yet with the United States accounting for 85 percent of Canada's exports, a prolonged slowdown south of the border is sure to ripple through to the Canadian economy. Canada reported statistics last week that the trade surplus slipped to 4.6 billion Canadian dollars in February, from 5.2 billion Canadian dollars in January, because of a 1.6 percent fall in exports. 
The Canadian dollar rose to 69.07 United States cents -- its highest level in three years -- after the announcement of the rate increase. It ended at 69 United States cents.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Wider Gap"Canada has progressively tightened its monetary policy in recent months. Graph tracks Bank of Canada overnight lending rate and United States Federal funds target rate since 2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (67%); IRAQ WAR (67%); EXPORT PRICES (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); SARS (64%); TOURISM (51%) CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; CURRENCY 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF CANADA 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); BNS (TSX) (91%); BNS (NYSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (90%); JPM (LSE) (90%); 8634 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%)

PERSON: SIMON, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%) ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (58%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



475 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: POP REVIEW; 
Harmony For People Out of Tune With Life

BYLINE:  By JON PARELES 

 BODY:
If Joe Jackson had been born a few decades earlier, he would have been writing show tunes. He's constantly imagining characters and situations, letting narrators tell their stories on the way to an ardent chorus while slipping musical games behind the melodies. Luckily, Mr. Jackson grew up in the punk-rock era, and with the new-wave band he formed 25 years ago he cut away pop sentimentality and revved up the beat. He made three albums with that band from 1978 to 1980, and he has reunited with them to make the new "Volume 4" (Restless/Rykodisc) and to tour. 
 They played three sold-out New York City shows over the weekend, ending up Sunday night at the Bowery Ballroom. They are as nervy and tightly wound as ever. Elvis Costello, Mr. Jackson's contemporary, was revitalized by rejoining his old bandmen, and so is Mr. Jackson. "No one ever thought that we'd reform," Mr. Jackson exulted. "Somebody said that -- I think it was me." 
 The gap between the band's old and new songs was narrow. Mr. Jackson has always sung about also-rans and second-raters like the unwanted suitor in "Is She Really Going Out With Him?" or the harried worker in "Got the Time," and he's still observing frustrated characters like the grown-up who never outgrew his "Awkward Age" or the separating couple in "Bright Grey."
The band still applies a ruthless economy to the arrangements, but it revels in variety. It floated Gary Sanford's guitar chords against Dave Houghton's quietly ticking drums in "Chrome" and had Graham Maby on bass set a reggae riff against Mr. Jackson's quasi-Baroque piano in "Take It Like a Man." Mr. Jackson is still calling for musical twists like the wah-wah funk of "Fairy Dust," which is in 5/4 time. 
Since 1980 Mr. Jackson's songs have grown slightly less cynical and far more sympathetic to women. And at a time when new- wave rock is being rediscovered by young bands, Mr. Jackson and the band aren't shy about deliberately recreating styles like the glam-rock of "Little Bit Stupid." 
But their best revival is the unbridled attack of the band: the pithy and exact arrangements that still make room for Gary Sanford's tremolo frenzies in "Got the Time" or a deliberately dissonant line after Mr. Jackson sings "play guitar" in "Sunday Papers." Mr. Jackson's many projects since 1980 -- his keyboard-centered hit album "Night and Day" in 1982, his extended compositions -- had the sophistication but not the bite of his first band. Like his fans, he seems to have missed it, too.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joe Jackson, appearing at the Bowery Ballroom on Sunday. (Rahav Segev for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); POP & ROCK (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (77%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (77%) MUSIC; REVIEWS 

PERSON: PARELES, JON; JACKSON, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



476 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Once Sweet and Heavy, Now Dry and Desirable 

BYLINE:  By AMANDA HESSER 

 BODY:
IT was not so long ago that kosher wines ranked right up there with Jagermeister and Coors Light on the quality scale. They were as sweet as Cherry Coke and about as complex. And those kosher wines that did try to break the mold were rough around the edges at best.
 For makers of kosher wine, this has been a difficult reputation to shake, partly because some people are so accustomed to the sweet-style Passover wines that they become oddly sentimental when faced with new choices, and partly because consumers maintain a misperception that all kosher wine has been boiled and therefore must be bad. 
 But over the last decade, the kosher wine industry has worked to change people's minds. The efforts were conservative at first, with winemakers rolling out a handful of new labels advertised as dry rather than sweet. Now, however, they are attracting consumers with kosher wines -- good kosher wines, as it happens -- made all over the world, from the Barossa Valley in Australia to Bordeaux, sherries to Champagnes, and with prices up to $250. 
In some instances, it is working. Sales at the Web site kosherwine.com have grown more than 300 percent this year, and the company now offers more than 400 kosher wines and spirits. Astor Wines & Liquors in Manhattan, which carried about 40 kosher labelsfive years ago, now has more than 100.
"There's no question that we have far more kosher wine in stock this year than even last year, and much more than five years ago," Chris Adams, managing director at Sherry-Lehmann, on Madison Avenue, said. "The things that have made wine better across the world have also made kosher wines better, things like vineyard management." 
Still, there is the business of boiling the grape juice, which some believe is the key to making a wine kosher. This is not quite accurate. There are two levels of kosher wine, one made through the normal method of winemaking and one made with an additional process. A kosher wine is produced with equipment and machinery used exclusively for the wine, and only Sabbath-observant Jews may handle the grapes from the time they are crushed until the wine is bottled. Many kosher wines undergo one more step, to be made mevushal, or pasteurized. The origin of making wines mevushal is believed to date to ancient times, when wines were cooked so they could not be used in pagan worship. In the Middle Ages, some say, rabbis required wine to be boiled as an effort to keep young Jews from socializing, and sharing wine, with non-Jews. 
"If you boil wine to 90 degrees centigrade," Shimshon Welner, founder of the Golan Heights Winery in Israel, said, "it would become soup and not a good soup."
But the wines are no longer brought to such high temperatures. As with pasteurized milk, a wine can be heated strongly without bringing it to a boil. And, as Peter Stern, chief winemaker for Baron Herzog Wine Cellars, noted, "pasteurization is not something that's new; it's a technique that is well developed and well understood." 
"The actual definition for the process" of mevushal, Mr. Stern added, "is that the wine must be too hot to touch or be showing steam, vapor." Although the temperature of the wine must be raised to temperatures from 165 degrees up to 193 degrees, depending on the overseeing rabbi, it is now done using a process called flash pasteurization. 
Special equipment brings the wine to the desired temperature quickly, lets it reach the temperature for only a fraction of a second and then carefully cools it down. When possible, winemakers flash-pasteurize the grape juice of a wine before it is fermented, which helps minimize the amount of enzyme damage to the grapes themselves. Flash pasteurization, kosher winemakers assert, has no deleterious effect on a wine's flavor.
Some grapes, like sauvignon blanc, do quite well with heat, the winemakers say, whereas grapes like pinot noir and certain varieties of cabernet sauvignon wilt when heat is applied.
Of the 27 wines that Mr. Welner produces around the world, only 7 are mevushal. Flash-pasteurized wines tend to be the less expensive wines in a producer's portfolio. Kosher wines from grand cru vineyards in Burgundy, which can cost more than $200 a bottle, are unlikely to be mevushal. "It's not the way they do it in France in the chateaux," said Pierre Miodownick, chief winemaker for the Royal Wine Corporation's French and Spanish portfolios. "So we don't do it. It's diplomacy."
Kosher winemakers have figured out that a little bit of diplomacy and curiosity go a long way. Royal Wine, for instance, has convinced wineries like Chateau Giscours and Chateau Leoville-Poyferre in France and Bodegas Ramon Bilbao in Spain to allow them to make kosher wines under their labels. In other cases, they do not use the winery's label but simply rent space in which to work and produce their own label.
They do this by sending a crew of Sabbath-observant Jews to learn how the wines are made, and when they are ready the winemakers make their wines side by side. The non-Jewish winemakers cannot so much as touch a nozzle on the tanks to help, yet they can consult by watching and tasting the wines during the process. At Baron Herzog, they call it "having a shadow."
Mr. Welner has worked out similar contracts, and now produces Villa Santero moscato d'Asti in Italy and wines in Argentina and Chile under the label Tierra Salvaje. His company's exports to the United States have grown 30 percent this past year.
MEANWHILE, importers have begun bringing in wines from boutique kosher wineries in Israel, like Mount Tabor from the lower Galilee and Tzora Vineyards near Jerusalem. And the well-known house Baron Philippe de Rothschild has begun exporting its kosher label, Mouton Cadet Rouge.
There has been a growing demand for these wines as younger Jews are exposed to nonkosher wines. David Herzog, who is an owner of Baron Herzog in California, worked on Wall Street before he started in the wine business. When his father asked him for help, he said, "I wanted to make good wine. I lived in the secular world. I saw how people enjoyed wine."
A notable market, Mr. Stern of Royal Wine said, is also the growing number of baal teshuvah, assimilated Jews who are becoming observant. "They know what good wine is," he said, and they don't want to settle for anything less. 
"What we need to do is tap in to the 5 percent of non-Jews who are buying high-end wines," Mr. Stern said. "Or we need another dot-com economy where people didn't flinch about spending $100 on a bottle."
With Mr. Stern's help, Baron Herzog is trying to break away, much as Gallo did in the last decade, from a reputation as a cheap, populist winemaker by adding a second, more expensive label, Herzog, with reserve wines like a cabernet sauvignon from Alexander Valley and a syrah from Edna Valley in California. 
"The Herzog brand doesn't have any baggage yet," Mr. Stern said. "And the volume is still not very large, but it's growing little by little. Hopefully one of these days, it will be viewed as great wine that just happens to be kosher." 
Then again, old-style kosher wine may forever be like the Thanksgiving turkey: everyone knows it is a dry and dull-tasting bird, but Thanksgiving is not Thanksgiving without it. Don Atkinson, a wine consultant at Astor, noted that even his customers who buy expensive Bordeaux kosher wine always pick up a bottle or two of Manischewitz Concord for tradition's sake.

GRAPHIC: Photos: GLOBALIZATION -- Kosher wines from four continents at Astor Wines & Spirits. (Don Hogan Charles for The New York Times)(pg. F1); A MODERN TASTE AT THE SEDER -- Kosher wines for those who don't have a sweet tooth. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINERIES (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); PASSOVER (78%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (78%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (77%); RELIGION (76%); MILK (70%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (52%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES; KOSHER FOOD 

PERSON: HESSER, AMANDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) SOUTH AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (54%) AUSTRALIA (79%); ISRAEL (76%); UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



477 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: For Dassault Aviation, Iraq Means Less Work 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: PARIS, April 15 

 BODY:
The military side of Dassault Aviation was having a tough time making new sales even before the war in Iraq. The company, France's only warplane builder, lost a $4.4 billion, 40-jet order in South Korea to Boeing last spring, and in December, Poland picked Lockheed Martin for a $3.5 billion, 48-plane contract, again passing over Dassault's Mirage and Rafale jets. 
 Now, the war in Iraq has made the odds even worse, and raised questions all over Europe about the viability of its military contractors. 
 For France and Germany, whose leaders directly opposed the Bush administration's policy in Iraq, anger in America could cut their contractors out of the immense American arms market. For contractors in Britain, which backed America in Iraq, it may become much harder to work with European partners in the development of weapons systems that none could handle alone. 
Some industry executives sense the potential for a seismic shift. 
"Is continued transnationalism a realistic future option for defense companies in light of current events?" Sir Richard Evans, the chairman of BAE Systems, asked in a speech last month to industry executives. Musing aloud on the future, he wondered whether a "realignment around different political axes" as a result of the trans-Atlantic split over Iraq would have consequences. "What would it mean for the complex, cross-industry alliances, the product of years of mostly European collaboration?" he asked. 
Any prediction, Sir Richard confessed, would verge on the foolhardy. Yet many in the industry see potential for a lasting strategic and industrial split across the Atlantic, with the British government of Prime Minister Tony Blair moving even closer to the United States and away from the Continent. 
"There's a huge mountain to climb to get into the United States defense market," said Gordon M. Adams, the director of security policy studies at George Washington University and an expert on trans-Atlantic defense issues. The uphill slog that European defense contractors already faced in the United States, he said, will now be complicated by political hurdles. "If France and Germany want to rebuild the bridge," he said, "they are going to have to build more than half of it." 
But another possibility, some argue, is that the fallout from Iraq will prod Europe's governments to redouble their efforts to consolidate the military equipment industry and define common goals. 
Dassault is trying to wean itself away from military contracts. Ten years ago, arms sales generated 70 percent of its revenue, while civilian Falcon corporate jets yielded just 30 percent, according to Charles Edelstenne, Dassault's chairman. Today the ratio is the reverse. 
"As far as equipment is concerned," Mr. Edelstenne said in a recent conversation, "we are not yet at a time where you have sufficient willingness to establish a European defense industry." 
When will that time come? "If it's the next 50 years, I don't see it," he replied, only half joking.
Still, some are trying. The European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, known as EADS, was created three years ago to combine smaller businesses into what is now the world's biggest aerospace group after Boeing. Last week it undertook a sweeping reorganization, saying it would integrate its military electronics, fighter aircraft and telecommunications activities. 
In part, Europe's dilemma is a product of declining spending on defense since the end of the cold war. With the pie shrinking, contractors on both sides of the Atlantic sought greater cooperation. In 2000, BAE Systems, then known as British Aerospace, bought the Sanders electronics business from Lockheed, and Thales of France linked up with Raytheon in an electronics joint venture. 
The Clinton administration "focused on globalization to encourage more cooperation in view of affordability and interoperability," said Jeffrey P. Bialos, a Washington lawyer who was a deputy under secretary of defense at the time. 
Similarly, European government leaders met in 1999 to strive for a joint European security and defense policy and to create a multinational rapid reaction force; the creation of EADS from military contractors in Germany, France and Spain followed in 2000. 
But Britain remained somewhat aloof. BAE Systems spurned a proposed alliance with German defense contractors and chose instead to buy a British rival, the Marconi electronics business of Britain's General Electric, in 1999. 
Today, BAE gets more than one-third of its $20 billion in annual revenue in the United States. While the company posted a $1.1 billion overall loss last year, its North American unit was profitable. 
More recently, American companies have been picking cherries out of the European military-contractor pie. Last year, One Equity Partners, the private equity group of Chicago-based Bank One, acquired Howaldtswerke-Deutsche Werft of Germany, an innovative maker of hydrogen-driven nonnuclear submarines. The Carlyle Group of Washington recently agreed to acquire Fiat's turbine-building unit, FiatAvio, for $1.7 billion. General Dynamics has acquired armored-vehicle builders in Spain and Switzerland. 
Now, many of the trans-Atlantic gains appear jeopardized. 
From the beginning, if the goal was a two-way trans-Atlantic street, the traffic flowed more heavily toward the United States. Nearly every European contractor has set a goal of expanding in the United States, and the reason is simple. Even before Iraq, America's military spending outstripped all its European NATO allies' spending combined -- in 2001 it was double -- and the gap has been widening.
Perhaps more significantly, spending for research and development, a gauge of future procurement spending, amounted to $9 billion in Europe in 2001, and $39 billion in the United States. 
"What the United States buys, and where, has a huge effect on the global defense industry," said John Dowdy, director of the defense industry group at McKinsey & Company in London. 
Hobbling Europe's military industry is the evident inability of European politicians to define common security goals. The political cacophony blocks the efficient flow of capital into major weapons systems. 
The split over Iraq remains unhealed. France, Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg -- all opponents of the Iraq war -- have agreed to hold a summit meeting late this month to discuss ways to deepen military cooperation. Several of their European Union partners, and notably Italy, which assumes the union's rotating presidency in July, responded with demands that the meeting be open to all member states. 
Mr. Edelstenne of Dassault offered an example of how Europe has paid for such dissonance, comparing the development paths of the Eurofighter jet and of the United States' Joint Strike Fighter. European governments took more than 20 years to raise the capital and reach agreement on the shape of the Eurofighter, and it is still not in full-scale production. But Lockheed, the lead contractor on the Joint Strike Fighter, raised its $15 billion budget from European partners in two years, and succeeded in lining up the cream of Europe's industry as suppliers. 
Whether or not the Europeans can agree politically on larger defense issues, some believe the Iraq effect may be short-lived. 
McKinsey's Mr. Dowdy believes multinational consolidation will continue simply because economies of scale are crucial to the industry, given immensely high development costs: American B-2 bombers, for example, cost roughly $2 billion apiece, one-third of it to cover research and development costs. "Incremental production and scale make a huge difference," Mr. Dowdy said. 
Mr. Bialos agreed. "In the long term, cooperation will move forward" he said. "In the short term, politically oriented policies will initially slow the process." 
Some cite the case of Airbus as an example of an aerospace product developed by Europe that successfully challenged American dominance. And Mr. Edelstenne said that Dassault's civilian products benefited from development originally done for military aircraft, like a new, more pilot-friendly cockpit design. But he said that the fundamental difference between civilian and military products lies in the customer. 
"When you are producing a civilian aircraft, the market provides you with the requirements," he said. "When you are talking military, each country has its own requirements. You have no unique answer. You have to find a way to compromise on different requirements and forms."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dassault Aviation's Rafale fighter jet, at the 2001 Paris air show. With military sales off, Dassault has been turning to civilian aircraft. (Agence France-Presse); The British Eurofighter Typhoon IPA1 performs at an air show last July. European plane makers face a tough fight for military business. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE CONTRACTING (91%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (91%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); AIRLINES (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (58%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

COMPANY: DASSAULT AVIATION SA (90%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (58%); BAE SYSTEMS PLC (58%); BOEING CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) DASSAULT AVIATION; EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: AM (PAR) (90%); LMT (NYSE) (58%); BA (LSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (90%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: CHARLES EDELSTENNE (58%); TONY BLAIR (53%) TAGLIABUE, JOHN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (72%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (93%); POLAND (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) FRANCE; GERMANY; GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



478 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: War and Weather Are Cited For Drop in Industrial Output 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15 

 BODY:
Industrial production fell in March for a second month, as manufacturers cut back during the war and utilities generated less power as the weather warmed. 
 Production at factories, mines and utilities fell 0.5 percent last month after a revised 0.1 percent decline in February, the Federal Reserve reported today. 
The percentage of factories in use was the lowest in two decades. The drop in production at utilities was the biggest in five years. 
 "The run-up to the war caused businesses to put all decisions on hold," said Jade Zelnik, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital in Connecticut. "Once all the uncertainties clear, we will see the resumption of a very gradual, sluggish uptrend."
The slump may have spread into this month. The April factory index for New York State fell to the lowest since October 2001, a month after the terrorist attacks, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said in a separate report.
Economists had forecast a 0.2 percent drop in March industrial production, according to the median of 68 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. 
Industrial capacity in use fell to 74.8 percent, the lowest in 15 months, while the factory-use component sank to 72.9 percent, the lowest since May 1983.
Utility production fell 4.1 percent last month after increasing 1.3 percent a month earlier. It was the biggest drop since a 4.5 percent decrease in January 1998. The average national temperature in March was 44 degrees Fahrenheit, 1.6 degrees warmer than the 1895-2003 average, according to government reports.
Mine output was up 0.6 percent after rising 0.4 percent in February. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); TRENDS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); TERRORISM (53%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; MINES AND MINING; PRODUCTION 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



479 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 389 words

PERSON: Thomas David Flynn 

HEADLINE: Thomas Flynn, 90, Administrator During 70's Fiscal Crisis 

BYLINE:  By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Thomas David Flynn, a retired New York accounting executive and the first chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, which was known as Big Mac during the city's dark fiscal days in the mid-1970's, died on Saturday while on a family vacation in Puerto Rico. He was 90 and lived in Princeton, N.J., having moved there recently after 50 years in Sands Point, N.Y.
 Mr. Flynn retired in 1975 as vice chairman of the accounting firm of Arthur Young & Company. That June, Gov. Hugh L. Carey named him to head the state control board created to manage New York City's finances as it teetered on the brink of default. He was replaced as chairman by William M. Ellinghaus two months later but remained a member of the board until January 1979. 
 Thomas Flynn was born in Los Angeles. His father, John T. Flynn, was an editor of The New York Sun and The New Haven Register as well as a nationally syndicated columnist and author. The son earned renown as Tommy Flynn, a championship tennis and squash player from his college days, and he remained a tennis, skiing and jogging enthusiast for life.
He graduated Phi Beta Kappa in economics in 1935 from Princeton, where he also played varsity ice hockey and was voted best athlete of his class. He worked as a staff assistant for the Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce and in 1938 received an M.B.A. in accounting at the Columbia Graduate School of Business.
Mr. Flynn then was on the staff of the Federal Trade Commission but in 1940 joined Arthur Young as a certified public accountant and partner. He rose to senior partner before being named vice chairman of the management committee of the international accounting firm.
In 1970, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants honored him with its gold medal, the highest award for distinguished service in his profession.
He was a trustee emeritus of Columbia University, where he was elected a trustee 28 years ago. He was also a past president of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and of the Circumnavigators Club, and a director emeritus of the National Bureau for Economic Research.
Mr. Flynn is survived by his wife of 62 years, Harriett Howland Flynn; two daughters, Susan F. Gordon of Tenafly, N.J., and Christine Flynn Segal of Manhattan; a son, John H., of Roslyn, N.Y.; and six grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas David Flynn (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times, 1975) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); WRITERS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); WINTER SPORTS (72%); TENNIS (72%); SPORTS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (67%); SKIING (67%); SQUASH (67%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (66%); ICE HOCKEY (66%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: ARTHUR YOUNG & CO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: PHI BETA KAPPA (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (83%)

FLYNN, THOMAS DAVID; SAXON, WOLFGANG 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (92%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



480 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: A Warning Against Mixing Commerce and Academics 

BYLINE:  By SARA RIMER 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., April 11 

 BODY:
College presidents always need more money, and in the 1980's, during Derek Bok's tenure as president of Harvard, a major pharmaceutical firm made him a tempting financial offer.
 It would pay $1 million a year to Harvard Medical School, along with generous fees for participating faculty members, to produce a series for cable television on recent developments in cardiology. It was willing to allow a disclaimer during every program making it clear that Harvard was not endorsing any of the company's products as long as it could run its advertisements during various points in each episode. 
 Professor Bok, who is now a university professor, said during a recent interview in his office at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government that the dean of the medical school understandably saw this as "some very welcome money." 
But Mr. Bok agonized over the offer. "The reasons for not doing it seemed rather vague and intangible, and I understood his feelings, which didn't make it any easier," he recalled. "But in the end, I told him: 'Gosh, if we go down this road we're commercializing our teaching. It's just not a good place to go.' "
In his new book, "Universities in the Marketplace: The Commercialization of Higher Education" (Princeton University Press), Mr. Bok recounts this example, and others, in which institutions took the money. He explores the potential dangers colleges and universities face as pressures mount to further blur the boundaries between the corporate and academic worlds.
"What is new about today's commercial practices is not their existence but their unprecedented size and scope," he writes.
Colleges and universities were once largely removed from the marketplace as they dedicated themselves to the pursuit of ideas, discovery and truth, and to the education of students for the common good. In exchange, they received from society academic freedom, tax exemptions and the public trust. 
In today's world, Mr. Bok writes, drug companies pour billions of dollars into medical schools, universities sell the right to use their scientific discoveries to industry, and faculty members occupy such industry-endowed chairs as the Kmart professor of marketing.
Prominent professors start their own venture capital companies, earn lucrative consulting fees and market their lectures through the Internet. "Certainly many more people in academic life think that you can have all the virtues of that life and be rich at the same time -- in fact they think you ought to," Mr. Bok said.
Where commercialism on campuses was once largely confined to athletics, it is now booming in medical schools and research labs, with their ever-increasing need for resources. And, Professor Bok writes, with a depressed economy, federal deficits and state cutbacks in higher education all contributing to chronic money shortages on campus, college and university administrators are under intense pressure to become yet more entrepreneurial.
"If universities had enough money, there would be something wrong with them," Mr. Bok said in the interview. "If you have genuinely creative people among your students and faculty, they are always going to come up with interesting ideas that are worth pursuing. The essence of the university is to have more opportunities than you can afford."
But unless institutions remain clear about their academic values as they pursue new opportunities to earn and raise money, he writes, "commercialization threatens to change the character of the university in ways that limit its freedom, sap its effectiveness and lower its standing in society."
"Company officials," he writes, "regularly insist that information concerning the work they support be kept secret while the research is going on and for a long enough time thereafter to allow them to decide whether to file for a patent." Also, he writes, they may treat other valuable information as unsuitable for patenting, but as permanent trade secrets instead.
This sort of secrecy, he writes, is sharply at odds with the academic values of openness and collegiality, and will probably "inhibit scientific progress, at least to some extent, by limiting the flow of information and ideas that investigators need in order to advance their work." In some instances, Mr. Bok writes, drug companies have pressured researchers to suppress unfavorable findings. 
Professor Bok, who was president of Harvard from 1971 to 1991, echoes the worries of many of his colleagues in higher education. At Brown University, a group of academics started a study group several years ago, called the Futures Project, to examine a number of higher education policy questions, including concerns about commercialization.
In his book, Mr. Bok holds up big intercollegiate athletics programs, where some football and basketball coaches earn annual salaries of $500,000, students are recruited only for their athletic ability and huge amounts of money are poured into stadiums and training facilities, as the worst example of how commercialization can erode the values and goals of the institution. "Athletics is the one case where you can see this develop over a long period of time and observe the kind of irreversible problems you can get into," Mr. Bok said.
But it is in the sciences, he says, where commercialization has now taken hold most firmly.
Even Mr. Bok takes pains to acknowledge that the new entrepreneurialism on campus has brought significant benefits, that enormous scientific progress has been made, and that not everyone shares his concerns about the potential dangers. (Harvard's endowment in June 2001 was $18.3 billion.)
"The new opportunities for earning money have clearly helped make universities more attentive to public needs," he writes. 
But while the worst fears of the critics of industry's involvement with academic science were not realized, according to Mr. Bok, serious problems involving secrecy and conflicts of interest have arisen, fueled by industry's need to keep commercially valuable results away from competitors.
"Unlike athletics," Mr. Bok writes, "commercialization of research is still relatively new, and universities are not yet bound irrevocably to indefensible policies. Only time will tell whether they manage to do a better job of maintaining appropriate standards for science than they have done in upholding academic values on their playing fields." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Derek Bok, former president of Harvard, criticizes the commercialization of academic institutions. (C. J. Gunther for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (60%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%); CARDIOLOGY (56%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; CORPORATIONS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: RIMER, SARA; BOK, DEREK 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



481 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: AN IMMIGRANT COMMUNITY; 
For Korean-Americans, Concerns for a New War

BYLINE:  By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 15 

 BODY:
Like many residents of the nation's largest Korean-American population here, Ik Kyun Choe, who immigrated to California in 1974, is worried that after the United States-led coalition finishes its military campaign in Iraq, North Korea will be its next target and the results could be disastrous.
 Mr. Choe, 66, who runs a brisk dry-cleaning business in the Koreatown district, said that while he is an ardent supporter of President Bush, the fighting in Iraq was a disturbing reminder of a night in 1950 when what seemed like violent thunderstorms battered Seoul but brought no rain. 
 When the sun rose the next morning, Mr. Choe said, he peeked out a window and saw hundreds of invading tanks from North Korea rumbling across his grandfather's watermelon fields. 
"This time, I am afraid that instead of tanks, the North will use nuclear bombs to destroy my homeland and my loved ones," Mr. Choe said, referring to United States claims that North Korea has developed one or two nuclear weapons and missiles to transport them.
Across Koreatown, a bustling enclave of Korean commerce and culture just west of downtown, residents and business owners expressed similar concerns that rising tensions between the United States and communist North Korea in recent months could lead to new fighting on the peninsula. In fact, a New York Times poll conducted last weekend found that most Americans believe the success of the United States in the Iraq war will lead it to use military force in North Korea.
Ever since the Stalinist regime of the North Korean leader Kim Jong Il announced in December that it was reactivating its nuclear reactor, which can produce weapons grade plutonium, Korean-Americans have been closely watching the escalating crisis with great apprehension.
Many Korean-Americans said that they were encouraged by North Korea's statement over the weekend that it was willing to negotiate over its nuclear program without sticking "to any particular dialogue format" after months of insisting on one-on-one talks with Washington. But many in the community noted that North Korea is infamous for saying one thing and doing another.
Los Angeles County is home to about 190,000 Korean-Americans, the largest concentration of Koreans outside the peninsula, and many of them said in recent interviews that they were dismayed that the United States appeared to have put the Korea crisis on the back burner once the war with Iraq began.
"Americans are so preoccupied with getting rid of Saddam Hussein, who so far does not appear to have any weapons of mass destruction, that everyone seems to have forgotten that North Korea has nuclear capability and that it is not afraid to use it," said Angela Oh, a lawyer who is a prominent figure among Koreans in Los Angeles Korean.
While many Korean-Americans said that they disagree with the Bush administration's handling of the North Korea situation, others expressed strong support for the United States government, underscoring a sharp generational divide.
Older Korean-Americans, especially those who lived through the Korean War and have an intense hatred of communism, feel a huge debt of gratitude to the United States for its military intervention.
Mr. Choe says he knows firsthand the evils of communism and believes the United States should take a firm stance against North Korea. "I support President Bush, he's doing a good job," Mr. Choe said.
However, Mr. Choe's son, Peter, a recent college graduate, reflects a younger American-born generation who contend that the United States should take a softer approach toward North Korea to avoid bloodshed. These younger people are critical of what they see as the Bush administration's failure to engage in direct talks with North Korea, which they say will spur the communist regime to process even more fissionable material that can be used to make more weapons or sold to terrorists.
Allowing Korea to develop nuclear weapons could lead to an arms race in Asia, many younger Koreans said, and makes an already tense situation -- the decades-old face-off between North and South troops in the demilitarized zone -- even more incendiary.
"I'm proud to be an American, and I definitely don't support the North Korean regime, which should be toppled," Mr. Choe, the son, said. "But I cannot just blindly accept a foreign policy that does more harm than good."
North Korea has said the United States, which has 37,000 troops in South Korea and recently sent 24 American bombers to Guam as a response to the North's plans to restart its nuclear reactor, had increased the likelihood of war on the peninsula.
In his State of the Union address last year, President Bush referred to Iraq, Iran and North Korea as an "axis of evil" that he would not let stand. Mr. Bush has expressed disdain for Mr. Kim in much the same way he has for Saddam Hussein.
Little is known about the true state of affairs in North Korea. But North Korea, by all accounts, is in dire straits. Mr. Kim has kept his deeply impoverished country physically and ideologically isolated. Inefficient agriculture and devastating floods have created severe food shortages. Some analysts have said North Korea is trying to use nuclear capability to blackmail the United States into providing economic concessions.
Eui-Young Yu, a professor of sociology at California State University at Los Angeles, said that many Korean-Americans do not understand why the Bush administration is not engaging North Korea in a dialogue. Dr. Yu, who migrated from Seoul in 1963, said the administration should convene a task force on North Korea that would include a diversity of opinion, including Korean-Americans.
The opinions of Korean Americans, who number about one million in the United States, according to the 2000 census, are rarely heard in the national foreign policy debate, mainly because the group, although prosperous, has little political muscle and is reluctant to speak publicly.
In the aftermath of the Los Angeles riots in 1992, in which thousands of Korean businesses were damaged and destroyed, the Korean-Americans resolved to improve relations with other ethnic groups and to become more involved in politics.
Charles J. Kim, executive director of the Korean-American Coalition, an advocacy group, said that through various outreach programs relations had greatly improved between Korean-Americans and blacks and Latinos, the two groups who police said were responsible for looting and burning Korean businesses during the riots. But Mr. Kim said that Korean-Americans due mainly to their relatively small numbers, inexperience and short history in the United States, had little political influence.
"We still have a long way to go politically," Mr. Kim said. "Our numbers in the population are still too small. We have so few elected politicians. And we don't have any think tanks or other institutions to influence public debate." He said it was just a matter of time before Korean-Americans became better organized and started using their growing financial clout for political purposes.
Korean migration to the United States began during the Korean War of 1950 to 1953. Many of the Korean immigrants were well educated and middle class and settled in Los Angeles, where the climate was favorable and location close to Seoul. Although the early immigrants spoke little English, many found success as small-business owners.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ik Kyun Choe and his wife, Ok Soon Choe, at their Los Angeles dry cleaning shop, are paying close attention to developments in North Korea. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASIAN AMERICANS (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TERRORISM (68%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (56%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; KOREAN-AMERICANS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) SIMS, CALVIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) NORTH KOREA; LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



482 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1834 words

HEADLINE: Slump in Plane Travel Grounds Wichita, World's 'Air Capital' 

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: WICHITA, Kan., April 14 

 BODY:
Their income from the aircraft industry has evaporated. Their split-level home of six years, in a neighborhood sliced from farmland, has a Coldwell Banker "For Sale" sign in front. Deborah Salter has sold her jewelry. Her husband, Jim, has sold his truck, guns, tools and lawn mower.
 The Salters are moving on, to what they do not know. 
 Stunned by how their life has unraveled, Mrs. Salter looks to her husband for some solution. "I'm trying to get answers out of him," she said. "He doesn't have any answers." 
Families all over Wichita share the Salters' plight. With its four commercial and general aviation plane makers, Boeing, Cessna, Raytheon and Bombardier Aerospace, the city calls itself the Air Capital of the World. One in four of its workers, about twice the national average, works in a factory, two-thirds making planes. The aircraft workers earn an average of $55,642 a year.
But the plunge in air travel since Sept. 11, 2001 -- worsened in recent weeks by war -- has struck Wichita especially hard, coming on top of the general economic downturn and the periodic slowdowns normally experienced by the aircraft industry.
Since the attacks, about 11,000 aircraft workers in Wichita have been laid off, leaving about 37,000. In March, Cessna, the last to order mass layoffs, said it would let 1,200 workers go in May. It will shut its plants for seven weeks in June and July, furloughing 6,000 more of the 8,000 still on the payroll. The unemployment rate, 6.8 percent in January, has doubled since the late 1990's. 
 The aircraft business in Wichita has always been turbulent, sinking deeper than the economy in recessions, as in the early 1990's, and then rebounding. This time around, too, some jobs will come back. Cessna plans a 500-employee aircraft servicing plant. But more than in the past, the companies have moved their production abroad, and are reducing production space. 
 "They're shrinking the footprint of several plants and selling off parts," said Bob Brewer, local manager of Boeing's engineers' union, the Society of Professional Engineering Employees in Aerospace. "We've never seen anything like that before." 
 In that sense, this city of 350,000, much of it still glowing from the growth and newfound wealth of the 1990's, represents the extreme of ailing local economies. Yet it provides a window into the kinds of disruptions and uncertainties afflicting many pockets of the country as the long-awaited economic recovery seems stalled and people look to President Bush for answers. Here social services and charities are starved, some stores have closed, paychecks are gone and layoffs are spreading from one sector to the next.
"Why can't the president help people who are losing their houses and jobs?" Mrs. Salter asked. "He's going to send money over there to help build Iraq back up, and we lose everything we've ever worked for. It's not our fault that we lost our jobs, what the terrorists did. It's not. Our lives were going good. I don't understand."
With sophisticated, high-technology products, the aircraft industry had insulated Wichita from the fates of Buffalo, with its steel mills, and Flint, Mich., with its shuttered automobile plants. In an article three years ago, "Where Manufacturing Thrives," Industry Week magazine ranked Wichita first among cities with fewer than one million people. 
Now the distress at the aircraft plants, which include Wichita's three biggest employers, is rippling through the city, affecting not just the laid-off workers but a multitude of companies that supply and service the industry.
The lines into Wichita's restaurants have gone. The city has canceled the summer-job fair for teenagers because laid-off aircraft workers need the jobs. A hospital is laying off close to 5 percent of its staff because of declining revenue from patients. For 12 years, Cessna has trained welfare recipients for jobs there. It is suspending the program. 
From July to this past January. Food Stamp cases rose 38 percent to 17,323 in Wichita's Sedgwick County, compared with a statewide rise of 28 percent. said Paul Meals, an assistant director of the county office of the state's Department of Social and Rehabilitation Services. 
The laid-off aircraft workers are crowding a safety net too stretched to meet their needs, a bitter blow for people who helped others in better times. Year after year, most aircraft workers here contributed 2 percent to 10 percent of their pay to local charities. Now, their community cannot help them when they need help.
United Way's 2002 campaign was the worst since 1970, Patrick J. Hanrahan, the president, said. To cope, he has cut support to all United Way charities by 11 percent, exempting only those providing food, shelter and clothing. 
Janet Pape, director of Catholic Charities in Wichita, said 23 percent more people sought the agency's help last year with food, rent, utility bills and other emergency services. "The big thing is the volume of layoff activity," she said. "It's bringing heretofore unseen clients, people who never needed to come to Catholic Charities. I've never seen an economic condition as bad as this."
Donations to Catholic Charities here plunged 14 percent after Sept. 11, Ms. Pape said. "We know we're not out of the woods," she said. "Demand is up and money is down." That means less services like the school counselor. 
Catholic Charities dispatches a counselor to schools to work with children with behavioral problems. "I will be eliminating the school counseling service this month," Ms. Pape said. The agency has a program to follow up people who get jobs and move out of its homeless shelter. "We've had to cut back on that," she said.
Steve Hudson, who manages the Living Word Outreach's big food pantry, distributed 1.3 million tons of 60- to 70-pound sacks of food to 84,000 people last year, 13,000 more than in 2001. For money he depends on tithing parishioners. "Some members of our church work for Boeing, Cessna and Lear," Mr. Hudson said. "A lot of them have been laid off. If you don't have income, you don't tithe, so we've been cut." Instead of every two weeks, people get bags once a month.
Mrs. Salter is one of those calling on local charities. She needs dental work and help with her ulcer. She wants help with a place to stay when the house is sold. She and her husband might need counseling because of the strains of unemployment on their marriage. "We're having a rough go," Mr. Salter said.
Their 10-year-old daughter, Kara, may need help too. She has been acting up over fears of losing her friends, her pets and her home. 
In the late 1990's, Mr. Salter, 47, and Mrs. Salter, 44, earned a combined income of more than $100,000 a year at Boeing, easily enough to pay $114,000 for their house.
Then three years ago, Mr. Salter left Boeing to start a machine-shop consulting business to work with the aircraft industry. The new business took off, he said. "Then Sept. 11," he said, "it dried up, like overnight."
Mrs. Salter started at Boeing 15 years ago, waited out a three-year layoff, and returned. She last worked in a warehouse there for $23.02 an hour. "They told us in October after the attacks there would be deep layoffs," she said. She was let go two months later.
Last week, Congress extended airline and aircraft industry workers' unemployment benefits 26 weeks as part of the $79 billion budget for the war. But Mr. Salter is ineligible, and Mrs. Salter's checks, their only income, come to $1,200 a month. Their mortgage, three months past due, is $1,500 a month. 
In looking for work outside the aircraft industry, workers say they have been stigmatized. Mrs. Salter was interviewed for a $6.50-an-hour housekeeping job at a hospital and was turned down when the hospital learned she was a Boeing refugee. "They thought I'd go back there if I could," she said. For more than three times the pay the hospital was offering, she said, "I would if I could." 
But she probably will not have a chance. Steve Rooney, president of the machinists union's District Lodge No. 70, which represents most aircraft workers, said his membership dropped from 26,950 in 1999 to 16,899 now. 
"Now the problem we've seen in the last few years is the jobs are leaving this state and this country," Mr. Rooney said. "Those jobs won't be back." To compete for the foreign orders that represent 70 percent of its sales, Boeing says it must do more production on the foreign customers' soil. 
"The game is very different now," Tim Witsman, president of the Chamber of Commerce, said. "Companies have opportunities to go so many places. We're not competing just with Oklahoma City or Phoenix. It's Mexico, Italy, Japan."
Of Wichita's aircraft industry, he said: "Do I think there'll be a recovery? Yes. Do I think we'll get to the levels of employment we saw in 1998? I doubt it."
As a laid-off employee of a company that has moved many manufacturing jobs abroad, Mrs. Salter qualifies for extended unemployment benefits and tuition for going to school to learn new skills. Like other former co-workers who have not completed high school, she takes classes at the Kansas School for Effective Learning, one of the services the United Way supports. 
Her plight, she said of the class, differs only in the details from the problems faced by her classmates.
One classmate, Bob Schrimer, 49, said that he was unable to finish high school because of his dyslexia. At 16, he entered a training program at Cessna and stayed for 12 years. He worked at Boeing for 18 years, becoming a $27-an-hour supervisor in the parts department.
"I've sold a boat," he said. "I had a trailer that I sold." He and his wife, whom he met at Boeing, own two homes, one that they rent out. She still works at Boeing but her job is now in jeopardy. "She's at the bottom of the next layoff list," Mr. Schrimer said. "She will be the first to go." When that happens, he said, they will have to sell both houses. 
Mr. Salter does not need more school. He went to college for four years.
With oak cabinets, a big desk, a computer and shelves for machine-design software, he has built a handsome office in his basement for Professional Aerospace Consultants, the business he started three years ago. But he completed his last, small contract in December. 
He searches and searches for work by phone and the Internet. He mentions offers of machine shop jobs in China and Minnesota. Are they firm? "Not very," he said. Looking for business outside the aircraft industry, he has designed a pickup truck hitch for pulling recreational vehicles known as fifth wheels. 
But he needs an investor to help him build a model. "It's going to have to happen in 30 days," he said, or else he expects that the bank will foreclose on his mortgage.
If the Salters sell their home and get their $187,000 asking price, they would clear $40,000, something to help them into another home. If the bank forecloses, the Salters could get nothing. 
"We have nobody to lean on," Mrs. Salter said. "We were always helping somebody else."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 22, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 16 about the severity of the economic slump in Wichita, Kan., misstated the amount of food distributed there last year by the Living Word Outreach food pantry. It was 1.3 million pounds, not tons.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Deborah and Jim Salter have put their home up for sale because their aviation-dependent income has dried up. Their plight is shared by many other families in Wichita, where two-thirds of factory workers make planes. Many are now out of work because of layoffs. (Larry Smith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); RECESSION (75%); AIRLINES (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); TRENDS (66%); ENGINEERING (66%); US PRESIDENTS (62%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (91%); RAYTHEON CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO; CESSNA AIRCRAFT CO; BOMBARDIER INC; RAYTHEON CORP 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (91%); BAB (BRU) (91%); BA (NYSE) (91%); RTN (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (91%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%) KILBORN, PETER T 

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (96%) KANSAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) WICHITA (KAN); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



483 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: With Taurus in Its Last Days, Ford Betson 3 Cars to Take On Japan 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company is starting to write the obituary of the Taurus, the last American sedan that credibly competed with Japan. 
 Company executives said yesterday that the Taurus would be phased out in the middle of the decade and that three new vehicles Ford was developing would replace it. 
 Two of them will go on sale beginning next year: the Five Hundred, a large Audi-like sedan, and the Freestyle, a combination sport utility vehicle and station wagon that shares a similar European styling and will replace the Taurus wagon. 
This week, at the press preview of the New York International Automobile Show, Ford executives will release the first pictures of the Futura, a midsize car aimed at the perennial champions of the car market, the Honda Accord and the Toyota Camry. Futura is to be introduced in 2005 and will offer a hybrid version that supplements its gas engine with electric power. 
"Following the launch of Futura, Taurus will retire," said Steve Lyons, president of the Ford division.
Ford has already planned to cut production of Taurus and its sister vehicle, the Mercury Sable. Next year production will be cut from two plants to just one, in Atlanta. Sales of the two cars peaked at 410,000 annually in 1992 and fell to 247,000 last year.
Can this alliterated trio -- Futura, Five Hundred, Freestyle -- make the passenger car business a profit center for Ford again? In the 1980's, the Taurus put Ford back on the map, but many critics said that Taurus's styling never made it out of that decade.
"Duplicating the old Taurus's success, or the current Accord's, would be like lightning striking twice," said John Casesa, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. "The Accord and the Camry are so established that the domestics are outsiders trying to fight their way back in."
Even a modest victory would go a long way for Ford. What the company needs, analysts say, is to re-establish a beachhead in the meat-and-potatoes passenger car market, especially with Japanese companies pushing into the last stronghold of Detroit, the pickup truck. 
At stake is "not just their credibility," Mr. Casesa said, "it's their credit ratings. It's such a big part of the market it matters if they make money there."
Making cars profitable has been a perennial problem not just for Ford but the rest of the Big Three. General Motors, Ford and the Chrysler Group unit of DaimlerChrysler earn their automotive profits almost entirely from sales of S.U.V.'s and pickup trucks. Every year, it seems, one of the companies says it is rededicating itself to the passenger car and coming out with a new vehicles sure to be an Accord-Camry killer. The latest effort will be G.M.'s redesigned Chevrolet Malibu, which will hit showrooms later this year. G.M. has heavily promoted the Malibu, but analysts view it skeptically.
What can Ford learn from the Taurus experience?
After 18 years and nearly eight million Tauruses and Mercury Sables sold, Ford's flagship sedan has evolved from daring to dull in the eyes of most reviewers and customers. More important, Ford stopped making any significant profit on the Taurus years ago and now sells more than half of the cars on the cheap to rental or corporate fleets, or to its own employees.
But "until they restyled it and made it ugly, it was actually a popular car," said Maryann Keller, a longtime auto analyst. She was referring to a much criticized redesign of the car in the 1990's that rendered it an odd homage to the oval, with every light and curve slavishly adhering to form, and made it more expensive. Toyota and Honda have not seemed to make such mistakes with their flagship products. 
Taurus, when it was introduced, "was an innovative car," Ms. Keller said. "It was Ford's time."
Douglas Brinkley, a historian who has written a new history of Ford, "Wheels for the World: Henry Ford, His Company, and a Century of Progress" (Viking Press, 2003), said the company effectively started over with the Taurus and took pains to create something with both fresh styling, and approached details as a priority, like color-coding dipsticks to make it easy for ordinary drivers to figure out where the oil went. Its styling was aerodynamic and markedly different from the boxy cars of the moment. 
"Without that car, it's unlikely Ford would have been able to survive into the new millennium," he said. "It was an extraordinarily innovative car at the time. They had a blank page to work from and they started completely from scratch. They weren't just building it from leftover Ford parts."
Mr. Brinkley added, "The lesson of the Taurus is that you can't take a piecemeal approach, take parts from other cars, and have a new" vehicle.
Ford appears to be trying something different with the Futura -- a name Ford has used before on both production cars and prototypes -- which will be similar to a prototype called the 427 introduced in January in Detroit. Both have a somewhat squared look and horizontal aluminum bands creating a striking presence in the front. 
J Mays, Ford's design director, said the "vehicle has American written all over it" adding that he did not want it to "look like a generic Japanese econobox." 
For the other vehicles, Five Hundred and Freestyle, Mr. Mays, the former top designer at Volkswagen's Audi division, is more willing to concede he has envisioned European knockoffs. 
"The appearance of these vehicles seem to be $15,000 more than the cost of the car," Mr. Mays said. "These are going to be incredibly great values."
Of course, getting something inexpensive can either seem like a bargain or getting what you pay for, depending on the quality of the car. The new cars are still a year or two away from hitting the streets, which means Taurus will have several years as a lame duck -- far too long to wait, analysts say. 
"Today is way too late," Ms. Keller said. "Last June was way too late."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Prototypes of the Five Hundred and the Freestyle -- a combination sport utility vehicle and station wagon -- which will succeed the Taurus. (pg. C10) Chart: "Trading In the Taurus"Ford is phasing out its once formidable Taurus sedan in favor of three different vehicles, including the Futura, above. To keep it fresh, Ford redesigned the Taurus twice, but sales have softened lately. Graph tracks annual Taurus sales from 1986 to 2002. (Source: The Ford Motor Company)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); SEDANS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); PICKUP TRUCKS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%) AUTOMOBILES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; SALES; PRODUCTION; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; NEW YORK INTERNATIONAL AUTO SHOW; ELECTRIC VEHICLES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (98%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; HONDA MOTOR CO; TOYOTA MOTOR CORP 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: LYONS, STEVE; HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



484 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Patakis' Income Is Up 11%, Tax Returns Show 

BYLINE:  By WINNIE HU 

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 15 

 BODY:
The big earner in Gov. George E. Pataki's family last year was not the governor himself but his wife, Libby, who reported $206,500 in income from consulting fees and four speeches that she gave to a powerful California law firm expanding into New York, and two computer and security companies.
 Even during the recession, the Patakis reported a total income of $450,447 in 2002, an 11.2 percent increase from the previous year, according to a copy of their tax returns made public today. That income included $69,371 in profit from selling a farmhouse and part of their land in Washington County. 
 Mr. Pataki's state salary remained unchanged at $179,000, but he received $9,236 from an additional pay period in the calendar year and reimbursements for travel expenses, aides said. In a departure from past years, he did not report outside income from speeches or book royalties. 
But Mrs. Pataki, who at 52 is five years younger than her husband, netted $54,000 for talking about issues related to women, children and health, aides said. She spoke twice to the law firm of Manatt, Phelps & Phillips in December 2001, and was paid for those speeches last year. She also spoke to Sonitrol Security Systems of Hamilton, N.J., and Applied Computer Solutions of Huntington Beach, Calif.
The Manatt firm, which was founded by Charles T. Manatt, a former chairman of the Democratic National Committee, recently acquired the New York firm of Kalkines, Arky, Zall & Bernstein. In February, it also hired John J. Faso, the former Assembly minority leader, as a partner in its Albany, New York and Washington offices.
Mrs. Pataki's total income rose by 3.2 percent from the previous year, and the bulk of that came from consulting contracts, including $82,500 from Premier Heart, a Long Island medical company owned by Richard Hayden, one of the governor's Yale classmates. 
Mrs. Pataki was paid $40,000 to be a marketing consultant to Ronald S. Lauder, a major supporter of the governor, who is the heir to the Estee Lauder cosmetics empire and the owner of Central European Media Enterprises. She also received $20,000 from the Wheelchair Foundation and $10,000 from the Netmarket Charitable Trust.
The Patakis, who live with three of their four children in Garrison, owed $5,013 in federal taxes after paying $104,754 last year, but overpaid their state taxes by $1,122, which will be credited to this year's tax payment. 
They contributed $2,844 to charities, including $962 in clothes and accessories to the Salvation Army and a Catholic charity for teenagers who abuse drugs. They also gave $501 to the Yale football program. 
But the Patakis were not the only political power couple to do well last year. The state attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, and his wife, Silda A. Wall, a Harvard-educated lawyer who runs a nonprofit foundation for children, reported a total income of $991,276 in 2002, a 2.8 percent increase over the previous year, according to their tax returns.
Besides Mr. Spitzer's state salary of $151,182, the Spitzers reported $837,329 in rental income from several commercial properties in New York City. His father, Bernard Spitzer, is a major real estate developer. Mrs. Spitzer does not draw a salary for her work.
The Spitzers, who live with their three daughters in a Fifth Avenue apartment in Manhattan, paid $406,422 in taxes. They overpaid their federal taxes by $54,710 and their state taxes by $7,421, which they will apply to next year's tax return. They also donated $47,638 to charities. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); CHARITIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); ROYALTIES (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); ADOLESCENTS (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); COSMETICS (66%); FOUNDATIONS (65%); POLITICS (64%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (50%) TAXATION; INCOME 

COMPANY: MANATT PHELPS & PHILLIPS LLP (58%); SONITROL CORP (55%); CENTRAL EUROPEAN MEDIA ENTERPRISES LTD (52%); ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

TICKER: CETV (NASDAQ) (52%); EL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (55%); NAICS238210 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS & OTHER WIRING INSTALLATION CONTRACTORS (55%); SIC7382 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (55%); SIC1731 ELECTRICAL WORK (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (52%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (52%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%) PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); HU, WINNIE; PATAKI, LIBBY 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



485 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Columbia Names Dean For Its Journalism School 

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
Lee C. Bollinger, president of Columbia University, said yesterday that Nicholas Lemann, the Washington correspondent for The New Yorker, had agreed to become dean of the Graduate School of Journalism, an appointment that comes at a pivotal time for the school.
 Mr. Lemann, 48, is a highly respected journalist who has worked as a reporter and editor at The Washington Monthly, Texas Monthly, The Atlantic Monthly and The Washington Post. 
 He has also written a number of widely praised books, including "The Big Test: The Secret History of the American Meritocracy" (1999) about the SAT exams. 
The appointment, which is subject to a vote by Columbia's trustees, comes after Mr. Bollinger spent more than six months leading a broad review of journalism education by a task force of more than 30 journalists, educators and others -- including Mr. Lemann. The next dean is expected to play a central role in reshaping the school. 
Yesterday, the president released a 10-page statement on his conclusions about where journalism education should go, a statement that is expected to contribute to the direction the journalism school takes. 
Mr. Bollinger called for more investment in journalism education; a lengthening of the time students spend earning a degree; a broader intellectual base that includes subjects like statistics, economics, modern political theory and philosophy; and opportunities like clerkships after graduation.
"Our aim should be to create educational programs that are so compelling that the most promising future leaders in journalism decide that a professional education is critical to a successful career and life," Mr. Bollinger wrote.
Mr. Lemann said that his ideas paralleled many of Mr. Bollinger's and that he had decided to give up much of his writing for now because he was excited at the prospect of reshaping journalism education, a topic he said he had seriously thought about for years. 
A Harvard graduate who was president of The Harvard Crimson, the daily student newspaper, Mr. Lemann did not attend journalism school himself. But he said he sometimes wished he had had more schooling beyond his undergraduate years. "I have gone through life wishing I had three months to read Plato, Aristotle, Machiavelli and to discuss the master ideas that are most likely to be of use in journalism and then linking them to the practice of journalism," he said yesterday. "That is a different process from any old undergraduate education, because it is more specific."
As a member of the task force, Mr. Lemann helped articulate a vision for a two-year program that would give students a deeper grounding in disciplines like history, law or politics. (The program is currently 10 months long.) 
Some journalism experts said yesterday that the path Columbia took was likely to have a sizable impact on other schools.
Charles R. Eisendrath, director of the Knight-Wallace Journalism Fellows at the University of Michigan and a member of the Bollinger task force, predicted yesterday that Mr. Bollinger's recommendations, together with the appointment of Mr. Lemann, would produce "a strong breath of fresh air wafting through journalism." "It will begin at Columbia," he said, "but it will go far beyond Columbia."
The dean's post has been vacant since last June, when Tom Goldstein stepped down after five years. David A. Klatell, the associate dean, has been interim dean. Mr. Bollinger suspended the search process last July to start the review of the school's mission. Mr. Klatell said yesterday that he did not expect change to happen overnight but that over 10 years he expected the school to adopt many of Mr. Bollinger's recommendations.
Joe Nocera, editorial director at Fortune magazine, who worked with Mr. Lemann at The Washington Monthly and at Texas Monthly, said that as a manager, Mr. Lemann had "a calmness about him that is very appealing."
Mr. Lemann said that he was finishing a long article for The New Yorker -- he declined to say what it was about -- and that he hoped to turn in a book on post-Civil War Reconstruction by the end of the summer. His appointment, if confirmed, would start in September.
Mr. Lemann said he hoped to do some writing as dean, and would maintain a relationship with The New Yorker.
"You can't do everything at once," he said. "I really believe in this idea -- enough to put aside writing as my main activity even though that's what I love doing most."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicholas Lemann is expected to take over in September. (Sigrid Estrada/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 1999) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (91%); JOURNALISM (91%); WRITERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%) SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W; BOLLINGER, LEE C; LEMANN, NICHOLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



486 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Microsoft Exceeds Expected Profit But Stays Cautious

BYLINE:  By LAURIE FLYNN 

 BODY:
The Microsoft Corporation, the world's largest software company, posted slightly higher-than-expected quarterly earnings yesterday even as it adopted a cautious outlook, warning that the personal computer industry remains sluggish, in part because consumer confidence is so fragile.
 The company, which is based in Redmond, Wash., reported a net profit of $2.79 billion, or 26 cents a share, for its fiscal third quarter ended March 31, beating analysts' estimates by 2 cents a share. That is up from a profit of $2.74 billion in the third quarter of last year, or 25 cents a share. 
 "We feel we had a really strong performance in what continues to be a challenging environment," Microsoft's chief financial officer, John G. Connors, said in a conference call with analysts. He added that the difficult economic conditions were likely to continue this quarter and could easily persist into next year. 
The company, which issued its results after the market closed, reported its revenue rose 8 percent to $7.84 billion from $7.25 billion a year earlier, higher than the average $7.75 billion projected by analysts polled by Thomson First Call. The comparison with the period a year ago was affected by special factors, however, including the company's $847 million sale of its Expedia online travel site along with $806 million in investment losses.
Microsoft shares rose as high as $25.80 in after-hours trading after closing in the regular session at $24.61, down 14 cents.
Mr. Connors said revenue from sales of Microsoft software for "information workers," a category including the company's flagship application, Office XP, increased by 9 percent over last year. Server products -- software that runs corporate networks and databases -- grew 21 percent, with an increasing share coming from its more costly server products, which appear to be among the company's most profitable.
A 96 percent growth in revenue for Microsoft's Business Solutions group was attributed mostly to its acquisition of Navision last July. Mr. Connors said the company was also starting to generate steady growth from sales of the Xbox, the game console, which endured a rocky start in the market but has now secured a distant but solid second place behind the Sony PlayStation 2 and ahead of the Nintendo GameCube.
Much of the gain in revenue reported from sales to businesses is a result of a new pricing strategy invovling Microsoft's asking its largest customers to pay for upgrades in regular installments rather than as they become available. The program was initially met with skepticism, particularly from customers who feared they would end up paying more in the long run and be required to buy upgrades they did not need. Nonetheless, most of Microsoft's largest customers ended up committing themselves to multiyear contracts. 
"Embedded in their business model are unearned revenues," said Charles Di Bona, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. "That means they've got a business model that is a little more insulated from some of the fluctuations we've seen."
Looking forward, Mr. Connors emphasized that economic uncertainty was the biggest risk facing the company this year. Second to that is the threat from Linux, a noncommercial open-source operating system that is the latest potential rival to Windows.
For the quarter ending June 30, the company said it now expected revenue in the range of $7.8 billion to $7.9 billion, in line with analysts' expectations. Diluted earnings per share are expected to be 23 to 24 cents a share.
Looking ahead to the full fiscal year -- July 1, 2003, to June 30, 2004 -- the company predicted that its revenue would be $33.1 billion to $33.8 billion. Operating income is expected to range from $14.8 billion to $15.1 billion, and earnings per share are expected to be $1.04 to $1.06.
"We are not planning for a significant upturn in demand for information technology," Mr. Connors said. "From a macroeconomic view, we are exiting a difficult year and entering an uncertain one."
The PC market remains sluggish. IDC, a technology market research company, recently reduced its forecast for PC growth in 2003 from 8.3 percent to 6.9 percent. But that has done little to crack Microsoft's powerful position within the industry. Its cash hoard at the end of the quarter was $46 billion, up $2.8 billion. In January, Microsoft began paying a dividend, a move investors took as more of a sign of its strong cash position than of any expectation of slower growth.
The company's quarterly results were watched closely by Wall Street, in part as a clue to whether the war in Iraq had done harm to technology spending.
"There's really no way to tell," Mr. Connors said about the war. "And there's not much we can do about it. But we don't let any salespeople use it as an excuse." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); NETWORK SERVERS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (68%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (65%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (60%) COMPANY REPORTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (96%); NINTENDO CO LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (96%); 7974 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (52%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: CONNORS, JOHN G; FLYNN, LAURIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



487 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

War News Summary B2

European Union Still Roiled By Differences on Iraq Policy
Divisions over the American-led invasion of Iraq overshadowed an event intended to showcase a stronger, more integrated Europe as the European Union gathered for a signing ceremony in Athens to welcome 10 new member nations. A4

Fortuyn's Assassin Sentenced
Volkert van der Graaf, 33, a militant environmentalist who confessed to killing Pim Fortuyn, a Dutch politician, received 18 years in prison. A3

Warning on Muslim Extremism
France's interior minister threatened to expel any Muslim religious leader considered extremist after a fundamentalist Muslim organization won a large number of seats in an election for the country's first national council of Muslims. A3

Reparations for Apartheid
President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa said that his government would pay $85 million in reparations to 19,000 victims of apartheid crimes who testified about their suffering. A6

Arafat's Group Discusses Rift
Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, met with top members of his Fatah movement to discuss the deepening impasse over the proposed government of the new Palestinian prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas. A8

OBITUARIES A17

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Closing In on Illness
Monkeys experimentally infected with a new coronavirus have developed an illness similar to the mysterious human respiratory disease SARS, and it is now 99 percent certain that the coronavirus causes the disease, a World Health Organization official said. A6

The possibility that the illness could be spreading to the people of Toronto increased with the news that 500 members of a church group had been exposed to the disease on March 28 and may have passed it to others. A6

NATIONAL A10-16

In a Big Concession, Bush Lowers His Tax Cut Target
President Bush lowered his target for his tax cuts to $550 billion, a significant retreat on his economic principles and an admission that his original $726 billion package dead. A1

Inquiry Feared Compromised
A Los Angeles F.B.I. informer accused of being a Chinese double agent appears to have compromised a sensitive nuclear espionage investigation by revealing to Beijing the identities of two agents who worked on the case, officials said. A12

Panel Advises Change at NASA
Members of the independent board investigating the breakup of the shuttle Columbia are preparing recommendations that NASA should follow whether or not a precise cause of the disaster is ever determined. A11

Mars Spacecraft Delayed
NASA officials said that problems aboard two Mars exploration robots have prompted the space agency to delay the launching of the first one by about a week. A11

Senator Drops Reelection Bid
Peter Fitzgerald of Illinois, 42, the youngest member of the United States Senate, announced that he would not seek a second term, opening a contest that could determine the Senate's balance of power. A10

Modesto Police Check Bodies
The Modesto police were seeking help from DNA experts as they studied the possibility that the bodies of a woman and an infant boy found washed up on the shore near Berkeley were those of a pregnant housewife and her baby. A14

Diesel Pollution Rules Proposed
The Bush administration proposed rules that would cut the soot, sulfur and smog-forming pollution from diesel engines in construction, farm and other industrial equipment. A10

Wichita Hurt by Poor Economy
The plunge in air travel since Sept. 11, 2001, worsened in recent weeks by war in Iraq, has struck Wichita, Kan., especially hard. With one in four workers employed by the aviation industry, the city represents the extreme of ailing local economies as the long-awaited economic recovery seems stalled. A14

NEW YORK/REGION D1-9

Mayor Announces Budgets Of Cuts and More Cuts
Mayor Bloomberg released two budget proposals, a $44.5 billion best-case scenario that he described as "painful" and a backup plan of $1 billion less that he called "devastating." A1

Foster Care in New Jersey
Officials close to Gov. James E. McGreevey said he would soon propose legislation to create an independent child welfare watchdog agency after high rates of child abuse were found in foster homes. D1

Safety Lapses in Explosion
Federal investigators say a commercial tenant and the city share responsibility for an explosion at a Chelsea building last spring. The tenant mixed hazardous chemicals in the basement without adequate safety training for its workers and without the proper permits, and the city monitored the chemicals poorly, they say. D1

SPORTS S1-7

ARTS E1-12

DINING F1-16

EDUCATION D9

Columbia Names New Dean
Lee C. Bollinger, the president of Columbia University announced that Nicholas Lemann, the Washington correspondent for The New Yorker, had agreed to become dean of the Graduate School of Journalism. D2

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Airline Nears Bankruptcy
American Airlines extended a voting deadline on concessions from its flight attendants. The union had pushed American closer to bankruptcy by voting against the cuts. C1

The S.E.C. Makes Its Choice
The Securities and Exchange Commission chose William J. McDonough, the longtime president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, to head the new Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. C1

Cautious Outlook at Microsoft
Microsoft posted higher-than-expected quarterly earnings, but issued a cautious outlook that the PC industry remains sluggish. C1

No Easy Road for Automakers
The Ford Motor Company plans to phase out the Taurus, the last American sedan that credibly competed with Japanese models. C1

First-quarter earnings at General Motors were viewed skeptically because gains by the company's financing arm offset weakness in its automotive operations. C10

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: A budget goes from bad to ugly; no friends of the Irish; the home-front war on taxes; a huge step for cleaner air.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E10
TV Listings E11
Public Lives D2
Weather A16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); SCIENCE NEWS (87%); SPACE EXPLORATION (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (84%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AL FATAH (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); ESPIONAGE (76%); SENTENCING (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); FUNDAMENTALISM (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); TESTIMONY (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); VIRUSES (71%); TAX LAW (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); SARS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (67%); SPACECRAFT (64%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (63%); SPACE SHUTTLE (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (56%); THABO MBEKI (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (67%) MARS (66%) EUROPE (94%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); CHINA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



488 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: A Dessert Wine That's a Public Secret 

BYLINE:  By FLORENCE FABRICANT 

 BODY:
THE imposing Renaissance Chateau de Monbazillac in southwestern France has a lovely sweet wine to offer, but few Americans, even wine buffs, have tasted it.
 Monbazillac (pronounced moh-bah-zee-YAK) is a wine the French have kept largely to themselves, exporting no more than 20 percent of it, mostly to Belgium and the Netherlands, with less than 5 percent going to the United States. Yet Monbazillac is France's largest late-harvest sweet wine district as gauged by acreage and production. 
 Though the soil differs from that of the Sauternes region, Monbazillac is made from the same grapes -- semillon, sauvignon blanc and muscadelle -- as Sauternes, France's best-known late-harvest dessert wine, especially the illustrious, costly Chateau d'Yquem. 
Monbazillacs are grown about 60 miles to the east of the Sauternes region, in five districts clustered around the town of Bergerac. 
Like a good Sauternes, a fine Monbazillac can become a deep gold, concentrated wine, but it tends to be somewhat less voluptuous, with a spicier, less floral bouquet. Monbazillac delivers exotic touches of honeyed mango, quince, passion fruit and citrus, often with a distinctive nuttiness in the aftertaste.
There's a bigger difference: the price. "You'll get a terrific bottle of Monbazillac for what you'd pay for the most ordinary Sauternes," said Jean-Luc Le Du, the wine director at Daniel. That's about $20 or so in a New York wine shop.
Considering the economic downturn, this may be the perfect time for Monbazillac. It has more complexity and character than muscat de Beaumes-de-Venise from the southern Rhone, the usual French sweet wine for budget-minded Americans. The reasonable price also makes it a good candidate for cooking: for poaching pears or making a jelly to serve with a pate.
In the Dordogne and Bergerac regions of France, a glass of Monbazillac is likely to accompany local foie gras. At Le Centenaire, a Michelin two-star restaurant in Les Eyzies-de-Tayac, there are 10 Monbazillacs on the list, many from La Domaine de l'Ancienne Cure. For Timothy Harrison, Le Centenaire's English-born sommelier, the sometimes smoky, nutty, quince-paste concentration of older vintages make them a perfect complement for foie gras.
To test the versatility of the wine, and to compare it with Sauternes, Daniel Boulud prepared a number of dishes for me to taste: ceviche of hamachi with clementines, slabs of foie gras both hot and cold, various cheeses and desserts. In general, the Monbazillacs complemented the food more agreeably, even the foie gras. The Sauternes were best only with blue-veined cheese and tarte Tatin.
"Sauternes are heavier in the mouth than Monbazillac," Mr. Boulud said. They're a bit higher in alcohol.
There's no Chateau d'Yquem equivalent to give luster to Monbazillac. But a number of Monbazillacs, especially the ones made by a new generation of producers like Tirecul la Graviere and Domaine de l'Ancienne Cure, are bound to satisfy a discerning palate, even one that appreciates Sauternes. 
It still takes a bit of searching to find Monbazillacs like these on the shelves of New York's wine shops. Most of the better wine shops have one or two, and prices range from $15 to $50 a bottle. When buying, it's important to look for a chateau-bottled Monbazillac. 
Monbazillacs are scarce in restaurants. Roger Dagorn, the sommelier at Chanterelle, who pours it by the glass with foie gras, said, "I don't find a huge difference between many Monbazillacs and Sauternes."
The rivalry between Monbazillac and Sauternes has gone on for more than a century, with Sauternes usually prevailing. 
For decades, many Monbazillacs were badly made, from grapes harvested by machine. But since 1990, when machine picking was no longer allowed, the wine has been steadily improving and it has been shedding its reputation as a poor man's Sauternes. 
As with Sauternes, the overripe grapes, often infected with botrytis cinerea, or noble rot, are picked by hand, with the harvesters going through the vineyards several times, selecting only the grapes that are ready. At Chateau d'Yquem there can be as many as 10 pickings.
Monbazillacs of varying quality are made by more than 200 growers and producers. About a third of the wines are made by a cooperative based at the Chateau de Monbazillac, for which two or three pickings are typical.
Christian Roche, whose grandfather helped found the cooperative in 1935, said that although the quality of the cooperative's wines has improved, he preferred to control his small production at the Domaine de l'Ancienne Cure every step of the way. 
Monks from the Loire Valley first planted grapes around Monbazillac in the 11th century. By 1550, when construction started on the Chateau de Monbazillac, the production of white wine, notably sweet as tastes at the time insisted, was flourishing.
But Bordeaux, the nearest seaport, gave preferential treatment to its own wines, including Sauternes, a holdover from centuries of control by the English. So winemakers from Monbazillac found markets among the Dutch and Germans instead of the English.
Monbazillac is not made every year. For example, none was made in 1992 because the condition of the grapes was not good enough, and very little was made in 1991, 1993, 1994 and 1996. Wines made in those years could be declassified as Cotes de Bergerac and not labeled Monbazillac. 
The wine must have 12.5 percent to 14.5 percent alcohol, but typically Monbazillac is 13 percent, slightly lower than Sauternes. Less sauvignon blanc and more muscadelle is often used in the blend, giving a trifle less acidity but a more exotic fruit flavor. Many, but not all, Monbazillacs are aged for up to two years in small oak barrels.
Like Sauternes, a good Monbazillac improves with age, deepening in color, often to amber, and releasing ever greater concentrations of flavor. Monbazillacs are not only worth discovering and buying, they're worth keeping.

GRAPHIC: Photo: THE WINES LAST, TOO -- Chateau de Monbazillac, started in 1550, is the base for a cooperative of local growers. (Richard Fabricant) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); CHEESE (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (75%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; DESSERTS; WINES 

COMPANY: SC CHATEAU D'YQUEM (85%)

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: AQUITAINE, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); BELGIUM (88%); NETHERLANDS (72%) MONBAZILLAC (FRANCE); FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



489 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Travel Slump Imperils Swissair's Successor 

BYLINE:  By ALISON LANGLEY 

DATELINE: ZURICH, April 15 

 BODY:
Swiss International Air Lines, the "phoenix" carrier that Switzerland's government, banks and corporate leaders assembled last year from the remains of the bankrupt Swissair, may itself be running out of sky.
 The airline said today that like many other carriers, it had been hit hard by the travel slump that has been attributed to the Iraq war and to the outbreak of a respiratory disease in Asia. Swiss International said some flights would be suspended at least through May to eight cities, including Boston, Washington, Beijing and Hong Kong. It will also use smaller planes on some European routes and cut back on flights originating in Basel. 
 But analysts said Swiss International's problems run deeper than the immediate industrywide slump, and they wondered whether the suspended flights would ever be restored.
Only a few weeks past the carrier's first birthday, Swiss International executives are already working on radical changes in its business plan to stave off a new bankruptcy. The company lost 980 million Swiss francs ($273.15 million) in 2002.
"We have a difficult situation," said Andre Dose, chief executive of Swiss International, in a recent interview. "All the others do, too. But it is clear we have to change; we have to lower our costs."
Swiss International started life with a staff of former Swissair workers, a fleet of former Swissair planes and 2.7 billion Swiss francs ($1.94 billion) raised from the government and major Swiss companies and banks. Knowing that they cannot go back to the public purse for more money, the airline's executives are asking for concessions from large creditors like Unique, which runs the Zurich airport, and Skyguide, the privatized air traffic control system, in the form of lower fees.
Mr. Dose said he hoped Swiss International could carve out a future by attracting cost-conscious travelers to its short-haul European flights, like the competitive Zurich-to-London route, in competition with budget carriers. 
But aviation experts said the only way it could survive would be to accept that it cannot be a major independent European carrier like Lufthansa, and settle instead for a niche role like Finnair or Austrian Airlines -- both of them are profitable -- and an alliance with one of the major carriers.
Scaling back ambitions has been the order of the day at Swiss International at least since November. It has announced1,000 job cuts, a reduction of 20 planes from its fleet and cancellation of an order of 30 jets from Embraer. The fleet is down to 84 aircraft, 40 percent fewer than the combined fleets of its predecessors, Swissair and its Crossair regional subsidiary.
Even so, the airline's auditors have warned that the company's liquidity will be "seriously affected" by 2004 if the company does not quickly take drastic measures.
Mr. Dose acknowledged that there was no joy in working "in an industry where you basically destroy value every day." But the company's straits have obliged him to to do something that Swiss International had vowed to avoid: move down market.
First-class and business travelers were the target market when the airline started a year ago. It hired Tyler Brule, publisher of Wallpaper magazine in London, as a consultant to give its name, logo and cabin interiors the requisite style.
But the high-quality, high-price air travel market is evaporating, Mr. Dose said. "There is a clear shift from business to economy, and we have to clearly adapt to this fact."
His approach has been to continue selling premium service to those who can afford it, but to fill unsold seats with deep-discount fares offered only over the Internet to avoiding paying commissions to travel agents.
"That's not a strategy, it's a tactic," one analyst said. "You can only have success being either a premium airline or a low-budget."
Airlines around the world have lost some $30 billion since the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, according to the International Air Transport Association in Geneva, and another $10 billion may be lost this year because of the war in Iraq. The figure may rise much higher when the effects of severe acute respiratory syndrome and the disruptions it has caused in travel are taken into account.
The disease has taken its toll on Swiss International's Asian routes, but the war in Iraq has had less effect on the airline than on many of its peers. Just as in 1991 during the Persian Gulf war, many people who had to travel anyway preferred to fly on an airline from a neutral country.
Still, overall demand for flights to the Middle East has been so weak that Swiss International has suspended its flights to Abu Dhabi, in the United Arab Emirates.
The airline has also had trouble joining a marketing alliance -- opposition from British Airways has kept it out of OneWorld -- and has struggled to win pay concessions from its former Swissair pilots, among the highest paid in the industry.
The Swiss multinationals that the government corralled to help support the start-up of Swiss International have been writing off much of their investments, most recently Nestle, which slashed its book value by two-thirds.
The problem for Mr. Dose is to prevent any repeat of the embarrassing spectacle of October 2001, when Swissair abruptly ran out of cash and stranded passengers at airports all over its route map.
"They have a very small chance" of surviving in their present form, said Sepp Moser, an aviation consultant who has tracked Swissair, and now Swiss International, for decades. 
But Mr. Dose said the country could not afford to let his company fail. "Switzerland needs its own airline," he said. "It's important to the Swiss economy that we have our own intercontinental service."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 21, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in World Business on Wednesday about problems faced by Swiss International Air Lines misstated the dollar equivalent of its loss in 2002. It was about $710 million atcurrent exchange rates, not $273.15 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Swiss International Air Lines has suspended flights to eight cities and is using smaller airplanes on its European routes to try to hold down costs. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AIR FARES (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); AIR SERVICE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); BUSINESS PLANS (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); IRAQ WAR (71%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: SWISS INTERNATIONAL AIR LINES AG (92%); EMBRAER SA (80%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (58%); AUSTRIAN AIRLINES GROUP AG (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SWISS INTERNATIONAL AIR LINES LTD; SWISSAIR 

TICKER: ERJ (NYSE) (80%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (80%); LHA (FRA) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481212 NONSCHEDULED CHARTERED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (92%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (92%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (80%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (80%)

PERSON: LANGLEY, ALISON 

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (92%); ZURICH (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (77%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) SWITZERLAND (96%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (77%) SWITZERLAND; EUROPE; BASEL (SWITZERLAND); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



490 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Baghdad's Buried Treasure 

BYLINE:  By Eric Davis; Eric Davis, director of the Center for Middle Eastern Studies at Rutgers, is author of the forthcoming "Memories of State: Politics, History and Collective Identity in Modern Iraq."

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. 

 BODY:
Democracy in Iraq, the conventional wisdom holds, cannot work: there is no foundation to build on, no history of a civil society or a politically aware citizenry. The skepticism sounds familiar. After the 1991 gulf war, American leaders, assuming that only authoritarian rule would assure political stability in Iraq, abandoned the nearly successful uprisings against Saddam Hussein's regime.
 Such arguments, then and now, ignore the traditions of civil society and cultural pluralism that existed before the Baath Party took power in 1968 and then remained dormant during 35 years of repression. Those traditions can be revived to help Iraq thrive and make a transition to democracy. 
 Because the Baath Party's chauvinistic pan-Arabism and totalitarianism has for decades defined Iraq's image to the world, many foreigners assume that a Western-style civil society never existed there. From the modern state's founding in 1921, when Britain imposed the Hashemite monarchy, Iraq (despite the absence of democracy) built a rich and varied society of ethnic inclusiveness, artistic freedom and civic involvement.
In fact, the roots of this society go back a century. The Baghdad College of Law, Iraq's oldest institute of higher learning, was founded in 1908 and quickly produced a distinguished legal profession. In the ensuing years, teachers, university students and professionals created associations and social clubs, like the Solidarity Club in Baghdad, formed in 1926, an intellectual salon that also organized anticolonial and antimonarchy rallies. 
During this period, too, artisans and workers formed a nationwide network of labor groups that was independent of state control. This labor movement organized a general strike in 1931 that forced the British to abandon plans to raise taxes and electricity rates. This encouraged further protests, testifying to a strong solidarity among workers (many of them illiterate) until the Baathists suppressed all labor groups in the 1960's.
In the middle of the last century, writers formed literary organizations that generated the Free Verse Movement, which influenced the entire Arab world by challenging classical forms of Arabic poetry that had not changed since pre-Islamic times. Artists' salons, like the Pioneers and the Baghdad Group of the 1950's, made strides in the visual arts, producing the acclaimed Freedom Monument in Baghdad's Liberation Square. Dozens of newspapers in the largest cities presented not just the news but also a broad sampling of intellectual culture (particularly short fiction and poetry) and, despite censorship, political views. The coffeehouse, already a venerable institution in Ottoman Iraq, became the place where Iraqis of all social classes and ethnicities read the papers, discussed politics and heard poets read their work.
This rich culture rested on a commitment to political and cultural pluralism. Although the Hashemites' pan-Arabism refused to recognize ethnic diversity, their strain of nationalism was never dominant. While the bureaucratic and military elites tended to be Sunni Arab and pan-Arabist, the broad core of Iraqi nationalism insisted on the inclusion of all Iraq's ethnic groups, even as it recognized Iraq's predominantly Arab character.
Gen. Abdel Karim Kassem, who came to power after the monarchy's fall in 1958, avoided ethnic sectarianism. Whereas the Ottomans and Hashemites had favored the Sunni Arabs, under Kassem being Shiite or Kurd (or of any other ethnic group) was no longer an impediment to a state job. Kassem's regime proved that ethnic schisms were not part of some primordial Iraqi national character, as many Westerners had suggested. Although authoritarian, the Kassem government showed that xenophobia, brutality and nepotism need not be the norm of Iraqi public life. He enacted social reforms like building public housing and redistributing land more equitably. Through state-run museums, films and television programs, Kassem tried to champion Iraqi history as a story of cultural pluralism, which infuriated pan-Arabists. 
Although the Baathist regime that overthrew and executed Kassem in 1963 suppressed all nationalists who supported cultural pluralism, traditions of civil society remained alive, if underground. When I was in Iraq for the first time in 1980, I was struck by the bustling Iraqi bookstores, where volumes were literally falling off the shelves. Many texts on approved subjects like ancient Mesopotamia, the Baghdad-based Abbasid Empire, pre-Islamic Arab poetry and Iraqi folklore contained within them a set of "hidden texts" in which Iraqi intellectuals sustained a rich, if covert, political discourse. An Iraqi intellectual could, for example, criticize Nebuchadnezzar's rule in a scholarly work, but the intelligentsia could read, between the lines, an attack on Saddam Hussein.
I also noted the dignity and high quality of the writings of colleagues in Baghdad University's department of political science (which, to be sure, avoided openly openly discussing Iraqi politics). These traits underscored the refusal of Iraqis to desist from the life of the mind, no matter how ruthless their rulers. I soon understood the Arab proverb, "The Egyptians write, the Lebanese publish and the Iraqis read."
Indeed, Iraqi tenacity in upholding intellectual and cultural traditions made clear why Saddam Hussein had appointed himself to head the audaciously named Project for the Rewriting of History, which, while ostensibly reclaiming Iraqi heritage from colonial interpretation, actually sought to expunge any record of the strides made by Iraqi nationalists toward civil society before Baathist rule.
Even Iraqi textbooks withstood complete Baathist rewriting. References to Saddam Hussein's interpretations of history were added, but in a superficial fashion. For example, Saddam Hussein's "Qadisiya" -- his name for the Iran-Iraq war, recalling the Arab victory over the Persians in 637 A.D. -- was given only a short paragraph in the standard sixth-grade textbook on Iraqi history. 
Indeed, one Education Ministry official who oversaw the secondary school curriculum under Saddam Hussein was Baqir al-Zujaji, whose academic study of the Iraqi novel's treatment of rural society is a covert indictment of the Baath Party in the guise of an attack on leftist intellectuals. In arguing that leftist writers treated peasants condescendingly, he actually documented and tacitly criticized the manner in which rural residents were treated by the Baathists. Today, Iraqi reformers can turn the Project for the Rewriting of History on its head by using school textbooks to document the rich tradition of cultural openness in modern Iraq that the Baathists tried to deny.
If civil society persisted covertly under Saddam Hussein, it flourished in his absence. In the Kurdish-controlled areas of the north, democratic government has taken hold over the last decade. Although imperfect, it can boast of parliamentary elections, an ideologically diverse press, new schools, advances in health care that lowered the mortality rate, and cultural and political tolerance. And these gains were made despite Saddam Hussein's economic embargo, as well as hostility from neighboring Turkey and Iran. The Kurdish experience shows that Iraqis can establish democracy when allowed to do so.
The skeptics have it wrong. Iraqis today can look to a past that offered political and cultural space for all its ethnic groups. Historical memory can be an important building block in reconstructing civil society and establishing democracy in Iraq.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Scorsone/Drueding) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); POETRY (88%); WRITERS (85%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (75%); CENSORSHIP (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); LITERATURE (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); VISUAL ARTS (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); RELIGION (60%); TERRORISM (59%); UTILITY RATES (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) DAVIS, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



491 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: The Home-Front War on Taxes 

 BODY:
With the blitzlike speed of his generals, President Bush has come out fighting for his disastrous plan for more upper-bracket tax cuts, which will only stoke the nation's record levels of deficit spending and deepening debt well beyond his incumbency. In a Rose Garden plea for his economic "growth" package yesterday, Mr. Bush artfully adapted his war-room posture to link applause lines for the Iraqi success thus far with fresh appeals to rally behind a new battle against the dividends tax. 
 The president made a political couplet of the two themes of patriotism and tax cuts in trumpeting his resolve to cash in his personally high poll ratings from the war for a tax cut that most Americans are wary of. Unlike Mr. Bush, they seem to be aware that continuous tax reductions at a time of heavy wartime expenses are going to reduce the chances of creating much-desired programs like prescription drug coverage for the elderly, or financing for the education initiatives that the president once seemed to think were so important. Now Mr. Bush is asking for more, please, including "at least" the $550 billion, 10-year cut pending in Congress. 
 It is incredible to see a wartime president demanding a tax cut that would, in an instant, require a record $984 billion increase in the national debt, to $7.384 trillion, with annual deficits of $400 billion and more under a Republican Party that once bragged of budgetary rectitude.
The president's new full-court press for tax cuts is scheduled to include dozens of Bush surrogates, fanning out across the country while Congress is in recess to argue his case. Their main target is a few principled Senate Republicans who have joined with Democrats to demand that the tax cut be limited to $350 billion. That is hardly a bargain for taxpayers, who will still be saddled with bigger deficits, debt and program shrinkage as future bills and borrowing come due.
Still, the resistance of the G.O.P. dissenters is not acceptable in Mr. Bush's renewed detaxation mania, and those Republicans must stand fast against selling out as the White House sends a platoon of emissaries to the states to lobby for the maximum cut.
Unlike his father, President Bush is leaving no gap in turning back to the troubled economy a day after the Pentagon began pronouncing the war over. Political attention is one thing, fiscal wisdom another. The Rose Garden was filled with small-business executives, but not mainline economists like Alan Greenspan. They are warning that the Republicans' doctrine of extended deficit spending and tax cuts will crimp the economy and interest rates in a grim future in which the government must borrow more and more to stay afloat. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); AGING (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) TAXATION; EDITORIALS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



492 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
Stores, Go-Karts and Skiing, Together in Spain

BYLINE:  By EMMA DALY 

DATELINE: ARROYOMOLINOS, Spain 

 BODY:
Madrid's version of Xanadu, which shares the name of the stately pleasure dome decreed by Kubla Khan and imagined by Coleridge, is a vast shopping mall under construction by America's Mills Corporation and Spanish partners that aims to seduce shoppers into spending money on fun as well as consumer goods.
 The high point -- literally -- of Madrid Xanadu, a shopping and leisure complex due to open in May, will be the 17-story Snow Dome, with an 820-foot ski run decorated with more than 100 fake pine trees. Europe's largest covered slopes will offer skiing and snowboarding all year round in subzero but fog-free temperatures on artificial snow. Bars, restaurants, discotheques, cinemas, indoor go-karting and children's playgrounds are intended to complement more than 100 stores in the 85-acre development to persuade customers to stay longer and spend more. 
 "You're going to walk into this thing and you're going to feel like you're in a theme park -- a consumer theme park," Laurence C. Siegel, chairman and chief executive of Mills, said in an interview here. He is hoping that Xanadu, the company's first venture outside the United States, where it owns and manages 20 centers, will act as "our gateway into Europe," as well as teaching some lessons that the company will use in its planned development in the Meadowlands in New Jersey. 
At 1.4 million square feet, according to Mills documents, the $440 million center will be the largest mall in Spain, where gross leasable area comes in at 1,634 square feet per 1,000 inhabitants, slightly below the European Union average. As Spaniards and other Europeans move out of city centers and into new suburban housing, the demand for out-of-town shopping and leisure centers is rising fast.
Mills, believing that the United States is already "overmalled," is investigating sites in Valencia, Barcelona and Seville, and planning centers in Milan and Rome, Mr. Siegel said. "Europe just looked like a terrific place to invest," Mr. Siegel said. Speaking of Xanadu, he said, "This is going to be a very valuable asset."
His company, a real estate investment trust, has made its name in the United States with what the company calls "shoppertainment," blending retail and leisure activities at vast centers, among them Potomac Mills near Washington and Gurnee Mills near Chicago, that draw millions of visitors who tend to spend, Mr. Siegel said, three times as much as the average mall shopper.
It is a formula that Mills hopes to repeat at Madrid Xanadu. "If you can add leisure to a project like this," Mr. Siegel said during one of his monthly visits to the Spanish site, "people come for long periods, because they bring the whole family. The ability to do that is just going to make the retail stores unbelievably successful because when people stay longer they spend more money."
Mr. Siegel says that 95 percent of the 1.4 million-square-foot site has been leased. Larger tenants include El Corte Ingles, Spain's largest retailer, with a 350,000-square-foot store; Inditex, local creator of the global fashion giant Zara; as well as Nike and European brands like Benetton and H&M. The company plans to have 20 anchor stores, more than 220 specialty retailers and 20 casual restaurants at the development. 
Mills officials refused to discuss rental rates for Xanadu. According to a retail report issued earlier this year by Jones Lang Lasalle, the international real estate services company, average annual rentals at shopping centers in the Madrid region during the fourth quarter of last year ranged from roughly $72 to $86 a square foot.
The aim of Mills and its partners is to draw 25 million to 30 million visitors a year to Xanadu, which sits next to a major highway 14 miles south of the capital -- farther out of the city than many of its competitors. But the developers say that 4.2 million people live within a 20-minute drive, and Mr. Siegel emphasizes the ease of access and parking, often ignored in Spain, where it is not uncommon to see would-be shoppers forced to walk the last few hundred yards to reach a new mall.
The most successful shopping center in Spain, La Vaguada, built in a densely populated area in northern Madrid in 1983, had 28 million visitors in 2001; Parque Sur, a mall with cinemas, bowling alley, bars and restaurants in Leganes, closer to Madrid Xanadu, attracted 18.5 million people the same year.
The Comunidad de Madrid government, which administers the region beyond the capital, has actively supportedXanadu, which opens on May 16, just before local elections, because it sees the snow park as a tourist attraction on a par with the Warner Brothers theme park that opened last year in southern Madrid.
Mills boasts that its centers are the leading tourist attractions in all but one of the American states where it is present. The odd one out is Florida, where Walt Disney World has the edge. The Comunidad de Madrid hopes that Xanadu and the Warner Brothers park will persuade the average tourist to spend an extra day in Madrid.
"We have a duty to support any project that represents an important economic investment in the region and above all, that will create jobs," said Luis Eduardo Cortes, vice president of the Comunidad de Madrid. He said officials worked hard to bring together the main partners in Xanadu: Mills; El Corte Ingles; and Parcelatoria de Gonzalo Chacon, promoters and managers of the snow park. 
The regional government, which says the project should create 5,000 direct jobs and at least 2,000 more indirectly, also streamlined the paperwork -- though Mr. Siegel said he still found the bureaucracy far more burdensome than in the United States.
The Comunidad de Madrid and Mills also expect Madrid to expand rapidly to the south and west, bringing consumers closer to the project. New housing in the Madrid region has increased 21 per cent in the last decade, and much of the countryside seems to be under construction. The cost of real estate in the region has doubled since 1998, rising 25 percent in the last year alone. The population of Xanadu's closest town, Arroyomolinos, is expected to grow to 40,000 from 4,000 within five years.
Urban Spaniards, who traditionally lived in apartments centered around public squares and shopped at local stores during restricted opening hours, are moving out of the cities. "There is suburbanization going on, not only here but in Europe generally," Mr. Siegel said. "Those people need services too -- this becomes their downtown."
But stores in Xanadu -- where bars, restaurants and go-karting can stay open until the small hours -- will have to conform to Spanish schedules, opening only on 24 Sundays a year, at least until the rules are liberalized, possibly by 2005.
Still, it will feel American, Mr. Siegel says. Certainly the plans for an 18,000-square-foot nursery and children's playground are unusual in Spain, where developers do not see such services as profitable.
"This is the best example of entertainment, leisure and retail in one place anywhere, including the United States," said Mr. Siegel, who sees the center as a model for Meadowlands Xanadu, the controversial $1.3 billion project that Mills plans to develop in partnership with Mack-Cali Realty on the site of the Continental Airlines Arena in North Jersey, and which also includes an indoor snow park and ski run. "The vision," Mr. Siegel said, "is similar."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The interior of the Snow Dome at Madrid Xanadu. It has Europe's largest covered slopes and will offer skiing and snowboarding all year round in subzero but fog-free temperatures on artificial snow.; An aerial view of the Snow Dome at Madrid Xanadu. The center's recreational facilities are intended to complement about 240 stores. (Photographs by Madrid Xanadu) Map of Spain highlighting Arroyomolinos: Arroyomolinos, the site of Xanadu, is 16 miles south of Madrid. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); SKIING (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (85%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); SNOWBOARDING (75%); RESTAURANTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); DRINKING PLACES (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (65%); CITIES (62%); SUBURBS (62%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; MADRID XANADU (SHOPPING CENTER); SHOPPING CENTERS; SKIING 

ORGANIZATION: MILLS CORP 

INDUSTRY:  SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS; 

PERSON: DALY, EMMA; SIEGEL, LAURENCE C 

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (94%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%) ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) SPAIN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) ARROYOMOLINOS (SPAIN)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



493 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: THE MAYOR'S FISCAL PLAN: CONSEQUENCES; 
In a New York City Budget, Less Isn't Always Less, Experienced Observers Say

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

 BODY:
It is normal for city workers facing thousands of pink slips to conjure nightmarish visions of the woe to befall the city.
 And yesterday was no different, with firefighters predicting slower responses to emergencies, teachers warning of slipping student performance and police officers fretting about a rise in violent crime. The gloom is blamed on planned reductions in support staff and overtime, not the firing of public safety officers or teachers, which Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg so far has not proposed. 
 But most outside analysts studying Mr. Bloomberg's plan to trim some 4,500 workers from the city payroll as part of $600 million in savings needed to close a budget gap are not nearly so pessimistic. 
For one thing, linking the size of the city workforce and the quality of city service is an inexact science, loaded with variables.
Consider the fact that crime in New York City has declined in the past few years even as the size of the police force has shrunk, mainly through retirements and resignations. Conversely, the number of teachers has increased in the same period without clear evidence of improved educational performance.
And over the years some private programs have grown up to supplement or even replace services the government always provided. The Central Park Conservancy, for example, raises huge sums and has taken over the management of the park. Business improvement districts, in which property owners voluntarily tax themselves to pay for better sanitation and security, have helped clean up troubled neighborhoods all over the city.
"My sense is with tremendous cooperation with labor and inspired management we could get through this without too deep a deterioration in city services," said Linda Stone Davidoff, the president of Citizens Union, a watchdog group on civic matters. "Clearly, Bloomberg plans to hold the line on crime and maintaining schools."
The city's workforce has been shrinking under Mayor Bloomberg and is now at the historically moderate level of 248,806, according to the city's Independent Budget Office. The peak in the past decade or so -- 253,000 full-time employees, came in 1991 under Mayor David N. Dinkins, a time of high crime, dirty streets and a general sense of civic decline.
"One thing you have to ask yourself is, in your own mind, would it make that much of a difference if the city was employing as many people as when Dinkins left office," said Edmund J. McMahon, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative think tank.
Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday that he believes there has been no appreciable decline in service despite losing thousands of city workers. But he said he expected some decline under the $600 million in cuts he plans to enact.
After peaking in 1991, the workforce dropped steadily as the economy slipped, dipping to a low of 235,000 by 1996 before shooting back up, under former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, to just under 250,000 by 2001.
But the Bloomberg administration has changed the way the city counts its workforce, prefering to include "full-time equivalent" employees, who largely work part time. By that measure, they predict the headcount will drop from 310,376 in December 2001 to a projected 288,931 by June 2004.
The city workforce since 2001 has been shrinking through retirements, resignations and a small number of layoffs, about 600 in the past year. 
Mr. Giuliani, who had campaigned on a promise to reduce the workforce to 180,000, did shrink the number of municipal workers, primarily from social services, through not filling jobs left vacant by retiring, resigning or dead employees. But he then boosted the tally to nearly its highest levels, primarily by hiring police officers and teachers.
Mr. Bloomberg has said he would refrain from laying off public safety officers or teachers.
Most fiscal experts say they believe New Yorkers could better take the pain of cuts in employees and services if Mr. Bloomberg persuades labor unions to go along with such measures as longer work weeks and less vacation and leave time. Most city workers, for instance, work 35 hours a week compared to 40 in the private sector.
But union leaders yesterday said they foresee a hard time negotiating with the mayor in the future because of what they considered disrespectful remarks in dismissing their proposals to save money and avert layoffs.
"There are definitely smart places left to cut but the question is, can it be done in an atmosphere of crisis," said Diana Fortuna, of the Citizens Budget Commission.
A decade ago, in the waning days of Mr. Dinkins' term, a panel he appointed earlier in the year to come up with ways to reduce recurring deficits recommended, among other things, cutting the city workforce to 185,000. To lessen the blow to city services, it advocated giving managers the freedom toincrease work weeks and shorten vacation time.
Harvey Robins, a former aide to Mayor Edward I. Koch and Mr. Dinkins, said much depends on how much Mr. Bloomberg pressures his commissioners to make their departments more efficient.
"The mayor and the commissioners have a good sense about where bone has been hit when they are cutting," Mr. Robins said. "I think the Sanitation Department gets better and better at delivering service with fewer and fewer workers. The question is how far they can go down."
One thing that does concern budget watchers is that Mr. Bloomberg's cuts come in agencies that have already experienced a steady decline in their rosters, such as Sanitation.
"The city to its credit has been able to lower the employee count while maintaining service delivery," said Doug Turetsky, a spokesman for the Independent Budget Office. "But when you do that with a budget gun to your head now you have to go deeper into staff reductions and it is questionable if you can still maintain the service."
Whether these employee reductions will actually take place though, is also questionable.
Mr. Robins noted that what the mayor proposes at this stage often is moot by the time a final budget is adopted. Mr. Dinkins' initial projections of 15,000 layoffs or more eventually declined to less than 7,000. Some union members retired early and money was found in other places.
"This is all part of the budget theater," he said, "I know because I participated in it."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Full-Time City Employees"The total number of people working full-time for the city has increased by only 3.2 percent since 1988, but the distribution of workers has changed across various sectors of employment. Graph tracks:HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICESGOVERNMENT, ELECTED OFFICIALS, AND MAYORAL AGENCIESPUBLIC SAFETYEDUCATION (Source: Independent Budget Office of the City of New York)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); OVERTIME (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (74%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); CONSERVATISM (66%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (65%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (57%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%) ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



494 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: THE MAYOR'S FISCAL PLAN; 
The Mayor Describes The Saddest Cuts of All

 BODY:
Following is an excerpt from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's budget address yesterday, as recorded by The New York Times. A full transcript is online at nytimes.com/nyregion.
 In dealing with all of this, it sort of leaves me a little sad, a little angry, I suppose, and a little determined. It is very sad that we are having to make cuts -- they hurt people. It's very easy to get caught up in the numbers and, remember, there are human beings that get these services and there are human beings that provide these services. Angry, we're not totally in control of our own destiny, unfortunately. We are very dependent on Albany and a little bit dependent on Washington. And that's not good. I've always thought the city should be in control of its own finances. The thing is, there's an old saying: You take the king's shilling, you become the king's man. We take money from Albany, and with that we give up control. A lot of that happened in the 70's, and we are paying for that today. 
 And I'm sort of also angry a little bit because everybody always phrases it, "I want mine and I don't care about the others." And the fact of the matter is we are all in this together and we are all going to have to make sacrifices together. And when somebody says, "Well, I'm just not going to participate," I sort of shake my head and wonder what they're thinking about.
I am determined that we're going to get through this. I do think, as I said earlier, the best is yet to come. The financial picture will brighten at some point in time as the recession ends and Wall Street comes back and people start to travel. We've got to make sure that we have a city that remains the bellwether for democracy, for being able to speak your mind, for, if you want to protest, this is where you should be coming to protest. If you don't want to protest, this is also where you want to live. If you want to build a career and be in charge of your own destiny, this is it. If you want to be a dreamer, there's nobody that's -- the difference between dreamers around the world and dreamers in New York is people in New York turn those dreams into reality. There's a reason why people come here from around the world, and there's a reason why New York City is really the bellwether for the state and for the country. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



495 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: POLITICAL STRATEGY; 
Looking at Postwar Bush, Glum Democrats Ponder How to Win in 2004

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15 

 BODY:
The swift fall of Baghdad has complicated what many Democrats had already viewed as the difficult task of unseating President Bush and winning back Congress next year, party leaders say. 
 Several expressed concern that the Iraq conflict had steeled Mr. Bush's national security credentials while reinforcing the Democrats' image as an antiwar party. 
 In interviews over several days, some Democrats said they were optimistic that the 2004 election, like the contest after the first gulf war, which led to the defeat of Mr. Bush's father, would end up as a referendum on the nation's ailing economy. 
Yet as they watched Mr. Bush turn his sights to Syria, other party leaders expressed fresh concerns that the White House would not permit the election of 2004 to become a replay of 1992.
"The big difference is that the first gulf war ended," a prominent Democratic senator said. "This administration will never end the war. And because they never end the war, they will have an ongoing advantage. An open-ended war on terrorism that will never end and that keeps people constantly on edge. A never-ending military commitment in Iraq that might lead to other commitments beyond Iraq also keeps people focused on national security."
Democratic officials, who have been notably silent as the war winds down, said they could turn the elections into a debate on the economy only if they withstood Republican efforts to portray Democrats as weak on security. 
But many said that task had become harder in the wake of a victorious war that many prominent Democrats opposed.
"There's no question that the president has been strengthened at least in the short run," Senator Evan Bayh, Democrat of Indiana, said. "If people can't envision a candidate as their commander in chief in a dangerous world, they're not going to listen to you. The threshold has now been raised, and we need to nominate someone on those grounds."
Jim Jordan, campaign manager for Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, warned, "Unless the Democratic nominee can make a compelling and convincing case -- a case built on story and persona instead of just rhetoric -- that he can keep Americans safe in a dangerous world, we're looking at McGovern-like results." 
He was referring to Senator George McGovern of South Dakota, who was trounced by Richard M. Nixon when he ran as the peace candidate in the Vietnam War in 1972.
In an effort to put the party back on track, Democratic officials said they were planning new lines of attack to use against the Republicans after the war. For example, one Democratic official said, the Democrats believed that Republicans would be vulnerable on conflict-of-interest charges after the Pentagon awarded a no-bid contract to a Halliburton subsidiary to fight oil well fires in Iraq. 
Vice President Dick Cheney was chief executive of Halliburton from 1995 until he was selected as Mr. Bush's running mate in 2000.
Democratic officials have also urged party consultants and members of Congress to use television appearances and discussions with reporters to repel Republican efforts to portray the Democrats as weak on security by drawing a contrast between the military records of the party's presidential candidates and Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney, who have no combat experience.
Some Democrats say they are encouraged that there is no evidence that the war in Iraq has produced the transformation in the nation's view of its president that occurred after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. And 1991 aside, history offers reason for Democrats not to be bereft, including Churchill's defeat during the Potsdam Conference just over two months after World War II in Europe had ended or the near defeat of Harry S. Truman in 1948.
Moreover, Democratic leaders said that no matter how aggressively the White House pushed the Mideast war effort, they were confident that the nation was moving into a postwar era that would open the stage to the nine Democratic presidential candidates and the arguments that they have been trying to make, often unnoticed, since the start of the year.
"We're going to see a re-do of 1992, where former President Bush had high ratings after the gulf war and started plummeting because of the economy," said Art Torres, the California Democratic chairman.
Mike Feldman, a Democratic consultant and a close adviser to Al Gore in the 2000 campaign, said of Republicans: 
"They own the national foreign policy and national security playing field right now. Of course they do. But the battle for who is on your side domestically -- that terrain is far from defined.'
Another senior Democratic official, noting recent polls that showed Mr. Bush enjoying overwhelming support among Americans, argued that the high numbers were a passing phase. 
"This is the height of his popularity," the official said. "Does it get any better than this? Unlikely. There is a great opportunity here. But we aren't underestimating the extent of the challenge."
Still, there is little question among nervous Democrats that the outcome of the war had at the very least diminished hopes they had of retaking the Senate or the House -- and complicated the challenge for some presidential contenders.
Republicans strategists said they would highlight statements against the war made by both Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader, and Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Senate minority leader, to undercut Democratic members of Congress seeking re-election from states and districts next year where there was strong support of Mr. Bush's war policies.
Republicans said they would try to use Mr. Daschle's criticism of Mr. Bush's war policies to defeat him as he sought re-election next year, though Democrats dismissed that.
A more immediate problem for the party may be the maneuvering among Democratic presidential candidates struggling to balance the antiwar sentiments of many primary voters with the overall support for the war.
Three major Democratic candidates, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, supported the war from the outset and did not waver from that position even in the face of intense challenges from Democrats in places like Iowa. 
By contrast, many Democrats said Mr. Kerry had been hurt by what even Mr. Kerry's supporters described as the shifting tone of his statements as the war moved from peak to valley to peak. 
In the prelude to the war, Mr. Kerry moved from voting in favor of the resolution to criticizing Mr. Bush's execution of it. 
After the hostilities began, Mr. Kerry shifted from saying at one point that he would not criticize the president or the war while troops were in the field to declaring in New Hampshire that the nation needed "regime change" at home, a turn of phrase that proved to be a lightning rod for Republicans while raising questions among Democrats about Mr. Kerry's campaign skills.
Steve Elmendorf, an adviser to Mr. Gephardt, inquired archly what Mr. Kerry would do if President Saddam Hussein was shot or found or weapons of mass destruction were found. 
"Those who have been trying to dance on the war, like John Kerry, what does he do?" Mr. Elmendorf asked. "Does he flop back and say, 'See, I was for it.' "
Mr. Kerry's campaign manager, Mr. Jordan, responded by saying Mr. Kerry had been consistent in supporting military action and criticizing Mr. Bush's diplomatic efforts leading up to the war.
Dr. Howard Dean, the former governor of Vermont who opposed the war, drew considerable attention, and contributions, by presenting himself as an antiwar candidate.
Although some Democrats suggested that Dr. Dean would now need to find a new horse to ride, he showed no sign of doing that at a debate last week in Washington, where he expressed at best tepid support for Mr. Hussein's ouster.
"We've gotten rid of him; I suppose that's a good thing," Dr. Dean said.
That, Mr. Bayh suggested, was the kind of remark that might reinforce the image the party was trying to avoid.
"Equivocating about whether Saddam's departure is a good thing or not doesn't help the Democratic Party," Mr. Bayh said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Many Democrats say the presidential hopes of Senator John Kerry, campaigning Sunday in South Carolina, were hurt by war remarks. (Associated Press); Howard Dean, at a presidential candidate speaker series yesterday in Washington, has presented himself as an antiwar candidate. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (73%); TERRORISM (72%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); REFERENDUMS (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN KERRY (89%); EVAN BAYH (58%); JIM JORDAN (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); SYRIA (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



496 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: THE MAYOR'S FISCAL PLAN: POLITICS; 
Much of City's Destiny Is Up to Albany, Not Mayor

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Moments after laying out his description of a New York City with far fewer firehouses, thousands of laid-off workers and no pools for city children to frolic in during the summer, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg stared toward the cameras and talked wistfully about why the city's fiscal predicament left him "a little sad, a little angry."
 "We're not totally in control of our own destiny," said Mr. Bloomberg, referring to the union contracts that bind the city, the court orders that mandate numerous expenses and the vast control Albany holds over much of what the city can to do, right down to taxing itself. 
 At roughly the same moment, Gov. George E. Pataki held a news conference in Albany with the Orangemen of Syracuse -- the champion basketball team -- and refused to answer questions about the two gloomy budgets that Mr. Bloomberg presented yesterday. 
While the vagaries of Wall Street, war and the national economy are also out of the mayor's hands, yesterday's disparate news conferences illustrate what Mr. Bloomberg controls the least: the political dynamics of Albany, which set New York City and the state capital farther apart than the 150 miles between them.
It is a world in which politicians never show their cards, budget books are incomprehensible and no one really knows what is going on until it has basically already happened, as was the case yesterday when the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, and the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, struck a tentative deal out of nowhere on how much of the governor's proposed cuts to restore.
Three men control all the power, and their political needs have almost nothing to do with the fiscal needs of New York City, yet Mr. Bloomberg's entire budget is pure paper without their acquiescence.
"You have a city that is a creature of the state," said William T. Cunningham, the communications director for Mr. Bloomberg. "The issues of Buffalo are handled at the same time as the issues of New York City, which is partly a function of the state Constitution and partially the function of the culture of Albany."
Governor Pataki, who some politicians believe may have dreams of a political career outside Albany, seems bent on preserving his legacy as the man who cut taxes and kept them cut. Should New York City fall into a total financial debacle, its residents are more likely to blame the mayor than the governor.
Mr. Bruno wants to please the governor, but he is also aware of the need to keep his Republican conference members happy, lest he lose his leadership post. Many of those members are from the suburbs of New York City, and will not tolerate the tax on commuters Mr. Bloomberg seeks. But Mr. Bruno also knows he has something to gain by staying in the good graces of Mr. Bloomberg, a wealthy political donor who has ties to the national Republican Party.
Mr. Silver, a Democrat, is masterly at playing these men off one another, insisting, for instance, that Mr. Bloomberg pressure the governor, a fellow Republican, for more help -- while Mr. Silver buys time and figures out what his conference needs.
On top of it all, there is enough competition and personal animosity between the three Albany men to create a nerdy reality television show, in which everyone stands around in dark suits denouncing one another. 
These factors, as much as matters of fiscal substance, are what drive the outcome of the state budget, and ultimately determine how onerous the cuts to the city's budget will be. 
Mr. Bloomberg is but a bit player in this drama, with no constant ally. "Those three guys can't get along," said one former city official who had regular dealings with all three Albany leaders. "And if as mayor you get along with one of them, you are the enemy of the others. How do you win in a triangulation?"
While Mr. Bloomberg prides himself on having run for election as a nonpolitician with debts to no one, having no political favors to call in can be a liability as well.
Mr. Bloomberg is in a somewhat similar situation with union leaders, whose political interests center on keeping their leadership positions, which are at risk if they give away too much. 
The mayor sounded this theme numerous times yesterday during his hourlong budget presentation. "We are very dependent on Albany," he said more than once.
But the mayor saved his true choler for the unions, mocking their suggestion that the city borrow from their pension funds at 8 percent interest, and belittling them for what he said is a refusal to step up to the plate. At one point during his presentation, Mr. Bloomberg displayed a slide with various quotations from union leaders in recent weeks suggesting that they would not give up any concessions to help the budget.
"The fact of the matter is," Mr. Bloomberg said, "we are all in this together, and we are all going to have to make sacrifices together. And when somebody says, 'We'll I'm just not going to participate,' I sort of shake my head and wonder what they're thinking about."

GRAPHIC: Photo: While Gov. George E. Pataki celebrated yesterday with the Syracuse basketball team, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg detailed the city's fiscal woes. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (88%); POLITICS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAX LAW (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); BASKETBALL (70%); SUBURBS (60%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



497 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: IN A CONCESSION, BUSH LOWERS GOAL OF TAX CUT PLAN 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15 

 BODY:
President Bush lowered his target for his tax cuts today to $550 billion, a significant retreat on his economic principles and an admission that his original package worth $726 billion was dead.
 But in a speech in the White House Rose Garden, Mr. Bush made clear this morning that the fight was not over and that he would immediately seize on his capital from the victory in Iraq to try to push through Congress as aggressive a tax cut as possible. White House advisers said that they were now on a war footing with Capitol Hill and that the next months would be an important test of the president's political credibility. 
 "It's not 'if' we have the package, it's how big will the package be," Mr. Bush said in his first remarks about the economy since the start of the war. "The 'if' is over with. In this debate, the goal is not to set arbitrary numbers for that package. The goal is to determine what our economy needs, what small businesses need, what workers need."
White House officials and Republican strategists conceded that it would be difficult for the president to win even $550 billion in tax cuts over 10 years from Congress and that it was likely that the final deal would be closer to a $350 billion limit for tax cuts approved by the Senate. But they said it was imperative for Mr. Bush to be seen as fighting hard for the economy to avoid the fate of his father, who lost the White House after his victory in the 1991 Persian Gulf war in large part because voters viewed him as disengaged from domestic concerns.
Presidential advisers said the White House was considering having Mr. Bush formally declare the war over in an address to Congress and in the same speech press for his tax cuts. After a long Easter weekend at his Texas ranch, they said, he would focus on selling his tax cuts in speeches across the country and in phone calls to pressure crucial members of Congress. Karl Rove, the president's chief political aide, is in charge of the effort.
The timing of Mr. Bush's speech this morning, before he had formally declared that victory in Iraq was certain, reflected the sense of urgency at the White House about the precarious state of the economy and its links to the president's political future. The first President Bush waited until six months after his victory in the 1991 Persian Gulf war to begin pushing an economic package through Congress.
"How many months are we to Election Day?" said Bruce Bartlett, a conservative economist who worked in the administrations of President Ronald Reagan and Mr. Bush's father. "Not that many. The president doesn't have that many days left when he can appear statesmanlike."
Mr. Bush made the same arguments this morning for his tax cut that he did when he unveiled it in Chicago in January, calling it a "pro-growth package" that would stimulate the economy and create 1.4 million jobs by the end of 2004. "The pro-growth package was urgent in January, it's even more urgent today," Mr. Bush said.
But in the last three months, the president's plan has come under heavy resistance from Democrats and even members of Mr. Bush's own party, who argue that large tax cuts at a time of an expensive war and growing deficits are irresponsible and that they would do little to stimulate the economy.
Last month, Mr. Bush's argument for his tax cuts was further undermined by Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former White House adviser turned director of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, who concluded in a March 25 report that the president's economic plan would provide only a "small impetus" to growth.
Late last week, the House approved a tax cut of $550 billion, but Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who is chairman of the Finance Committee, said that he would not permit a tax cut in the Senate of anything more than $350 billion. Those pivotal actions created the political reality that Mr. Bush found himself in this morning.
Republicans said it was unclear if Mr. Bush would have to abandon the centerpiece of his economic package, a 100 percent elimination of the tax that individual investors pay on dividends. At $550 billion, they said, the dividend tax elimination would probably largely survive intact, but at $350 billion Mr. Bush might have to agree to only a 50 percent reduction in the dividend tax.
Either way, one influential Republican close to the White House said, the dividend tax cut did not have "legs" among members of Congress, who are now in their districts for a two-week Easter recess.
"All of these guys have been home for the weekend and they're not hearing an outpouring of local worthies saying, 'My god, we really have to have this dividend thing,' " said one economic adviser to the White House. "It's just not happening."
But White House officials said that Mr. Bush had a strong record of fighting for what he wanted and getting much of it, even in the face of what appeared to be large odds. They added that a key component of the strategy was for Mr. Bush to appeal over the heads of the media directly to Americans in a series of appearances in key districts around the country.
"All together, these tax reductions will help 92 million Americans," Mr. Bush asserted in the Rose Garden this morning. "And a significant part of the benefit to our economy will come within the first two years of the plan."
And even if Mr. Bush received only $350 billion in tax cuts, White House advisers said, he would nonetheless declare it as a victory.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush discussed his revised tax cut plan yesterday in the Rose Garden at the White House. He was joined by small-business executives. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DESERT STORM (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); APPROVALS (66%); EASTER SEASON (50%) TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

INDUSTRY:  SIC2844 TOILET PREPARATIONS; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); KARL ROVE (59%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUMILLER, ELISABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); GULF STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



498 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Names 5 New Members to Rent Guidelines Board 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg appointed five new members to the city's Rent Guidelines Board yesterday, giving the board the quorum necessary to hold its first meeting of the year and barely avoid canceling a second meeting in a row.
 While the appointments got only mixed marks from some housing groups, they nonetheless eased some anxiety surrounding the board, which determines how much rents should rise or fall for the million or so apartments in New York City that are subject to rent regulation. And this year, many housing groups anticipate political pyrotechnics over what could be the biggest rent increase in many years because of higher costs for property taxes, fuel and insurance. 
 The board's first scheduled meeting, on March 25, was canceled because five of the nine previous members had either resigned or were not reappointed by Mr. Bloomberg. Even yesterday, a sense of haste still reverberated, because the mayor's office issued a news release announcing the appointments shortly before the meeting started.
"I didn't know who was on the board until I saw the name tags for them this morning," said Adriene L. Holder, one of the tenant representatives on the board and a holdover from last year.
The board, whose members are all chosen by the mayor, has a chairman, two tenant advocates, two landlord advocates and four members of the public who are supposed to represent the middle ground. Each member is supposed to have experience in housing, economics or finance. No one is allowed toown rent-regulated apartment buildings.
The new landlord representative is Steven J. Schleider, a senior vice president at KTR Newmark Real Estate Services. The four public members are Betty Phillips Adams, a consultant for the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund and the Federation of Protestant Welfare Organizations; Gale D. Kaufman, managing director at Duvernay & Brooks, a real estate finance and development company; Elizabeth Lusskin, a lawyer and former deputy commissioner for operations with the city's Department of Business Services; and Martin Zelnik, an architect and retired professor at the Fashion Institute of Technology.
Asked about the new board, Jack Freund, executive vice president of the Rent Stabilization Association, which represents rental owners, said that while "it's nice to have a board," the new members were "all mysteries to me."
And Michael McKee, associate director of the New York State Tenants and Neighbors Coalition, expressed disappointment that all the public members except Ms. Adams had backgrounds in the real estate business.
Beyond the introductions of the new board members yesterday, the board reviewed the first two of several research studies that it uses to decide how much to adjust rents. One of the reports, the Income and Expense Study, found that in 2001, owners of rent-stabilized apartment buildings reported a 5.9 percent increase in their operating income.
To tenant groups, that number strengthened the argument that landlords had been among the few groups to fare well during the economic downturn. But to landlord groups, the number was misleading because it did not incorporate the city's new 18.5 percent property tax or other rising costs.
Last year, the board raised rents by 2 percent for a one-year lease and 4 percent for a two-year lease. A preliminary vote is scheduled for May 5; the final vote is on June 19. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (62%) HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING 

ORGANIZATION: RENT GUIDELINES BOARD (NYC) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) CHEN, DAVID W; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



499 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: THE STRONGHOLD; 
Tale of Hussein's Last Sighting Takes On a Life of Its Own

BYLINE:  By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, April 15 

 BODY:
He was here, and then, like a shadow, he was gone. 
 At the Adhamiya Mosque in northern Baghdad, people have made a legend of the half hour last Wednesday, around the time of the noon prayers, when they say Saddam Hussein appeared in public, in the square outside the mosque, and offered what may prove to have been his last promise, or his last deceit, to the people of Iraq. 
 "I am fighting alongside you in the same trenches," he told a cheering crowd in the square outside the mosque. 
And then, people who were in the square at the time said today, the Iraqi leader and a small group of loyalists climbed back into their cars and drove off. Within 12 hours, American aircraft bombed the neighborhood, destroying part of a cemetery behind the mosque. American troops followed up with an assault on the mosque in which the minaret took a direct hit from a tank round and a shoulder-fired rocket was used to blast open the door to the catafalque containing the body of Abu Hanifa, an eighth-century Muslim saint, apparently in the belief that Mr. Hussein might be hiding somewhere in the darkness within. 
But he was not. Where he went is almost certainly the most important unresolved issue of the American war in Iraq, now that even Mr. Hussein's hometown, Tikrit, is under American military control. 
Saying the evidence of their own eyes belied the notion, common in American intelligence circles, that he was killed in the American airstrike that opened the war on March 20 or another one on April 7, some Iraqis believe the 65-year-old Mr. Hussein may still be somewhere in Baghdad, perhaps in Adhamiya, which has been a stronghold of support for him and the ruling Baath Party for decades. 
Men who joined the Baath Party when it was an underground organization in Iraq in the 1950's and early 1960's say that many of its earliest cells were founded in Adhamiya, and that crucial party meetings were held there in secret. The social and economic makeup of the district -- working class and overwhelmingly Sunni Muslim, like Mr. Hussein and most other top Baath leaders -- made it a bedrock of the party's support, these people say. 
Even today, crowds gathered in the streets of Adhamiya to praise Mr. Hussein, to deny that he ever was a murderous dictator and to pledge, proudly and defiantly, that if given the chance they would do all they could to hide him from American forces. 
"Yes, we will defend him to the last drop of our blood, we will all be fedayeen in the service of our leader," said a man who gave his name as Muhammad Abdel Karim, though hours of discussion in Adhamiya indicated that few men were eager to give their real names or any other information that could help the Americans track them down. 
As to where Mr. Hussein might be, the men, and in several cases their wives, said they did not know but if they did they would not be likely to tell an American reporter. 
"Saddam Hussein was our country's leader, he was a statesman, and he was in authority over us," Maythem Shihab, the 55-year-old custodian of the mosque, said. "We don't know his whereabouts now, but even if we did, we would not betray him. What right do the Americans have to invade our country and overthrow our legitimate leader?" 
In the streets and alleyways of Adhamiya today, nobody could remember any previous occasion, before his sudden appearance outside the mosque last week, when Mr. Hussein had visited the district, other than to disappear inside the high walls of one his many palaces, built in the district about 15 years ago. 
But other things about the shrinking geography of Mr. Hussein's Baghdad make the reports that he appeared here more credible. By Wednesday, American troops had seized control of much of central and southern Baghdad, east and west of the Tigris. American success in seizing the main presidential compound around the Republican Palace had forced many diehard paramilitary fighters north up both banks of the river, into the Atifiya district on the west and Adhamiya on the east. 
Reporters who returned to the mosque today found Iraqis initially reluctant to say anything about the events of last week. Instead, local leaders wanted to focus attention on the Adhamiya cemetery, behind the mosque. There, they showed the visitors a deep crater where they said an American bomb had fallen on Wednesday night and a cluster of graves where they said 18 people killed in the fighting, some civilians and some fedayeen irregulars, had been buried. 
Some of the graves were marked with bottles stuck into the freshly turned earth, with pieces of paper stuck into the necks identifying those buried as martyrs for Islam. 
Sitting on a wall at the edge of a cemetery in the hot spring sunshine, the reporters opened a discussion on Mr. Hussein and his years of rule. Within minutes, the eagerness to defend the toppled Iraqi leader appeared to get the better of the Iraqis' unwillingness to speak about what they had seen on Wednesday. Suddenly, one man after another began giving his account of the excitement in the square when, they said, Mr. Hussein suddenly appeared. 
The accounts, offered by a dozen men in the next three hours, varied little in their details. 
All the men said that Mr. Hussein and his party arrived in three cars, and that the Iraqi leader -- unmistakably the real McCoy, not one of the doubles he is known to employ -- was accompanied by his second son, Qusay, and by his ubiquitous bodyguard, Abid Hamid Mahmoud. 
All the accounts spoke of Mr. Hussein appearing in his field marshal's uniform, and climbing on the hood of one of the cars and making a speech. "I salute the Iraqi people," one man recalled him as having said, "and I ask them to defend themselves, their homes, their wives, their children, and their holy shrines." The man who gave this account said that he noticed that Mr. Hussein had tears running down his cheeks. 
"And then he said, 'I am fighting alongside you in the same trenches,' " the man said.
But what about all the killing by Mr. Hussein's secret police? What about the torture and executions? A man in a flowing gray dishdasha gown who refused to give his name, smiled indulgently. 
"We are only ordinary citizens, we know nothing about this," he said. Catching a look of incredulity from his questioner, he added: "In any case, there are political mistakes made everywhere. Saddam Hussein's were very small."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Local Iraqis loyal to Saddam Hussein gathered in a cemetery in the Adhamiya district of Baghdad. (Alan Chin for The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); ARMED FORCES (68%); TERRORISM (67%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%) BURNS, JOHN F; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%) IRAQ; BAGHDAD (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



500 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: THE ASIAN FRONT; 
North Koreans And U.S. Plan Talks in Beijing

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15 

 BODY:
President Bush has approved a plan for the United States to begin negotiations with North Korea in Beijing next week, the first talks between the countries since the government of Kim Jong Il threw out international inspectors and restarted its main nuclear weapons plant, United States and Asian officials said today.
 White House officials refused to comment on the negotiations. But officials in several countries said China has promised the United States that it will act as a full participant in the talks rather than just convening them. The Chinese had hoped to conduct the initial meetings in secret, officials said. 
 The agreement to enter the negotiations with both China and the United States marks a major concession for North Korea and an apparent victory for President Bush. Mr. Bush's strategy of not engaging in one-on-one talks with North Korea had been widely criticized by Asian allies and by many Korea experts. 
North Korea, in turn, had insisted on talking only with Washington, a reflection, experts said, of its obsession with being treated as an equal. 
Mr. Bush refused, insisting that the North Korean nuclear program was a major problem for all of northeast Asia. He argued that if the United States negotiated alone, North Korea would try to split Washington from its Asian allies, who would pressure the United States to strike a deal on North Korea's terms.
But by keeping the Japanese, the South Koreans and the Russians out of the room next week, the North can make the argument that only one other nation -- one that has served as the North's economic lifeline -- is involved.
"This is what the traffic would bear," a senior American official familiar with the secret negotiations with the North said tonight. 
The official described the participation of the Chinese as a breakthrough. "What's new here is that there is an active, bold participatory role for the Chinese," the official said. China's agreement to take on such a role began to take shape in the last days of former President Jiang Zemin's government. His successor, Hu Jintao, has continued Mr. Jiang's approach after becoming president last month. 
China briefly cut off North Korea's oil last month, after what the Chinese called a technical problem. But the move was interpreted by American officials as a warning to the North about the price of intransigence.
The senior American official said tonight that the United States "reserved the right" to bring in other nations as the talks progressed. Japanese and South Korean officials, while initially unhappy at being excluded, said tonight they were promised by the administration that they would be updated daily on the talks and would help forge negotiating positions.
The negotiating position that the United States and its allies take will be an early test of America's strained relations with South Korea, whose new president, Roh Moo Hyun, has vowed to accelerate a policy of trade and engagement with the North. Mr. Roh visits the United States for the first time next month. 
The American envoy conducting the talks next week will be James A. Kelly, the assistant secretary of state for Asia. Mr. Kelly visited the North's capital, Pyongyang, last October and told North Korea that United States intelligence agencies had caught the country building a clandestine uranium-production facility. 
To Mr. Kelly's surprise, the North Koreans said they broke out of their nuclear "freeze" because the United States had threatened the country when Mr. Bush cited North Korea as part of the "axis of evil." But the North's effort to secretly import uranium-enriching technology, intelligence officials say, began when Mr. Bush was governor of Texas.
In the six months since the United States and North Korea last met, the North Koreans ejected inspectors, withdrew from the nuclear nonproliferation treaty and restarted the plutonium reprocessing facility that was frozen under a 1994 agreement with the United States.
They also tried to force down an American intelligence-gathering plane over international waters, though the senior official said tonight that "they have made it clear we won't see that again" while negotiations are under way.
As described by officials from the United States, Japan and South Korea today, the outlines of the agreement for next week's talks were struck before the war in Iraq started. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell traveled on Feb. 24 to Beijing, where the Chinese tried to persuade him to engage in one-on-one talks with North Korea. At a second meeting at the United Nations, on March 7, "we persuaded the Chinese" that Mr. Bush would never agree to those conditions, the American official said.
The next day, a very senior Chinese official -- it is unclear who -- told North Korea's leaders that they had no choice but to accede to Mr. Bush's demands, several officials said.
American officials said that in their talks with the Chinese, they did not explicitly say that any deal would be impossible if the North Koreans began producing weapons. "But we said that obviously, as we go through this, the entire political environment would be totally contaminated if missiles started flying or reprocessing started," the senior official said.
American officials have gone to some lengths to keep the approaching negotiations from becoming public: both Mr. Powell and Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, said in separate comments today that the United States was continuing to talk to its allies. 
There is no assurance that the talks themselves will succeed at anything other than slowing the North's progress. In the late 1990's it took part in multilateral talks, but withdrew.. 
Yet some Bush administration officials suspect that the North will not trade away its entire nuclear program, for fear that it would lose all its leverage. "They may be just testing us out with these talks," another official said. "If they don't get as much as they want, perhaps they think they can go ahead with their programs. But the environment is changing." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); KIM JONG IL (73%); HU JINTAO (56%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%) NORTH KOREA; CHINA; JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



501 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: WHITE HOUSE; 
BUSH SAYS REGIME IN IRAQ IS NO MORE; SYRIA IS PENALIZED

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER and THOM SHANKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15 

 BODY:
President Bush declared today that "the regime of Saddam Hussein is no more," and his administration used America's rapid success in overthrowing the Iraqi leader to put new pressure on Iran and Syria, neighbors of the newly occupied nation.
 At the Pentagon, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said the United States was moving to cut off an important oil pipeline running from Iraq into Syria, the first major economic penalty against Syria. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld's statements, as well as remarks by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, were part of a declared strategy to consolidate the allied victory in Iraq by beginning to reshape the Middle East, while Mr. Bush said he planned to make the new Iraq a model for democracy in the Middle East. 
Since the fall of Mr. Hussein, Mr. Bush's aides have begun talking publicly about the "demonstration effect" of the victory in Iraq.
The swiftness of the victory, one senior administration official said in an interview, "opens all sorts of new opportunities for us." But the official said that "the trick in coming days" would be to press America's advantage "without sounding threatening."
"Our victory in Iraq is certain, but it is not complete," Mr. Bush said today. He said a final victory would not be declared until Gen. Tommy R. Franks, the senior commander in the war theater, had determined that all of Washington's military objectives had been met -- a process that could take months.
But already today the Pentagon made arrangements to halt the planned deployment to Iraq of about 24,000 troops of the First Cavalry Division based at Fort Hood, Tex. -- except for 700 military police and civil affairs specialists, officials said.
Mr. Rumsfeld's announcement about the oil pipeline, which is capable of carrying 200,000 barrels a day, is the clearest signal the administration has sent to President Bashar al-Assad that the United States is willing to use its new position on Syria's border to press the country, which the White House declared Monday as a "rogue state." The administration has accused Syria of harboring Iraqi fugitives and of developing chemical weapons.
The pipeline has been a huge source of revenue for the Syrian government, which has paid Iraq with goods, in two-way trade conducted in violation of United Nations economic sanctions against Iraq.
At the same time, Mr. Powell said the United States had no broader military ambitions in the Middle East. He said there was "no war plan right now" for Syria and Iran, signaling that he planned to use diplomacy, economic pressure and the potent symbol of the quick American ouster of the Iraqi government to make his point.
However, Mr. Powell's use of the phrase "right now" seemed likely to fuel concerns in the Middle East about Mr. Bush's ultimate intentions. It carried echoes of White House statements last fall that Mr. Bush had no war plan for Iraq "on his desk."
"We have concerns about Syria," Mr. Powell said. "We have let Syria know of our concerns. We also have concerns about some of the policies of Iran," referring to Iran's fast-moving nuclear weapons development program. "We have made the Iranians fully aware of our concerns.
"But there is no list," he said, to overthrow the leadership of any other country in the region.
In the interview tonight, the senior American official said Mr. Powell had not intended to issue any warnings of military action. The secretary, the official said, "simply didn't want to shut down every option" for the future.
In Damascus, the Syrian government issued a statement after a cabinet meeting today, denouncing the escalating charges against it, saying they were baseless and intended to promote Israeli goals in the region. The statement also called on the United States to end its occupation of Iraq. 
Other Arab countries chimed in with support for Syria's position. The foreign ministers of the Gulf Cooperation Council, meeting in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, decried the attacks on Damascus and said the ministers accepted Syria's statements that it had not helped senior Iraqis escape and that it did not possess chemical weapons.
Editorial writers around the Arab world rallied to Syria's defense, many viewing the Bush administration threats as a prelude to a repeat performance of what the United States did in Iraq. 
"The region is on the verge of yet another disaster," saidAl Ahram, a semiofficial Egyptian daily newspaper. "There must be immediate Arab action based on the lessons of Iraq. This is not only necessary to safeguard Syria itself, but to stop the U.S. scheme." 
In the Rose Garden today, Mr. Bush insisted that his intention was "to liberate every corner of Iraq."
He acknowledged that it would take time. "The immediate tasks involve establishing order, as well as delivering food and water and medicines," he said. "We'll help Iraqis to restore electrical power and other basic services. We'll help destroy the former regime's weapons of mass destruction. We'll help the Iraqi people to establish a just and representative government."
But Mr. Bush also hinted at his broader agenda, saying, "I believe that a free Iraq can be an example of reform and progress to all the Middle East." Administration officials say they know those words raise concern among the rulers of the region. But as one official said, "We have to make it clear that we didn't just come to get rid of Saddam. We came to get rid of the status quo."
President Bush also took a phone call today from President Jacques Chirac of France, the first time the two leaders have had an extensive conversation since their public breach over France's refusal to back American military action in Iraq. The White House termed the call "businesslike," but said Mr. Chirac joined the president in urging Syria not to harbor former Iraqi leaders.
"We have differences," Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, said today. "We still have some of those differences. But that won't stop the president from working in a businesslike and professional way with an ally like France." In Paris, Mr. Chirac's spokeswoman, Catherine Colonna, described the conversation as "positive."
Mr. Rumsfeld said today that American military engineers had been told to work with Iraqi technicians to shut down the Iraq-Syria oil pipelines, and that it appeared the task had been accomplished.
"We do know that they were instructed to shut it down, and they have told us that they have," Mr. Rumsfeld said at a Pentagon news conference. "Whether it's the only one, and whether that has completely stopped the flow of oil between Iraq and Syria, I cannot tell you."
With the conclusion of major military operations in Iraq, Mr. Rumsfeld was poised to cancel some ongoing deployments of forces to Iraq and to adjust others, Pentagon and military officials said today.
The First Armored Division, based in Germany and at Fort Riley, Kan., will continue its deployment to Iraq, but without its field artillery elements, which include about 1,300 troops, officials said.
"We're also on a very active effort to attract and encourage other countries to offer forces" for the stabilization process, Mr. Rumsfeld said.
In Iraq, officials at the Army's V Corps headquarters near the Kuwait border said that the military situation had stabilized around Baghdad and south of the capital, and that there were no clashes with Iraqi troops or paramilitary units in the area.
An Army officer said the 82nd Airborne Division, which has been patrolling southwest of Baghdad, near Karbala, Samawa and Najaf, was almost entirely involved in civil affairs activities, like restoring electricity and delivering food. Soldiers from the division delivered 2,000 meals to a Najaf children's hospital.
In the Baghdad area today, except for encountering sniper fire, soldiers of the 101st Airborne Division and the Third Infantry Division faced little or no contact with Iraqi fighters.
Officials said Iraqi units continued to surrender to the Americans. Today, the Third Infantry Division accepted the peaceful surrender of the 12th Armored Battalion, west of Baghdad. Among the prisoners taken were an Iraqi major general who also surrendered the tanks and weapons of the unit, officials said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (89%); ARMED FORCES (86%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (84%); INTERVIEWS (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PIPELINES; POLICE; FORT HOOD (TEX) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (59%); JACQUES CHIRAC (59%) FRANKS, TOMMY R (GEN); RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E; SHANKER, THOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (57%) IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; SYRIA; IRAN; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



502 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 National Edition 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook; 
Presidential Yacht Sequoia

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN S. PICKERING

 BODY:
A finely crafted motor yacht that witnessed key historic moments in American history languishes at a marina near the Tidal Basin in Washington. There it is susceptible to vandalism, weather and larcenous souvenir seekers. It ought to be in a safer place where it can be revered rather than rented. 
 The yacht, the U.S.S. Sequoia, was auctioned off by President Jimmy Carter in 1977 as an objectionable symbol of the imperial presidency. The boat is now in private hands; its decks, wood surfaces and brightwork appear to be well kept, but the Sequoia is also available for high-end charter trips along the Potomac or into Chesapeake Bay, liable to the wear and tear that come with such party-boat use. 
 It is a sad plight for such a graceful piece of the furniture of our history. The Sequoia, 104 feet long, was built in 1925 by John Trumpy, a respected boatwright of the period, for a Philadelphia banker. It was sold to the federal government in 1931, during Prohibition, to be used in a long-running Commerce Department sting against rumrunners along the Chesapeake waterways. But it was soon recruited as a presidential yacht by Herbert Hoover, when it occurred to him that the 318-foot vessel he had been using for summer cruises might have appeared unseemly to a public enduring the depths of the Depression. It was an act of parsimony that proved to have been lost on voters.
Hoover's successor, Franklin Roosevelt, spent a great deal of time on the Sequoia, fishing and entertaining during the pre-air-conditioning Washington summers. He is said to have conferred with Gen. Dwight Eisenhower about the D-Day landings while on board the yacht, and Winston Churchill joined him for an occasional cruise. Harry Truman is supposed to have made the decision to use the atomic bomb against Japan while aboard. Richard Nixon and the Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev worked on detente at a round table on the Sequoia's top deck. John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson, during their terms of office, both added customized features. The Sequoia was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1985.
Such a resume merits better treatment than the vessel is getting. The Sequoia Foundation was set up three years ago with the purpose of lobbying Congress for a grant to buy the boat, restore it and maintain it. But the group has had no luck so far, and in the current war-straitened economy, it has little hope of any appropriation coming its way soon. Still, economic crises come and go, but there is only one Sequoia, and such pieces of the nation's patrimony are unique and fragile things. It has earned safe harbor. STEPHEN S. PICKERING

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); BOAT BUILDING (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CRUISES (76%); VANDALISM (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); APPROPRIATIONS (72%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); LOBBYING (67%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JIMMY CARTER (56%); RICHARD NIXON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



503 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: G.M.'s Quarterly Earnings Beat Forecasts 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

 BODY:
First-quarter earnings at General Motors beat Wall Street's expectations yesterday, but they were viewed skeptically because gains in the company's financing operation, particularly its mortgage business, offset weakness in its automotive operations. 
 G.M. said in a conference call that concerns about the economy persisted even as the war in Iraq appeared to be winding down, leading the company to scale back projections for auto sales and earnings. Executives said the company would have difficulty meeting its 2003 earnings target of $5 a share and warned that second-quarter earnings would come in at $1 a share. Analysts polled by Thomson First Call had expected $1.46 a share. 
 The company is also suffering in the United States market, where most automotive profits are made. In the first quarter, G.M.'s market share fell to 26.6 percent from 28.2 percent a year ago; at the same time, the company was spending more money on incentives but selling fewer vehicles. With only preliminary data available, sales did not appear to be getting a huge lift from the Big Three's April incentive spree, which has extended zero percent financing to 60-month loans on all vehicles except Hummers.
"We're getting the disadvantage of some stronger headwinds, certainly in the pricing area, certainly in the economic uncertainty, and that's leading us to be a little less certain about making our $5 for the full year," said John M. Devine, G.M.'s chief financial officer. He said that G.M.'s strong fourth quarter, which included big end-of-the-year deals, probably pulled some sales ahead from the first quarter. 
Shares of G.M. fell 95 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $35.17.
"To me, it's real depressing," said Ronald Tadross, an analyst at Bank of America, adding that G.M.'s ratcheting up of incentive levels seemed to be seeking "a knockout punch" when a more sustainable and less costly strategy was needed. 
Stephen Girsky, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said that despite the strong performance by General Motors Acceptance Corporation, the G.M. financing unit, automotive operations were problematic. "Their share was down despite the fact that prices were down and their fleet sales were up," he said. Sales to corporate and rental car fleets are less profitable than sales to retail customers and are often used to clear inventory. 
David Healy, an analyst at Burnham Securities, who has a more bullish outlook, said "the pessimism is overdone," and called G.M. stock well valued at its current price. 
"As we have an economic recovery and people stop worrying about Iraq, the stock can creep higher," he said. "I feel that way pretty much about the whole group."
G.M. had net income of $1.48 billion, or $2.71 a share, in the first quarter, up from $228 million, or 57 cents, in the period a year earlier. 
The company generated $1.1 billion from the sale of G.M. Defense to General Dynamics; the unit makes light armored vehicles for the United States Army and for other governments.
Excluding gains from the sale of G.M. Defense, and results from Hughes Electronics, the company had net income of $1 billion, or $1.84 a share, for the quarter. That compared with adjusted net income in the first quarter of 2002 of $791 million, or $1.39 a share. 
Analysts had expected adjusted earnings of $1.54, according to the consensus estimates compiled by Thomson First Call. 
Revenue rose to $49.37 billion from $46.21 billion in the quarter a year earlier. North American automotive profits fell to $548 million from $654 million, while earnings at G.M.A.C. rose to $699 million from $439 million, bolstered by a record performance in the unit's mortgage operations, though the performance is "probably not sustainable" Mr. Devine said. 
This week, G.M. struck a deal to sell 20 percent of Hughes Electronics, which owns the DirecTV satellite service, to the News Corporation. The rest of the company's Hughes stake -- another 10 percent valued at $1.2 billion -- was used to address a perpetual issue for the company, financing its enormous pension plan, which was underfunded by $19 billion at the end of last year. 
The pension deficit puts all the more pressure on the automotive operations. Paul Ballew, G.M.'s chief sales analyst, said the company believed that industry sales in April would be around the rate of 16.5 million units, a good performance but also considerably below the huge market response in October 2001, when G.M., Ford and Chrysler offered similar zero percent, 60-month deals after the Sept. 11 terror attacks. 
"What we've seen so far is pretty consistent with what we've expected," Mr. Ballew said. 
For the year, he appeared to step back slightly from previous forecasts of sales in the mid- to upper-16-million vehicle range. 
"Right now I would anticipate the industry will be above 16 million units," he said. 
Mr. Devine said the company wanted to be cautious about its numbers. "We are less certain at least in putting a number out there," he said. "We're certain about our product lineup, we're certain about the internals of the company. The game plan is the same. The caution that we've provided is driven by the U.S. market, because it's our biggest, and where the market is going and where the consumer is going." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (94%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); MARKET SHARE (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); SALES FINANCING (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%) COMPANY REPORTS; AUTOMOBILES; SALES 

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: JOHN M DEVINE (58%) HAKIM, DANNY; DEVINE, JOHN M 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003 



504 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Chief Ousted At Skandia Amid Tumult 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTINE WHITEHOUSE 

DATELINE: LONDON, April 16 

 BODY:
Unswayed by Lars-Eric Petersson's offer to work for just 1 Swedish krona (12 American cents) for the rest of the year, Skandia, the Swedish financial services company, dismissed him today as chief executive and brought Leif Victorin, a former deputy chief executive, out of retirement to head the company until a permanent replacement can be found. 
 Over the past year, Skandia's reputation has been badly damaged by a disastrous share price performance, the failure of a costly expansion into the United States and sustained criticism in the Swedish media over internal dealings between the parent company and its life insurance arm, Skandia Liv, as well as executive perks and bonuses. 
 Analysts view the Skandia board's removal of Mr. Petersson, who was appointed chief executive in 1997, as an attempt to restore investor confidence. 
"Someone has to pay the price," said Thomas Johansson, financial services analyst at Enskilda Bank in Stockholm. Whether Mr. Petersson was to blame for anything "is beside the point," he said.
The board also set up project teams to examine Skandia's practices on reporting, compensation, ethics and communication and information. A lawyer, Otto Rydbeck, will investigate transactions between Skandia and Skandia Liv.
Skandia, along with other life insurers, has seen its profits eroded by plummeting stock markets and rising benefit costs. The company has been especially vulnerable to the economic downturn because of its heavy dependence on equity-linked savings products. Its stock has lost more than 90 percent of its value from a March 2000 peak of 250 Swedish kronor. 
In December, the group sold its largest unit, American Skandia, which accounted for more than half its sales, to Prudential Financial for only $1.15 billion, for an after-tax loss of $511 million.
Analysts said they were surprised that Skandia had not yet found a permanent replacement for Mr. Petersson, given the length of time the problems had been mounting. Mr. Victorin, 62, a 33-year veteran of the company, is a "safe pair of hands," said Marc Thiele, an insurance analyst at Commerzbank Global Equities in London. But he added: "It's really a temporary solution. Skandia needs to convince investors that it has a clear long-term strategy. Until there's a new man in place, we won't have any idea how they will take the business forward."
Skandia's strategy of "rewrapping" other companies' equity-linked products and selling them through independent financial advisers and broker-dealers, leaving the company with almost no overhead, served it well in a bull market, Mr. Thiele said. The company now needs to become "a producer and distributor, rather than a packager," he said. "That will make it less vulnerable to the effects of falling equity markets."
Shares rose 0.30 Swedish krona, to close at 21.30 kronor, after news of the management change.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lars-Eric Petersson was dismissed to restore investor confidence in Skandia, analysts say. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: $01ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); INSURANCE (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (72%); ETHICS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BONDS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%) STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; ETHICS; WAGES AND SALARIES; BONUSES 

COMPANY: SKANDIA LIV AS (83%); COMMERZBANK AG (56%); AMERICAN SKANDIA LIFE ASSURANCE CORP (53%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (53%)

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (56%); CBK (FRA) (56%); PRU (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (53%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (53%)

PERSON: WHITEHOUSE, CHRISTINE; PETERSSON, LARS-ERIC; VICTORIN, LEIF 

GEOGRAPHIC: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%) SWEDEN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) SWEDEN

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



505 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: An Industry Under Constant Scrutiny 

BYLINE:  By PAUL MELLER 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, April 16 

 BODY:
With little fanfare, European authorities have conducted one investigation after another into anticompetitive behavior in the chemical industry. A dozen inquiries have now come to light over the last four years, with one previously unreported investigation already near completion and another just beginning. 
 The growing number of investigations and the number of companies figuring in multiple cases raise questions about why the industry seems so prone to collusion, and whether past enforcement actions had been tough enough to deter wrongdoing. 
 According to people close to the European Commission's antitrust division, the commission will hold a hearing in the next few weeks with companies that it has accused of operating a price-fixing cartel for 17 years in the world market for sorbates, a class of food additives used to prevent mold in cheese and baked goods. 
The United States Department of Justice has been investigating the same market and has levied finestotaling $132 million so far. The companies involved in the American case include Hoechst, now a division of Aventis of France; Celanese of Germany; Nippon Gohsei of Japan; and Eastman Chemical of the United States. 
The European Commission declined to say which companies it has accused. Nancy Ledford, a spokeswoman for Eastman Chemical, confirmed that her company is a part of the European investigation, but she said that the commission had given the company "indications that it does not intend to pursue the investigation." Eastman Chemical left the sorbates market in 2000, she said. 
An Aventis spokesman declined to comment, and calls to other companies thought to be involved in the matter were not returned.
The European Commission is also investigating a suspected cartel in the market for choline chloride, or vitamin B4, which is most widely used commercially as a growth-enhancing additive in livestock feed. The investigation was opened in 1999, involving BASF of Germany and UCB of Belgium.
"We have been cooperating in full with the European Commission," said Arnot Denis, a spokesman for UCB. BASF's spokesman, Michael Grabicki, said his company was also cooperating. 
People close to the commission said that its antitrust officials had not yet sent the companies a formal statement of objections; that step would turn an investigation into a lawsuit.
As with the sorbates case, United States regulators are also examining the vitamin B4 market; DuCoa, an American vitamin-making joint venture of DuPont and ConAgra Foods, and a Canadian rival, the Chinook Group, have been fined for their roles in a 10-year price-fixing cartel. Neither company was available to comment on whether it figures in the European inquiry.
A spokesman for the Dutch chemicals group Akzo Nobel, which is also suspected of participating in the vitamin B4 cartel, said that his company "is involved in several European Commission cartel cases" but would not comment further.
The vitamin B4 and sorbates cases have come to light just a few days after the commission confirmed that it had begun an investigation into the markets for hydrogen peroxide, used in hair dyes, and for various paint solvents and plasticizers. BASF and Solvay of Belgium confirmed that they are being investigated in that case, which is also understood to involve Degussa, Celanese and the Atofina unit of TotalFinaElf, the French oil company.
Two months ago, the commission confirmed that it had opened an investigation into companies that supply raw materials for making polyvinyl chloride plastic, including Akzo Nobel and TotalFinaElf. Last year, European regulators opened three other cartel investigations into niche segments of the oil-based chemicals sector. 
"There are many repeat offenders in the chemicals industry," said Catriona Hatton, a competition lawyer in the Brussels office of Hogan & Hartson. "It makes you wonder if the fines are large enough." 
The commission's largest fine so far has been 855 million euros ($924.5 million), imposed in 2001 against eight chemical manufacturers. Two other chemical cartels were broken up the same year.
"The chemicals industry is very incestuous," said Frank Mitsch, an analyst with Bear Stearns. In many cases, he said, "their competitors are their customers for different products, so there's a lot of inter-company contact."
Rapid consolidation, especially in the 1990's, may also have contributed to the cozy ties that exist between supposed rivals, he said, though he added that he did not think the chemicals sector was any worse than other industries.
Still, said the number of chemical-related cartel investigations was unusually high, according to Jacques Bourgeois, a competition lawyer at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld. "It could partly be explained by the fact that it is one of the biggest industries in Europe," Mr. Bourgeois said. "There is more chance of a cartel occurring in a bigger industry."
A person close to the commission said that the rise in the number of new cartel investigations in recent years may be partly attributable to a change in the commission's rules, allowing it to offer immunity from penalties to a cartel participant that blows the whistle on the collusion.
Cartel members are famously disloyal, said a competition lawyer involved in some of the cases. "Now, with the added incentive of immunity, it is no surprise that more of them are turning on their co-conspirators."
The lawyer said two more cases involving food-related parts of the chemical industry are in the pipeline. He gave no specifics, but he said, "I anticipate more to follow them."
The European competition commissioner, Mario Monti, has called cartels "a cancer on the market economy," and he has put breaking up cartels high on his list of enforcement priorities. The cases that have surfaced in recent years, he said, are just a small part of the problem.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Chemical Makers in the Spotlight"The European Union now has at least seven investigations in progress concerning suspected price fixing and collusion in the chemical industry. Five more inquiries completed in the last two years have led to fines against more than 20 companies, and parallel investigations in the United States have also resulted in fines. Some chemical companies, like Archer Daniels Midland, Aventis, BASF, Hoffman-La Roche and Jungbunzlauer, have been fined in more than one case. CASE BEGUN IN EUROPE: 1999PRODUCT(S) INVOLVED: Vitamin B4COMPANIES INVOLVED IN EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION, IN PARALLEL UNITED STATES INQUIRY, OR BOTH: UCB, Akzo Nobel, BASF, Mitsui Chemicals, Chinook, DuCoa*, DCV CASE BEGUN IN EUROPE: 2002PRODUCT(S) INVOLVED: Rubber chemicalsCOMPANIES INVOLVED IN EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION, IN PARALLEL UNITED STATES INQUIRY, OR BOTH: Bayer and others CASE BEGUN IN EUROPE: 2002PRODUCT(S) INVOLVED: Naphthalene, creosote and tar pitchCOMPANIES INVOLVED IN EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION, IN PARALLEL UNITED STATES INQUIRY, OR BOTH: RAG, Koppers Industries CASE BEGUN IN EUROPE: 2002PRODUCT(S) INVOLVED: EPDM synthetic rubberCOMPANIES INVOLVED IN EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION, IN PARALLEL UNITED STATES INQUIRY, OR BOTH: Bayer, DSM, Crompton, others CASE BEGUN IN EUROPE: Feb. 2003PRODUCT(S) INVOLVED: PVC chemicalsCOMPANIES INVOLVED IN EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION, IN PARALLEL UNITED STATES INQUIRY, OR BOTH: Akzo Nobel, TotalFinaElf, others CASE BEGUN IN EUROPE: April 2003PRODUCT(S) INVOLVED: Hydrogen peroxide, solvents, plasticizersCOMPANIES INVOLVED IN EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION, IN PARALLEL UNITED STATES INQUIRY, OR BOTH: BASF, Solvay, Degussa, Celanese, TotalFinaElf CASE BEGUN IN EUROPE: Before 2003PRODUCT(S) INVOLVED: SorbatesCOMPANIES INVOLVED IN EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION, IN PARALLEL UNITED STATES INQUIRY, OR BOTH: Hoechst, Eastman Chemicals, Celanese, Aventis *Joint venture of Du Pont and ConAgra (Sources: European Commission; Justice Department; listed companies) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS MFG (94%); CHEMICALS (93%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CHEMICALS TRADE (90%); PRICE FIXING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); BUSINESS TORTS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CARTELS (89%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (89%); MEDICINALS & BOTANICALS MFG (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); FOOD ADDITIVES (74%); FOOD ADDITIVES REGULATION (74%); ANIMAL FOODS (74%); LIVESTOCK FEED (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); LITIGATION (70%) CHEMICALS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; FINES (PENALTIES) 

COMPANY: EASTMAN CHEMICAL CO (92%); AKZO NOBEL NV (60%); CELANESE CORP (58%); CONAGRA FOODS INC (56%); SANOFI SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%) EUROPEAN UNION; ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND CO; AVENTIS; BASF AG; HOFFMANN-LA ROCHE INC; JUNGBUNZLAUER AG 

TICKER: EMN (NYSE) (92%); AKZA (AMS) (60%); CE (NYSE) (58%); CAG (NYSE) (56%); SNY (NYSE) (55%); SANF (BIT) (55%); SAN (PAR) (55%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (92%); NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (92%); NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (58%); NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (56%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (56%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (56%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: MELLER, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); BELGIUM (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



506 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: As Japan Struggles, Pachinko Evolves 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 13 

 BODY:
Chang-Woo Han has never had it so good. As Japan, the world's second-largest economy, struggles to regain its footing, his business, running the country's largest chain of pachinko parlors, is growing by leaps and bounds.
 Mr. Han is the founder and chairman of the Maruhan Corporation, which presides over a 121-shop empire spread from Hokkaido to Kyushu that took in 576 billion yen ($4.8 billion) last year from the players who pump money into pachinko, a sort of vertical pinball game, the way Americans feed slot machines. While bankruptcies have soared in Japan, and deflation has chewed into many companies' profits, Maruhan's sales have almost tripled since 1998, and Mr. Han expects them to double again by 2005. Next year, he wants Maruhan to become the first pachinko chain listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 
 Pachinko, a rare curiosity at best in the rest of the world, is a big business in Japan, with total revenue of about 28 trillion yen ($233 billion) a year, as much as that of Japan's five largest automakers combined. But it has been highly fragmented, with only a handful of companies achieving even a 1 percent market share. 
It was long regarded as recession-proof, but in the current downturn it has suffered along with other entertainment businesses in Japan. Rising unemployment and falling wages have left consumers with less pocket money to pour into a game in which players can lose $100 or more in a matter of minutes. Younger Japanese have been drifting toward video games, movies and sports like skiing and surfing.
The sour economy, falling land values and the growing risk aversion of the nation's struggling banks have combined to drive a growing number of mom-and-pop operations out of business, not just in pachinko but also in the similarly structured tavern and karaoke-bar industries. Even healthy operators have a hard time obtaining bank loans for expansion.
These misfortunes, however, have been a boon for the biggest companies in the industry, like Maruhan. As the bubble economy collapsed, Mr. Han saw potential for larger parlors and lined up financing to grab store space in busy central locations as it became available. With 48.7 billion yen ($406 million) in loans, he built multifloor emporiums that lure customers with no-smoking sections, free parking and, crucially, improved odds of winning cash. The cash flow from these successful, large parlors has helped Maruhan add more locations. It has also enabled it to diversify into movie theaters, bowling alleys and a doughnut franchise.
"Even if our industry faces a crisis, not all of us will fall into it," said Mr. Han, 72, prosperously turned out in a well-tailored gray suit with gold-tinted pinstripes, gold cuff links and a gold watch for a recent interview. His bubbling confidence makes him unusual here in more ways than one: he is also a rare example of a corporate leader from Japan's ethnic Korean minority, which is widely discriminated against.
"We have turned a crisis into a chance," he said of Maruhan's recent growth.
The crisis, though, is still evident. Though the industry still claims half of all leisure spending in Japan, or 6 percent of the gross domestic product, its sales have fallen by 10 percent from their 1995 peak, and the customer base is falling even faster: 19 million Japanese played the game last year, one-third less than a decade ago.
As the smaller and weaker companies have shaken out, the bigger entrants have taken a greater share of the remaining market. Despite a 5 percent reduction in parlors since 1997, the same number of machines are in use.
Mr. Han's five-story Maruhan Pachinko Tower in Shibuya, a trendy Tokyo neighborhood teeming with teenagers and young office workers, typifies the trend toward larger parlors. Ablaze with neon, the store packs in 1,000 of the latest machines, adorned with L.C.D. screens and blaring musical jingles, and it averages more than 4,000 customers a day.
To play pachinko, which originated in the United States in the 1920's but never caught on there, a player buys a supply of steel ball bearings, slings them to the top of the machine and watches them tumble down, deflected this way and that by dozens of metal pins. When some disappear into holes in the playing board, new balls are spit out from the bottom and can be played or redeemed for gifts or cash. 
The positioning of the pins on the board and the number of balls returned vary from machine to machine. Parlor owners adjust the memory chips in the back of the machines to fine-tune the payout rates. 
Committed players often line up outside their favorite shops before they open for the day, hoping to secure what they believe are the "hot" machines. 
But the parlor owners make higher profits from more casual customers who want to be pampered as much as they want to play the game. Parlor owners have experimented with amenities like having refrigerated coolers so that housewives can stow groceries and play on their way home from shopping. Where older players were happy to win items like golf balls and canned corned beef in small shops, the bigger new parlors try to attract younger players with prizes like leather handbags and Swiss Army knives.
"The service is what makes parlors different -- whether it's clean and you take your kids there and so on," said Takashi Kadokura, who tracks the industry for the Dai-ichi Life Insurance Economic Research Institute.
The amenities are also meant to help dispel the raffish underworld atmosphere that has tainted the industry for decades, much as a whiff of organized crime has tended to hang over the American casino industry. Gangsters have been involved around the margins of the pachinko business, as they have in many cash businesses here, but the government has been tightening regulation of the industry and improved tax collection in recent years, and many retired police officers now serve as guards and security advisers at pachinko parlors.
Some 70 percent of parlor owners are of Korean ancestry. Korea was a Japanese colony before World War II, and many Koreans brought to work in Japan during the war found afterward that they had little choice but to turn to self-employment because most jobs in government and at big companies were closed to them. Many worked hard to assimilate into Japanese society. Mr. Han, who left Korea as a teenager in 1945 and finished school in Kyoto, kept his Korean name but is now a naturalized citizen.
His story is not uncommon. He studied economics and considered a career in fashion, but began working in his brother-in-law's pachinko shop in 1953 because it was a steady cash business. 
As Japan prospered, pachinko thrived, and Mr. Han did well enough in the 1960's to branch out into another booming industry, bowling. At one time, he owned the nation's largest alley, with 120 lanes.
But bowling alleys need a lot of space in a country where land is scarce and expensive, and the economic downturn after the 1973 oil shock found Mr. Han badly overextended; he lost nearly everything he owned. With encouragement from his Japanese banker, he started again in pachinko, concentrating on prime locations near train stations, and was well positioned to ride the 1980's boom and to take advantage of the long slide in asset prices in the 1990's to keep growing.
Mr. Han has one last goal for his business: taking it public. "Just to survive is meaningless," he says. "We have to be winners." 
Pachinko operators are only just starting to win the respect of Japan's business establishment, despite the immense cash flow through the industry. But the growing sophistication of operators like Maruhan is winning more attention.
"Big companies are now coming in to run parlors," said one industry expert. "The business has a perceived cash value and the economy is not performing well. So as the bigger chains move into the business, it's become socially responsible."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Just after opening at 10 a.m., Chang-Woo Han joins customers in one of his company's pachinko parlors. Mr. Han's sales have tripled since 1998 and he expects them to double again by by 2005. (Stuart Isett/Polaris, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); RECESSION (78%); RETAILERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GAMING (75%); TOYS & GAMES (75%); BANK FAILURES (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); RETAIL BAKERIES (72%); MARKET SHARE (72%); COMPUTER GAMES (70%); SKIING (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); DRINKING PLACES (62%); AUTOMAKERS (52%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (52%); BOWLING CENTERS (50%) GAMBLING; PACHINKO (GAME); CASINOS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: MARUHAN CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: MARUHAN CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713990 ALL OTHER AMUSEMENT & RECREATION INDUSTRIES (94%); NAICS713950 BOWLING CENTERS (94%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (94%); SIC7933 BOWLING CENTERS (94%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN; HAN, CHANG-WOO 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (90%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



507 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 730 words

PERSON: D. Gale Johnson 

HEADLINE: D. Gale Johnson Dies at 86; An Expert on Farm Economics 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
D. Gale Johnson, a pioneer in agricultural economics and later an expert on the Soviet Union and China, died Sunday in Amherst, Mass. He was 86.
 The cause was pneumonia related to Lou Gehrig's disease, according to his daughter, Kay Ann. 
 Professor Johnson's career in agricultural economics began in the 1940's, when that area was producing groundbreaking work. Several of his insights presaged other notions that are now hallmarks of macroeconomics and labor economics. 
His study of forward prices for farm commodities foreshadowed the doctrine of rational expectations, which holds that people do not make systematic errors when forecasting repeated, uncertain outcomes, like future prices for corn. 
His research on farm employment helped to pave the way for the concepts of human capital -- taking account of the native knowledge, skills and health of workers -- and self-selection in labor markets, which is the tendency to gravitate toward work that a person finds most fitting or most enriching.
He also contributed to the understanding of relative prices by explaining how farm incomes could rise even as crop prices fell, as a result of changes in productivity and labor costs.
Though he did not have a strong taste for formal models of the sort posited by today's economic theorists, Professor Johnson's thinking usually cut to the core of any issue, said Yair Mundlak, an emeritus professor of agricultural economics and management at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
"He was a man of a great deal of common sense, and a great deal of no-nonsense," Professor Mundlak recalled. "He was looking for the real McCoy. He wanted to go right to the point."
Professor Johnson wrote more than 300 books, chapters and articles, including the Encylopaedia Britannica's entries on agricultural economics, food supply and famine. But speaking about his chosen field in an interview with the magazine of Iowa State University, his alma mater, Professor Johnson said, "Some good work has been done, but I have to say, it's a lot easier than being a farmer."
David Gale Johnson was born on his parents' farm in Vinton, Iowa, and lived there until he went to college. For much of his childhood, he was one of eight students in a one-room schoolhouse.
Attending high school during the Depression, he became active in debate and made presentations at farmers' meetings on New Deal programs. For one debate, he wrote to Theodore W. Schultz, a professor at Iowa State College, as the university was called then, to ask for recommendations of study materials. Professor Schultz took an interest in the young student, who soon enrolled at Iowa State.
At that time, the college boasted one of the top economics departments in the nation. Professor Johnson studied under Kenneth E. Boulding, who later won the John Bates Clark medal as the nation's leading economist under 40, and two future winners of the Nobel in economic science: George J. Stigler and Professor Schultz.
Professor Johnson continued his education at the University of Wisconsin and at the University of Chicago. He returned to Iowa State to finish his doctorate in 1941. Two years later, the president of Iowa State, reacting to pressure from the dairy industry, quashed the publication of a research pamphlet on the economic benefits of using margarine rather than butter during wartime. Incensed, Professor Schultz departed for the University of Chicago; Professor Johnson followed his mentor.
He stayed at Chicago for virtually all of the next six decades, rising to the university's highest endowed professorship in 1970 and serving as provost from 1976 to 1980. He was a frequent adviser to the World Bank and the federal government, including stints on two presidential commissions in the Kennedy administration.
According to a brief autobiography on Professor Johnson's Web site, his interest in agricultural reforms in the Soviet Union began in 1950. A similar penchant for China germinated in 1980. He became an emeritus professor in 1986 and served as director of the Center for East Asian Studies from 1993 to 1998. He received numerous professional honors and was president of the American Economic Association in 1999.
Professor Johnson was married to Helen Wallace from 1938 until her death in 1990. In addition to his daughter, he is survived by a son, David Wallace, of Beaver Springs, Pa., and four grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: D. Gale Johnson in 1991. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); FARM LABOR (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); FAMINE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS (72%); INTERVIEWS (62%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

JOHNSON, D GALE (PROF); ALTMAN, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



508 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: EMERGENCY AID; 
Relief Groups Seek to Keep Pentagon at Arm's Length

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: KUWAIT, April 16 

 BODY:
The planning for relief assistance in postwar Iraq has been so dominated by the Pentagon that private aid groups say they are risking their neutrality by sending workers into the country.
 No major aid organization has declined to work in Iraq because of the Pentagon's role in the relief effort. As security has improved, some groups have entered the country in the last few days to see what is needed. 
 But some organizations have declined to accept United States financing for fear of being perceived by Iraqis and others as extensions of the American military. Other aid groups have accepted money but have sought assurances from the Bush administration that they would be reporting to the State Department, as has traditionally been the case, rather than the Pentagon. 
"As the United States has used its military more to reinforce foreign policy, it has need to win hearts and minds, and humanitarian assistance is one way to do it," said Sandra Mitchell, vice president of International Rescue Committee. The group has accepted American government funding for its Iraq programs, she said, but on the condition that it report to the State Department.
The strong hand of the Pentagon in relief work, she said, reflected "the continuing lack of confidence the administration has in the United Nations system, and its frustration with understanding the role of humanitarian groups and their principle of impartiality."
The Pentagon has wielded its power in every aspect of relief planning -- from running operations centers in Jordan and Kuwait to arguing in Washington over who manages government programs.
In a letter to Secretary of State Colin L. Powell last week, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld made clear his determination that the Pentagon control the delivery of emergency aid in Iraq. Mr. Rumsfeld told Mr. Powell that the Pentagon should manage approximately 50 experts from the United States Agency for International Development, whose work normally falls under the jurisdiction of the State Department.
These experts are supposed to lead Washington's civilian efforts to deliver aid in Iraq, and their leader, Michael Marx, is authorized to make emergency grants to private aid groups.
Officials at A.I.D. say it is important that these experts be kept independent from the military so that they can be free to deliver assistance on the basis of need, rather than as a part of any military objective of winning over the populace.
Mr. Rumsfeld's persistence on the relatively small matter of who controls 50 people symbolized the desire of the Pentagon to keep a tight rein on the relief programs, a senior State Department official said.
Here in Kuwait, the Pentagon and the Kuwaiti military opened the Humanitarian Operations Center, where aid organizations have been invited to register. A similar center is in Amman, the capital of Jordan, which, like Kuwait, is a gateway for aid deliveries into much of Iraq.
In most respects, the centers have taken the role of the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, which managed aid workers in the post-cold-war conflicts in Bosnia, Kosovo and Afghanistan.
Once registered at the operations centers, the aid organizations are allowed to attend morning briefings by the American military. Much of the information provided by the military is about the security situation inside Iraq. There are also broad discussions with soldiers from American civil affairs units about where aid might be needed, several aid workers said.
For leaders of aid organizations, such affiliation with the military even before aid deliveries begin has caused major debates.
"There is a large fear that everything will be seen as being done under the banner of the occupying force," said Nancy Lindberg, the executive vice president of Mercy Corps. "There is concern not only how the Iraqi people view it but how the international community views it."
"We're concerned about the precedent of the military being in charge," she added.
Mercy Corps had decided to accept A.I.D. money for its projects in Iraq, but on the understanding that the State Department would maintain control, she said.
The agency felt it could contribute in Iraq because of its experience in the Middle East, she said, and that its aid workers could maintain an independence from the military once they were in the country.
One aid group, Oxfam America, declined to accept A.I.D. funds for its Iraqi projects. The president of Oxfam, Raymond C. Offenheiser, said that the agency remained committed to a principle that it would not accept money from "belligerents on either side" of a conflict.
"We have not participated in the Humanitarian Operations Center, and will not be subject to taking direction from the United States military," Mr. Offenheiser said. "Our preference is to work with the United Nations structure, where there is impartiality."
One of Oxfam's first contributions would be water purification equipment that is scheduled to arrive Thursday in Kuwait for delivery into southern Iraq through Unicef, Mr. Offenheiser said.
The aftermath of the war was providing "a new template" for assistance, he said. "It is one in which the American military plays a significant role early on and marginalizes the roles of the nongovernmental organizations and the United Nations. It reduces them to subcontractors."
In deference to the nervousness among aid organizations, the military plans to rename the Humanitarian Operations Center when it reopens in Baghdad. It will be called Baghdad Forum, officials involved in its planning said.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Sarah Slobin and Farhana Hossain/The New York Times); (Shehzad Noorani/Unicef) Chart: "Oil for Food: Rations for a Nation"The end of United Nations sanctions against Iraq could also bring the end of the oil for food program, which was the main source of food to 60 percent of Iraq's population before being suspended at the onset of the war. A Month of RationsBelow, the monthly food basket for one person, as distributed before the war. To buy other necessities, many people sold part of their ration to food traders who put the food back on the market at a higher price. POWDERED MILK: 4.4 oz.SOAP: 8.8 oz.DETERGENT: 1.8 lbs.BABY CEREAL: 1.8 lbs.POWDERED BABY FORMULA: 13.2 lbs.VEGETABLE SHORTENING: 2.2 lbs.SUGAR: 4.4 lbs.RICE: 6.6 lbs.WHEAT FLOUR: 17.6 lbs.SALT: 3.5 oz.TEA: 7.1 oz.CHICKPEAS: 8.8 oz.BEANS: 4.4 oz.LENTILS: 4.4 oz. Chart: "Day by Day"Daily rations that the World Food Program had devised to continue to support food distribution. How the Food Was DistributedThe United Nations secretary general approved a distibution plan, generally every six months, outlining how the revenue from oil sales would be distributed to different sectors. 1) The Iraqi government bought food items in bulk for the total population.2) The items were inspected at the ports of entry by independent U.N. agents and sent out to warehouses across the entire country.3) From the warehouses, the food was distributed to 44,326 corner stores, where people picked up their rations with coupons issued by the government and the United Nations. The United Nations governed the distribution of food in three northern areas shown here. The government handled the distribution in the rest of the country. POPULATED AREAS SHOWN IN WHITETOTAL 24,001,816(2002 estimate) (Sources: United Nations Office of the Iraq Program Oil for Food; World Food Program; Unicef)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); TERRORISM (59%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; FOREIGN AID; FOOD 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (84%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (55%) DEFENSE DEPARTMENT; STATE DEPARTMENT; UNITED NATIONS 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%)

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (90%) UNITED STATES (98%); KUWAIT (95%); IRAQ (94%); JORDAN (92%) IRAQ; KUWAIT

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



509 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: New Labor Realities 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:
The airline unions had to swallow the bitter medicine sooner or later.
 Unions in other old-school American industries, notably automobiles and steel, have steadily become weaker over the last two decades as economic downturns and market pressures beat down the biggest companies, forcing them to revamp their business models. The same thing is happening now among the airlines, labor experts say, and the unions will have to adapt to new marketplace conditions or risk losing their relevance. 
 This situation is playing out at American Airlines, where executives struggled over the last couple weeks to obtain $1.8 billion in annual labor concessions. The company threatened to file for bankruptcy protection if it did not cut that much from its payroll. Though the pilots' and ground workers' unions voted in favor of their share of concessions on Tuesday, the flight attendants narrowly rejected $340 million in cuts that same day. 
Only yesterday did they finally agree to concessions after the voting period was extended and flight attendants were told they could change their votes.
The fact that several hundred flight attendants potentially held the fate of the world's largest airline in their hands would seem to point to the continuing power of organized labor. But the bottom line is that given the dismal state of the industry and the overall economy, none of the workers really had much leverage -- they likely would have lost much more if the AMR Corporation, American's parent, had gone into bankruptcy court. Unions and management were playing chicken, as they often do, but the unions were driving a Volkswagen Bug and the company an 18-wheeler.
"I think with the flight attendants, it could just be a cry of frustration," said David L. Gregory, a professor of labor law at St. John's University. "I wouldn't say it's powerlessness, but it's a last desperate cry."
The deregulation of the airline industry in 1978 unleashed market forces that have only recently spurred executives at the largest companies to consider overhauling their business models. The unions are not immune from that pressure to change. When the industry was regulated, high labor costs could be passed on to the consumer through government-fixed ticket prices, but that is impossible now if the big airlines want to compete with low-cost carriers like Southwest Airlines and JetBlue Airways.
The plight of the airline unions also mirrors broad trends in the American economy. Automation, outsourcing and increased worker productivity have resulted in large-scale layoffs in many industries. Workers have been asked to contribute to health care benefits, their pensions have been cut and they have received modest, if any, raises while top executives have in many cases received generous compensation packages. The airline industry is no exception, and this battering has contributed to the weakening of the unions.
In the late 1950's, about 35 percent of workers in private industry belonged to a union, said Charles B. Craver, a professor of labor law at the George Washington University. Membership plummeted over the decades to 8.5 percent last year.
"The thing that's so difficult is workers in this country in the last two decades have just fared very poorly," Professor Craver said. "In the airline industry, they'rebeing affected by competition from lower-cost carriers."
To compete, the big airlines are going to their unions for concessions. The companies, now in such shoddy shape, can wield the powerful cudgel of bankruptcy law. Section 1113 of the United States Bankruptcy Code allows them to ask for the power to void labor contracts if they can prove those contracts are seriously hampering their business. This frightens the unions, which then acquiesce -- if bitterly -- to the executives.
US Airways used this tactic during its eight months in bankruptcy court, and United Airlines, a unit of UAL, is trying it now. American almost certainly would never have been able to obtain its concessions without the threat of imminent bankruptcy. Industry experts expect the other big carriers -- Delta Air Lines, Northwest Airlines and Continental Airlines -- to adopt similar stances in seeking labor cuts.
Of course, unions in the airline industry have generally given concessions during downturns, then demanded generous contracts in return when the economy improves. That will likely be the case again during this cycle. But certain changes taking place now -- widespread layoffs, a revamping of work rules, increased automation -- appear to be permanent shifts that will dilute the power of the unions.
Over the last two decades, the traditional auto and steel companies made productivity changes to their operations that permanently affected the unions. The Big Three automakers went through rounds of layoffs and technological innovation to try to catch up to nimbler Japanese companies, which run nonunion factories in this country. The large steel companies had to do the same when minimills challenged their dominance with new business models.
There is no evidence in either industry that the unions will bounce back from all the cutbacks, even during economic upturns.
"I don't know that there are a lot of people predicting an upswing in union membership," said Paul F. Clark, a professor of labor studies and industrial relations at Pennsylvania State University. "The degree to which the unions survive has to do with their ability to change to these structural shifts. Unions, like other big organizations, don't change quickly."
But Professor Clark also noted that history shows there has always existed a "basic fundamental need for a countervailing power to employers." So though the traditional power of unions may be diminishing in the airlines and other industries, he said, they will most likely continue to serve as a voice of the workers even if they take a different tack. In the auto industry, for example, union leaders have tried to dampen their historic hostility to management to work more closely with executives battling foreign competition.
In the airline industry, unions at the large airlines -- beaten down by the current round of concessions -- might decide they need to cooperate more with management to stave off the growth of the low-cost carriers.
In the end, though, managers will still have to maintain cordial relationships with the unions because employees will always retain some power, especially since this is a service industry. Workers can organize a work slowdown or strike, despite preventive measures outlined in the Railway Labor Act. And they can act downright surly to travelers to show their displeasure at management.
How many passengers have said they bought a ticket on Southwest, JetBlue or a similar carrier because they did not like the attitudes of workers at the bigger companies? Way too many, say executives at the traditional airlines. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AIR FARES (78%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TRENDS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); OUTSOURCING (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (74%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (63%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING); FRINGE BENEFITS; FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; PILOTS; WAGES AND SALARIES; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (84%); AMR CORP (82%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (59%) AMERICAN AIRLINES; AMR CORP; ASSN OF PROFESSIONAL FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; ALLIED PILOTS ASSN; TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION 

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (84%); LUV (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%)

PERSON: ;WONG, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



510 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Ex-Chief Financial Officer Of WorldCom Is Indicted
Scott D. Sullivan, the former chief financial officer of WorldCom whose accounting maneuvers plunged the company into scandal, was indicted on additional federal charges that accuse him of defrauding a series of banks out of billions of dollars.
 Mr. Sullivan was first arrested in August and charged with using illegal accounting to hide expenses when WorldCom was struggling to meet forecasts. Page C2. 

Coca-Cola Posts Quarterly Profit
The Coca-Cola Company said that strong sales of Vanilla Coke and Diet Coke in the first quarter allowed it to reverse course and report a profit despite economic challenges in some places overseas. But a modest growth of 4 percent in worldwide volume disappointed investors, who had been expecting a larger gain. C2.

Morgan Reports Strong Earnings
J. P. Morgan Chase reported stronger-than-expected earnings as low interest rates led to record mortgage refinancings and robust bond trading profits. C3.

Driven by the robust environment for trading and underwriting bonds, Merrill Lynch recorded earnings of $685 million for the first quarter of this year, up 6 percent from the same period last year. C3.

Housing Construction Up in March
Housing construction rose 8.3 percent in March, almost twice as much as economists forecast. C5.

Sun Microsystems Has Small Profit
Sun Microsystems, the computer server maker, reported a small profit for its third quarter despite a 10 percent drop in sales. C13.

Loss Doubles at Northwest Airlines
The loss at Northwest Airlines more than doubled in the first quarter, to $396 million, as the war in Iraq and higher fuel costs battered the travel industry. Richard Anderson, the chief executive, said that he saw no signs that business would improve anytime soon. C4.

Chief Is Ousted at Skandia
Skandia, the Swedish financial services company, dismissed Lars-Eric Petersson, left, as chief executive and brought Leif Victorin, a former deputy chief executive, out of retirement to head the company until a permanent replacement can be found. Analysts view the move as an attempt to restore investor confidence in Skandia, which has been eroded by a disastrous share price performance and the failure of an expansion in the United States. World Business, Section W.

Financial Markets Are Mixed
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 144.75 points, or 1.7 percent, at 8,257.61. It was the biggest decline since March 31, when blue-chip stocks finished 153 points lower. The broader market finished mixed. The Nasdaq composite index rose 3.71 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,394.72. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 10.90 points, or 1.2 percent, to 879.91. C8.

Chemical Industry Under Scrutiny
Authorities in Europe have conducted one investigation after another into anticompetitive behavior in the chemical industry. A dozen inquiries have now come to light over the last four years. World Business, Section W.

A Deficit, Any Way It Is Sliced
When President Bush took office, the government was expected to produce a cumulative surplus over 10 years of $5.6 trillion. The Congressional Budget Office, using a variety of models, recently forecast that with a weaker-than-expected economy and another tax cut proposed by the president, the government would produce a deficit of $1.8 trillion over 10 years. Jeff Madrick: Economic Scene. C2.

As he turns his attention to the economy, President Bush is confronting a reality that many of his predecessors faced: a president cannot do all that much to strengthen the economy so that it is strong for his re-election. A22.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,257.61 down 144.75Nasdaq composite -- 1,394.72 up 3.7110-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.94% down 0.05The euro -- $1.0912 up 0.0097The dollar -- 119.46 yen down 0.68 Graph tracks the share price of Coca Cola since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SCANDALS (89%); AIRLINES (86%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); CHEMICALS (64%); CHEMICALS MFG (64%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); COCA-COLA CO (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (73%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (54%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (54%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%); KO (NYSE) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (73%); JPM (LSE) (73%); 8634 (TSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (73%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (54%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (54%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: RICHARD H ANDERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



511 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-13

War News Summary B2

Bush Administration Tells Israel To Ease Palestinian Crackdown
The Bush administration, under increasing pressure from Arab nations and European allies and seeking to break the impasse over Middle East peace talks, is pressing Israel to ease its crackdown in the West Bank and Gaza once Mahmoud Abbas is installed as the Palestinian prime minister. A1

Penalties Considered for Cuba
The Bush administration is considering a series of sanctions to punish the Cuban government for its recent crackdown on dissidents. Among the more drastic measures is cutting off cash payments to relatives in Cuba or halting direct flights to the island, officials said. A10

Cuba denounced a last-minute amendment -- introduced by Costa Rica at the United Nations Human Rights Commission meeting in Geneva -- to a resolution by several Latin American nations calling for the immediate release of the more than 75 Cuban dissidents imprisoned in recent weeks. A10

European Union Expands
In the European Union's largest expansion ever, leaders of 10 countries signed treaties to join the union, while leaders of the 15 countries already in it sought to bridge the profound rifts between them that had been opened by the war in Iraq. A8

North Korean Negotiations
President Bush has instructed his North Korean negotiating team that the United States will not settle for another freeze on the country's nuclear program, and will insist that the country dismantle both of its major nuclear weapons projects as part of any larger bargain with America, senior administration officials said. A13

Japan Seeks Stronger Defense
Japanese attitudes toward defense are becoming more muscular with the realization of North Korean missile capability. Japan's defense minister called for expansion of antimissile defenses, placing cautious hope in arms control talks between the United States and North Korea. A13

NATIONAL A16-23

Informer's Lavish Lifestyle Detailed by Prosecutors
At a bail hearing for Katrina Leung, a long-term F.B.I. informer who is accused of being a Chinese double agent, federal prosecutors said she and her husband had access to at least $872,000 in domestic bank and retirement accounts and possibly millions of dollars abroad. A16

A Commandment, Not a Law
The city council of Rolling Hills, Calif., voted to repeal an ordinance that prohibited extramarital sex. Until now, adultery was punishable by three months in jail. A16

Writing Test Confounds
A question on the fourth-grade writing section of the Massachusetts Comprehensive Assessment System asked students to write about a snow day that they remember, an impossible task for some, because it has been years since many school districts in the state canceled classes because of snow. A18

G.O.P. Congressional Infighting
The president is trying to convert the momentum of war into new energy for his domestic agenda. But the push could stall on Capitol Hill, which has become a web of recriminations, threats and pressure tactics. And that is just the Republicans. A22

SCIENCE/HEALTH

SARS Fear Grips Bay Area
Along the West Coast, as well as in other parts of the country like New York City, a pervasive fear of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, has taken hold, despite the fact that no one in the United States has died from it. A1

EDUCATION

College Faces Uncertain Future
After losing the battle to win back his institution's accreditation, the president of Morris Brown College has abruptly resigned, leaving its board of trustees vowing to keep open the historically black college. A16

NEW YORK/REGION D1-9

Census Estimates Show A Dip in City Population
The first estimates of population trends in New York City in the wake of the terrorist attacks of 2001 and after the onset of the recession suggest that either fewer people are moving into Manhattan from other parts of the country or more people are moving out -- or perhaps a combination of both. D4

Fraud Inquiry at M.T.A.
Two veteran executives of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority were quietly dismissed last year after investigators developed evidence that they took bribes to allow building contractors to submit fake bills to the agency, according to M.T.A. and other officials with knowledge of the case. D1

CIRCUITS G1-10

Intentionally Offline
A new study from the Pew Internet and American Life Project has found that 42 percent of American adults say they are not connected to the Internet, and a surprising number say they intentionally resist joining the crowd. G1

HOUSE & HOME F1-12

SPORTS S1-7

OBITUARIES C14

ARTS E1-10

The Final Partisan Review
Partisan Review, the quarterly journal of culture and politics that emerged from the ideological ferment of the 1930's to become the house organ for a generation of brilliant American intellectuals and writers, is ceasing publication after 66 years. The journal's final issue is this week. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Flight Attendants Accept Cuts
Flight attendants at American Airlines narrowly approved $340 million in wage and benefit cuts, giving the carrier more breathing room to avert a bankruptcy filing. C1

Bayer Pleads Guilty in Fraud
In the largest ever Medicaid fraud settlement, Bayer agreed to pay the government $257 million and pleaded guilty to a criminal charge after engaging in what the government called a scheme to overcharge an antibiotic. C1

Pension Funds Studied
An examination of the pension funds of the nation's biggest corporations shows that nearly half made assumptions about their 2002 investment returns that would be deemed too aggressive by regulators. C1

Ford Profit Exceeds Forecasts
The Ford Motor Company's efforts to trim its cost structure and revitalize its operations showed signs of progress as the company reported first-quarter results that were double Wall Street's expectations. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: North Korea blinks; filibustering Priscilla Owen; the auditors' auditor; a water plant in the Bronx.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E9
Public Lives D2
Weather C15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ORDINANCES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); ACADEMIC TESTING (63%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (63%); BAIL (61%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (61%); CITIES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); ISRAEL (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CUBA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); SWITZERLAND (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); IRAQ (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



512 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: OIL; 
Iraq Pipeline To Syria No Big Secret, Experts Say

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE with FELICITY BARRINGER 

DATELINE: LONDON, April 16 

 BODY:
Although the Bush administration is moving to shut down a pipeline that provided Iraqi oil to Syria illegally, the United States and American oil companies have long imported Syrian oil, more of which became available after the pipeline opened about three years ago, oil industry experts here said today.
 Industry experts and oil traders said that about a week ago Syria told buyers of its oil that exports would decrease by 200,000 barrels a day for the rest of the year, indicating that it knew the pipeline would be closed or that it had been closed already. 
 Those experts and United Nations diplomats said that the pipeline, which carried 150,000 to 250,000 barrels a day, was an open secret in the industry and the United Nations Security Council. Council members' attempts to get an explanation from Syria were blocked by Russia, France and China, a United Nations diplomat said, and by Syria itself when it became a Council member. 
Both Syria and Iraq benefited enormously from the pipeline, said Fadhil J. Chalabi, a former acting secretary general of OPEC from Iraq and now executive director of the Center for Global Energy Studies in London, a research and consulting concern. "Saddam got cash outside the United Nations fund," he said.
The announcement of the American plans came on Tuesday, when Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said that the United States was about to cut off the pipeline, signaling the administration's willingness to pressure Syria. On Monday, the United States called Syria a "rogue state" after accusing it of harboring Iraqi fugitives and developing chemical weapons.
Under United Nations sanctions, Iraqi oil could be legally exported only through the oil-for-food program. Revenues from oil sales could be used only for food, medicine and other necessities. But the government of Saddam Hussein found several profitable ways to circumvent the program, among them the pipeline to Syria. The diplomat estimated that the Iraqi government reaped about $1 billion a year from the illegal exports to Syria.
The pipeline was built in the late 1940's to ship oil from Iraq's large Kirkuk field in the north to Banias in Syria and Tripoli in Lebanon, Mr. Chalabi said. But political tensions between Syria and Iraq led to the shutdown of the pipeline in 1982, he said.
The pipeline reopened "a couple of years ago," said Axel Busch, who discovered a big increase in Syrian exports as chief correspondent for oil markets at Energy Intelligence Group, an oil trade publishing house. According to assessments by the group and the oil industry, Syria produced about 495,000 barrels of oil a day, 300,000 barrels of it for domestic consumption. That meant the country could export only about 195,000 barrels a day. But based on oil loading contracts from Syria that Mr. Busch obtained, Syria was exporting more than 400,000 a day. 
"Where was the difference coming from?" Mr. Busch said. "A long unused pipeline had suddenly come into use." 
Syria refined the Iraqi oil for domestic use. It bought the illegal oil at a steep discount to world prices, perhaps for $7 or $8 a barrel, Mr. Chalabi estimated. But it exported its own production at the market price, in the process reaping huge profits.
"The great thing is that a whole list of American companies were buying Syrian oil, including ExxonMobil, but they wouldn't buy Iraqi oil," said one oil trader.
Among American buyers of Syrian oil are ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips, said Mr. Busch. A spokesman for ConocoPhillips could not be reached for comment. But Prem Nair, a spokeswoman for ExxonMobil, said that it bought Syrian oil on the spot market, as needed, and that it constituted a small percentage of the oil it refines. She said the company adhered to United States restrictions on the kind of companies it does business with in Syria.
The United States imported Syrian oil and petroleum products in relatively modest volumes ranging from 10,000 barrels a day last October to 30,000 barrels a day in January, according to Energy Department data. 
For the past three years, British and American representatives on a United Nations sanctions committee have charged that the pipeline was being used to circumvent the oil-for-food program.The Syrians, when asked, said the pipeline was used for nothing but tests, or that Syria was "implementing all the resolutions of the Security Council," one Council diplomat said.
"People in the industry," a Council diplomat said, "knew what was going on -- they were buying Syrian oil while the Syrians used Iraqi oil domestically." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); ENERGY RESEARCH (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (65%); FOOD CHARITIES (63%); CONSUMPTION (60%); TERRORISM (59%); PUBLISHING (50%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; PIPELINES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SYRIA; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%) ;UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) BANERJEE, NEELA; BARRINGER, FELICITY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); SYRIA (95%); CHINA (79%); LEBANON (79%); FRANCE (57%) IRAQ; SYRIA

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



513 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: CHARITIES; 
Muslims Hesitating on Gifts As U.S. Scrutinizes Charities

BYLINE:  By LAURIE GOODSTEIN 

 BODY:
A large mosque in Santa Clara, Calif., held a fund-raising event last Saturday for an Islamic charity that is raising money for food and medical supplies to send to Iraq. Attendance was strong, bolstered by American Muslims who watched the war on Middle Eastern satellite channels that replayed scenes of wounded Iraqis, thirsty children and looted hospitals.
 But organizers of the event said several wealthy donors privately told them that they were writing smaller checks than they would have liked, or were too afraid to contribute anything at all. 
 With four American Muslim charities shut down by the government over accusations of ties to terrorist groups, and several prominent Muslim donors now indicted or detained, American Muslims say they are scared to do anything that might bring scrutiny from the Federal Bureau of Investigation -- and that includes donating to Islamic charities.
"I have children to raise, I have a business to run, and I don't want to take any chances," said a California entrepreneur named Hasan, who did not want his last name used for fear of attracting attention. He gave $2,000, but says he would otherwise have given $20,000. "I want to do something to help innocent civilians, but how am I going to fight the system here if the F.B.I. comes to me and accuses me of something?" 
At the very moment when American Muslims are most eager to send humanitarian aid to Iraq, many say they fear contributing to the Islamic charities that reach out to them through their mosques and other institutions. Muslims do give to secular and community organizations, but many said they were more familiar and comfortable with Islamic charities, just as many Catholics prefer giving to charities affiliated with their church.
Leaders of about 20 Islamic charities are gathering in Chicago this weekend with a Treasury Department representative to try to figure out how to reassure donors which charities are legitimate and complying with government regulations. But that effort, organized by the Islamic Society of North America, is still in the early stages, those involved said.
The anxiety over charities is only one small indication of the fear and bewilderment felt by many American Muslims. Institutions they once trusted, including three of the best-known Islamic foundations, have been shut down over accusations that they aided terrorists. Prominent members of the American Muslim middle class have been detained or arrested. Thousands of men from many Islamic nations have been required to register, and an unknown number of families have been visited and questioned by agents of the F.B.I.
"We don't know who we can trust, who we cannot trust," said Dr. Wayel Azmeh, a cardiologist in Wichita, Kan. "Psychologically it is very distressing. You feel like anything identified as Islamic is suspect. It is really devastating, really humiliating." 
Since December 2001, 17 Islamic charities worldwide have had their assets frozen, three of those based in the United States: Global Relief Foundation and Benevolence International Foundation, both accused of funneling money to Al Qaeda; and the Holy Land Foundation for Relief and Development, accused by Attorney General John Ashcroft of being "the North American front for Hamas."
Compounding the concerns of many Muslims was the news that two prominent Muslims who had donated to those foundations had been arrested or detained. Although it is unclear whether their legal problems have anything to do with their donations, the appearance of a connection was enough to sow fear.
One of those arrested was Jesse Maali, a Palestinian-American entrepreneur who owned a string of tourist stores and restaurants in Orlando. Prosecutors said he funneled money to groups tied to terrorism, including some of the frozen charities, but he was eventually charged last November with a lesser crime: hiring illegal foreigners. 
The other is Maher Hawash, a software engineer in Hillsboro, Ore., who was seized by F.B.I. agents on March 20 and has been detained since then as a material witness. Authorities have not charged him or said why he is being detained. Friends and relatives speculate the reason could be either the $10,000 contribution he made in 2001 to Global Relief Foundation, or because prosecutors want him to testify against six Muslims in Portland charged with aiding terrorism. 
The three frozen charities had been the largest and most familiar to many American Muslims and mosques, some of which turned over hundreds of thousands annually to them. One prominent American Muslim leader said many people were surprised by the indictments of groups they had long trusted. 
"It was shocking," said Sayyid M. Syeed, secretary general of the Islamic Society of North America, in Plainfield, Ind. "They gave us annual reports, and we trusted their reports, we trusted their presentations. So now there is this sense of insecurity, this general sense of anxiety about the charities."
Giving to charity is not optional for observant Muslims, Mr. Syeed said. It is considered an obligation, known as "zakat," and one of the five pillars of the faith. The customary contribution is 2.5 percent of one's annual income. 
American Muslim leaders have asked officials of the Treasury Department, the Justice Department and President Bush himself to release the assets of those three charities so that the money can be given to the needy people for whom it was intended, fulfilling the "zakat" obligation, said Salam Al-Marayati, director of the Muslim Public Affairs Council.
But a Treasury Department official said there was little likelihood the assets would soon be released. He noted that Iraqi government assets seized by the American government after the Persian Gulf war in 1991 were unfrozen only last month.
In addition, four men who ran an unregistered Islamic charity, known as Help the Needy, were indicted in February in Federal District Court in Syracuse on charges of illegally laundering money in Jordanian banks and funneling it to Iraq in defiance of economic sanctions.
Islamic charities that have now stepped into the breach to raise contributions for Iraqis include Islamic Relief, based in England; Kinder USA, a startup based in Dallas; and Life for Relief and Development, based in Detroit and sponsor of the fund-raiser in California last weekend.
Last year the Treasury Department published guidelines for charities. A senior Treasury official said it is up to Muslim organizations and individuals themselves to use the guidelines to determine which charities are above reproach. The official encouraged Muslim groups to create some kind of accreditation system for giving a "stamp of approval" to Islamic charities.
The government says its intention is to help Muslims determine which charities are behaving responsibly. Juan Zarate, deputy assistant secretary for terrorism and violent crime at the Treasury Department, said, "What these guidelines do is at least provide a vehicle for people to start doing due diligence."
However, Umar Moghul, a partner in the law firm of Ahmed & Moghul LLP, in Manhasset, who has studied the guidelines, said it is beyond the capacity of most donors, and even many foundations, to comply with guidelines. Compliance requires, for example, detailed information about the names and legal status of groups and staff members overseas that administer the American contributions.
"You have to question just how practical it is to obtain this information," Mr. Moghul said. "While people are dying you're waiting to get certified copies of passports."
In the meantime, American Muslims said they were redirecting their contributions. They are giving more to local mosques and soup kitchens. They are sending money directly to people with family or friends in Iraq. And they are seeking out non-Muslim charities.
Mr. Moghul said that as for Muslim charities, "A donor can't really donate with absolute confidence in the current environment."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Wayel Azmeh of Wichita, Kan., described the difficulty faced by Muslim donors, "You feel like anything identified as Islamic is suspect." (Larry Smith for The New York Times)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (92%); FUNDRAISING (91%); TERRORISM (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); CHARITIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); INDICTMENTS (74%); CHARITABLE GIVING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); FAMILY (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (63%) TERRORISM; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; PHILANTHROPY; ISLAM 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%) TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 

PERSON: GOODSTEIN, LAURIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) ; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



514 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Flight Attendants Approve Concessions at American 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:
Flight attendants at American Airlines narrowly approved $340 million in annual wage and benefit cuts yesterday, giving the carrier more breathing room to avert a bankruptcy filing.
 The vote in favor of concessions, 52 percent to 48 percent, came after a tumultuous two days in which the flight attendants initially rejected the cuts by a tiny margin, making theirs the only union to vote against the cuts. 
 Before those votes were counted Tuesday morning, American had said that it would immediately seek protection from its creditors if it did not obtain $1.8 billion in annual concessions from its unions. But the airline, the world's largest, did not follow through after the Association of Professional Flight Attendants announced that its members had voted against the concessions. Instead, American and union leaders extended the telephone voting period until 5 p.m. yesterday in Fort Worth, where the AMR Corporation, the parent of American, is based. Union leaders also allowed members to change their votes, something they had barred before. 
About an hour after voting ended yesterday, the union said its members had voted 10,761 to 9,652 to accept the concessions. The previous day, polling had closed with 9,842 flight attendants -- or 51 percent of voters -- rejecting the concessions. Under the cuts, the flight attendants will take a 15.6 percent pay cut, starting May 1, and about 2,000 will be laid off. Like the agreements with the other unions, there will also be changes to benefits and work rules.
"This has been a race against the clock," Donald J. Carty, the chief executive of AMR, said in a written statement yesterday. "My thanks go to the union leadership and to all our employees who recognized the urgency of our financial crisis and rose to meet the challenge."
Analysts say American is not in the clear yet, though. The carrier is still operating in a travel market that has been pummeled by the United States-led invasion of Iraq and fears about a new respiratory illness that originated in southern China. The company has yet to negotiate significant cost cuts with its aircraft lessors and suppliers, although those talks are expected to be much easier now that American has labor concessions in hand.
"American and the other network carriers continue to struggle with a destructive pricing environment, weak business travel demand and stiffening competition from low-cost carriers," William T. Warlick, an analyst at Fitch Ratings, wrote in an investor's report yesterday. He added that American could find it tough to meet significant debt obligations and liquidity covenants on that debt.
The same workers who just agreed to significant concessions could also become angry over continuing generous treatment of executive pay. Although Mr. Carty agreed last month to take a 33 percent cut in his base salary and forgo a bonus this year, a securities filing yesterday by the company shows that American set up a trust on Oct. 15 to protect executive pension funds. If American entered bankruptcy court, creditors would not be able to touch those funds, the filing said.
When American was negotiating with the Allied Pilots Association over the union members' cuts, the company threatened to wipe out the pilots' pension plan if the company filed for bankruptcy protection, union officials have said.
Though tensions will undoubtedly remain between workers and management, some industry experts said Mr. Carty had performed impressively and partly salvaged what looked to be a questionable tenure by winning the concessions.
"I think this is Don Carty's highest moment," said Darryl Jenkins, director of the Aviation Institute at George Washington University. "If they do go Chapter 11, it will be easy because 90 percent of the issues are already settled. They would be in and out of court in six months."
American began its quest for labor concessions after it said it had already gotten $2 billion in annual cost cuts by making its operations more efficient. Negotiations with its unions were relatively lukewarm until executives began threatening bankruptcy. In the last month, bankers have said that American was lining up $1.5 billion to $1.75 billion in financing to keep operating in bankruptcy court.
Experts say American made headway with its unions because US Airways and United Airlines, a unit of the UAL Corporation, had already laid the groundwork. Both of those companies told their unions that they would invoke Section 1113 of the bankruptcy code to void labor contracts if the workers did not agree to concessions. Workers at US Airways gave two rounds of concessions -- one before entering court, the other one after -- while pilots at United ratified $1.1 billion in cuts last week. United's ground workers and flight attendants will vote on their share of concessions at the end of the month.
American's flight attendants began voting on April 1, and its two other major unions began voting the next week. During the telephone polling, the pilots and ground workers were allowed to change their votes, while the flight attendants were not.
It was a contentious time for all the unions. Although they had reached tentative agreements with American on March 29, there were many challenges by members to the new contract terms. For instance, union leaders told executives that many workers thought the length of the contracts (six years starting May 1) and the annual pay raises outlined in them (1.5 percent starting in 2004) were too onerous.
On Monday night, a half-day before voting was to conclude, leaders at the flight attendants' union asked American to allow them to extend voting for a week, saying that members had not been adequately informed of the new details of the contract. The company turned down the request. But it was the first significant sign that the vote could be going against American.
All three unions closed voting the next morning, and the Allied Pilots Association and Transport Workers Union promptly announced results of their polling. The pilots said 69 percent of their voting members had supported concessions, while the ground workers said 53 percent of their voting members had. Those groups are expected to give $660 million and $620 million in annual cuts.
But the flight attendants' union said in the afternoon that its members had voted by 51 percent to reject the concessions.
Instead of filing for bankruptcy protection, as it had threatened to do, American said it and the union would extend the voting until 5 p.m. yesterday and agreed with union leaders to let members change their votes. The company said to do that, though, it had to pay several million dollars of a loan that had come due on Tuesday.
Last night, it turned out that American's gamble paid off.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The American Airlines counter at Reagan National Airport in Washington. Flight attendants narrowly approved wage and benefit cuts. (Reuters)(pg. C4); Two American Airlines flight attendants -- Judy Skene, left, and Denise Locke -- disagree with another flight attendant, Robert Powell, over wage and benefit concessions to the troubled airline. They were at their union's office in Euless, Tex. (Associated Press)(pg. C1) Chart: "Reining In Costs"Three major airlines, shown in bold, have recently negotiated new labor agreements to reduce costs. Here's how their costs would have stacked up last year if those pacts had been in place. US AirwaysCOST TO FLY ONE SEAT ONE MILE IN 2002: 10.7 cents DeltaCOST TO FLY ONE SEAT ONE MILE IN 2002: 10.3 UnitedCOST TO FLY ONE SEAT ONE MILE IN 2002: 10.0 AmericanCOST TO FLY ONE SEAT ONE MILE IN 2002: 9.9 AlaskaCOST TO FLY ONE SEAT ONE MILE IN 2002: 9.9 NorthwestCOST TO FLY ONE SEAT ONE MILE IN 2002: 9.5 ContinentalCOST TO FLY ONE SEAT ONE MILE IN 2002: 9.2 AirTranCOST TO FLY ONE SEAT ONE MILE IN 2002: 8.5 America WestCOST TO FLY ONE SEAT ONE MILE IN 2002: 8.0 SouthwestCOST TO FLY ONE SEAT ONE MILE IN 2002: 7.4 JetBlueCOST TO FLY ONE SEAT ONE MILE IN 2002: 6.4 (Source: Back Aviation Solutions)(pg. C1) Chart: "Two Airlines, Two Pay Packages"There are differences and similarities in the new labor contracts ratified by United Airlines pilots and American Airlines pilots. As might be expected, the differences partly reflect the relative financial strengths of each company given that one of them, United, is in bankruptcy. Here are some highlights. Graph tracks pilots' pay on 777's for American and United pilots. Graph tracks pilots' pay on 757's for American and United pilots. MAXIMUM REQUIRED FLIGHT TIMEUnited: 89 hours/month*American: 78 hours/month TIME-AWAY-FROM- HOME PAYUnited: 1 hour per 4 hoursAmerican: 1 hour per 3.5 hours VACATION PAY EQUIVALENTUnited: 2:48 hours a dayAmerican: 3:15 hours a day RESERVE PILOTS PAY MINIMUMUnited: 70 hours a monthAmerican: 73 hours a month NIGHT-FLIGHT PAYUnited: Extra $10.50/hour+American: Extra $5/hour *Pilots at United's proposed low-cost carrier would have a 95 hour maximum.+Domestic flights only. (Source: Allied Pilots Association)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (70%); CREDIT BUREAUS (70%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (69%); BONUS PAY (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (60%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; WAGES AND SALARIES; FRINGE BENEFITS; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING); BANKRUPTCIES; BONUSES; FLIGHT ATTENDANTS 

COMPANY: AMR CORP (83%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (59%) AMERICAN AIRLINES; AMR CORP; ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSIONAL FLIGHT ATTENDANTS 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: CARTY, DONALD J; WONG, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



515 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Profits at Apple Computer Are Down 65% in Quarter

BYLINE:  BY LAURIE J. FLYNN 

 BODY:
Citing the sluggish economy and declining sales in some of its core markets, Apple Computer Inc. reported lower profits yesterday, but the results still exceeded analysts' expectations by 2 cents a share.
 The company reported a net profit of $14 million for the fiscal second quarter ended March 29, or 4 cents a share, down 65 percent from $40 million, or 11 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier. Revenue for the quarter was $1.48 billion, down 1 percent from last year, when revenue was $1.5 billion. 
 Analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call had predicted revenue of $1.46 billion for the quarter, and a profit of 2 cents a share in the quarter. The company, based in Cupertino, Calif., announced its earnings after the close of the market's regular trading hours. Apple's stock closed down 1.1 percent at $13.24 in the regular session but rose as high as $13.28 in after-hours trading. 
"Our performance was solid in a very difficult environment," said Apple's chief financial officer, Fred Anderson.
During the first quarter of its fiscal year, Apple reported a loss of $8 million, or 2 cents a share, hurt in part by a $17 million charge against earnings for discontinued operations. Mr. Anderson said that Apple had sold 711,000 Macintosh computers in its second quarter, with 42 percent of them being higher-margin laptop computers. Gross margins for the second quarter were 28.3 percent, up from 27.4 percent a year ago. Apple has also increased its cash hoard to $4.52 billion.
"Basically, notebooks are the one segment of the entire market that is still growing," said Tim Bajarin, an industry analyst with the Creative Strategies Corporation. "From Apple's standpoint, there's always been pent-up demand for lighter Macs." 
Apple's long-term strategy is to expand its network of Apple retail stores. The company now has 53 stores, with plans to have 70 by the end of the year. Traffic to the stores is brisk, Mr. Anderson said, with an average of 4,400 visitors per store each week.
"I was pleasantly surprised by the quarter, given the disruptions throughout the world," said Charles Wolf, a financial analyst at Needham & Company in New York. "The major positive is the performance of the Apple stores, which helped them weather a tough consumer environment right now."
Apple said roughly half of the customers of its stores are buying a Macintosh for the first time, a sign some take to mean its strategy to convert Windows customers is working. Today, Apple's market share still stands at a dismal 3 percent share of the PC market.
In a conference call with analysts, Mr. Anderson said Apple was being hit hardest in the education sector, where state and local governments are cutting school budgets sharply. Apple's sales to education fell 14 percent from the quarter last year. "The consumer market remains the strongest for us," Mr. Anderson said. "Because of budget deficits in many states, like California, education remains a tough market as does the creative market."
Mr. Anderson said the company expected revenue in the current quarter to be relatively flat with only a slight profit.
Apple's earnings news yesterday came in the midst of persistent rumors that the company was in talks to acquire the Universal Music Group, the world's largest recording company, from Vivendi Universal of France. According to published reports, Apple is considering offering $6 billion for the music company. It has had success in the market for MP3 portable music devices and is expected to roll out an online music service soon.
Earlier in the day, Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, issued a statement denying that Apple had made an offer for the Universal music group. That followed a statement by Claude Bebear, a Vivendi Universal board member, denying that he said he expected Apple to offer about $6 billion for the company. During a conference call with analysts, Mr. Anderson declined to discuss the matter.
Wall Street is clearly skeptical that the two companies would be a good fit. Apple's stock fell last week on rumors of a possible deal, reflecting the market's doubts that a merger would be a good idea. 
"What's holding up Apple's stock has been its cash," Mr. Wolf said. "This would burn right through it." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (60%); EXECUTIVES (52%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPANY REPORTS; SALES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SALES; MUSIC; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); NEEDHAM & CO INC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: VIVENDI UNIVERSAL SA 

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (58%) ANDERSON, FRED; FLYNN, LAURIE J; JOBS, STEVEN P; BEBEAR, CLAUDE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



516 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Coca-Cola Reports a Profit, But Fails to Sway Investors 

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
The Coca-Cola Company said yesterday that strong sales of Vanilla Coke and Diet Coke in the first quarter allowed it to reverse course and report earnings despite economic challenges in some places overseas. But a modest growth of 4 percent in worldwide volume disappointed investors, who had been expecting a larger gain.
 Net income in the quarter rose to $835 million, or 34 cents a share, in contrast to a net loss of $194 million, or 8 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. The results included a charge of 3 cents a share related to streamlining initiatives and a penny gain from settlement of litigation. Excluding the one-time items, the results were in line with analysts' expectations, according to Thomson First Call. 
 Revenue increased 10 percent, to $4.5 billion from $4.1 billion.
Company officials said that the number of goods sold -- what they called organic volume -- decreased slightly in North America in the first quarter. Total volume, including growth through acquisitions, increased 3 percent in North America. Much of the increase in overall unit case volume came from the acquisition of the distribution rights to Danone and Evian water.
Andrew Conway, a beverage analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston, commented: "Four percent volume was fine, but the fact that two points of that four came from acquired brands and the underlying volume was closer to two than four, even in a tough environment -- that was below expectations. My expectation was that they would execute better."
In trading yesterday, shares of Coca-Cola fell $2.63, or 6.2 percent, to $39.90.
Steven J. Heyer, Coke's president and chief operating officer, said that the company had outperformed its rivals in the first quarter and gained market share in crucial markets including the United States, Japan, France, Britain and Mexico. Mr. Heyer did not specify how much market share Coke had taken from rivals like PepsiCo in the quarter.
In February, Beverage Digest reported that Coke in 2002 had increased its lead over Pepsiby 0.6 percentage point of market share. Coke has 44.3 percent of the United States' soft drink market, according to Beverage Digest, while Pepsi has 31.4 percent.
"We're pleased with the results that we announced this morning, but not satisfied," Mr. Heyer said in a conference call with analysts and investors. "The first quarter was certainly a time of volatility, but we believe we responded well."
He said that several one-time events had hurt Coke's results but were unlikely to influence business in the months to come. They included a strike at the company's Venezuelan operations and a new deposit law on nonreturnable beverage packages in Germany. Unseasonably cool weather, lower consumer spending and weak economies in many countries have also hurt sales, the company said. Anti-American sentiment directed at Coca-Cola as a result of the Iraq war has not affected Coke's financial returns, it said.
Analysts said Coca-Cola would have to keep a close watch on negative events. Weak economic conditions, for example, could continue.
In North America, noncarbonated beverages continued to be a bright spot. Sales of Dasani, Coke's flagship water brand, increased 22 percent. Powerade grew 16 percent and Minute Maid Lemonades posted double-digit growth.
Shareholders re-elected four members to the company's board yesterday at the annual meeting in Houston. They also elected Maria Elena Lagomasino, the chairwoman and chief executive of J. P. Morgan Private Bank, to a three-year board term.
The company said it had declared a quarterly dividend of 22 cents a common share. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); SOFT DRINKS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); BRANDING (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); NEWS BRIEFS (61%); LITIGATION (55%) COMPANY REPORTS; SOFT DRINKS 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (97%); DANONE SA (FRANCE) (55%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); PEPSICO INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA CO 

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (97%); DNN (BIT) (55%); BN (PAR) (55%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); PEP (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (97%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (52%) SIC2087 OTHER FLAVORING EXTRACTS & SYRUPS; 

PERSON: DAY, SHERRI; HEYER, STEVEN J 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (58%); GERMANY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



517 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Bayer Agrees To Pay U.S. $257 Million In Drug Fraud 

BYLINE:  By MELODY PETERSEN 

 BODY:
In the largest Medicaid fraud settlement, Bayer agreed yesterday to pay the government $257 million and pleaded guilty to a criminal charge after engaging in what federal prosecutors said was a scheme to overcharge for the antibiotic Cipro.
 According to documents turned over to the government by a whistle-blower, Bayer was coached in the scheme by a purchasing manager from Kaiser Permanente, one of the nation's largest health care organizations. 
 The fraud involved selling Cipro to Kaiser at prices lower than the company was charging Medicaid, in violation of a federal law that requires drug makers to give the Medicaid program the lowest price charged to any customer. To cover up the fraud, the Cipro bottles sold to Kaiser were relabled with Kaiser's name and given a different drug identification number. 
In announcing the settlement yesterday, prosecutors in the United States attorney's office in Boston did not charge Kaiser with any wrongdoing. Prosecutors declined to comment on Kaiser yesterday and said the investigation was continuing. 
"There is a commitment to pursuing those who cheat the federal health care programs in any way," said Susan G. Winkler, an assistant United States attorney.
The five-year scheme by Bayer, which unfolded before the 2001 anthrax scare caused a run on Cipro, shows the lengths to which some drug companies will go to profit on the nation's complex prescription drug laws. Rules allow drug makers to keep most pricing data secret. Recently, federal prosecutors have begun focusing on similar pricing schemes as drug costs continue to rise and as whistle-blowers have come forward with documents detailing activities.
Prosecutors also announced yesterday that GlaxoSmithKline had agreed to pay $87.6 million to settle civil charges that it had overcharged the Medicaid program for Paxil, an antidepressant, and Flonase, an allergy spray. That deal also involved relabeling medicines for Kaiser, prosecutors said.
The money from the settlements will be divided by the federal and state governments, which jointly pay for Medicaid. A portion will also go to public health clinics, AIDS programs and other groups that are allowed to buy medicines at the Medicaid price.
About $34 million of the Bayer settlement will go to the estate of a former executive at the drug maker who became a whistle-blower. George J. Couto, the whistle-blower, died in November from cancer at the age of 39.
Bayer, based in Germany, said yesterday that it was pleased to have the matter resolved. The company said it believed that its marketing practices "were responsible and conducted in good faith." It said it did not believe that the settlement would affect its continuing business with the government. 
In a brief statement, Kaiser said it believed that its employees acted in accordance with the law. It said it had been cooperating with investigators for more than three years and would continue to do so.
GlaxoSmithKline said it had agreed to the settlement to avoid the delay and expense of a trial. The company said it "continues to believe that its interpretation of the law was reasonable and in good faith."
Bayer's Cipro scheme began in 1995 when Kaiser threatened to stop buying the antibiotic after Johnson & Johnson offered its medicine, Floxin, at a much lower price, according to documents, including internal memos, that Mr. Couto gave to prosecutors. 
Bayer was desperate to keep the business of Kaiser, a nonprofit health insurer with eight million members, according to documents. Kaiser was buying about $7 million of Cipro each year. In addition, other health groups often follow Kaiser's lead in drug-buying decisions. 
But if Bayer offered to beat the price offered by Johnson & Johnson, Cipro's new price would fall below what Bayer was charging Medicaid, forcing it to pay tens of millions of dollars in additional rebates. 
Alan Mello, a market manager for Bayer, looked for a way to avoid paying the rebates, according to documents. His suggestions included a plan to switch Kaiser patients who were taking Cipro tablets to an injectable form of the drug, which was not subject to the lowest-price requirement, called the best price law. Kaiser rejected that proposal.
In April 1995, according to Mr. Couto's testimony, Kaiser suggested a solution. Bayer would ship Cipro to Kaiser in the usual way, but the words "Distributed by Kaiser Foundation Hospitals" would be typed on each bottle's label along with Kaiser's national drug code number rather than Bayer's. National drug codes, which are kept on a list maintained by the Food and Drug Administration, serve to identify medicines. 
According to Mr. Couto, the executives' reasoning at the time was that the responsibility for reporting the new Cipro price fell to Kaiser. Because Kaiser did not have a Medicaid agreement with the government, the reasoning continued, it did not have to report the new price or pay additional rebates to the government. 
Mr. Couto told prosecutors that Clive Frith, a purchasing manager for Kaiser, had told him that this was not the first such deal that he had put together for Kaiser. "I do this all the time," Mr. Frith had said.
According to F.D.A. records, Kaiser has its own national drug code numbers for dozens of relabeled medicines.
Mr. Couto told prosecutors that when he presented the final details of the Kaiser agreement to his superiors, his boss had joked, "We'll all look good in stripes."
Medicaid fraud investigators and other experts say similar relabeling has been done by many drug companies to hide the deeply discounted prices they charge special customers.
In a study, Dr. Stephen W. Schondelmeyer, a professor of pharmaceutical economics at the University of Minnesota, found that the number of medicines that had been relabeled, much as Bayer did with Cipro, had grown from 791 in 1990 to 20,801 this year. Some of the medicines may have been relabeled for legitimate purposes, he said, but some relabelings appear questionable.
"How do you have competition when you don't even know the price?" Dr. Schondelmeyer asked.
In 1996, Bayer also began relabeling Adalat CC, a blood pressure medicine, with Kaiser's drug code number so that it could also give the health group deeper discounts on that product without lowering the price it was charging to Medicaid.
In 2000, after reading a newspaper article stating that the government was looking into such practices, one Bayer executive left a voice mail message for his colleague, saying that they had known when the Cipro deal was done that someday they "may have to pay the piper." The voice mail message was forwarded to Mr. Couto, who provided a transcript to prosecutors.
Mr. Couto told prosecutors that he had become concerned about the deal after attending a corporate ethics training class in 1999. The ethics seminar was the first such course Bayer had required him to attend, even though six years had passed since he joined the company.
The class began with a video address by Helge H. Wehmeier, who was then in charge of Bayer's United States operations. Mr. Wehmeier said that Bayer executives were expected to obey "not only the letter of the law, but the spirit of the law as well." And he urged them to call his office if they learned of violations. Mr. Couto recalled how the room had erupted with laughter.
Within days of the class, Mr. Couto wrote a memo to his boss, asking how he should react to Mr. Wehmeier's comments given the Kaiser relabeling deals, which he had come to believe were illegal. Mr. Couto said he received no response.
In February 2000, Mr. Couto and his lawyers, the firm of Getnick & Getnick in Manhattan, presented his case to federal prosecutors.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The lawyers Lesley Ann Skillen, left, and Neil V. Getnick, right, review documents before the announcement of a settlement by Bayer. (C. J. Gunther for The New York Times)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); MEDICAID (92%); ANTIBIOTICS (91%); ANTHRAX (90%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); MEDICARE FRAUD (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); DRUG PRICES (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); PRODUCT PRICING (75%); CANCER (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); AIDS & HIV (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (70%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (67%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SUITS AND LITIGATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICAID; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; CIPRO (DRUG); DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); ANTIBIOTICS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LABELING AND LABELS; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; PAXIL (DRUG); ALLERGIES; FLONASE (DRUG); WHISTLE-BLOWERS 

COMPANY: BAYER AG (95%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (91%); KAISER PERMANENTE (84%)

ORGANIZATION: BAYER AG; KAISER PERMANENTE; GLAXOSMITHKLINE 

TICKER: BAYN (FRA) (95%); BAY (MCE) (95%); BAY (BIT) (95%); GSK (NYSE) (91%); GSK (LSE) (91%); BIOC (EGX) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (84%) SIC3089 OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCTS; SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS; 

PERSON: ;COUTO, GEORGE J; PETERSEN, MELODY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (58%) ; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



518 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Census Estimates Show Drop in Manhattan 

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT 

 BODY:
The first estimates of population trends in New York City in the wake of the terrorist attacks of 2001 and after the onset of the recession suggest that either fewer people are moving into Manhattan from other parts of the country or more people are moving out -- or perhaps a combination of both.
 The estimates, released yesterday by the United States Census Bureau, show that some 12,000 fewer people stayed in Manhattan or moved into Manhattan between July 2001 and June 2002 than had done so the previous year. The numbers also show about 6,000 fewer people moving into or staying in Queens. 
 Because the numbers are only estimates, based partly on tax data that at least once have proved unreliable in the past, some demographers cautioned against giving them too much weight. But others said the estimates jibed with other recent data on the city's economic condition. 
"Yes, you always have to take a one-year estimate with a grain of salt," said Christopher Jones, director of economic programs at the Regional Plan Association. "But these numbers are very consistent with the other data source you have to track change, the job data.
"If you look at the same period, New York City lost close to 140,000 jobs, and they were in industries that were primarily in Manhattan or in the airports in Queens. The places that seem to have the biggest decrease in net migration are the places where people live that are most associated with those job centers."
James Parrott, chief economist for the Fiscal Policy Institute, said: "Certainly what we saw in the early 1990's, when a lot of the job loss was in Manhattan, was that steep recession and job declines were accompanied by net domestic outmigration. So it's not surprising to see this."
The Census Bureau's county population estimates, released annually, take into account births and deaths as well as estimates of domestic and international migration. The figures on domestic migration are based on tax returns and Medicare enrollment records.
(Because the Census Bureau did not have updated estimates of international migration, it used the same international migration figures in its population estimates for both 2001 and 2002, according to Lisa Blumerman, chief of the population estimates branch of the Census Bureau.)
Andrew A. Beveridge, a professor of sociology at Queens College who analyzed the new census numbers for The New York Times, found that the population estimate for Manhattan rose from 1.539 million in 2000 to 1.549 million in 2001, then dropped to 1.547 million in 2002.
The figures for Queens also rose and then dropped slightly -- from 2,231,842 in 2000 to 2,238,024 in 2001 to 2,237,815 in 2002.
By contrast, the population estimates for Brooklyn, the Bronx and Staten Island went up, as did the numbers for Nassau, Suffolk, Dutchess, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan and Westchester Counties.
Professor Beveridge traced the changes in Manhattan and Queens largely to a decrease in net domestic migration -- fewer people coming or fewer people staying. While people are always leaving Manhattan and the city, in good times the loss tends to be made up by the arrival of people from elsewhere.
In the year beginning in July 2000, the net domestic migration figure for Manhattan -- the difference between the number of people moving in and leaving -- was minus 14,648, Professor Beveridge found. In the following year, the number was minus 26,829. The Queens numbers went from minus 51,091 to minus 57,001.
"Either it's fewer people coming or it's more people leaving," Professor Beveridge said of the new findings. "It's net outmigration. They're either not being replaced or more of them are leaving. It's probably some of both."
One state official familiar with the numbers, who asked not to be identified, said, "So has the city likely seen an increase in net outmigration? Yes. Does it look like it was in the late 1980's and early 1990's? No."
In the 1970's, a decade of severe fiscal crisis, the city lose over 10 percent of its population. City officials say they do not have reliable estimates of the population losses during the recession of the early 1990's. Some economists put the number in the hundreds of thousands.
Some demographers cautioned against drawing conclusions based on a relatively small one-year change in the numbers. Last year, the Census Bureau had to revise its county estimates after discovering a problem with the tax return data it had used -- a problem the bureau says it has solved.
"While some people may say that it may be indicative of an increase in outmigration or a decrease in the number of people coming to Manhattan, the fact is that that number may just be a blip in the data due to some unforeseen problem, some sort of issue with the data and its quality," said Joseph J. Salvo, director of the population division of the Department of City Planning.
Warren A. Brown, a professor of sociology at Cornell University and director of its New York Statistical Information System, which does demographic research on the state, said, "I would say it's very interesting, and I'd use it as one piece of evidence, and I'd look for other confirming pieces of evidence."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (93%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRENDS (89%); RECESSION (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); COUNTIES (69%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); DISMISSALS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) POPULATION; POPULATION SHIFTS; CENSUS 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%) CENSUS BUREAU 

PERSON: SCOTT, JANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



519 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: A Nation at War 

 BODY:
 In Iraq

LIVING IN CHAOS -- Some of Baghdad's cultural elite who might be expected to be more sympathetic to the American cause are angry about the war, seeing in its destruction a vulgarity that only further degrades Iraq. A1

LIFE IN THE AFTERMATH -- In the town of Qalat Sukkar, 100 miles southeast of Baghdad, the Baath party apparatus managed a system of terror based on the collaboration of neighbors, friends and family members. A1

IRANIAN OPPOSITION BOMBED -- American forces bombed bases of the Mujahedeen e-Khalq, the main armed Iranian opposition group in Iraq, a guerrilla organization that has had thousands of fighters with tanks and artillery along Iraq's border with Iran for more than a decade. Members of the group were expected to surrender soon, officials said. B1

THE IRAQI ECONOMY -- Money continues to spill from Iraq's banking system, industry is at a standstill, and the oilfields that provided almost all government revenue and accounted for most of Iraq's economic output are not operating. It will likely be years before the economy recovers. B1

IN MOSUL -- For a second straight day, marines saying they were acting in self-defense killed Iraqis in the city's main square. Troops seem to have faced difficulties on every front in Mosul, a stronghold of Iraqi nationalism. Mosul is still insecure and electricity and water are still off, six days after troops arrived. B2

The Iraqi Capital

U.S. COMMANDERS MEET AT PALACE -- Tommy R. Franks, Jr., commander of the war on Iraq, sealed his victory by convening a meeting of his top allied land, air, naval and special operations officers in Abu Ghurayb palace. A1

OCCUPIED BAGHDAD -- An interim American-sponsored government claimed power in the capital as Iraqis, wary, battered and confused, tried to resume normal life in a city still a under the thrall of looters and arsonists. A1

LITTLE HOPE AT PRISON -- Scores of desperate Iraqis turned up outside the state security complex in Baghdad where they believe their relatives are trapped in an underground prison. Marines said they searched the complex and discovered nothing. A1

THE MUSEUM -- Curators surveyed damage at the National Museum of Iraq, and expressed both worry at how much might have been stolen in last week's looting and tentative hope that thousands of years of Iraq's cultural heritage might not be lost. B5

Captives and Casualties

STORIESOF THE WOUNDED -- The stories of Capt. Shawn M. Basco, an F-18 fighter pilot and three other servicemen wounded in the last battles. B8

Around the World

PIPELINE WAS OPEN SECRET -- As the White House moved to shut down a pipeline that provided illegal shipments of Iraqi oil to Syria, oil industry experts said the U.S. and American oil companies have long imported Syrian oil. B6

In Washington

BUSH CALLS FOR END OF SANCTIONS -- Having declared Saddam Hussein's rule over, President Bush called on the United Nations to lift economic sanctions on Iraq, moving to allow greater sales of Iraqi oil to help pay for its reconstruction. A1

IRAQI AID DILEMMA -- The planning for relief assistance in postwar Iraq has been so dominated by the Pentagon that private aid groups said they are risking their neutrality by sending workers into the country. B6

THE FATE OF ABU ABBAS -- The White House explored ways of bringing charges against Abu Abbas, an elusive Palestinian terrorist captured in Iraq long wanted for the 1985 hijacking of the Achille Lauro cruise ship. The administration withheld judgment about whether to turn him over to Italy and rejected Palestinian demands for his release. B7

On the Home Front

FEAR IN FACE OF NEED -- With three Muslim charities shut down by the government for ties to terrorist groups, and several high-profile Muslim donors indicted or detained, American Muslims said they are scared to do anything that might bring scrutiny from the F.B.I., including donating to Islamic charities to send humanitarian aid to Iraq. B1

TERROR ALERT LOWERED -- The White House lowered the color-coded terrorism alert level to yellow, or "elevated risk," but said it was still worried that agents of Mr. Hussein might try to conduct terrorist attacks against American targets. B7

THE TALLEST FLAGPOLE -- Saying they want to honor soldiers killed and captured in Iraq, restaurant owners in El Paso said they would begin an effort to collect more than $400,000 to build the nation's tallest flagpole at Fort Bliss. B8

PROPOSAL CONTROVERSY -- A proposal to rename a Phoenix mountain after an American Indian killed in Iraq has led to a nasty fight between Arizona's Democratic governor and some Republican lawmakers. B8

MOURNING A MARINE -- Military officials called the parents of Cpl. Kemaphoom Chanawongse and told them they had found the remains of their son. B8

OVERVIEW OF THE WAR B1

PHOTOGRAPHS FROM BAGHDAD B4-5

MAP OF IRAQ B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (87%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); NAVIES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); ARSON (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



520 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: THE MAYOR'S FISCAL PLAN: STATE BUDGET; 
Who'll Blink In Albany?

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 16 

 BODY:
On the surface, Gov. George E. Pataki seems to have adopted the same strategy this year in his battle with the Legislature over the budget that has worked so well for him in years past: refuse to compromise and then hold out until the political pressure on legislators to act builds to an intolerable level.
 In January, the governor presented an austere plan for closing an $11 billion budget shortfall without raising income taxes. Then he dug in his heels, folded his arms and insisted, if the Legislature wanted to add spending, the leaders of the Assembly and Senate would have to find a way to pay for it. He used similar tactics in 1998 and 2001 and came out on top. 
 But this year the political and fiscal situations are very different, not only because of the size of the state's budget shortfall, but also because of the real-world consequences of Mr. Pataki's cuts and the willingness of legislative leaders to override his veto, if it comes to that. 
Indeed, it is far from clear if Mr. Pataki's ways of dealing with legislative leaders will be effective this time around, political analysts say. No one in the Legislature or the executive chamber is confident about the outcome of the brinksmanship about to be played out in Albany.
On Tuesday, Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, and Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, vowed to pass a budget that restores about $1.9 billion in spending, mostly to education and health care, that the governor had cut when he laid out his $90.8 billion budget in January.
To pay for those restorations, however, the leaders acknowledge that they will have to pass a package of tax increases or other new revenues over the governor's opposition and possible veto, something no Legislature has done in the last century.
"It's easy to say, 'I want to spend more than the executive.' It's another thing to say, 'I want to tax more than the executive,' " said Edmund J. McMahon, a fiscal analyst with the conservative Manhattan Institute for Policy Research. "That's going into new territory for the Legislature."
For his part, Mr. Pataki is gambling that many Republican senators, who hold the majority in that chamber, will not want to run for re-election next year after voting to raise taxes, one senior aide to the governor said.
Conservative leaders are already threatening to challenge incumbent senators next year in primaries if they go along with tax increases.
The governor is also counting on the fact that overriding his vetoes would be a cumbersome process, aides said.
Legislators must take a vote on each and every line the governor strikes out of the budget bills, and on each vote the governor could put pressure on wavering lawmakers, especially those from conservative districts.
That would make it hard for Mr. Silver to repeatedly rally all 103 Democrats in the Assembly's majority to the cause.
"They have to vote on each veto," the senior aide said. "That's a lot of tough votes."
The two legislative leaders, however, believe the political winds are blowing in their favor, and they are betting that a majority of voters willapplaud them for standing up to the governor. Mr. Pataki has proposed balancing the state's books by cutting aid to local school districts and Medicaid spending by more than $1 billion each, as well as raising tuition at state colleges.
The cuts are so deep that they will force local governments and school districts either to enact steep tax increases or slash services. Politicians at all levels of government are panicking at the prospect.
New York City is perhaps the worst case. Mayor Michael R. Blooberg, a Democrat turned Republican, faces a $4 billion gap in next year's budget. This year, he has already raised property taxes and laid off workers. More layoffs are coming in the next fiscal year, the mayor says, and yet deeper cuts will occur unless Albany provides $1 billion in aid or taxing authority, he said.
"Look, we need recurring revenues, No. 1," Mr. Bloomberg said today at a news conference in Chinatown. "We cannot balance the budget with financial gimmickry, one-time shots -- just doesn't work."
With local government leaders across the state screaming they must raise property taxes to compensate for the governor's cuts, Mr. Silver and Mr. Bruno have calculated that their members would rather restore some state spending and raise state taxes than take the blame for the rise in local levies.
Still, the agreement between the Democrats who control the Assembly and the Republicans who control the Senate is tenuous. The leaders have not come to any agreement on what taxes to raise to pay for the restorations, nor have they spelled out in any detail what would be restored. The governor has criticized them for failing to provide a concrete proposal, knowing it would hurt their alliance to talk openly about how they would increase revenues.
Mr. Pataki, meanwhile, does not have to stand for re-election for nearly four more years and can afford to take a stand against raising income taxes. To his mind, one of his most important accomplishments in his eight years is cutting the income tax rate, and he does not want to erase that legacy now, his aides say.
One common theory among legislators and political analysts is that Mr. Pataki secretly wants the Legislature to pass a tax increase and then override his veto. That would leave him able to present himself as the lone defender of low taxes and restrained spending.
"He vetoes parts or all of the budget, and hoping that they override him," said former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who faced the threat of veto overrides during the 1991 fiscal crisis. "Then they override him and they are responsible for the tax increases, and he becomes the lonely hero who spoke out against them but was overwhelmed by a lot of less courageous, grubby politicians."
Mr. Pataki's aides dismiss that theory as bizarre. They say being overridden by the Legislature would not only leave the governor looking powerless, but would also give the state higher taxes. They say Mr. Pataki is a true believer in the power of tax cuts to revive the economy.
"He's made a calculation about where he wants to come out," said Gerald Benjamin, a professor of political science at the State University of New York in New Paltz. "I think he wants to come out in a way least damaging to his pre-eminent achievements: tax cuts."
In the end, what is at stake for the governor is his legacy. Gov. Hugh L. Carey was the last New York governor to veto spending increases that legislative leaders added to state budgets in the early 1980's. Although he was ridiculed as powerless at the time and did not run for re-election, most historians now believe he was right about the state's finances.
"He left town as the lamest of the lame ducks, but he has lived to see himself widely regarded as one of the great governors of the century," Mr. McMahon said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); VETO (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); BRUNO, JOSEPH L (SEN); SILVER, SHELDON (SPEAKER); MCKINLEY, JESSE 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



521 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Planner for Trade Center Rebuilding Resigns 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
The director of planning at the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, who personally invited Daniel Libeskind to enter the design competition for the World Trade Center site, has resigned, officials said yesterday.
 The planning chief, Alexander Garvin, notified the development corporation of his resignation, effective April 25, in a letter submitted last week, the rebuilding officials said. It was accepted after a meeting on Monday between Mr. Garvin and John C. Whitehead, the chairman of the corporation, at which Mr. Whitehead was unable to persuade Mr. Garvin to stay. 
 "In the last 15 months I've achieved most of what I set out to do," Mr. Garvin said yesterday in an interview. "We put design in the forefront of not just the city's but the world's agenda." 
Mr. Garvin was instrumental in the selection of Beyer Blinder Belle as the architecture firm that designed the first set of plans for the rebuilding of the trade center site. Then, when those designs met with near-universal rejection, from the public and from the architecture and design community, Mr. Garvin led the effort to attract world-renowned architects to a design competition for the site, one that resulted in the selection of Mr. Libeskind's winning design, "Memory Foundations."
But Mr. Garvin also clashed sharply with other participants in the rebuilding effort, including officials from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the site, and representatives of Gov. George E. Pataki on the development corporation's board and staff.
Rebuilding officials said that Louis R. Tomson, a longtime Pataki adviser who was president of the development corporation at the time, became incensed at Mr. Garvin after the publication of an article in the Jan. 6 issue of The New Yorker magazine about the design competition. 
The article, by Paul Goldberger, the magazine's architecture critic, focused on Mr. Garvin's role as a key player in the process. Allies of Mr. Pataki said they thought the article did not give proper credit to the role of the governor in pushing the rebuilding effort forward.
Mr. Garvin was known to be more closely tied to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, whose deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding, Daniel L. Doctoroff, had hired Mr. Garvin to work on the design of the city's bid for the 2012 Olympic Games.
One person close to the rebuilding process said Mr. Libeskind was upset over the resignation, which was first reported yesterday in The Daily News and The New York Post. The person said Mr. Libeskind viewed Mr. Garvin as a professional ally who would help him navigate through the bureaucracy that could put up any number of roadblocks to the fulfillment of his design. 
Mr. Libeskind did not respond to a request for comment yesterday.
Fredric M. Bell, executive director of the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects, said he was saddened by the resignation. "With his status as a member of the City Planning Commission and his teaching at Yale, Alex brought together in one mind an understanding of all the complexities that made the World Trade Center so daunting a project," he said.
Mr. Garvin teaches "Introduction to the Study of the City," one of the most popular undergraduate courses at Yale, and he is the author of "The American City," considered by many in the field to be the definitive textbook on urban planning.
No successor has been named, but rebuilding officials said Mr. Garvin's top lieutenant, Andrew Winters, the agency's director of design and development, is a leading candidate for the job.
"Alex has obviously done a great deal in terms of moving the process forward, getting us to the point where we have this tremendous design and laying out a real vision for Lower Manhattan," said Kevin Rampe, the interim president of the development corporation. "We're going to miss him greatly. This is going to be a long process. We're going to see a lot of personnel come and go. We're very fortunate because we have Andrew Winters and the planning team still at the L.M.D.C." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); HIJACKING (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TERRORISM (74%); OLYMPICS (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%); GOVERNORS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%) SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TERRORISM

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%); BEYER BLINDER BELLE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) GARVIN, ALEXANDER; WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



522 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Tenants Evacuate Building Deemed Unsafe 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
Residents of a six-story Harlem apartment building reluctantly began piling their belongings onto shopping carts and hand dollies last night, hours after city officials took the unusual step of ordering everyone to leave immediately, saying the building was in danger of falling apart.
 Confusion reigned and angry words were exchanged outside the building, at 321 St. Nicholas Avenue near 126th Street, as residents confronted City Buildings Department officials, criticizing the decision to vacate and the short notice. 
 "We just need a reasonable time to get things together," said Marvin Campbell, 45, a lifelong resident of the building. "This is criminal. They should've given us 10 days' notice. They just want us out. This is gentrification." 
The Red Cross and the building's managers were offering some of the 48 families in the building temporary housing. By last night, the Red Cross said it had found places for 80 people people, including a 98-year-old woman. Other tenants said they had found places to stay. 
Several tenants expressed outrage, saying that the city gave little notice of the evacuation even though the building's condition had been common knowledge for years. 
"We're all being victimized here," said Stan Marshall, 34, an electronics designer who is one of about 150 tenants. "Elderly people, the sick and people with babies."
A Buildings Department spokesman, Sid Dinsay, said ordering a building vacated in one day for structural reasons was "unusual and rare."
In a gesture acknowledging the exceptional nature of the order, the buildings commissioner, Patricia J. Lancaster, walked through the building herself yesterday morning.
Afterward, she stood on the sidewalk and addressed dozens of tenants. "It seems to us that the entire structure of the building has been compromised," Ms. Lancaster said, adding that the building has been deteriorating for decades.
According to the order to vacate the building, posted by the Buildings Department, steel joists supporting the first floor were corroded, as were gas lines in the basement. The staircases were also in bad shape, the order said. 
The building, weathered but solid to the casual observer, has 66 residential units and is prime real estate, situated less than 10 blocks from Columbia University, Morningside Park, St. Nicholas Park and the stations for several subway lines.
Since 1981, the city has listed the building as effectively abandoned by its owners, and it is a danger to its residents, said Carol Abrams, a spokeswoman for the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development. The previous owners were listed as tax delinquent, and their names were unavailable because the city was still trying to find that information in 23-year-old court records yesterday.
In May 2001, the city transferred title to a nonprofit group authorized to rehabilitate buildings, the Neighborhood Restore Housing Development Fund Corporation. Several residents said yesterday that tenants chose the South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation to manage the rehabilitation. But residents have now petitioned to have the South Bronx group removed, saying it is mismanaging the work.
In an August 2002 letter, Aileen C. Gribbin, an assistant commissioner of housing preservation and development, told the development group that the project was significantly behind schedule and that the group could lose its status as the designated development manager.
By last month, the tenants were petitioning the housing department to install another developer, Harlem Congregations for Community Improvement. Some residents said yesterday that 15 tenants began withholding rent in November to protest the South Bronx group's management of the building.
A complaint filed with the Buildings Department on April 7 said sections of floor had partly collapsed, Mr. Dinsay said, and inspectors issued a notice of violation. On Tuesday, an engineering firm retained by the South Bronx development group recommended a full evacuation, calling the building "structurally unsafe," the firm's report said.
Phillip Morrow, the president of the South Bronx development corporation, said he was unaware that the building was in such bad shape until he received an architectural report on Tuesday evening.
Notification of the evacuation of tenants began on Tuesday night. Ms. Abrams said yesterday that tenants would be offered apartments in Upper Manhattan, where they will pay their current rents, until the building is declared safe. Special arrangements will be made for older residents and families with newborn children, she said.
Last night, officials of Neighborhood Restore and the South Bronx group were steering tenants toward hotels arranged by the Red Cross, but many residents still disputed the city's contention that the building was structurally unsound.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tenants moved out of 321 St. Nicholas Avenue in Harlem last night after an evacuation order was issued saying tat the building was found to be unsafe. The Red Cross stood by to help the tenants find temporary housing. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CHILDREN (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (53%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%) HOUSING; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

ORGANIZATION: BUILDINGS DEPARTMENT (NYC) 

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



523 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2521 words

HEADLINE: THE SARS EPIDEMIC: ASIAN-AMERICANS; 
In U.S., Fear Is Spreading Faster Than SARS

BYLINE:  This article was reported by Jennifer 8. Lee, Dean E. Murphy and Yilu Zhao and written by Mr. Murphy. 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 16 

 BODY:
The rumors have been frantic and virtually impossible to contain.
 In this city's Sunset District, word spread that the owner of a popular dim sum restaurant was gravely ill with severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. In San Gabriel, a suburb of Los Angeles, a flurry of anonymous e-mail messages said the police had closed an Asian supermarket and a restaurant because of SARS outbreaks. 
 In Seattle, there was talk that two cashiers at a grocery store had come down with the disease. And in Honolulu, people said a worker at a roasted-meats shop in Chinatown had been infected. 
None of the reports were true, but the truth did not matter much. Business fell off as thoroughly as if there were a boycott. In San Francisco, even shops near the dim sum restaurant were shunned until a top county health official appeared on the sidewalk on Monday assuring people that the neighborhood was safe.
Along the West Coast, a region whose identity is defined in large measure by its economic and cultural ties to the Pacific Rim, as well as in other parts of the country like New York City, a psychology of fear has taken hold, particularly in Asian immigrant communities. 
The fear about SARS, the mysterious respiratory disease first reported in China, has spread even though no one in the United States has died from the disease. Health officials have seen only limited local transmission in the nation, and the number of probable or suspected cases in the United States is expected to be lowered from 199 to about 30 because of a tighter definition of the disease.
Still, health officials and community leaders say some of the highest levels of anxiety are being reported in states like New York, California and Washington with the most SARS cases or sizeable Asian-American communities.
"We have a large Asian population and a lot of them are going crazy right now," said Dr. Laurene Mascola, chief of the acute communicable diseases control unit for the Los Angeles County Department of Health Services. "We are busy trying to educate people, but the worried mind doesn't always hear. You have to get rid of the anxiety before the thoughts sink in."
The concerns have serious consequences for parts of the American economy. Airlines are cutting back flights to Asia. Travel agents are seeing drops in business. Some delegations are cancelling trips to overseas trade shows. And Chinatowns in cities like New York and San Francisco are suffering, with some businesses reporting a 90 percent drop in revenue from this time a year ago. 
Some store and restaurant owners complain of irrational and galling ethnic stereotyping and attribute losses to frightened out-of-town tourists keeping away from Asian-American establishments. But many say the bigger problem is that the Asian-American community is turning upon itself in fear.

No Lines in Chinatown
In New York's Chinatown, at dinner hour recently, Jijie Hong, the owner of Shanghai Cuisine, sipped tea and pored over a Chinese-language newspaper in the half-empty restaurant. There used to be lines to get in for dinner every day, he said. 
Now only non-Asian customers are coming, Mr. Hong said, not the white-collar, immigrant Asian workers who used to fill the restaurant after work.
"The Americans are more individual-oriented," Mr. Hong said. "If John thinks Chinatown is fine, John will come. But for the Chinese, they act in groups."
Health officials and business people say the Asian immigrant communities are more attuned to what is going on in Hong Kong and China, where they have family and business ties. Trans-Pacific travel, calls and e-mails blur the distinction between what happens here and what happens there.
Much of the speculation about the San Francisco dim sum restaurant, for example, was spread through e-mail correspondence from Hong Kong, the authorities said. Many immigrants in the United States, moreover, are getting their information about SARS from Web sites in Hong Kong, where the authorities are much more alarmed about the disease's spread.
"We have a lot of people who are Web-savvy and bilingual and getting information that is not under our control," said Dr. Susan E. Fernyak of the San Francisco Department of Health. "That is making it much harder."
Public officials are trying to calm the fears. In New York City Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg had lunch today at the Sweet and Tart restaurant in Chinatown with several Chinese business leaders, and madesure that one camera after the next recorded his enjoyment of bay scallops with corn.
Then Mayor Bloomberg held a news conference to emphasize that fear of SARS was hurting business in the neighborhood.
"There are some people that are worried because of SARS," he said. "But there are only 10 cases in all of New York City, not one of them was contracted locally and I think people should not worry about it. I don't worry about it, my family doesn't. It's a great time to come to Chinatown. You can get a table, the food's spectacular."
Still, overcoming the public anxiety, at least so far, has proved nearly impossible, from the strip malls of Monterey Park, Calif., where an elderly Chinese woman this week cleaned her restaurant silverware with sanitary wipes, to the wharfs of Tacoma, Wash., where longshoremen recently refused to unload a ship that they thought carried a crew infected with SARS.
Some recent travelers to Asia even say they are facing pressures from friends and business associates to quarantine themselves upon their return, even though they show no symptoms of any illness.
Kate Zhou, an associate professor of political science at the University of Hawaii, said that after she returned from a recent trip to China, half of her students did not show up for class. When she produced a clean bill of health from her doctor, attendance went back up.
Meanwhile, in San Francisco's Chinatown, the owner of a ginseng shop said his wife now buys groceries in suburban Marin County to avoid unnecessary contact with fellow Asian-Americans.
"I am just wringing my hands and shaking my head as I listen to all that is happening," said Rose Pak, a community leader here in Chinatown, whose office has been flooded with calls. "If you haven't been seen for two weeks, people inquire if you have SARS. Even educated professionals tell me they are afraid to go out. You tell them that it is junk, and they look at you, 'Well, Rose, it is better to be safe than sorry.' "

A Presumption of Quarantine
It was in March that the World Health Organization issued an alert calling SARS a "worldwide health threat" and intense news coverage of the disease began. Since then travel to Asia has dropped significantly. Last month, 10 percent of all flights between the United States and Asia for the April schedule were cancelled, with more service cuts announced since then.
Cathay Pacific Airlines dropped one of its two daily flights to Hong Kong from Los Angeles. Other planes are flying with only a sprinkling of passengers.
Many people who still travel say that their biggest headaches come when they return home and feel compelled to enter a self-imposed quarantine of one to two weeks.
Health officials in the United States insist the isolation is unnecessary unless the traveler exhibits symptoms of SARS and a doctor recommends it, but in some cases the professional advice has fallen on deaf ears.
One quarantine is under way in Seattle, where a trade delegation returning from Shanghai was met with enough suspicion to keep a few delegates away from work.
The group had debated whether to cancel the trade promotion trip, but concluded that Shanghai was sufficiently far away from China's SARS hotspots in Guangdong Province, about 1,000 miles to the south. Even so, about 10 of the 100 people booked to make the trip dropped out.
No one got sick, but worries about SARS prompted about a third of the participants to wear surgical masks on the return flight. They also discussed a voluntary quarantine, but decided against it because Seattle health officials said it was not necessary.
Back in Seattle, though, concerns among co-workers led several employers to ask the participants to work from home. Among the telecommuters is a business columnist at The Seattle Times, Stephen Dunphy, who had covered the delegation. "It was like, 'Steve, if you don't mind, it would make us all feel more comfortable,' " Kerry Coughlin, a spokeswoman for The Times, said. 
Mr. Dunphy did not object, but noted that there had been more reported cases of SARS in the Seattle area than in Shanghai. One night this week, he sneaked into the office to pick up some materials he needed.
"I just did it at a time when no one was here," Mr. Dunphy said. "If they are concerned, I am going to respect that."
Most voluntary quarantines have involved individual travelers, like Shengyi Liu, who decided last week to isolate himself in his one-bedroom apartment in Oakland, Calif., after hearing the worries of friends and relatives.
Mr. Liu, a railroad consultant who had spent a month traveling in China on business, got the first indication that something might be wrong when a friend picked him up at the airport and insisted on keeping the car windows rolled down.
Once at home, his wife, Yanni Zhao, worried about him interacting with their 2-year-old son, Dominic. Mr. Liu said he tried his best to stay away from the boy, but found it impossible. His wife eventually relented, though she has been pumping her husband full of Chinese herbal medicine.
"One of my friends warned me not to let him come back home until seven days later," Ms. Zhao said. "But I felt like it was too cruel to do that. After all, we are a family."
So Mr. Liu has stayed in the apartment, letting his friends and relatives decide for themselves if they want to risk visiting him. 
Mr. Liu said that he feels fine, but that he often replays his travels in his mind, wondering whether he had any encounters with the disease. On the return flight, he sat next to a man who began to sneeze.
"I was so scared," Mr. Liu recalled.
Worriedly, he then turned to a visitor and asked, "But you think I look fine, don't you?"

Impact Greater Than Sept. 11
Some Asian business owners say the economic fallout of the SARS fears has struck them even harder than the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and the general economic malaise that followed. Part of the problem is that Asian immigrants are staying away like never before, in some instances creating entirely new shopping patterns.
For the first time in years, Xiangjun Shi, a Chinese immigrant working at a downtown Manhattan investment firm, used a nearby barber instead of having his hair cut in Chinatown. Lunch has become ham-and-cheese sandwiches instead of stir-fried beef over white rice. "Now is the time for us to exercise some control over our cravings for Chinese food and keep away from Chinatown," Mr. Shi said, adding that he considered the area too risky.
In San Francisco, Raymond Chao, who owns the World Ginseng Center, said the one item that many Asian costumers still shop for in Chinatown is a medicinal root called galanga that some say wards off SARS. Mr. Chao sold out his stock of the root and has been unable to get anymore from his supplier in Guangdong Province.
"He just laughed and said, No way," said Mr. Chao, who said his overall business had dropped 90 percent in recent weeks.
Some overseas business relationships are also suffering, as business people cancel or delay travel to China. Irene Young, a travel agent in Castro Valley, Calif., who was born in China and has many Asian clients, said she was advising them to avoid Asia.
"I know it is bad for the travel business, but I am always honest with my clients," Ms. Young said. "The biggest problem is the unknown. There is nothing out there that says if you take some medicine, you will be fine."
An official travel agency for the Canton Fair, a major trade show in China for merchants selling Chinese goods, said more than 80 percent of bookings from the San Francisco Bay Area had been cancelled. The fair opened this week.
One of those who cancelled, James Fu, said the trade fair was crucial for his souvenir business. But he decided not to attend after customers at another business he owns, a beauty salon and spa in San Francisco's Chinatown, said they would stay away for at least two weeks after he returned home to make sure he was not infected.
"In the Chinese community, rumors are really damaging," Mr. Fu said. "I was worried about my business being affected."
The travel fears have even begun to affect product development for United States companies with production facilities in Asia. Gregor A. Berkowitz, vice president of Moto Development Group, a San Francisco company that advises makers of consumer and computer products in Asia, said Moto had cancelled all face-to-face meetings with managers in Asia. Instead, prototypes were shipped by overnight courier and discussed by telephone or through e-mail.
"There is a lot of contingency planning going on," Mr. Berkowitz said. "Certainly things are not happening as fast as they used to. We are not seeing significant progress on a number of programs."

Changing Behavior Out of Fear
To deal with the SARS fears, people are establishing new routines that make them feel like they are limiting their risk.
Jill Kawahigashi and her husband Richard Welch, of Fremont, Calif., are adopting a baby and expect to leave on May 5 to pick up the 7-month-old girl in central China.
Ms. Kawahigashi's parents have expressed concerns. But the couple, who started the adoption process three years ago, cannot imagine delaying the trip now.
"People understand -- especially other parents -- that nothing can stop you from picking up your child," she said.
Still, the couple are trying to figure how to travel smartly. They have already shortened the trip by canceling sightseeing tours. They have found a flight that does not go through Hong Kong. And they are considering advice from the American consulate in Guangzhou to send only one family member to pick up their daughter's visa.
At the Kin On Health Care Center in Seattle, a nursing home that caters to Asians, employees often wear gloves, but they are now being required to wash their hands for two full minutes when they start work. A photocopied handout reminds them to scrub the backs of their hands vigorously, between fingers and underneath fingernails. Anyone with a cough must wear a mask.
Amid it all, some people are also trying to figure out emerging social protocols. Is it rude to cross the street when someone nearby coughs? Can you disinvite a dinner guest who comes down with a cold? 
Even friendly conversation is under review. Aimee Gerry -- one side of her family is of Japanese descent -- says she often jokes with her white friends about SARS. She said that if someone coughed, "people will point to the person and say, 'SARS!' " But that kind of kidding is not well received among her Asian-American friends.
"I cracked a joke to my Korean friend, and he's like, 'That's not funny,' " said Ms. Gerry, who lives near Los Angeles. "It's a totally different discussion for Asian-Americans. It's a topic of concern."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Kin On Health Care Center in Seattle, some nurses now wear masks to reduce the risk of becoming infected with SARS. (Larry Davis for The New York Times); Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, center, ate in Chinatown yesterday to fight SARS fears and to urge diners to return. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); Shengyi Liu sat with his son Dominic in their apartment in Oakland, Calif., having decided to quarantine himself after a trip to China. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESPIRATORY DISEASE (96%); SARS (95%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (77%); TRENDS (75%); BOYCOTTS (74%); COUNTIES (73%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); REFUGEES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); AIRLINES (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (50%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%) RESPIRATORY DISEASES; SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME (SARS); ASIAN-AMERICANS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ELECTRONIC MAIL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (65%) LEE, JENNIFER 8; MURPHY, DEAN E; ZHAO, YILU; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (77%) CHINA; CALIFORNIA; WASHINGTON (STATE); NEW YORK CITY; CHINATOWN (NYC); NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



524 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section S; Column 6; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: PLUS: PRO FOOTBALL; 
Dolphins Acquire Junior Seau

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
The Miami Dolphins acquired the 12-time Pro Bowl linebacker Junior Seau yesterday in exchange for a late-round draft pick next year.
 Seau wanted to look sharp on his first day, wearing a blue pinstripe suit, a red tie and black size-15 sandals. 
 "These toes are so beat up," he said with a smile in explaining his footwear. "Maybe that's why they kicked me out of San Diego. I never made the dress code." 
 In truth, the Chargers parted with Seau because he is 34 and on the downside of a sparkling career. Seau's relationship with the Chargers soured after 13 seasons, and they gave him permission last month to seek a trade. Describing himself as fired, unemployed and humbled, he quickly settled on Miami as his first choice.
 Seau gives Miami eight Pro Bowl players, including seven on defense, a staggering total for a team that missed the playoffs and has not been to the Super Bowl since 1984.

OFFICER SUES MOSS: Randy Moss of the Minnesota Vikings is being sued by Amy Zaccardi, the traffic officer who says he bumped her with his car. The lawsuit seeks damages for emotional distress, assault and negligence. She also wants an apology.
 Moss pleaded guilty to careless driving and obstructing traffic last December and was fined $1,200 and ordered to perform 40 hours of community service. He was arrested Sept. 24 in downtown Minneapolis and spent the night in jail, accused of using his car to bump Zaccardi, who was directing traffic.

BEARS RELEASE ROBINSON: The Chicago Bears released wide receiver Marcus Robinson yesterday in a move aimed at easing their salary-cap situation.
 Robinson was a starter in 28 of 52 games over five seasons, and holds the team record for receiving yards in a season with the 1,400 he compiled on a career-high 84 catches in 1999. He ranks 16th in Bears history with 187 receptions and 19th in receiving yards with 2,695.
 Robinson played all 16 games for the second time in his career last season, catching 21 passes for 244 yards and three touchdowns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); FOOTWEAR (77%); NEGLIGENCE (77%); DAMAGES (77%); EMOTIONAL DISTRESS (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (71%); ARRESTS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); CIVIL ASSAULT & BATTERY (67%); GUILTY PLEAS (65%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (65%) FOOTBALL 

ORGANIZATION: MIAMI DOLPHINS (94%); MINNESOTA VIKINGS (55%) MIAMI DOLPHINS 

PERSON: SEAU, JUNIOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



525 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Mild Weather and Low Rates Bring Surge inHome Building 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16 

 BODY:
Housing construction grew 8.3 percent in March, almost twice as much as economists had forecast, spurred by low mortgage rates and warmer weather.
 Builders broke ground on 1.78 million homes at a seasonally adjusted annual rate in March, the Commerce Department said. That figure was well above the 1.69 million that economists had expected. 
 "Demand is still there, and the rates are still low to motivate individuals to keep buying," said Bill Natcher, an economist at the National City Corporation in Cleveland. 
Limited inflation has helped the Federal Reserve hold interest rates at a 41-year low. 
March consumer prices excluding food and energy were unchanged from the previous month, the first time that has happened in four years, the Labor Department reported. Core inflation, which excludes food and energy, increased prices just 1.7 percent in the last year, matching the smallest one-year rise since March 1966.
Another report today showed that the Consumer Price Index including energy and food, rose 0.3 percent in March. Costs fell for clothing, computers, hotel rooms and telephone services as companies tried to increase sales at a time of weak economic growth. Gasoline prices have declined with the toppling of Saddam Hussein's government in Iraq, signaling that inflation may moderate in coming months.
On the housing front, the average interest rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage reached a record low of 5.61 percent in mid-March, according to Freddie Mac, a buyer of mortgages. Also, a thaw from the worst snowstorms in seven years in some areas helped builders begin projects in March.
The number of building permits issued, a gauge of future construction, declined 7 percent, to a 1.685 million rate, the lowest since last August, the Commerce Department said. The decrease in permits may suggest that housing starts may begin to decline.
A fourth consecutive week of declining applications for mortgages further suggested a cooling in the housing market. The Mortgage Bankers Association of America said mortgage applications last week fell 8.9 percent to a two-month low as the pace of refinancing slowed.
The drop in applications came as mortgage rates fell last week. The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage fell to 5.7 percent from 5.8 percent a week earlier. The rate has averaged 5.7 percent this year.
Starts of single-family homes last month increased 7.7 percent, to a 1.414 million-unit rate. March starts of multifamily homes gained 10.6 percent, to reach a 366,000 annual rate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); WEATHER (90%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); BUILDING PERMITS (79%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); GASOLINE MARKETS (66%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); MORTGAGES; HOUSING; INTEREST RATES; WEATHER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (71%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSN OF AMERICA; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (71%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (71%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



526 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
A campaign supports going out, having a drink and driving, as long as it is done responsibly.

BYLINE:  By Nat Ives 

 BODY:
IN the latest salvo in the battle over liquor and beer advertising, a new commercial this week encourages people to feel free to have a drink before driving home.
 The spot, part of a larger effort from the American Beverage Licensees and the American Beverage Institute, is a counterattack to what alcohol retailers say are increasingly strident campaigns against drinking and driving. 
 Creeping Prohibition can be seen, retailers say, in a shift from early slogans like "Don't Drive Drunk" to more recent zero-tolerance messages like "None for the Road" and "You Drink and Drive. You Lose." 
"These overly conservative messages tell responsible Americans that they're wrong in going out and having a glass of beer, a glass of wine or a cocktail at dinner, or at a sports venue, and driving home," said Paul Avery, president of the Outback Steakhouse restaurant chain and the American Beverage Institute. "We're just trying to protect ourselves."
Mr. Avery said he admired the success of Mothers Against Drunk Driving and other advocacy groups as well as state and federal authorities in curtailing drunken driving. But they now view alcohol itself as their target, he said.
And public perception seems to be shifting toward zero tolerance for drivers who have had anything at all to drink.
Strong agreement with zero tolerance rose to 48 percent in 2001 from 43 percent in 1991, according to national surveys conducted by the Gallup Organization for the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
While some industry experts sharply questioned whether anything like Prohibition would return to the United States, they said that the industry was clearly worried about its image.
The commercial that ran nationally this week puts on a brave face, making toasts to adults seen clinking glasses in restaurants and bars. "Here's to places where they remember your name," the voice-over says, in an apparent reference to the theme song from the sitcom "Cheers." "Here's to the millions of Americans who, every day of the week, enjoy an evening out with close friends and adult beverages."
The spot closes with the "Drink Responsibly, Drive Responsibly" logo over a busy highway at night. Its sponsors estimate 10 million viewers saw it on CNN and Fox News during its initial run.
As part of the larger campaign, two dozen restaurant chains, including Applebee's, Buca di Beppo, Chevys Fresh Mex, Chili's, Hooters and Outback Steakhouse already display the "Drink Responsibly, Drive Responsibly" logo or print it on their menus. Some liquor suppliers likewise use it in ads or on their Web sites.
"People are finding different ways to get this message out," said Rick Berman, partner at Berman & Company in Washington, which made the commercial as part of its consulting and communications work for the American Beverage Licensees and the American Beverage Institute. "Which I'm hoping literally crowds out this 'don't drink and drive' message, which is not legally, socially or scientifically accurate."
"Otherwise, there are these money-driven agenda groups that will literally change the culture in this country without there being any legitimate reason for having done so."
Executives at Mothers Against Drunk Driving, which is frequently accused by the alcohol retailers' groups of going too far, said that their campaigns had nothing to do with prohibiting responsible drinking.
"These are scare tactics, actually, by the alcohol industry," said Wendy Hamilton, president of MADD, based in Irving, Tex. "We never tell anyone over 21 not to drink alcohol."
MADD does recommend designating a sober driver among a group, because alcohol impairs good decision making about driving, she said.
While pressure on the alcohol industry exists, it is not a significant threat, said K. Austin Kerr, professor of history at Ohio State University in Columbus, who has studied Prohibition.
"There is a movement that comes largely out of health professionals who see the negative side of alcohol abuse who would like to see marketing restrictions," he said. "They have had virtually no success."
And whether some groups would like to see less alcohol consumption, "prohibition" is too strong a word, he said.
"Personally, as a historian of Prohibition, I see nothing in American society in the 21st century that is in any way comparable to what we saw 100 years ago."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A new television commercial, 'Drink Responsibly, Drive Responsibly,' suggests that alcohol still has an acceptable role in socializing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); SPORTS (53%); SPORTS & RECREATION (53%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (53%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ADVERTISING; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; DRUNKEN AND RECKLESS DRIVING 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (62%); OSI RESTAURANT PARTNERS LLC (56%); GALLUP ORGANIZATION (54%)

ORGANIZATION: MOTHERS AGAINST DRUNK DRIVING (55%); NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (54%) AMERICAN BEVERAGE LICENSEES; AMERICAN BEVERAGE INSTITUTE 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (62%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (56%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: IVES, NAT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



527 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: U.S. May Punish Cuba for Imprisoning Critics 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is considering a series of steps to punish the Cuban government for its recent crackdown on dissidents, officials said today.
 Among the more drastic are the possibility of cutting off cash payments to relatives in Cuba -- a mainstay for millions of Cubans -- or halting direct flights to the island, the officials said. 
 President Bush is likely to make a public statement soon about the crackdown, which has stirred grave concern among Cuba policy experts here and dampened the hopes of lawmakers and others seeking to ease the current trade sanctions.
At the same time, the president is expected to issue a stern warning to the Havana government that the United States will not tolerate another exodus of rafters, the officials said. Several times during Mr. Castro's 44-year tenure, most notably in 1980 and 1994, he has relieved internal tensions by allowing mass migrations to Florida. 
In recent weeks, the Castro government has jailed nearly 100 government critics, independent journalists, human rights advocates and others, and sentenced many of them to lengthy prison terms. In addition, Havana last week executed three men who commandeered a ferry and sought to reach the United States, the third such hijacking attempt in a month.
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said on Tuesday that Cuba "has always had a horrible human rights record," but, he added, "It's getting worse."
"When you look at what they have done in recent weeks and recent months with respect to stifling dissent, with respect to arresting people and sentencing them to long years in prison, in jail, just for expressing a point of view that is different from that of Fidel Castro, it should be an outrage to everyone," he said. "It should be an outrage to every leader in this hemisphere, every leader in this world."
Administration officials said they were preparing a variety of options for the president, and no final decisions have been made. The harshest sanctions involve restricting or eliminating the transfer of cash payments, called remittances, to friends and relatives on the island. The payments, sent primarily from South Florida exiles, are a lifeline to millions of Cubans and, with estimates as high as $1 billion, a mainstay of the economy.
Also being considered is a move to limit the number of Americans who travel to Cuba by ending direct charter flights between the countries. Thousands of travelers -- mostly Cuban-Americans visiting family -- board charter flights each month from Miami, New York and other cities.
The Bush administration has already moved to curb other travel to Cuba, worried that it has increasingly become a popular tourist destination, especially for those who oppose American policy. Last month, the administration revoked authorization for travelers engaged in educational programs aimed at increasing contacts between Cubans and Americans.
The Cuban-American community, which has long been a bulwark of support for sanctions, is divided over whether to impose harsh measures. While some Cuban-American lawmakers back new sanctions, the Cuban American National Foundation, which is the most influential exile lobby, has called for protecting the tenuous links between Cubans here and civil society in Cuba.
Officials and Cuba specialists offer a number of explanations of why Mr. Castro has unleashed the most sweeping crackdown on dissidents in years.
Some say the Cuban leader was unnerved by the American-led ouster of an ally, Saddam Hussein in Iraq. Others note that the dissident community, long marginalized in Cuba, had made some strides in recent months, including the collection of more than 11,000 signatures on a petition to introduce democratic reforms. The head of the United States mission in Cuba, James Cason, infuriated Cuban officials by convening meetings of the government critics.
Dagoberto Rodriguez, the chief of the Cuban Interests Section in Washington, which serves as embassy in the absence of diplomatic ties, said that Mr. Cason and other American diplomats had been bankrolling and organizing dissidents, something American officials strongly deny.
"The U.S. government is spreading the notion that these people are imprisoned because of their ideas," Mr. Rodriguez said in an interview. "But they have conspired with the American government."
The repression has deflated efforts to increase contacts through trade and travel to the island. In Congress, majorities in both chambers favor lifting travel restrictions for Americans and advocate greater trade beyond the authorized sale of food and medicine.
But the White House opposes such moves and advocates of greater engagement concede that Havana has made their job much more difficult by locking up its prominent critics. 
Officials said that they were also preparing a strong statement for the president to make on illegal immigration. In recent days, rumors have swirled in various Cuban cities about the prospects for another rafters' exodus. 
"We will not tolerate rafters," said one policy maker. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); PRISONS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HIJACKING (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (74%); IMMIGRATION (73%); REFUGEES (73%); SENTENCING (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); POLITICS (71%); TERRORISM (66%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (60%); TOURISM (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%) HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); MARQUIS, CHRISTOPHER; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); IRAQ (79%) CUBA; IRAQ; FLORIDA

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



528 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Next Test 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16 

 BODY:
As he turns his attention from the war to the economy, President Bush is confronting a reality that many of his predecessors, including his father, faced: a president cannot do all that much to strengthen the economy so it is strong for his re-election.
 In Mr. Bush's case, the Congressional Budget Office, which provides Congress with impartial, expert economic counsel, concluded in March that the overall effect on the economy of the president's tax cuts and spending plans would be negligible. 
 The important report, largely overlooked because of all the war news, stated: "Taken together, the proposals would provide a relatively small impetus in an economy the size of the United States'." 
This conclusion was especially striking because the study was supervised by Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin, new director of the budget office, who was chief economist at President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers. Republican leaders in Congress chose Mr. Holtz-Eakin because of his advocacy of tax cuts and his adherence to supply-side economics.
But economists' doubts that the Bush program could truly turn things around have not deterred the president from an aggressive campaign to persuade people that his proposals are the essential antidote to an ailing economy. 
In the same speech in the Rose Garden on Tuesday when he declared that "the regime of Saddam Hussein is no more" and that "our victory in Iraq is certain," Mr. Bush urged Congress to act quickly on his "pro-growth economic package."
In St. Louis today, the president called his tax proposals a "jobs package" that was crucial "in order for all Americans who are looking for work to find work."
Dozens of administration officials are fanning out across the nation this week and next, while Congress is in recess, to make the same argument. And after a long Easter weekend at his Texas ranch, Mr. Bush will focus on his plan in speeches around the nation, the White House said.
Why are the president and his team expending such an effort if the prospects are not strong that his program will turn the economy around in the next year? A leading Republican strategist said this week: "What is really crucial is that Bush be perceived as being engaged, that people feel he understands that times are not good, that he is deeply concerned and that he is doing everything in his power to fix it."
This reflects the lesson learned from his father's defeat in 1992, this strategist and others said. The senior Mr. Bush was unable to capitalize on his popularity after the 1991 Persian Gulf war because he seemed oblivious to the weak economy, fought Democratic efforts to extend unemployment benefits and did not propose an economic program of his own until many months after the war had ended when his popularity had already begun to slide.
Paradoxically, the Democrats in Congress who are fighting Mr. Bush's tax cut could be playing into his hands politically. If the president's $726 billion plan is whittled to $350 billion, as now seems likely, and the economy fails to improve, the president can blame Congress for not accepting his whole program. And, if the economy does get better, he can still claim the credit.
Even after the fact, economists agree, it is usually impossible to prove which policies led to economic strengthening and which caused deterioration. "There are always so many things going on at once," said Benjamin M. Friedman, a professor of political economy at Harvard. "If the economy does well, you can always say it did so for any of these five reasons, And if it doesn't, you can always say it did better than it would have otherwise."
But that has never stopped voters from rewarding presidents who preside over a strong economy and punishing those in office when the economy is weak.
Mr. Bush wants no part of the policies politicians usually advocate to give the economy a quick jolt: tax cuts for low-income families who are most likely to spend the money right away, public works projects to create construction jobs and job-training programs for the unemployed. 
Such steps are anathema to the conservative economic principles the president espouses. He and his aides even avoid the words "stimulus" and "stimulate," seeing them as Democratic words, and prefer to use the more Republican words "growth" and "grow."
Mickey D. Levy, Bank of America's chief economist, said the president might benefit because the parts of his plan that are likely to survive in Congress are ones that could improve economic performance somewhat from now to the election: an acceleration of rate cuts, new breaks for married couples and an expansion of the child credit and quicker write-offs of business investments.
The part of the plan that is most likely to fall by the wayside, the proposal to eliminate income taxes on most stock dividends, would have little immediate effect on the economy, Mr. Levy said.
If taxpayers have an additional $30 billion in disposable income this year because of various tax cuts and spend it all, Mr. Levy calculated, it could add half a percent to national consumption, change business expectations and lead companies to hire more workers.
But most of the Bush tax cut would be enjoyed by upper- and middle-income families, and much of that money would probably not be spent right away. In a poll this week by National Public Radio, the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation and the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, people nationwide were asked what they would do with a $300 per person tax cut. 
Forty-one percent said they would save or invest it; 40 percent said they would repay debts; and 19 percent said they would spend it outright, hardly enough to generate an economic boom for an election. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EASTER SEASON (71%); EMPLOYMENT (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (63%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%) CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



529 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
EMC Posts Profit but Says Its Customers Remain Wary

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
EMC, the largest independent vendor in the business data storage industry, joined other major technology companies yesterday in reporting solid results for the first quarter. It announced that it had returned to profitability after more than a year struggling to cut costs and update its products. 
 EMC said revenues rose to $1.38 billion, up 6 percent from the first quarter of 2002, and profit margins expanded with the popularity of its latest version of Symmetrix, a refrigerator-size system that can cost $2 million or more. EMC's sales of products and software that are used in networks of less expensive storage devices, including devices made by rival vendors, also grew faster than expected. 
 The results were released before trading began, and investors responded by sending EMC's shares up 62 cents, to $8.39.
EMC, based in Hopkinton, Mass., had net earnings of $35.2 million, or 2 cents per diluted share, in the quarter compared with a loss of $76.9 million, or 3 cents a year ago. EMC said that the economic outlook remained very uncertain but repeated its earlier projections that it would be profitable every quarter of this year. And Bill Teuber, EMC's chief financial officer, forecast profits in the current quarter of 3 cents a share, a penny more than Wall Street's projections.
But Mr. Teuber said that most customers were interested only in products or services that quickly cut their current storage costs, rather than large investments to support major new computer projects. And Joseph M. Tucci, EMC's president and chief executive, said that customers continued to subject investments to more review than usual, causing delays.
In addition, because new technology continues to drive down the cost of storage, increases in the amount of data that businesses store do not automatically translate into growing revenues for data storage companies. "The only way to grow in this market is to take market share," Mr. Tucci said in a conference call with analysts.
EMC is doing just that, thanks to new products and a push to become more software and services driven. EMC said its overall equipment sales were $752 million for the quarter ended March 31, up 1 percent from a year earlier, with $575 million of that coming from its large Symmetrix systems. The Symmetrix sales were driven by the new DMX line, introduced in February, which also helped lift sales of related software. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (93%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (77%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (74%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); MARKET SHARE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: EMC CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: EMC CORP 

TICKER: EMC (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%) SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES; 

PERSON: JOSEPH M TUCCI (79%) FEDER, BARNABY J; TEUBER, WILLIAM; TUCCI, JOSEPH M 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



530 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Sakharov's Widow Opposes Moscow's Plan to Build Monument 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 16 

 BODY:
A long-delayed proposal to erect a monument here to Andrei D. Sakharov, the dissident who became the icon of resistance to Soviet oppression in the 1970's, has run into formidable opposition from an unlikely source: Mr. Sakharov's widow, Yelena Bonner.
 In an interview today, Ms. Bonner urged admirers of her husband "not to give a single kopek" for construction of a $600,000 monument to her husband being considered by Moscow's city legislature. Modern Russia, she said, does not represent the ideals that won Mr. Sakharov the Nobel Peace Prize in 1975. 
 "Today's Russia, with one-third of its population living below the poverty line, Russia waging a cruel and bloody war in which thousands of its soldiers and tens of thousands of peaceful citizens of Chechnya are dying -- this Russia is violently contrasting with the idea of erecting a monument to Sakharov," Ms. Bonner wrote in an open letter posted on several Russian Web sites.
Ms. Bonner said in a telephone interview that she hoped that Moscow "will live long enough to see the day when it would be fit to build this monument, and when Sakharov really will be needed by the Russian people."
That day has not come, she said, adding, "I don't know how long -- five years, 10 years, 20. But sooner or later the society will turn to Sakharov's ideas, to his legacy. Then there will be time to erect a monument."
Ms. Bonner, who now lives in Boston, is a frequent critic of President Vladimir V. Putin, the former head of Russian domestic intelligence.
Both Ms. Bonner and her husband were relentlessly persecuted by the K.G.B.'s domestic security arm in the 1970's and 1980's. Mr. Sakharov, a nuclear physicist who helped develop the Soviet Union's first hydrogen bomb, was sentenced to internal exile for seven years, from 1980 to 1986. 
Moscow's legislature first took up the proposal for a Sakharov monument in 1990, a year after Mr. Sakharov's death, as the Soviet Union was collapsing. Money was scarce, however, and the plans for the monument were shelved.
But Moscow is currently enjoying an economic boom, and its city legislature voted today to approve a proposal by Sergei Yushenko, a liberal federal legislator, to build the monument, but only if Ms. Bonner agreed to it.
In an interview with The Associated Press, Mr. Yushenko said he sympathized with Ms. Bonner's view that Russia has drifted back toward authoritarianism. "But we can't just silently watch it happen," he said. 
In a telephone conversation today, Ms. Bonner disagreed that erecting a statue of her husband would change anything.
She cited news reports of two street protests in Russia -- one against the United States invasion of Iraq and one against the war in Chechnya.
While the Iraq protest drew thousands, she said, the Chechnya demonstration attracted but a few hundred. 
"I ask you: which demonstration would Andrei Sakharov have joined?" she said. "I came to the conclusion that no monument can force society to re-evaluate its values." 
Sergei Kovalyov, another prominent Soviet dissident who is now a member of the lower house of Russia's parliament, said in an interview this evening that he supported Ms. Bonner's decision. Erecting a statue to Mr. Sakharov now, he said, would be "one more hypocrisy" by a government that does not subscribe to Mr. Sakharov's beliefs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); CIVIL WAR (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); APPROVALS (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); SENTENCING (61%); TRENDS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) WINES, MICHAEL; BONNER, YELENA; SAKHAROV, ANDREI D (1921-89); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%) RUSSIA; MOSCOW (RUSSIA); CHECHNYA (RUSSIA)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



531 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
The Congressional Budget Office's updated forecasting methods don't help the White House's argument for tax cuts.

BYLINE:  By Jeff Madrick; Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine and the journal Indicators, and he also teaches at Cooper Union and New School University. His new book is "Why Economies Grow," from Basic Books. E-mail: challenge@mesharpe.com.

 BODY:
WHEN the Bush administration took office in early 2001, the federal government was expected to produce a cumulative surplus over 10 years of $5.6 trillion. This March, the Congressional Budget Office, the bipartisan economic research arm of Congress, forecast that with a weaker economy than expected and still another tax cut proposed by the president, the federal government would produce a deficit of $1.8 trillion over 10 years.
 But some economists have long complained that the conventional forecasts do not take sufficient account of the many potential stimulative aspects of the tax cuts or budget deficits. I think they are right. 
 This year, at last, the budget office decided to provide alternative forecasts and analyze the "dynamic" effects of the president's budget and tax cut proposals. Many were suspicious. The budget office, now run by Douglas Holtz-Eakin, who had been a senior economic adviser to President Bush, sounded as if it might be trying to help justify the administration's policies, including the elimination of taxes on dividends.
But the numbers the budget office ran offered the administration no solace. It found under a variety of situations that the Bush policies, including the just-abandoned $726 billion tax cut proposal (which followed a $1.4 trillion tax cut in 2001), would more likely raise the expected 10-year deficit of $1.8 trillion further, not reduce it. The president's announcement this week that he would accept a tax cut of only $550 billion does not markedly change the analysis. In only a couple of cases did the budget office find the deficit might be reduced, and then at most by 15 percent or so.
How the budget office tackled the problem is a fascinating study in the advances of macroeconomic theory, and its many limitations. It used five different basic models of economic growth to make its forecasts. These models treated the effects of tax cuts, budget deficits, government spending and savings differently.
The first two models were those of two commercial firms, Global Insight and Macroeconomic Advisers -- models partly based on the principles of John Maynard Keynes. They assume that budget deficits can themselves stimulate economic growth by raising demand and creating incentives for businesses to invest. More savings will typically reduce rates of growth in the short run. 
The third model was a version of a long-term growth model derived from the original work of Robert M. Solow, the Nobel laureate. It assumes that technological progress will continue at a constant pace and that more savings on balance will mean more capital investment. 
The fourth and fifth models made assumptions based on theories that argue that rational people will offset the policies of the federal government because they take a long-term view of their own finances and the finances of their offspring. If deficits are high, for example, they will anticipate that the federal government will eventually raise their taxes so they will save more now. The budget office ran several variations of these. 
The models themselves generally cannot determine how some specific cuts, like the dividend tax cuts, would affect the cost of capital, and therefore capital investment. So the budget office made separate estimates. It concluded that the cuts, along with several other aspects of the Bush plan, would have stimulative effects for capital investment by reducing the cost of capital to businesses substantially. Thus, the potential impact of the dividend tax elimination was fully incorporated into the forecasts.
The budget office also estimated that reduced taxes would encourage people to work more. Not all economists would agree. 
Even given these fairly sympathetic assumptions, no model produced good news for the Bush plan. Both Keynesian models showed some stimulative effects in the short run because of the budget deficit, but not enough to reduce the deficits.
The textbook Solow model turned out to reduce the rate of growth and raise the deficit substantially. Higher deficits reduced total national savings and therefore undermined capital investment. 
The growth effects of the other two models were no more encouraging. In fact, the only cases in which the deficits were reduced by as much as 15 percent were when it was assumed that the government would raise taxes in 2014 to stabilize growing debt. The models then concluded that people anticipated this tax increase and saved more now. The higher level of savings resulted in more capital investment in the model, and therefore more growth and lower federal deficits. 
It would be fascinating to plug other government economic policies into these models to see what results they produced. My guess is that more short-term stimulus and tax cuts that are phased out over time would reduce deficits substantially and raise growth rates. 
But the models also highlight the limitations of macroeconomic forecasting. They are all deficient in one way or other, and what one makes of them depends on one's point of viewabout what makes economies grow. The Keynesian models used by the budget office, many argue, do not fully address how productivity can be raised over time. Some of the other models assume all government spending is waste.
At best, then, the models provide a range of sensible outcomes. As Mr. Holtz-Eakin cautions: "This was just the first step. It is by no means the last one."
Also, we should keep in mind that in the real world the basic deficit estimates of the budget office are all optimistic. It is charged only with making projections based on the proposed presidential budget. Many economists believe that the deficit, under more realistic assumptions about government spending and other policy changes, including war costs, will be significantly higher. 
What is clear from the budget office exercise in dynamic forecasts, however, is that the supply-side contention that the tax cuts will somehow pay for themselves is a pipe dream. Deficits will stay high. The Bush budget, with tax cuts, is hard to justify using any model of growth.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Congressional Budget Office this year tried a less conventional analysis of the Bush budget. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (94%) CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) MADRICK, JEFF; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



532 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: THE ECONOMY; 
Baghdad Bank Plundered as Iraq's Economy Falters

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, April 16 

 BODY:
An axe rose and fell above a jeering mob in a narrow street behind Iraq's central bank here as a man worked to crack open a safe. Men with Kalashnikov assault rifles raised in the air shouted for others in the crowd to keep back, then set off a stampede down the street with an extended burst of fire.
 "Sometimes one group opens a safe and then another armed group shoots them dead and takes the cash," said Abdel Wahab Hamid, a 29-year-old unemployed Iraqi, after he had rounded a corner to flee the shooting on Tuesday. 
 Money continues to spill from Iraq's broken banking system, although the amounts are smaller now than they were in the first days after President Saddam Hussein's son Uday reportedly arrived at the bank to load sacks of cash into waiting cars. Since then, armed gangs have been slowly working their way through the strongboxes and vaults. Many people have died in the chaos. 
The rest of the country's formerly government-run economy is faring little better. Almost all of Iraq's thinly spread industry is at a standstill, its offices charred shells, its computers cannibalized or carried off by looters, its paperwork blowing down countless streets. 
The oil fields that provided almost all of the government's revenue and accounted for most of the country's economic output are not operating, largely because the people who ran them have disappeared. Agriculture is about the only part of the economy untouched, although dates and tomatoes do not provide much beyond subsistence. 
American military officials, hoping to jump-start the economy by restoring basic services like electricity and water, complain that the country's leaderless bureaucrats are paralyzed, waiting for commands that no one is giving. In the absence of a viable banking industry, the United States is even flying in dollars in small-denomination bills for emergency payments to workers.
"Ninety-nine percent of the economy was dependent on the government, and that has all stopped," said Mahadi Hindassi, 50, one of Iraq's largest egg suppliers.
Though parts of Iraq's economy are slowly returning to operation, all transactions are being conducted in cash, limiting the amount of business that can be done. And with the banking system devastated, the value of the Iraqi dinar sinking and the larger government economy unable to offer support, it is unclear how long those private businesses now operating can run before they stall again. 
Mr. Hindassi, speaking at his home in Baghdad's wealthy Zaiona neighborhood, said his chicken farm 30 miles south of the capital was facing a shortage of protein concentrate for feed, which he used to buy from government warehouses. But without a government to buy it from he fears his 300,000 chickens will die.
"We were always dealing with the state, but now there is no state," he said, sitting in the marbled receiving room of his palatial villa. 
As war approached, Mr. Hindassi said he and other businessmen began pulling money out of the banks and buying dollars. He used some of his cash to buy goods, including a new blue Mercedes, and some to gird his business for the shock of war. 
He bought generators to keep his egg operations running when the electricity stopped and hired 10 armed guards to keep looters at bay. He stocked a two-month supply of all the essentials he could find to keep his business running.
His egg prices rose briefly by 40 percent because of temporary food shortages caused by the war, but he said any gains had been wiped out by the sinking value of the dinar. Lawlessness has prevented him from buying more dollars, leaving him with a growing hoard of weakening dinars.
On Kefah Street, which is lined with the shuttered offices of currency-exchange shops, Khalid Muhammad, a money changer, said the dinar had dropped to 4,000 per dollar before the war but briefly recovered to about 2,500 dinars before sliding again to 3,500 dinars, "because the thieves have so many dinars that they have stolen from the banks and they want dollars."
Mr. Muhammad said he could not reopen his shop because it was too dangerous. A gun battle on Kefah Street on Tuesday left several people dead. Their bodies had yet to be picked up by late afternoon.
American officials have said they hope to have some Iraqi oil flowing again in a matter of weeks, and they are trying to round up former executives of Iraq's State Oil Marketing Organization to get the industry back on its feet. 
Even so, it will be almost certainly be years before the Iraqi economy recovers. Though Iraq has the second-largest oil reserves in the world, the pumps and pipelines that move the oil to market have been steadily deteriorating in recent years, and the country's production capacity has dropped by a third since the 1991 Persian Gulf war. Upgrading the oil fields will take time and money.
Revenue from Iraqi oil, meanwhile, will not be enough to meet all the competing demands on the country for cash. Iraq owes more than $200 billion in debt and reparations from the 1991 war, an amount that will drain the economy for years unless there is some form of international debt relief.
The question of how to deal with Iraq's foreign debt will be taken up next week at a meeting of creditor nations. The United States, which is owed little or nothing by Iraq, has proposed canceling the debt, but the idea has been resisted by Russia and some other large creditors. 
At the Doura refinery north of Baghdad, workers who have been guarding the refinery with weapons issued by Mr. Hussein's government say they have about one week's supply of gasoline left for the capital. But they say cannot resume their operations until oil starts flowing again in the pipeline from the northern oil fields near Kirkuk.
"The telephone lines are down so we don't even know whether the northern oil fields are operating or not, or whether it is the pipeline itself that is broken," said Raad Rafiq, 45, who is in charge of the pipeline.
For his part, Mr. Hindassi, sipping iced Pepsi from a gold-embossed glass beneath a crystal chandelier in his Baghdad home, said, "I'm hoping there will be a new national government soon, and that the dinar will strengthen as stability returns." 
But, he added, "only God knows" whether his chickens will still be alive then.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An American soldier sat in an armored vehicle surrounded by stacks of Iraqi currency yesterday. American troops removed dozens of sacks of currency from a Baghdad bank after looters tried to rob its vaults. (Hussein Malla/Associated Press)(pg. B4); An Iraqi looter carried a pile of bank notes out of the central bank yesterday. (Marco Di Lauro/Getty Images)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FIREARMS (77%); CHICKEN FARMING (77%); SHOOTINGS (77%); TRENDS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); POULTRY (71%); TERRORISM (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (65%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (64%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (60%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; BANKS AND BANKING; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; LOOTING 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%) SMITH, CRAIG S 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (95%) IRAQ; BAGHDAD (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



533 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: A City on the Ropes 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Nineteen months after Sept. 11 there's still a gaping hole in the heart of Lower Manhattan, and New York City over all is still hurting.
 Instead of moving forward, the city is going backward. 
 This is not obvious. When the weather is nice, as it was yesterday, you get a real sense of the city's vibrancy. Just step outside and start walking and the throngs will carry you through New York's myriad currents. You'll have to detour around construction sites, and dodge a suddenly accelerating cab or a belligerent bus or two. But there'll be theaters and museums along the way, and the world's greatest restaurants, and Central Park and the Bronx Zoo, and riverfronts and oceanfronts, and an endless array of proud neighborhoods squeezed shoulder to shoulder in the miraculously constrained chaos that constitutes the world's greatest city. 
Still, it's a city in trouble.
So there was Mayor Michael Bloomberg at City Hall on Tuesday somberly explaining a budget plan that will throw thousands of city employees out of work and result in a sharp reduction in services. That's being touted as the best-case scenario, which gives you a sense of how rough a situation the city is in. New York's a tough town, but right now it's like a boxer who has been battered for several rounds and can no longer ward off the punches of his opponent. He has no choice but to absorb the blows and hope he doesn't get knocked out.
The mayor has a backup plan, a "doomsday" budget that will go into effect if he does not get the considerable help he says he needs from the state and the municipal unions. In that plan the city gets knocked out.
The governor of New York is George Pataki, a man who is quite capable, if it would serve his purposes, of looking at his watch and telling you it's high noon when in fact it's midnight. If Mr. Pataki is aware of how dire the budget situation is in New York City, he hasn't let on. All he does is mumble about his opposition to "job-killing tax increases."
As both the city and the state sink ever more deeply into fiscal quicksand, it's become clear to most sentient observers that broad-based tax increases of some kind will be necessary to ward off a real disaster. But Mr. Pataki, perhaps distracted by a desire to land a position with the fanatically antitax Bush administration, is not there yet.
Mayor Bloomberg is taking the crisis seriously. He's already pushed through a record increase in the property tax and is imposing billions of dollars' worth of budget cuts.
"There are no good answers," he said. He's asked Albany for a tax on commuters who work in the city and additional state aid. He is also seeking substantial concessions from the municipal unions.
Mr. Bloomberg acknowledged that the city "is having a tough time even maintaining its services," and he said there is a point at which further cuts are simply intolerable. His doomsday budget is frightening. Ten thousand municipal workers would be axed. Up to 40 firehouses would be closed. Sanitation services would deteriorate and municipal pools would be shut down. After-school programs would be eliminated. The police force would be reduced to dangerously low levels. Libraries would close and services for the desperately needy, including the hungry and the homeless, would be further curtailed. The city would be flirting with the kind of environment that almost led to its ruin in the 1970's.
New York City is the glittering jewel of American municipalities. It was attacked by a foreign enemy on Sept. 11, 2001, and it has suffered since then, as have other cities and states, from the effects of a bad economy and dreadful fiscal policies in Washington.
Eventually some help will come from Albany, but it won't be nearly enough and the deterioration of this splendid city will continue. Mr. Pataki's intransigence in the face of a genuine crisis is symptomatic of the reluctance of conservative officeholders to invest in the crucial services that help individuals, and thus a nation, to thrive.
Next year the Republican Party will hold its national convention in New York City, and it will go out of its way to exploit the powerful emotions evoked by ground zero and the memories of Sept. 11. The mayor of New York City, the governor of New York State and the president of the United States are all Republicans.
With that lineup you'd think this city, after all it's been through, could get a break. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (87%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (74%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); GOVERNORS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TAX LAW (64%); PROPERTY TAX (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (55%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING); LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; ORGANIZED LABOR 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%) HERBERT, BOB; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



534 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: RECOVERY; 
BUSH URGING U.N. TO LIFT SANCTIONS IMPOSED ON IRAQ

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON with FELICITY BARRINGER 

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS, April 16 

 BODY:
Having declared Saddam Hussein's rule to be ended, President Bush called on the United Nations today to lift economic sanctions on Iraq, moving to allow greater sales of Iraqi oil to help pay for its reconstruction.
 In a speech here that combined elements of a campaign appearance with a solemn remembrance of lives lost in Iraq and a restatement of his foreign policy principles, Mr. Bush said that "the regime of Saddam Hussein has passed into history" and that it was time to end more than 12 years of sanctions, which have all but halted international trade with Iraq. 
 "Now that Iraq is liberated, the United Nations should lift economic sanctions on that country," he said.
Ending or suspending the sanctions should make it easier to sell Iraqi oil and raise money to repair the physical damage from the war and the economic damage from years of international isolation as well as neglect by Mr. Hussein. Iraqi oil sales are restricted by the United Nations oil-for-food program. 
But dropping the sanctions would require a Security Council vote. Raising the issue before the Council sets the stage for more debate, if not another diplomatic battle with France, Germany and Russia over the administration of postwar Iraq, the status of commercial contracts with Iraq and the awarding of reconstruction contracts.
Administration officials have not drafted a resolution to end sanctions.
"If you ask me, do we have a specific language or specific resolution to propose at this specific moment in time, the answer is no," Ambassador John D. Negroponte said at the United Nations. He said the specifics were still being discussed in Washington.
Scott McClellan, deputy White House press secretary, told reporters that the administration would seek a resolution "in the near future" that would help Iraq "restore a normal trading relationship with the global economy."
As recently as Tuesday, the Security Council committee monitoring the temporary operations of the oil-for-food program was consumed with debates over which contracts would be honored to buy food, supplies and medicines, with representatives of Russia and France often at loggerheads with the United States and Britain, according to two participants in the meeting. Still, some diplomats sent signals that they wanted to find common ground on Iraq and dispel the bitterness left by differences over military action against it.
One option, some Council diplomats suggested, would be to pass a resolution suspending sanctions, but delay a decision to lift them. It was unclear what effect that would have on the legal status of the oil-for-food program, which tightly regulates the use of Iraqi oil revenues.
Before leaving for the speech here and then a long holiday weekend at his ranch in Crawford, Tex., Mr. Bush lowered the domestic terrorism alert level to yellow from orange, where it had been for a month.
He also signed the $79 billion spending bill passed by Congress to pay for the war and the initial reconstruction costs in Iraq. The war has cost more than $20 billion so far, and Pentagon officials are projecting costs of $2 billion a month through Sept. 30, the end of the fiscal year, a senior Defense Department official said today. Those figures do not include the costs of postwar reconstruction.
Dov Zakheim, the Defense Department comptroller, said military operations had cost more than $10 billion, personnel and personnel support costs had approached $7 billion, and munitions and equipment costs had topped $3 billion.
The 1991 Persian Gulf war cost about $60 billion, Pentagon officials said, but most of that was repaid by Kuwait, neighboring Persian Gulf states and other allies.
Appearing before an audience of about 1,000 Boeing workers in a fighter-jet assembly plant here, Mr. Bush said the successes of the United States military "begin right here on the factory floors," a crowd-pleasing line that he used to turn the subject to his tax cut plan. He called early this year for a tax cut worth $726 billion over the next decade, but opposition from Democrats and some Republicans in Congress has left him with a difficult fight to win a tax cut of more than $350 billion.
"I have sent to the Congress a jobs and growth package that will reduce the burden on our taxpayers, that will give you more of your money in your pocket so you get to decide how to save or invest and spend," the president said. "In order for all Americans who are looking for work to find work, the Congress must pass this jobs package as soon as they come back from their recess."
Asked whether the move to lift the sanctions was a signal that the war was over, Mr. McClellan said the military had made "tremendous progress, but there are still objectives that we are working to accomplish."
These include finding any chemical or biological weapons developed under Mr. Hussein. Mr. Bush only glancingly mentioned the banned weapons, which were his primary rationale for going to war with Iraq. Instead, he focused on freeing Iraqis from a government that he said had imprisoned children, tortured dissidents and built palaces for its leaders instead of hospitals for its citizens.
"In Iraq, the world is witnessing something dramatic and something important," he said. "We're seeing the deep and universal desire of men and women to live in freedom."
He did not mention Syria today, after it figured prominently in administration addresses in the last few days, but in Washington, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said he would probably travel to Damascus at some point to "have very candid and straightforward discussions" with President Bashar al-Assad.
After having redefined American foreign policy after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks to focus on pre-empting threats to the United States, Mr. Bush today gave equal weight to ending repression.
"American interests and American founding beliefs lead in the same direction," he said. "We stand for human liberty."
Mr. Bush pointed to the meeting on Tuesday in Ur, Iraq, of leaders from across Iraq as evidence of progress in bringing stability to the country. "They even had some protesters outside the meeting, a sure sign of freedom," he said with a smile.
Mr. Bush's appearance here reflected a White House effort to put the president's wartime popularity to use on behalf of his domestic agenda, and his political standing heading into the 2004 campaign, without giving up his above-the-partisan-fray role as commander in chief.
He was flanked by two F/A-18F fighters, a warplane that flew strikes against Iraq, and he spent much of his address discussing the defeat of Iraq's military and the collapse of Mr. Hussein's government.
"By a combination of creative strategies and advanced technology, we are redefining war on our terms," Mr. Bush said. "Terrorists and tyrants have now been put on notice: they can no longer feel safe hiding behind innocent lives."
Mr. Bush paid tribute to the courage and skill of American and allied military personnel, and especially to those who were killed, saying "these are the men and women who our nation will honor forever."
But while Mr. Bush used the event to show his concern for the American economy, he also has to worry about economic stability in Iraq, which the White House hopes can be transformed into a model of democratic capitalism in the Middle East.
The sanctions are the basis for nearly all the United Nations' ties to Iraq -- its control of billions of dollars of oil revenue, its control of the goods and services purchased by the Iraqi government, and its distribution of food staples relied on by at least 60 percent of the Iraqi population.
The sanctions were imposed against the nation of Iraq, not against any particular government, so they may be lifted before a new government is created.
With sanctions gone, the United Nations would have no legal authority in Iraq, other than what the allied forces give it. The $2.9 billion now in an escrow account would no longer be under United Nations control, and oil sales and other imports and exports could proceed without United Nations supervision.
The resolutions can be abrogated by passing another resolution. But since they were imposed to disarm Mr. Hussein, revoking them means finding that Iraq is free of illegal weapons. The resolutions allow, but may not require, the Council to rely on the judgment of United Nations weapons inspectors. Hans Blix, a chief weapons inspector, is to meet with the Council on Tuesday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); TERRORISM (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (68%); APPROPRIATIONS (66%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (66%); CONTRACT AWARDS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (61%); TRENDS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); JOHN NEGROPONTE (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BARRINGER, FELICITY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%); GERMANY (79%) IRAQ; GERMANY; FRANCE; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



535 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR/AN OVERVIEW: APRIL 16, 2003; 
Palatial War Room, Diminished Alert, Ruined Iraqi Economy

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA 

 BODY:
Gen. Tommy R. Franks, the commander of allied forces in Iraq, met with his top officers inside one of President Saddam Hussein's palaces in Baghdad, marking a symbolic end to the war four weeks after it began. With the Mr. Hussein's government dismantled, President Bush asked the United Nations to lift economic sanctions on Iraq. At home, a decrease in the level of credible threats led the government to lower the terrorism alert by one level, to yellow. 
 LIFTING SANCTIONS -- President Bush flew to St. Louis, where he told 1,000 workers at a Boeing jet fighter assembly plant that Mr. Hussein's government was finished and that it was time for the United Nations to lift economic sanctions on Iraq. Removing the sanctions would make it easier for Iraq to sell its oil, which the administration believes will revive the nation's battered economy and help pave the way for the creation of a democratic government. 
 The sanctions prohibit Iraq from selling any oil except through the oil-for-food program run by the United Nations. 
But lifting the sanctions would require going back to the United Nations Security Council and facing the possibility of another diplomatic clash with France, Germany and Russia over Iraq. 
LOWERED THREAT -- Citing intelligence reports indicating that the threat of terrorist attacks had diminished, the Homeland Security Department lowered the terrorism alert level today to yellow, which puts it in the middle of the five-color warning code. The level had been set at orange, or "high risk," since March 17, the day President Bush issued a 48-hour ultimatum to Mr. Hussein to leave Iraq. New York City officials said the city would remain on orange alert.
ACTION IN IRAQ -- In a symbolic show of power, General Franks met with his top officers in the Abu Ghraib palace, one of Mr. Hussein's sumptuous retreats on the outskirts of Baghdad. General Franks said that the major combat phase of war had ended, but that troops were still rooting out guerrillas who might attack allied forces. 
Though the military mission in Iraq has changed substantially, it is likely to continue for some time, and the cost of the war will continue to rise. So far, Pentagon officials estimate that the United States has spent more than $20 billion, with costs continuing to rise by about $2 billion a month. 
While General Franks was on the outskirts of Baghdad, there was an uneasy calm in the capital's center. More stores reopened, and a Marine patrol caught Iraqi bank robbers. But looters calmly plundered a sugar warehouse and fearful residents stood guard outside their homes. American troops took up positions outside the National Museum, allowing curators to assess what had been lost to looters. The good news was that some pieces locked in the basement for safekeeping might still be there, though it will take months to tally the losses. 
In northern Iraq, a second day of clashes between marines and local townspeople left four Iraqis dead and 10 injured. American officers and local Iraqis disagreed about who fired first. 
SEEKING THE DISAPPEARED -- Every day, scores of people in Baghdad crowd around the old state security complex, which is now guarded by American troops. They shout out the names of relatives and the year they disappeared, begging for some scrap of information in the government's files about where they were taken and how they might be found. It is a quest repeated all over Iraq as the realization sinks in that Mr. Hussein's government has truly dissolved. But the records in Baghdad, as well as in towns and villages, contain only the long list of those who disappeared, and the Iraqis whose willingness to inform on them led to their disappearance. 
COLLAPSING ECONOMY -- The collapse of the huge government agencies that ran Iraq's oil industry and directed almost every aspect of Iraq's output has left the country's economy a shambles. The oil fields that provided most of the government's revenues are shut down and are likely to remain that way for weeks because the people who ran them have fled. Banks have been looted and the few businesses that have reopened operate on a cash-only basis. The United States has decided to fly in American currency to pay workers and jump-start the economy. 
IRANIANS IN IRAQ -- Military commanders revealed that American forces had attacked the bases of an Iranian opposition group that has been based in Iraq for more than a decade. The group, the Mujahedeen Khalq, has thousands of troops backed by tanks and artillery and is considered one of the best-armed opposition groups anywhere. Senior administration officials said the group had been attacked because it served as an extension of the Iraqi military and was used as a de facto security force for the former Iraqi government. But the attacks angered members of Congress from both parties who saw the group as an effective source of pressure against Iran's government. ANTHONY DePALMA

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); ROBBERY (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); CITIES (63%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); BANK ROBBERY (60%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (60%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (54%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%) DEPALMA, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (72%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003 



536 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 4654 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. At many museums children under 12 and museum members are admitted free. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

* "MATTHEW BARNEY: THE CREMASTER CYCLE," Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500 (through June 11). The most anticipated show by any American artist to emerge in a decade or more. "Cremaster," Mr. Barney's nine-year, five-film project, here presented whole for the first time, is an inspired benchmark of ambition, scope and forthright provocation for art in the new century. I recall Elizabeth Murray's describing how Philip Guston's crazy late works gave her heart to do her own mature paintings. Mr. Barney has brought to the art world a new freedom to explore narrative. He has introduced a new repertory of materials, gooey, strange, malleable and synthetic, which nobody thought of as germane before. Never mind that the films and many (not all) of his related sculptures, installations and photographs are very beautiful. The show, an installation itself, brings them together. The earliest "Cremaster" sculptures are film props, cobbled into installations that don't jell. But the latest are better: twin steel towers framed in plastic, a suite of abstract sculptures derived from automobile chassis. Vaseline and plastic combine with cement and steel -- pink and gray, rough and smooth, hard and soft -- the materials sustaining a narrative of formal eloquence. Hours: Saturdays through Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $15; $10 for students and 65+ (Michael Kimmelman).

* "MONTIEN BOONMA: THE TEMPLE OF THE MIND," Asia Society and Museum, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742 (through May 11). The art of the Thai artist Montien Boonma (1953-2000) combines many influences, from Southeast Asian Buddhism to Arte Povera and Joseph Beuys. But his art, by turns witty and somber, is not primarily about hybrid identities; it is about how to forge a life of psychic balance in an unbalanced and unbalancing world. In part he did so through the use of repeated, resonant symbols: the monk's alms bowl, the temple bell. He also turned art into an embracing sensual experience by infusing his installations with healing fragrances. There's nobody like him and nothing in town like this modestly scaled survey show. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays to 9 p.m. Admission: $7; $5, students and 65+ (Holland Cotter).

* "EGYPT REBORN: ART FOR ETERNITY," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (permanent installation). The second and final phase in the museum's reinstallation of its world-renowned holdings of ancient Egyptian art, this dazzling display rounds up more than 600 objects -- from king-and-queen-size monuments to tiny rings and amulets -- from the predynastic period to the 18th Dynasty. Together with the first phase, which opened in 1993 and covers later Egyptian art, visitors will now be able to trace the entire course of this brilliant and complex civilization from its beginnings to its absorption by the Roman Empire in 30 B.C. The heart of the new installation is an introductory gallery that provides a wonderful summation, with a survey of sculptural styles and displays of weapons, pottery, cosmetics, jewelry, furniture and funerary arts. The adjacent galleries are devoted to an extensive chronological survey. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (until 11 p.m. the first Saturday of each month). Admission: $6; $3 for students and 62+ (Grace Glueck).

"FIRST STEPS: EMERGING ARTISTS FROM JAPAN," P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, (through June 16). In Japan, as everywhere else, new art is going in many directions at once, and this biennial juried show gives a sense of what some of those directions are. The 2003 edition for the most part avoids techno-pop painting and sculpture in favor of large-scale installations (a domestic interior made entirely of cookies) and videos (pacing zoo animals, sex-and-violence psychodramas). The most interesting entries take a measured, even somber approach to personal and cultural neurosis, and intimations of mortality recur. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $2 for students and 62+ (Cotter).

* "MANET/VELAZQUEZ: THE FRENCH TASTE FOR SPANISH PAINTING," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through June 8). The Met has clearly called in every chip to make this show spectacular. The first rooms are a virtual survey of great Spanish painting of the 17th and 18th centuries; after that comes a virtual Manet retrospective, with some Degas and Courbet thrown in for good measure; then a virtual 19th-century American overview of the most gifted portraitists influenced by Spanish painting via Manet, Degas and Courbet: Eakins, Chase, Sargent and Whistler. The thesis of Spanish influence on French art is hardly new, but it is explored in such precise and fresh detail, discreetly, without pushing comparisons (in that respect it's not like "Matisse Picasso" at the Modern, notwithstanding the coincidental titled pairings) that you would have to be churlish not to leave edified and amazed. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $12; $7 for students and 65+ (Kimmelman).

* "MATISSE PICASSO," Museum of Modern Art, Queens, 4520 33rd Street, at Queens Boulevard, Long Island City, (212) 708-9400 (through May 19). If you're thinking of skipping it because of the crowds, that's not a good enough excuse. This is one for the ages: an eye-educating, often revelatory parlor game, with the fate of modern art as the stakes. The premise is a little dubious -- the two of them competing as if in stately isolation from everything else going on in art -- but the results look great. Choosing a winner is the sport of the event and the inevitable outcome of pitting titans mano a mano. Matisse comes out looking consistently good. To grasp 20th-century art, Picasso once said, "You ought to see side by side everything Matisse and I were doing." He was right about that. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m; to 9 p.m. on Fridays and Saturdays. Admission: $20; $15.50, students and 65+; under 16 with an adult, free. Reserved tickets: Ticketmaster, (212) 307-5577; or toll free, (866) 879-6662, with Ticketmaster surcharges (Kimmelman).

"ELIE NADELMAN: SCULPTOR OF MODERN LIFE," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 57th Street, (212) 570-3600 (through July20). Despite the clarion title, this exhibition is too monotonous, stiffly installed and short on drawings to do full justice to the erudite, polymorphous achievement of the Polish-born American sculptor Nadelman (1882-1946). Still, don't miss this opportunity to see his work in quantity, especially the streamlined wood figures from the 1920's and the small truculent plaster figurines, which were found in his studio after his death. Their suave economy, ineffable stillness, delicate gestures and seamless blend of historical and popular sources make them among the most complex, fully visual sculptures in Western art. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $12; $9.50, students and 62+ (Roberta Smith).

* "ST. ADOLF-GIANT-CREATION: THE ART OF ADOLF WOLFLI," American Folk Art Museum, 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040 (through May 18). The distinction between insider and outsider art is all but nullified by this stunning show of the densely patterned drawings that Wolfli (1864-1930) made in the last 35 years of his life at Waldau, a mental asylum in Bern, Switzerland. Brought to order by vast architectonic structures that allow several forms of communication to speak at once yet remain distinct, these works are embedded with saints, devils, written texts, mathematical calculations, musical scores and geometric symbols. They treat the eye to a ride through a multicultural terrain bounded by Piranesi, biblical myth, illuminated manuscripts, Tantric mandalas and Swiss cuckoo clocks. And they attest to a vision as ancient as it is modern that verifies both Wolfli's careful observation of his surroundings and Jung's theory of the collective unconscious. Not to be missed. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $9; $5, students and 62+ (Smith).

* "CHRISTIAN SCHAD AND THE NEUE SACHLICHKEIT," Neue Galerie, 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200 (through June 9). Schad's career effectively lasted only 15 years, from around 1915 to 1930, and for just two or three of those years was he doing what deserves to be remembered now. Not much time. But just enough. Schad at his mordant best precisely captured an anxious culture affected by war and the threat of it: his bloodless portraits in Vienna and Berlin suggest deep unease and foreboding beneath porcelain surfaces. They are explicitly unemotional, even when they are frankly erotic, as they frequently are. His drawing, akin to some done by Dix and Grosz, shy away from the issues of class conflict that inflamed both of those other artists. To the end, Schad remained aloof. Hours: Fridays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; $7 for students and 65+ (Kimmelman).

* "THOMAS STRUTH, 1977-2002," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through May 18). This midcareer retrospective is the right event for right now: serious, traditionbound, circumspect about the world. Mr. Struth operates from a chilly peak, where the air is thin. But what results are obsessively meticulous photographs, some of them enormous, like mural paintings. They are hypnotic, silent, slightly claustrophobic, brainy and gorgeous, qualities that can seem in lively tension with one another. Art is a means of "locating yourself in your time," Mr. Struth has said. Standing before his crowded museums and churches, we can become absorbed in the chaos of culture, sacred places made profane. In the jungle we acquiesce tothe spiritual pleasure of solitude. We may find ourselves in our time. Hours and admission: See above (Kimmelman).

* "THE WORLD OF BUDDHISM: SELECTIONS FROM THE MR. AND MRS. JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER 3RD COLLECTION," Asia Society and Museum, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742 (Through Oct. 19). Anyone familiar with the Rockefeller collection is already feeling blissed out by its return to public view. Everyone else will have the delight of a first-time encounter with embodiment of the Buddha in many forms, from an earthly stone figure carved in fifth-century India, to the celestial eighth-century bronze Buddha of the Future, probably made in northern Thailand, and now one of the great art sights of New York. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays to 9 p.m. Admission: $7; $5, students and 65+ (Cotter).

Galleries: Uptown

"LUXURIOUS ESSENTIALS," Kaikodo, 164 East 64th Street, (212) 223-0121 (through April 28). This show is composed primarily of dozens of painted paper fans, representing a minor but flourishing medium in Chinese art. Such respected Ming and Qing period artists as Qiu Ying, Tang Yin, Wen Zhengming, Yun Shouping and Wang Yuanqi are represented in an art that is intimate, affordable and portable (Cotter).

* AGNES MARTIN, "Five Decades," Zwirner & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street, (212) 517-8677 (through April 26). We're used to expecting nuances rather than revolutions in Ms. Martin's art. But this 10-painting capsule survey gives a sense of how varied she can be and has been. It also proves how right she is in referring to herself as an Abstract Expressionist when everyone else has been calling her a Minimalist all these years. She's an engaged, passionate gestural painter with a classicist's emotional tact, a reticent Abstract Expressionist, the way Philip Guston was (Cotter).

* "WEAVING CHINA'S PAST: THE AMY S. CLAUGUE COLLECTION OF CHINESE TEXTILES," China Institute Gallery, 125 East 65th Street, (212) 744-8181 (through June 7). This gallery has a sterling record in presenting small, fine-tuned scholarly shows and this one, imported from the Phoenix Art Museum, exactly fits the description. With precious examples of silk brocades, tapestries and embroideries, including Buddhist ritual pieces, dating from the Jin to Qing dynasty, it gives a vivid sense of the material past in a powerful imperial culture (Cotter).

Galleries: 57th Street

VIJA CELMINS, Susan Sheehan, 20 West 57th Street, (212) 489-3331 (through May 31). Unlike the many painters and sculptors for whom printmaking is a more or less casual diversion, Ms. Celmins invests as much painstaking concentration in it as she does in her paintings. This selection from three decades includes misty etchings of spider webs, rippling waters made in lithography and wood engraving, mezzotinted starry night skies and lithographs of desert fields (Ken Johnson).

LYNN DAVIS, "China," Edwynn Houk, 745 Fifth Avenue, (212) 750-7070 (through May 3). A photographer known for her spectacular pictures of icebergs and Egyptian pyramids takes on China. Towering pagodas, a giant Buddha in a cave, ancient stairs partly submerged in sand, a beautiful minaret with a surface of intricate brickwork: these and other subjects are rendered in large, smooth black-and-white prints. Her relentless monumentalism can make you wonder whether Ms. Davis has a more intimate side (Johnson).

* BILL JENSEN, Mary Boone, 745 Fifth Avenue, (212) 752-2929 (through April 26). Once biomorphic-bristly, Mr. Jensen's compositions seem to have mellowed over the years into softer, less defined forms, his surfaces more grounds for colors than for shapes. The forms in these latest works are really markings, sprawly scrawls and calligraphic gestures that play splashily over contrasting or close-valued grounds, sometimes to gorgeous effect. The star of the show is "Untitled (Ocher and Red)," in which a more definite form, that of a red partial cross, occupies the top half of a glowing field brushed thinly enough to show glints of red beneath it. Harking back to medieval and Byzantine sources, it is a mini-cathedral (Glueck).

Galleries: Chelsea

FERNANDO BERMEJO, "Lights," Generous Miracles, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 352-2858 (through May 13). The light box is popular with photographers but rarely used to illuminate handmade pictures. Black-and-white paintings on paper mounted on light boxes by this Spanish artist suggest possibilities worth exploring. Lighted from behind, his small, brushy pastoral landscapes have a remarkable naturalistic luminosity and his surrealistic visions of trees growing from small boats have a dusky, melancholy poetry (Johnson).

ALEXANDER CALDER, Van de Weghe, 521 West 23rd Street, (212) 929-6633 (through May 23). This sampler includes a huge mobile that is too big for the gallery's main room and a bright red nonmoving abstraction of a winged lion. Best are the smaller mobiles, some hung from the ceiling, some balanced on low structures on the floor. These harmoniously choreographed, Miroesque constellations of sweeping lines and biomorphic shapes might be Platonic models for an ecology of mind and soul (Johnson).

LINDA FLEMING, "Parallel Universe," Linda Durham, 210 11th Avenue, at 24th Street, (212) 337-0025 (through May 8). Ms. Fleming, a California sculptor, develops complex patterns of layered and interwoven bands that are meant to have metaphysical implications. Whatever they mean, a large, intricate, fanlike structure of bolted-together rusted steel parts; a shadow of that sculpture made of puzzled-together black rubber pieces, lying flat on the floor; and a balsa-wood maquette under a glass bubble all have considerable terrestrial presence (Johnson).

VINCENT HAMEL, Howard Scott, 529 West 20th Street, (646) 486-7004 (through April 26). This Dutch artist makes slablike, single-color pictures in which the paint is applied in various ways -- brushed, combed, troweled, rubbed in -- and compels close study of the greasy, crusty or stony-smooth surfaces. Paradoxically, suave colors, ranging from cement gray to raspberry ice cream and powder puff blue, seem at once inextricably embodied and free-floating like a separate spiritual energy (Johnson).

* ELIZABETH MURRAY, PaceWildenstein, 534 West 25th Street, (212) 929-7000 (through April 26). A life lived the way Ms. Murray paints would be nirvana. Her recent works are airy constructions in low relief: ad hoc jigsaw puzzles of freewheeling shapes that lean, nuzzle and jostle one another to make unlikely harmonies of pungent color and abstract pattern. Compositional equilibrium, laboriously achieved but seemingly effortless, looks fleeting: there's always the sense that these improvisatory jumbles might break apart and out of their frames. Ms. Murray loves to paint. That's still the bottom line. It is useful to be reminded that there are still veterans like her, steeped in the medium, its difficulties and pleasures, who work so hard and make such beautiful art (Kimmelman).

HELEN TORR, "Works on Paper," JG Contemporary, 505 West 28th Street, (212) 564-7662 (through April 26). Torr,who was married to Arthur Dove, was a fine painter in her own right. The influence of Dove, Hartley, Burchfield and other American Modernists are evident in her work, but she had her own lively and intimate personality. It is stunning to learn that she never sold a painting in her lifetime, having subordinated her own career to her husband's. This engaging small show of drawings anticipates a retrospective of paintings scheduled for next month a JG Contemporary's uptown gallery (Johnson).

Galleries: SoHo

"EXTRA," Swiss Institute, 495 Broadway, near Spring Street, (212) 925-2035 (through May 10). The curator Marc-Olivier Wahler asks, "How many extra layers can we graft onto reality before it collapses?" The 11 works here do little to answer the question, but they make an entertaining show. They include Bruno Peinado's giant brown Michelin man with an Afro; Wim Delvoye's tattooed pig; Peter Fischli and David Weiss's trompe-l'oeil studio props; Olivier Blanckart's Village People made of paper and tape; and adorable little robotic dogs programmed to fight by Stephane Sautour (Johnson).

HEIDE FASNACHT, Kent, 67 Prince Street, (212) 966-4500 (through May 3). A sculptor known for her interest in explosions offers a bursting Champagne bottle and splashy puddles, both in cast blue resin, and a sneeze represented by perforations in paper. A big colored pencil drawing of a window glass washed by rain, made with crisp gray and blue hatchmarks, reveals on close inspection an absorbing, crystalline topography; from a distance it resolves into a magically luminous illusion of watery translucency (Johnson).

GEORGE McNEIL, "FE = Form/Energy," Luise Ross, 568 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 343-2161 (through May 3). McNeil, who died in 1995 an underrecognized member of the Abstract Expressionist generation, merged painterly abstraction and primitivistic symbolism with sensuous buoyancy. This small selection of works from four decades includes colorful, transcendentally exuberant landscapes and pictures of scary masklike faces embedded in luxuriantly scabrous surfaces (Johnson).

* "THE STAGE OF DRAWING: GESTURE AND ACT," Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, (212) 219-2166 (through May 31). It's not easy to assemble a truly engaging show from a vast collection of drawings like that owned by England's Tate. But this one really works. It views drawing as "an open-ended and exploratory activity," with exhibits ranging from a 295-foot line on a roll of wrapped paper to precise renderings of 19th-century hairdos. The mix of artists runs from J. M. W. Turner to Andy Warhol; the juxtapositions reveal affinities across centuries and cultures (Glueck).

Other Galleries

* TARA DONOVAN, Ace Gallery, 276 Hudson Street, South Village, (212) 255-5599 (through May 15). Installation art proved long ago that lots of space combined with lots and lots of one material, arranged by stupefyingly simple labor-intensive methods, can work wonders. This solo debut provides supporting evidence that, if not too original, is amazingly succinct. The materials include transparent tape, Elmer's glue and pencils; the high point is something that looks, from afar, like a fairly large cloud or snow bank, but is not (Smith).

* "PEACE AND LINE," Ethan Cohen, 37 Walker Street, TriBeCa, (212) 625-1250, (through April 26). This is among the few New York dealers to consistently and persuasively present new art from China, often in group shows like this one, which includes calligraphy by the venerable painter C. C. Wang, now 97, done on pages of New York City telephone books; calligraphic paintings from 1986 by Wenda Gu; and experimental work by three young Chinese-based artists Pan Xinglei, Xing Fei and Zhou Hongxiang (Cotter).

ANN SPERRY, "30 Pieces/30 Years," Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion Museum, 1 West Fourth Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 824-2205 (through June 26); "My Piano," Kraushaar, 724 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street, (212) 307-5730 (through April 12). Since the early 1970's, Ms. Sperry has been bending, shaping and welding metal into metaphorically suggestive abstractions. The best works in her Hebrew Union retrospective have an industrial surrealism similar to, though not as surprising as, that of Donald Lipski. Her new assemblages at Kraushaar include cutup parts of her old piano, a beloved but defunct family heirloom (Johnson).

Last Chance

TONY BERLANT, "What You See Is Who You Are," Lennon, Weinberg, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 941-0012 (through tomorrow). A spectacular 60-foot mural representing the four seasons is the main attraction here. This visually ravishing, bucolic landscape was made by Mr. Berlant's signature technique: with zillions of finishing nails that remain visible on the surface, he attaches countless cutup pieces of preprinted and painted tin to wood panels, puzzling together a giant, vividly colorful picture that is as absorbing to study up close as from a distance. It would look great in a New York subway station (Johnson).

ROSS BLECKNER, Lehmann Maupin, 540 West 26th Street, (212) 255-2923 (through tomorrow). Seven works gives an abridged account Mr. Bleckner's exploration of optical and spiritual modes of perception over the last 16 years. In paintings from 1987 fields of blurry stripes punctuated by songbirds or nipples of bright yellow paint create a visually shimmering mysticism tempered by irony. A recent, unabashedly romantic painting contains a flock of smeary white birds fluttering in deep blue space like spirits of the lately departed (Johnson)

* JAMES ESBER, P.P.O.W., 555 West 25th Street, (212) 647-1044 (through tomorrow). Mr. Esber's cartoonish, bizarrely morphed and fragmented paintings made, apparently, by applying Play-Doh directly to the gallery wall (actually he makes them in the studio) are viscerally sensuous, vividly optical and delightfully creepy. Surprising pencil portraits of Abraham Lincoln, rendered as if by a mad engraver, are just as interesting. (Johnson)

"FLESH TONES: 100 YEARS OF THE NUDE," Robert Mann, 210 11th Avenue, at 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 989-7600 (through tomorrow). From Edward Steichen's blurry Pictorialism to Nan Goldin's diaristic intimism, this selection of photographs of people without clothes is wonderfully diverse. The Village Voice photography critic Vince Aletti selected the 79 images, and there may not be a bad one in the bunch. Neither is there anything so transgressive that parents need beware. Still, the nonchronological, salon-style installation cries out to be more illuminatingly sorted (Johnson).

EUNICE GOLDEN, Mitchell Algus, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 242-6242 (through tomorrow). Ms. Golden was among the early feminist artists of the 1960's and 1970's, and this small survey conveys, along with the flavor of a distinctive artistic personality, a sense of the political anger, antic humor, and conceptual experimentation that characterized the tangy first wave of the women's movement. The work includes photographs of performance pieces and body art, and half-abstract paintings that demonstrate how delicate, quiet and beautiful political art can be (Cotter).

* JOSIAH McELHENY, "Theories About Reflection," Brent Sikkema, 530A West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 929-2262 (through tomorrow). In this brainy, visually astounding show, objects and vessels of mirrored glass masterfully handblown by the artist are exhibited in mirrored cases; optical and historical illusions abound and the mind struggles to sort it all out. A result is a seamless fusion of Minimalist Puritanism with Neo-Geo's commentary on desire, display and commodification, which may be the best of both worlds (Smith).

ALEXIS ROCKMAN, Gorney Bravin and Lee, 534 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 352-8372 (through tomorrow). With the meticulous care of a popular science illustrator, Mr. Rockman continues to paint nature under stress. Each glossy, medium-size picture focuses on a particular ecosystem, with in most cases some kind of volcanic activity in the background. Deep sea creatures hover around glowing hyperthermal vents; insects flee a smoke-belching mountain; prairie animals seek subterranean shelter before a river of incandescent lava (Johnson).

GARY SCHNEIDER, Julie Saul, 535 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 627-2410 (through tomorrow). Mr. Schneider's latest parsing of the photographic process involves extended exposures, people who lie down rather than sit for their portraits, an overhead camera and light from a single pinpoint source. Illuminated in a process that resembles drawing, or a gentle touching, the faces glimmer almost lividly beneath dustings of shadows. They could be coal miners getting off work or lost souls brought back from the dead and freshly made up (Smith).

BEVERLY SEMMES, "In the O," Leslie Tonkonow, 535 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-8540 (through tomorrow). What can one say in the face of this largess, which has charged undertones of feminist meaning as well as overtones of female underwear? The entire gallery is clad in hundreds of yards of tangerine-colored chiffon that Niagaras from ceiling to floor to form pools of delicate ruffles. Quirky red pottery vessels handmade by Ms. Semmes, stand around like exclamation points. A huge ovoid bathmat is put together entirely of Band-Aids. Ms. Semmes proves herself once again to be an engaging fantasist as well as a clever manipulator of architectural space (Glueck).

EDWARD WESTON AND MARGRETHE MATHER, "A Passionate Collaboration," AXA Gallery, 787 Seventh Avenue, at 51st Street, (212) 554-2456 (through tomorrow). Although Mather (1886-1952), a photographer of considerable accomplishment, was important to the early life and career of Weston (1886-1958), she vanished into obscurity as his reputation advanced. This show calls attention to her achievements alongside Weston's during their 12-year relationship, which ended in 1925. This well-chosen show does make a case for her influence on Weston (and vice versa), and she deserves recognition. Her career, however, was not sustained enough to be compared with his; her impact on one of the 20th century's most influential photographers seems today a relatively small one (Glueck).

GRAPHIC: Photos: A man's head from the Egyptian display at the Brooklyn Museum. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Improvisatory jumble: "Rollin' Stone" by Elizabeth Murray, in an exhibition of her recent work at the PaceWildenstein Gallery in Chelsea. (Ellen Page Wilson/PaceWildenstein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (98%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); RELIGION (61%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



537 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
A Mighty Global Power and Its Heir Apparent

BYLINE:  By MICHIKO KAKUTANI 

 BODY:
EMPIRE
The Rise and Demise of the British World Order and the Lessons for Global Power
By Niall Ferguson
392 pages. Illustrated. Basic Books. $35.
 In August 2001, a month before the terrorist attacks of 9/11, a study conducted for Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld's office was issued on "Strategies for Maintaining U.S. Predominance." In a section titled "Lessons of History," which used the British, Roman, Chinese and Ottoman Empires as case studies, the report asked, "What does history suggest about the maintenance or failure of powers to hold similar positions of dominance?" 
 Curiously enough, the study's participants did not include the British historian Niall Ferguson, the author of "Empire: The Rise and Demise of the British World Order and the Lessons for Global Power," a new book (first published in England, as a companion volume to a television series) that lays out a history of the British empire's rise and fall, draws analogies between the British Empire and America's current role in the world, and often echoes the Bush administration's most hawkish pronouncements about the need to promote democracy abroad.
The obvious lesson the United States can draw from the British Empire, Mr. Ferguson writes, is "that the most successful economy in the world -- as Britain was for most of the 18th and 19th centuries -- can do a very great deal to impose its preferred values on less technologically advanced societies." He adds that no one should pretend that "at least in fiscal terms, the cost of expanding the American Empire, even if it were to mean a great many small wars like the one in Afghanistan, would be prohibitive." 
"Empire," it quickly becomes clear, is history with an agenda and a point of view -- a book that, in its gung-ho defense of empire, is as devoid of measured objectivity as many recent, politically correct histories have been on the other side of the political spectrum. Mr. Ferguson -- a professor of financial history at New York University, a senior research fellow at Jesus College, Oxford, and the author of earlier books including "The Pity of War" and "Paper and Iron" -- is a wonderfully fluent writer, weaving telling details and vivid anecdotes seamlessly into his narrative. And yet he puts all this fine writing at the service of a decidedly dogmatic thesis, consistently trying to rationalize the injustices committed in the building of Britain's empire while accentuating what he sees as its positive contributions.
Mr. Ferguson contends that the British Empire "pioneered free trade, free capital movements and, with the abolition of slavery, free labor." He hails its investment of "immense sums in developing a global network of modern communications," its maintenance of "a global peace unmatched before or since," and its imposition of "Western norms of law, order and governance around the world." To dismiss all this as "gentlemanly capitalism," he goes on, "risks underselling the scale -- and modernity -- of the achievement in the sphere of economics; just as criticism of the 'ornamental' (meaning hierarchical) character of British rule overseas tends to overlook the signal virtues of what were remarkably nonvenal administrations."
In these pages Mr. Ferguson does acknowledge some of the terrible things that were committed in the course of Britain's empire-building: the acquisition and exploitation of slaves in the 18th century; the massacre of Aborigines in Australia; the grabbing of land in Africa at gun point; brutal put-downs of challenges to imperial authority in places like India, Jamaica and South Africa; and negligent responses to famines in India and Ireland. But again and again he tries to whitewash the dark side of empire. After citing some of the horrors committed against the Aborigines in Australia, he adds that "concern in Parliament about mistreatment of indigenous peoples led to the appointment of Aboriginal Protectors in New South Wales and Western Australia in 1838-39." Never mind that such efforts did not prevent further massacres from occurring: Mr. Ferguson insists that "the presence of a restraining authority, no matter how distant, was something that distinguished British colonies from independent settler republics."
One of Mr. Ferguson's favorite tactics is to compare British imperial behavior favorably to that of other empires; crimes against humanity, he implies, are all relative. He argues that Belgian rule in the Congo was harsher than British rule in other parts of Africa, and he argues that the difference between British and Japanese imperialism was the difference between "an empire that had some conception of human rights and one that regarded alien races as no better than swine."
For that matter, he regards the end of World War II as a vindication of the British Empire's existence: "In the end," he writes, "the British sacrificed her empire to stop the Germans, Japanese and Italians from keeping theirs. Did not that sacrifice alone expunge all the empire's other sins?" As he sees it, the collapse of the British Empire -- which took three centuries to build and just three decades to dismantle -- was not a consequence of national independence movements and dissatisfaction with colonialism, but the result of "the staggering cost of fighting" other, truly evil empires.
Some of the positive achievements Mr. Ferguson cites as a legacy of the British Empire -- including the exportation of liberal capitalism and parliamentary democracy -- uncannily echo aims articulated by proponents of the current war in Iraq and those eager to reconfigure contemporary politics in the Middle East. In fact, Mr. Ferguson draws a direct parallel between Prime Minister Tony Blair's talk about the need to "re-order this world around us" and the "Victorians' project to export their own 'civilization' to the world," pointing out that "the Victorians regarded overthrowing rogue regimes from Oudh to Abyssinia as an entirely legitimate part of the civilizing process."
Mr. Ferguson pointedly adds, however, that it is the United States, not Britain, that is "capable of playing an imperial role" in the world today. He notes that America's own history -- freeing itself from the British Empire -- has made it wary of "formal rule over subject peoples" but exhorts it to face up to its imperial duties; he calls the United States "an empire in denial," an empire "that dare not speak its name."
Having traced in this volume how Britain gradually evolved from an informal to a formal empire (as trade and business propositions gave way to governance, as coastal bases and spheres of influence gave way to more codified rule, in the face of "real and perceived threats" to British commercial interests), Mr. Ferguson concludes this volume with the suggestion that a new era of globalization is occurring, with Americans having "taken our old role without yet facing the fact that an empire comes with it."
"The technology of overseas rule may have changed -- the Dreadnoughts may have given way to F-15's," he writes. "But like it or not, and deny it who will, empire is as much a reality today as it was throughout the 300 years when Britain ruled, and made, the modern world." It's sure to be a chilling assertion to both those in Washington eager to deny imperial ambitions and those in the Arab world suspicious of America's motives.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Niall Ferguson (Jonathan Player) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); HISTORY (89%); WRITERS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); TERRORISM (77%); CASE STUDIES (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); SLAVERY (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (53%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; HISTORY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: KAKUTANI, MICHIKO; FERGUSON, NIALL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ENGLAND (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) GREAT BRITAIN

TITLE: EMPIRE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



538 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Russia Approves Private Pipe To Carry Oil Bound for U.S. 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 17 

 BODY:
Dropping its previous opposition, the Russian government gave a green light today to plans for a privately owned oil pipeline to Murmansk that would carry oil bound for the United States. 
 Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov told his government to begin preparing a feasibility study for the $4.5 billion project, which also involves building a new loading terminal at Murmansk, a port on the Barents Sea formerly reserved largely for military use. The energy minister, Igor Yusufov, said flatly that the government would not oppose full private ownership of the pipeline, an aspect that officials had balked at just a few months ago. 
 "We simply showed that our growth estimates for the oil industry are well founded," said Leonid Fedun, vice president of Lukoil, one of the companies backing the project. "In 2007, the pipeline will be built, and Russia will play a geopolitical role in the oil market just like Saudi Arabia." 
Russia is already the world's second-largest oil exporter, after Saudi Arabia, and its output has grown steadily in recent years. But it has hit a ceiling in its capacity to export its oil. According to Mr. Fedun, 29 million barrels of oil have accumulated in storage around Russia since the beginning of 2003 because of bottlenecks in the existing system. 
With crude output expected to grow another 40 percent or more by 2012, Russia's oil companies say that new export routes are urgently needed. Five of the largest companies -- Lukoil, Yukos, Tyumen Oil, Surgut and Sibneft -- formed a consortium to build the Murmansk project. 
Oil companies here are also pushing another pipeline project, one that would stretch from Angarsk in Siberia to the Chinese city of Daqing. 
The government has said several times that it did not want to cede control of the pipeline network, and by extension the nation's export policy and its energy security, to the private sector. But at today's cabinet meeting, that position appeared to soften considerably. "The state does not intend to fully own all pipelines," Mr. Yusufov said at the meeting, according to Bloomberg News. Still, Mr. Yusufov is quoted as saying, the state "reserves the right to have a say in infrastructure." 
The planned Murmansk pipeline would carry 2.4 million barrels of oil a day. The new terminal would be the only one in Russia that could accommodate the giant oil tankers needed to make trans-Atlantic oil shipments economically feasible. 
The subject of Russia's oil interests in Iraq was also discussed at the cabinet meeting. According to Interfax, the Russian news agency, Mr. Yusufov said that Russian companies should be allowed to own the rights to Iraqi oil fields that they were promised before the war.
Mr. Fedun of Lukoil reiterated today that his company intended to sue any rival company that tried to lay claim to West Qurna-2, a huge Iraqi field that Lukoil signed a contract in 1997 to operate. 
"In the opinion of our American lawyers, our legal position is immaculate," he told reporters at his office in central Moscow. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); EXPORT CONTROLS (67%); BULK SHIPPING (58%) RUSSIA; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

COMPANY: OAO LUKOIL (56%); OAO NK YUKOS (54%); TNK-BP LTD (54%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: LUKOIL 

TICKER: LKOH (RTS) (56%); LKOD (LSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: LEONID FEDUN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) ARCTIC OCEAN (92%); HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



539 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Figure Is Approaching High for Year 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17 

 BODY:
The number of workers filing claims for unemployment benefits increased last week to the second-highest level of the year as struggling companies handed out more pink slips.
 The Labor Department reported today that new applications for jobless benefits rose by a seasonally adjusted 30,000, to 442,000, for the workweek ended April 12. 
 That increase pushed claims to their highest point since March 29, when claims hit 443,000, the highest level of the year. 
For nine consecutive weeks, claims have been above 400,000, a level associated with a stagnant job market. Today's figures were weaker than economists expected.
"It's depressing," said Bill Cheney, chief economist at John Hancock Financial Services. "The economy is in a precarious state right now."
Businesses coping with lackluster profits and uneven demand from customers have been trying to hold down costs. Against that backdrop, companies have been reluctant to increase capital spending or hire more people, major forces restraining the economy's recovery.
Some of the increase in claims last week was attributed to layoffs in the automobile industry, a Labor Department analyst said.
Paul Taylor, chief economist at the National Automobile Dealers Association, said that some automakers were curbing production to work off inventories of unsold vehicles, which began to increase as demand slowed.
The more stable, four-week moving average of initial jobless claims also rose last week, by 3,500, to 424,750, the highest level in nearly a year.
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, and his colleagues hope the economy will return to good health once the war in Iraq is over.
The Federal Reserve decided in March to hold the federal funds rate at 1.25 percent, a 41-year low, with the hope that it would spur more spending and investment and help the economy. The funds rate is the Fed's main lever for influencing economic activity.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Jobless Claims"Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. Graph tracks initial jobless claims, highlighting 4-week moving average, since November 2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (75%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); NEW CAR DEALERS (66%); IRAQ WAR (64%); INTEREST RATES (63%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (83%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



540 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: A Reticent China Undercuts Its Milder New Image 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, April 17 

 BODY:
China's restrictions on information about a highly infectious respiratory illness has undermined five years of diplomacy intended to alter its image as a prickly regional power and to improve relations with neighboring countries, Asian politicians and analysts say.
 Beijing's secretiveness for much of the last several weeks about severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, contrasts sharply with the openness of its neighbors, even one-party states like Singapore. It also reflects the emphasis China puts on overall social stability above individuals' well-being, many argue. 
 The reaction to China's handling of SARS has been pronounced in Thailand, Malaysia, Taiwan and Hong Kong as well as in Singapore. Politicians, editorial writers and health experts have criticized the Chinese suppression of bad news, and apparent dissembling about SARS-related statistics, as a big step backward that undercuts its influence. 
"China's political structure has not kept pace with its rapid emergence on the world's stage," said Kobsak Chutikul, a former Thai foreign ministry official who now serves on the foreign affairs committee in Parliament. "It did not matter so much when China was still isolated. But its policies have a far-reaching impact today."
China, of course, has been regarded with suspicion by those in Asia and the West who view the Communist leadership as hostile to democratic values.
Yet the broader trend had been toward improved relations with Asian neighbors and the United States. China offered robust support to the Bush administration after the September 2001 terrorist attacks, administration officials note. And while the authorities in Beijing opposed the war in Iraq, they did so with far less vigor than France, Germany or Russia. Just this week, Beijing offered a compromise to break a months-long standoff between the United States and North Korea over the North's nuclear weapons program, allowing negotiations to proceed.
On the sensitive matter of Taiwan, which China regards as part of its sovereign territory, it has abandoned a campaign of military intimidation that it pursued in the mid-1990's. Instead, it has promoted faster economic integration between Taiwan and the mainland.
Regionally, China's stature had been rising in a kind of tandem with Japan's increasing economic troubles. After many Asian nations were forced to devalue their currencies and renegotiate bank loans during the Asian financial crisis of 1997-98, China limited the damage by holding the line on its own currency.
This year, China pushed a broad regional trade initiative and offered concessions that would help poorer countries sell it agricultural goods. It also agreed to discuss its sweeping sovereignty claims over islands in the South China Sea in international forums, dropping demands for one-on-one talks with other claimants.
All that was part of an image makeover intended to cast China as a sophisticated, responsible big power ahead of the Olympics in 2008 and the World Expo in 2010, where it is the host country. By many accounts, this process was working -- until the handling of the SARS epidemic persuaded some people that China's cosmetic changes did nothing to address deeper flaws in its political system. "There were so many gestures and positive moves that relations became really cozy," said Lai Hongyi, a research fellow in East Asian Studies at the National University of Singapore. "But when it came to SARS, people could see that the Chinese system had not really changed."
Tensions between China and its smaller neighbors have been growing since February, when SARS spread from Guangdong Province in the south to nearby Hong Kong and much of Asia. China remained silent from the time of the first reported outbreaks in mid-November until late March, when it began revealing epidemiological records under World Health Organization pressure.
This week, President Hu Jintao and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao pledged to tackle the disease, which they now term "grave." But China has continued to insist that the country is safe and that it should not be treated as the source of SARS.
To retaliate against restrictions on mainland travelers, Beijing ordered travel agents to stop arranging group tours to Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand until they ceased their special scrutiny of Chinese visitors. That has worsened a sharp drop in tourism.
Wariness of China has grown even more pronounced in Hong Kong, which has been under Chinese administration since the end of British rule in 1997. 
SARS caught Hong Kong unaware in February, even though the disease had already infected hundreds in Guangdong. While Hong Kong's chief executive serves at the pleasure of Beijing, the territory apparently received no special access to China's medical records. As a result, Hong Kong media coverage of China has become pointed and popular outrage is growing, some analysts say.
"The politically correct thing the past few years has been to go soft on China," said Wu Guoguang, a former top-level government official in Beijing and now a professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. "But everyone now sees clearly that China will not think twice about Hong Kong when political stability is at stake."
The epidemic also seems likely to strain China's relations with Taiwan. Just this week, Chen Shui-bian, Taiwan's president, used the sort of language that often provokes Beijing's wrath when he told a visiting Japanese official that Taiwan is "an independent sovereign state" that is "not subordinate to the P.R.C."
Taiwan officials have used SARS as an opportunity to push for observer status at the World Health Organization, which they see as a wedge toward winning greater diplomatic recognition of de facto independent status. China has long used its influence to exclude Taiwan from the W.H.O., a United Nations specialized agency, insisting that it will forward relevant information to Taiwan. But Taiwan officials now say that they cannot depend on Beijing's help in such crises and must have the same timely medical data that member nations receive.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Journalists look through into an isolation ward at Ditan Hospital in Beijing housing patients with severe acute respiratory syndrome. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (91%); SARS (91%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (91%); POLITICS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TRENDS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); IRAQ WAR (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); TERRORISM (64%); CURRENCIES (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); DEVALUATION (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); WRITERS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (65%) CHINA (98%); ASIA (94%); TAIWAN (93%); SINGAPORE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (92%); JAPAN (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); HONG KONG (79%); IRAQ (79%); GERMANY (70%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



541 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Job-Search Web Site To Seek New Agency

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
Monster, the job-search Web site operated by TMP Worldwide, said unexpectedly yesterday that it had parted ways with Arnold Worldwide in Boston, which had handled its United States account since September 2000.
 Although billings were not disclosed, spending on the account has declined since the dot-com heyday as Monster, formerly Monster.com, spent $29.5 million to advertise last year in major media, according to the CMR division of Taylor Nelson Sofres, down 49.8 percent from $58.8 million in 2000. 
 Jeff Taylor, the chairman at Monster, in Maynard, Mass., said the company would probably conduct a search in the summer for an agency to succeed Arnold. 
Arnold described the decision as a mutual parting related to "changes in the marketplace," an allusion to the reduced spending by Monster. Arnold is part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners division of Havas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (85%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (85%); HAVAS SA (58%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (57%)

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (85%); HAV (PAR) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (85%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



542 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Rise Despite Lackluster Economic Reports

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street pushed higher yesterday as investors hoped the economy would improve despite a murky corporate outlook and a disappointing jobs report.
 The trading day was shortened ahead of Good Friday, when the market will be closed. 
 Volume yesterday was moderate and somewhat choppy, but a regional manufacturing report helped give shares a lift. 
"The bulls in particular are looking for concrete signs of improvement in earnings, but we're seeing an aimless drift along the bottom," said Keith Keenan, vice president for institutional trading at Wall Street Access, a New York-based firm.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 80.04 points, or about 1 percent, at 8,337.65, after having declined nearly 145 points on Wednesday. Earlier in the day, blue-chip stocks were down as much as 22 points.
The broader market also advanced. The Nasdaq composite index rose 30.78 points, or 2.2 percent, to 1,425.50. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 13.67 points, or about 1.6 percent, to 893.58.
For the week, the three main gauges finished higher, with the Dow gaining 1.6 percent, the Nasdaq rising 4.9 percent and the S. & P. 500 advancing 2.9 percent.
The Labor Department reported yesterday that new applications for unemployment benefits rose last week by a seasonally adjusted 30,000, to 442,000. It was the second-highest level of this year and the latest indicator of the difficulties workers face in the sluggish economy.
But the Philadelphia Federal Reserve's April survey of business conditions came in at minus 8.8, compared with a minus 8.0 for March. The better-than-expected reading for April apparently offered investors some hope that the outlook might improve.
Trading has been uneven in recent days as investors look past the war in Iraq to corporate profits and the economy. Analysts say investors have been generally satisfied with first-quarter earnings, although the outlook for the rest of the year remains uncertain.
Nokia, the Finnish cellphone maker, rose $1, or 6.6 percent, to $16.18 after it reported first-quarter profits that beat Wall Street's estimates.
Broadcom, the chip maker, surged $2.55, or 18 percent, to $16.60 on the Nasdaq after it posted strong quarterly earnings and forecast double-digit sales growth in the second quarter.
And AMR rose 77 cents, or 18 percent, to $5 on investor relief after flight attendants at its American Airlines unit accepted $340 million in labor concessions, which may help the company avoid bankruptcy-court protection.
But AMR shares fell 18 cents, to $4.82, in after-hours trading on news that the union representing American Airlines' mechanics and ground workers said it might not sign off on a concession vote, even if that would mean bankruptcy for the airline, the world's largest.
Decliners included Sun Microsystems, the chip maker, which fell 8 cents, to $3.24, on Nasdaq, after it reported fiscal third-quarter revenue that fell below analysts' estimates.
United Technologies, which makes jet engines, dropped $2.27, to $60, after the company reported higher profits, but issued a warning on its second-quarter results.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Mixed
(By The Associated Press)
Some bond prices fell yesterday after a report suggested that the economy might be doing better than some investors expected.
The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 5/32, to a price of 99 10/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 3.96 percent from 3.94 percent on Wednesday. The price of the 30-year Treasury bond gained 10/32, to 107 11/32. Its yield dipped to 4.89 percent from 4.91 percent on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Tax-Exempt Yields"Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly. Graph tracks yields since Januray. Revenue bonds: 5.16%General obligation bonds: 4.74% (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); AIRLINES (83%); SALES FIGURES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EASTER SEASON (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (69%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (61%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: BROADCOM CORP (52%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (51%)

TICKER: BRCM (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



543 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Flow of Money to Stock Funds Is Most in aYear 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
With war winding down, investors have poured more money into stock mutual funds than they have in a year, according to the latest weekly data.
 Stock mutual funds had a net inflow of $5.7 billion, with much of it devoted to the riskiest investments, in the week ended Wednesday. According to AMGData Services, $1 billion went into aggressive growth funds and $472 million into technology funds. The technology inflow caught a wave of good performance. The Nasdaq composite index, which is loaded with technology stocks, has risen 4.9 percent since Friday. 
 In all, domestic equity funds attracted $4 billion, with $1.1 billion of net inflows into large-company growth funds.
Individual investors also put $1.7 billion into foreign stocks. So far this year, $3.1 billion has flowed into international stock funds.
Part of the attraction of foreign stocks has been an expectation that the dollar will weaken against foreign currencies and improve Americans' returns abroad. Though the dollar has weakened, major foreign stock markets are lagging behind the United States in dollar terms. According to Morgan Stanley Capital International's broad stock indexes, world stock markets outside the United States are down 2.1 percent this year, while the American market is up 1.8 percent.
This underperformance may now be showing up in investors' preferences, as domestic stock funds attract more inflows.
The net inflow into stock funds of all types was the biggest since $7.9 billion in the week ended April 17, 2002. Still, there has been a net outflow for the year, of $49 million.
William E. Rhodes, chief investment strategist at Rhodes Analytics in Boston, was not surprised by the inflow into stock mutual funds, but he is worried that the market faces another downdraft in the near term.
Investors, he said, may be putting money back into stocks because they believe that "the war is over and everything is hunky-dory like it was in 1991." But, he said, the market, economic and geopolitical environments are different, making a stock rally like that in 1991 less likely.
As investors favored stock funds, the weekly flow of new cash into bond funds dropped to $856 million in the latest period, from an average of $2.6 billion weekly for the last four weeks. Even there, investors were willing to take on risk, as $555 million of the week's total went into funds that invest in high-yield, or junk, bonds.
High-yield bonds have done well this year. The total return of a broad index of high-yield bonds is 10.3 percent for the year through yesterday, compared with 2.9 percent for investment-grade corporate bonds and 0.6 percent for Treasury securities, according to Merrill Lynch. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BONDS (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (87%); TRENDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



544 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 846 words

PERSON: J. Paul Getty Jr. 

HEADLINE: J. Paul Getty Jr., Philanthropist, Dies at 70 

BYLINE:  By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
J. Paul Getty Jr., the remote American-born heir to an oil fortune who made Britain his home and beneficiary, died yesterday in London. He was 70.
 Mr. Getty was admitted to the private London Clinic on Monday and was being treated for a recurrent chest infection, the Associated Press reported. 
 Often in the public eye as a hedonistic young man, then long out of view as an older and retiring benefactor, Mr. Getty inherited the riches that flowed from his father's oil business. He came to be highly regarded in his adopted country later in life -- he was knighted as Sir Paul -- after a raucous period of drug use that became grist for gossip columns. 
Since establishing a home in Britain 25 years ago, his often quiet philanthropy eventually eclipsed his notoriety. He donated more than $200 million to numerous causes, charities and institutions, including the National Gallery in London.
His donations could be small and anonymous or large enough to surprise the art world. He could spend huge amounts to keep gems of Britain's patrimony from foreign buyers, or make thoughtful, modest donations that provided a concert artist with a grand piano or saved a seal family marooned in a storm.
His philanthropy could be quirky, too, and aimed at contentious causes. When a bitterly fought miners' strike battered the British economy in the mid-1980, he subsidized dissident miners who refused to join the strike.
He seldom spoke in public, but pronounced himself "privileged to be the heir to huge wealth." He said he regarded himself "as custodian of that money for the benefit of people who need it more than I do."
His adoptive country rewarded his charity with an honorary knighthood in 1986. But because he was not a British subject, people mindful of such subtleties could not call him Sir Paul. He rectified that situation in 1998 by changing his nationality.
John Paul Getty Jr. was born on Sept. 7, 1932, the third of five sons of J. Paul Getty. His father, Jean Paul, known as Oklahoma Crude, made a fortune in the oil fields, building on the business his father started.
J. Paul Getty Jr. spent time at the University of San Francisco and in the United States Army before being posted to Rome as manager of Getty Oil Italia in 1959. Although he worked there until 1970, he did not take it seriously, telling his father that he had little regard for the business.
In Rome he fell into a life of drugs and partying. In 1966 he was divorced from his first wife, Gail Harris, whom he had married in 1956. They had two daughters and two sons. (She later sued him, charging that he failed to pay into the trust fund for their children.)
The year of his divorce he married his second wife (and mother of his third son), Talitha Pol, a Dutch-born model and film actress. Living estranged from him, she died accidentally of a heroin overdose in Rome in 1971.
Her death signaled a new kind of life for Mr. Getty. He moved to London in 1972 and honed an interest in art and philanthropy, living reclusively for years in a well-guarded mansion along the Thames. He was married a third time, in 1994, to Victoria Holdsworth, the daughter of a Royal Army commander. Mr. Getty credited her with being a steadying influence.
Much of his wealth derived from a family trust created with the sale of Getty Oil to Texaco in 1984 -- most of it beyond his control, but estimated to be worth as much as $2 billion. Having fallen out with his father, he inherited little directly from the paternal fortune.
When he died in Britain in 1976, the elder J. Paul Getty was considered the world's richest man, with stakes in as many as 200 companies and as much as $4 billion to his name. He, too, had spent his last 25 years as an expatriate in Britain, shuttered in a 16th-century mansion.
Mr. Getty Sr. endowed the J. Paul Getty Museum, a Roman-style villa built on a hill in Malibu, in Southern California. One of the world's richest museums, it houses art treasures from throughout the world.
The younger Mr. Getty donated well over $50 million to the National Gallery in 1985. It was that museum's largest such bequest since its founding in 1824. He also gave millions to the British Film Institute.
His family and its wealth were in the news for months in 1973 with the abduction of his son J. Paul 3rd, a 17-year-old called the golden hippie by the Roman scandal press because of his reddish-blond hair. The kidnapers demanded $3.4 million.
Speculation abounded; the grandfather refused to pay, fearing that his other 18 grandchildren might become targets; and various sums were mentioned and haggled over until the Calabrian kidnapers mailed an ear severed from the boy. (Years after his release, in 1981, the son suffered a stroke from an overdose that left him severely impaired.)
Mr. Getty is survived by his wife and his children: John Paul 3rd, Mark, Ariadne, Aileen and Tara.
Regally invested with a knighthood at Buckingham Palace in 1998, he received full honors. "When I heard the national anthem played, I felt very proud to be British -- it's my national anthem now," he said after that.

GRAPHIC: Photo: J. Paul Getty Jr. (Associated Press, 1999) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHARITIES (88%); CHILDREN (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); MINE WORKERS (70%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (66%); MINES & MINING (65%); STRIKES (64%); ARMIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%)

CATEGORY: Philanthropy 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



545 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: The Renaissance of White Plains; 
A Wallflower of a City Becomes the Belle of the Ball

BYLINE:  By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, April 17 

 BODY:
During the 1990's, as cities everywhere seemed to prosper and expand, this unassuming city became the wallflower of Westchester. The office vacancy rate ballooned to 31 percent. The downtown turned ghostly at night. And not a single movie screen flickered across its nine square miles.
 But now, as the rest of the region worries through the current recession, White Plains is the belle of the ball and, appropriately, raising a toast to itself. Overnight and against the odds, it has become a boomtown. 
 A billion dollars' worth of construction is under way, including more than 1,600 rental apartments in and around the central business district. Fifteen movie screens, new restaurants and major retailers from Target to Fortunoff are in the works. And developers keep proposing more: a hotel, condominiums, even office space (now that the vacancy rate has dropped to a respectable 15 percent). 
How did White Plains, the archetypal "edge city" of the New York suburbs, suddenly become everybody's sweetheart? To many minds, the answer is Mayor Joseph Delfino. After taking office five years ago, he made it his mission to bring residential development to downtown, following the lead of Stamford, Conn.
He streamlined the notoriously complex, drawn-out process by which developers sought approval, and he broke the city's immutable 230-foot building-height barrier by allowing 350-foot high-rises downtown. He also courted builders and retailers with gusto, personally showing Louis Fortunoff a site recently vacated by Saks Fifth Avenue.
"Developers didn't feel comfortable and didn't feel welcomed," said Mr. Delfino, a native of White Plains, a Republican and a former county legislator. "Now the attitude is: Go to White Plains. They'll make things happen for you."
As one strolls through downtown, where cement mixers whirl and stacks of lumber are moved through the air, there is a sense that White Plains is undergoing a personality change. Many are eager for the downtown to hum with new life, but others look at the future high-rises and shudder.
"I feel overwhelmed by that height," said Louise Foley, a retired analyst for I.B.M. and a longtime resident, gazing up at the new building. "White Plains is no longer going to be a small town."
City officials insist that if developers had not been allowed to build higher, they would have taken their blueprints elsewhere. "The bottom line is, some people want this to be Mayberry, but you know, Andy Griffith died many years ago -- at least the character died," said George Gretsas, the city's executive officer.
Like many cities that dot the suburbs, White Plains has remained a vibrant place to live for its 53,000 residents, despite its bedraggled downtown. There are snug neighborhoods with well-kept houses, and quiet avenues with imposing residences.
Residents appreciate the relatively low taxes, a benefit of the many companies based here. Indeed, White Plains drew the first major corporate relocation from New York City, when General Foods moved its headquarters to Westchester Avenue in 1954.
Certainly, the city in the 1990's was not devoid of development. The Westchester mall opened in 1995, bringing a million square feet of retail space and upscale stores like Tiffany and Williams-Sonoma.
The same year that the mall opened, however, the heart of downtown stumbled when Macy's left the intersection of Main Street and Mamaroneck Avenue. The department store resurfaced a few blocks away, but the sprawling limestone structure that it had occupied sat empty for years, sapping energy from the retail corridor.
Vacancies spread, punctuated by $1 stores, and the site attracted more pigeon droppings than redevelopment plans. City officials were crestfallen when Tishman-Speyer abandoned its plan for a retail center and 21-screen Loews movie theater.
But two years ago, a developer with a long track record, Louis R. Cappelli, strode into town. He had just completed New Roc City in New Rochelle, a $190 million sports, entertainment, retail and hotel complex that helped turn around the downtown area with a huge dose of razzmatazz.
For White Plains, he was proposing a $320 million project, called City Center, on a seven-acre parcel that included the old Macy's site. On it he would erect twin 35-story towers with 300 rentals each; a half-million square feet of retail space; a 15-screen movie theater, and parking for 2,340 cars.
Mayor Delfino was ecstatic. But there were months of hand-wringing on the City Council over building heights. Until then the tallest structure in the city was 20 stories. Mr. Cappelli prevailed, and the project is scheduled to open in the fall. The city persuaded him to include a 450-seat community theater amid his retail lineup of Target, Circuit City, Barnes & Noble, Legal Sea Foods and others.
Mr. Cappelli credits the mayor with opening the doors to development. "Mayor Delfino and his staff listened to what it takes to make a development successful," Mr. Cappelli said. "You get an honest opinion out of them about where you stand right away."
The City Council is now considering the next phase of Mr. Cappelli's minicity -- a hotel-condominium tower at 221 Main Street, across from his City Center, and an adjacent office tower. Both would be 350 feet high. Mr. Cappelli says he prefers to build in a weak economy when financing is cheaper.
"My buildings are timed to come on line over the course of the next year when the war could be over and the stock market could go through the roof," he said. "We've already been in a low point for a while, and I'm making a bet that we're going to go up."
While it is clearly the most ambitious project, Mr. Cappelli's is not the only one in town.
Near the train station, workers are finishing two 21-story apartment buildings, called Bank Street Commons, with a total of 500 rental apartments. On the other side of town is Clayton Park, a 260-unit complex on Canfield Avenue that is nearly complete. At the south end of Mamaroneck Avenue, demolition has started for the Jefferson, a 285-unit apartment building.
Things are bubbling on the retail front, too. Fortunoff is moving into Westchester with a project that will include a 190,000-square-foot store and 72,000 square feet of retail space for lease on Bloomingdale Road. And residents now have a Stop & Shop superstore, which opened on Westchester Avenue in December.
"It's probably the most exciting time of all for White Plains, when you consider all that is going on simultaneously," said Frank Tomasulo, a senior vice president of CB Richard Ellis, a leading commercial real estate firm.
White Plains, he said, was wise to copy Stamford's strategy of putting apartments downtown. "The influx of housing created a real buzz that makes that a 24-hour city," Mr. Tomasulo said.
Diane Cisterna, a White Plains resident for 50 years and co-owner of Creation Plus, a hair salon in the shadow of the City Center project, describes White Plains after hours as a "ghost town." City Center, she feels, "is the best thing that could have happened."
But her employee, Vicky Driggs, a hair stylist who has lived here for 30 years, isn't so sure. "I don't like such big, big buildings," she said. "If they build more, it's going to look like New York City."
Such misgivings are a concern for the mayor's office. Already, the City Council seems to be taking a tougher approach to Mr. Cappelli's hotel and office proposals.
"The wind is finally at our backs and there's a handful of people who say, 'Oh no, now's the time to stop; bring everything to a halt and let's see where we are,' " Mr. Gretsas, the mayor's deputy, said. "The momentum has brought us to the point where we may be good, but you take that momentum to get to the finish line, which is greatness."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Joseph Delfino is credited with turning White Plains around. At right, a downtown view from the railroad station.; City Center, a $320 million project that will include two apartment towers, retail space, a multiplex cinema and parking for almost 2,500 cars, is to open in the fall. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. D1) Map of White Plains, New York highlighting areas with new development: Against the odds, building is booming in several areas of White Plains. (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); RETAILERS (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); COUNTIES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



546 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: When Freedom Leads to Anarchy 

BYLINE:  By David K. Shipler; David K. Shipler, a former New York Times reporter, won the Pulitzer Prize for "Arab and Jew: Wounded Spirits in a Promised Land."

DATELINE: CHEVY CHASE, Md. 

 BODY:
The Bush administration, ill prepared to curb the lawlessness that has swept Iraq, is reinforcing one of the world's most powerful antidemocratic forces: the fear of chaos. Even as looting subsides, vigilantism flourishes. Revenge killings are reported to have begun in Kirkuk, and Kurdish militiamen are said to be ousting Arabs from villages around the city.
 Unless the United States moves quickly to counter its mistakes, Iraqis are unlikely to trust their security to an open, pluralistic form of government. Public anxiety about disorder has been used to rationalize practically every police state, from left to right, from Moscow to Buenos Aires. Now, in part because of negligent planning in Washington, the notion is taking root in Baghdad that freedom means anarchy. 
 American ground commanders who said the war plan provided too few troops were right for the wrong reasons. There were enough soldiers during battle -- but not enough afterward. There was plenty of fire power from air and armor but not enough visible power in the streets to create an impression of American control. If trained military police units had been deployed, they and large numbers of regular soldiers could have been stationed strategically and obviously as a symbol of order until Iraqi police forces were reconstituted in sufficient numbers.
An image of American control may have been a mirage in the first days, but it would probably have deterred most of the looting. In the throes of an authoritarian system's collapse, citizens are governed by symbolism and illusion, hating their fallen oppressors yet abhorring the vacuum. That contradiction is an echo of the twin fears often experienced under dictatorship: the fear of the strong hand at the top and the fear of losing the stability that the leader provides.
In the Soviet era, ordinary Russians often spoke of anarchy lurking close to the surface. "Besporyadok," meaning "disorder," was the ubiquitous indictment used against nonconformist behavior and political irreverence. The yearning for order, which predated Communism and survived its demise, keeps alive nostalgic memories of Stalin and supports a system in Russia that is only semidemocratic, one in which immense power is still vested in the executive branch.
Russians did not have an easy transition from authoritarianism. The looting after the collapse of the Soviet Union was less frenzied than in Iraq, but it damaged civil society nonetheless. Soviet officials effectively stole factories and other "means of production," and the emerging "mafia" included former agents of the K.G.B. This has left the impression that democracy and free enterprise naturally lead to political chaos and economic exploitation -- precisely the theory espoused in Soviet textbooks.
Whether an upheaval is provoked externally (as in Iraq), internally (as in the Soviet Union) or by a combination (as in Eastern Europe), the immediate aftermath is a delicate and critical moment. Deeply ingrained images and apprehensions, reinforced though years of propaganda, surge to the surface, along with hatreds long suppressed by the police apparatus. It takes enormous effort to overcome these prejudices without simply replacing one authoritarian regime with another.
In the case of Yugoslavia, Tito sealed the fissures of a multiethnic and multireligious society under a Communist veneer. When that was stripped away, out came a scourge of "ethnic cleansing" of Bosnian and Kosovar Muslims by Orthodox Serbs. In Czechoslovakia, even the gentle Velvet Revolution opened space for the expression of stereotyping and animosity between Czechs and Slovaks, which finally split the country in two. Hungary experienced anti-Semitism, and Bulgaria indulged in hostility toward its Turkish residents. Now Iraq becomes a strong candidate for severe sectarian strife among Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds.
Washington should therefore take the current disorder more seriously than Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld has thus far. It is too late to erase the recent blunders -- but not too late to avoid committing more. Joint patrols by American troops and local police should be converted from ad hoc arrangements in Baghdad to a formal program throughout the country. Civilian police forces from abroad, including other Arab countries, could be invited to send help.
Ultimately, it matters less what Iraqis think of Americans than what Iraqis think of themselves -- and of their own ability to govern. When mobs loot not only government offices but also hospitals, museums and libraries, when they steal not just artifacts of state abuse but also artifacts from their ancient past, they steal from themselves the power of healing and their connection with history.
That sets them dangerously adrift in a region where the temptations of autocracy and fundamentalism may be irresistible. It is too late to save the National Museum of Iraq. Yet it is in the vital American interest that marines guard not only the defense and petroleum ministries but also the institutions that will nourish Iraq's civil society.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Milan Trenc) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); POLICE FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



547 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: THE TV WATCH; 
In Hoopla Over a P.O.W., A Mirror of U.S. Society

BYLINE:  By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
There have been many television magazine shows devoted to Pfc. Jessica Lynch, and several movie treatments are in the works, including an unauthorized NBC made-for-television movie.
 But what is striking about tonight's special presentation on A&E, "Saving Jessica Lynch," is how little it has to say about Jessica Lynch. Two weeks after her rescue, there are still few details about her capture or her treatment in captivity. Tonight's documentary reveals far more about American culture than it does about the celebrity under its lens. 
 The attack of Iraq lasted three weeks. Yet the constant, instant, live coverage of every aspect of combat, from mess halls in Kuwait to desert firefights, telescoped the experience into a time-release portrait of war. 
And nothing moves faster than television's power to create instant legends. At a discouraging moment two weeks into the campaign, Private Lynch provided the nation with a made-for-television catharsis, much the way the reappearance of the kidnapping victim Elizabeth Smart did last month.
Since the fighting largely ended, Ali, the little Iraqi boy who lost his parents and both arms to American bombs, has became a symbol of what Jon Lee Anderson, The New Yorker's correspondent in Baghdad, described yesterday on WNYC radio as "wounded Iraqi nationhood." On American television, where coverage focused on Ali's medical treatment and offers of financial assistance and adoption, the child also became a symbol of American generosity.
Private Lynch's as-yet-untold story instantly hardened into a Hollywood-style fable of heroism. But her youth, delicate good looks and blond hair also evoked older, more disturbing myths. In the hands of Saddam Hussein's troops, this fragile 19-year-old supply clerk who joined the military to get an education turned instantly into a Fay Wray struggling in the paws of King Kong.
Perhaps because of that subliminal imagery, the news media quickly seized an unconfirmed report by an anonymous source in an article in The Washington Post that portrayed Private Lynch, wounded but unbowed, fiercely firing her rifle at the Iraqi enemy. Tabloids and television quickly recast her as a teenage Rambo. But that more dashing scenario was not confirmed, and reporters and Pentagon officials quietly let it drop, switching their focus to the heroics of Mohammad, the Iraqi lawyer who led United States troops to her hospital bed.
Her rescue was daring and highly unusual: more typically, P.O.W.'s escape or are exchanged or are returned after a war is over. But it was Private Lynch's femininity that seemed to move even former P.O.W.'s to see her nine days in captivity as worse than their own ordeals. 
"I have to take my hat off to that young Jessica Lynch because she went through hell," a World War II veteran, John Cook, told an A&E interviewer. "A lot more hell than I did in my 34 months." 
Mr. Cook, captured at Bataan, was among 513 P.O.W.'s rescued from a Japanese prison camp in the Philippines by American Rangers in 1945. 
Even Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who spent five and a half years as a P.O.W. in Vietnam -- three of them in solitary confinement -- was undone by Private Lynch's suffering. "Her story is the story of the bravest Americans," Senator McCain told A&E.
Overreaction is an understandable response to the still-shocking sight of women being killed or captured in combat. It could also be a symptom of pain inflation, a wartime version of grade inflation in a culture that views its own suffering as commensurate with that of previous generations.
On television, the toppling of the Hussein statue in Baghdad is compared to the fall of the Berlin Wall. In poignant satellite interviews between soldiers and their families at home, two-month separations turn each relative waiting at Camp LeJeune, N.C., into Mrs. Miniver. Mr. Hussein is as evil as Hitler and Stalin (though his stature as a totalitarian monster dipped to second-rate bully when marines discovered palaces tattily decorated with cheesy pink synthetic sheets and vinyl floors instead of silk and marble.)
Not surprisingly, perhaps, Jessica Lynch became Audie Murphy. Yesterday, an Internet search of the Dow Jones online publications library turned up 3,888 mentions of her since her rescue on April 1. Gen. Tommy Franks received 2,729.
Yet some of the most affecting material in "Saving Private Lynch" is not about the would-be kindergarten teacher from Palestine, W.Va., but the two other women in her unit who were also captured.
Both Pfc. Lori Piestewa, an American Indian who was killed either during or after her capture, and the unit's cook, Shoshona Johnson, an African-American who was found with six other P.O.W.'s last Sunday, had left small children behind. The biographical material, as well as the testimony of their families and friends, proved richer than the scant details about Private Lynch.
"The documentary started out being just about her," Pete Simmons, a senior producer at ABC News Productions, which makes documentaries for cable networks, including A&E, said. "But the other two women were so compelling the show developed a life of its own." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); WORLD WAR II (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%); ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (77%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



548 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Unions at American Airlines Raise Outcry Over Pensions
Union leaders at American Airlines denounced the company's disclosure on Tuesday that it had set up a trust fund to protect executives' pensions if the company went into bankruptcy court and that it planned to pay generous bonuses to several executives for remaining with the company until 2005.
 Union officials said they might not agree to the concessions their members had voted to give management, even if that meant pushing the airline to file for bankruptcy. Page C2. 

Delta Air Lines said that its first-quarter loss widened to $466 million as the war in Iraq reduced international travel. C2.

Oversight Board Picks Chief Auditor
The new board to oversee the accounting industry announced that Douglas R. Carmichael, an accounting professor at Baruch College in New York, would serve as its first chief auditor. Mr. Carmichael will be the principal adviser to the board on technical accounting issues, including auditing standards. C4.

Bechtel Gets Major Contract in Iraq
The Bush administration awarded the Bechtel Group the major contract to rebuild Iraq giving it a toehold in one of the most lucrative building programs in decades. A1.

Number of Jobless Claims Rises
The number of workers filing claims for unemployment benefits climbed to the second-highest level of the year. The Labor Department reported that new applications for jobless benefits rose by a seasonally adjusted 30,000, to 442,000, for the week ended April 12. C2.

Sears Profit Is Up, but Sales Dip
Sears, Roebuck improved its first-quarter profit by 75 percent over an off quarter a year ago, but it said weak sales are hampering its near-term outlook. C5.

Markets Higher Ahead of Holiday
The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 80.04 points, or 1 percent, at 8,337.65. The Nasdaq composite index rose 30.78 points, or 2.2 percent, to 1,425.50. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 13.67 points, or 1.6 percent, to 893.58. The financial markets will be closed today in observance of Good Friday. C5.

Despite the lackluster performance of the stock market over the last month, investors poured $5.7 billion into stock mutual funds in the last week, the largest weekly inflow in a year. C5.

Earnings Increase 13% at PepsiCo
PepsiCo reported a 13 percent increase in its first-quarter earnings and attributed the growth to strong sales at its Frito-Lay North America unit, cost savings from its merger with Quaker Oats and the sale of a pasta business. PepsiCo booked incremental growth in each of its major business areas. Overall worldwide sales of the company's products increased 3 percent. C2.

A Brazilian Airline Loses Its Chief
The management of Varig, Brazil's flagship airline, has been thrown into turmoil by the departure of its third chief executive in less than a year, endangering the government's efforts to spare the struggling airline from bankruptcy through a merger with its rival, TAM Linhas Aereas. World Business, Section W.

Russia Approves Oil Pipeline
Dropping its opposition, Russia approved plans for a privately owned oil pipeline to Murmansk that would carry oil bound for the United States. World Business, Section W.

Campaign for Diet Coke Reappears
Two decades ago, Pepsi-Cola peddled Diet Pepsi with a campaign that carried the theme "Now you see it, now you don't." These days, those words could be used to describe the status of advertising for a competitive brand, Diet Coke, which has appeared, disappeared and reappeared with bewildering irregularity as the account changed agencies three times in five years. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C3.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,337.65 up 80.04Nasdaq composite -- 1,425.50 up 30.7810-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.96% up 0.02The euro -- $1.0889 down 0.0023The dollar -- 119.55 yen up 0.09 Graph tracks the daily closing price of Pepsi shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); AUDITS (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); IRAQ WAR (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (73%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EASTER SEASON (69%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (69%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (55%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (52%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (90%); BECHTEL GROUP INC (84%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); GOL LINHAS AEREAS INTELIGENTES SA (57%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (54%); PEPSICO INC (51%); FRITO-LAY INC (51%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (57%); GOLL3 (BOVESPA) (57%); GOL (NYSE) (57%); PEP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%) SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & WATER; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); BRAZIL (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



549 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: DIPLOMACY; 
U.N. and European Union Consider the Future of Iraq

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER with FRANK BRUNI

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, April 17 

 BODY:
As the new debate began here today over how to lift sanctions against Iraq, the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, was in Greece, imploring European Union leaders to forge a shared position on the terms and timing of Iraq's political and economic reconstruction.
 The coming debates on lifting sanctions will be the most fraught since this winter's bitter dispute over the question of military action in Iraq. The talks are clearly seen by both Mr. Annan and leading Security Council members as a crucial opportunity to revive trust in the world body's ability to help maintain international peace and security. 
 Intertwined in the debate will be the larger question of the role the United Nations will play as the government of Iraq is reconstituted. European Union leaders released a statement today calling for a "central role" for the United Nations in Iraq's future, a position that could put them at odds with the United States. 
On Wednesday, President Bush called on the United Nations to lift the sanctions that were first imposed on Iraq in 1990 and that have been the basis of virtually all United Nations programs involving Iraq.
With sanctions gone, the United Nations' authority to oversee the sale of Iraqi oil, to buy and distribute food, to inspect for weapons of mass destruction and to safeguard the border with Kuwait would evaporate.
As one diplomatic observer at the United Nations sees it, the new round of resolutions on Iraq will involve a clear political calculus for Council members. The way countries position themselves, this person said, will depend on "whether they feel they are scoring political brownie points with the U.S. that can be used on other issues or losing the last leverage they've got on Iraq."
Beyond that loomed the larger issue of the relevance of the United Nations, its cohesion and its yet-to-be-determined role in the emergence of a new Iraqi government. Speaking of the Iraq war and its prelude, Mr. Annan said today: "No issue has so divided the world since the end of the Cold War. It is vital that we heal that division now. The world cannot afford a long period of recrimination."
Mr. Annan, who has been urged by some Council members to help bridge the divides on the Council, today suggested a set of four principles as the basis of future Council actions. Among them he listed "the right of the Iraqi people to freely determine their own system of government and political leadership, as well as to control their own natural resources." Any United Nationsrole in Iraq, "beyond the purely humanitarian," was a question for the Security Council, he said. 
Except for the Greek hosts, Mr. Annan was one of the most visible officials at the meetings, arriving on Tuesday before many heads of state, appearing frequently before television cameras and keeping up a grueling schedule of meetings.
At the United Nations today, the Mexican ambassador, Adolfo Aguilar Zinser, whose country is the Council president for the month, said that envoys here were in "intense dialogue" on the future of the oil-for-food program, the weapons inspections and the sanctions. All were striving for consensus, he said.
In Athens, the European leaders failed to fully endorse President Bush's call for the United Nations to lift economic sanctions against Iraq.
Getting Council agreement on broadly accepted principles is seen by some Council diplomats as a prerequisite for future negotiations on the knot of Iraq-related issues. 
There are complex practicalities involved. Unraveling the sanctions, United Nations diplomats suggest, will involve the kind of legal complexities that go with the court-supervised reorganization of a troubled corporation. Decisions must be made on how assets can be used or sold, which contracts will be honored, which creditors will be paid, and under what authority and structure the company will be reconstituted.
Most of the current Iraqi economy operates under United Nations supervision, through the oil-for-food program, which was created in 1995.
Another persistent question is whether Council diplomats will insist that United Nations weapons inspectors declare Iraq free of weapons of mass destruction before sanctions can be lifted.
Hans Blix, a chief weapons inspector, told reporters he could have an inspections team in Iraq within two weeks.
Russia and the United States have different stands on inspections. 
In Moscow today, the foreign minister, Igor Ivanov, said that while sanctions should be lifted, "for the Security Council to take this decision, we need to be certain whether Iraq has weapons of mass destruction or not." 
Speaking to reporters at the president's ranch in Crawford, Tex., Claire Buchan, a White House spokeswoman, suggested today that there would be no support for sending Dr. Blix's inspectors back to Iraq any time soon. 
Mr. Annan's remarks in Athens came at the end of two days of meetings by European heads of state, their largest gathering since the war began. It yielded both scenes of amity and hints of lingering discord.
On the one hand, there were remarks by both the German chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, and the French president, Jacques Chirac, both ardent opponents of the war, that indicated a desire for international healing. 
But the British prime minister, Tony Blair, at odds with his French and German counterparts over the war in Iraq, kept a noticeably low profile during his time in Athens. He canceled a scheduled news conference on Wednesday evening and was not present for a so-called "family photo" of European leaders today.
The European Union statement on Iraq today made clear that before the union and the United Nations could help with reconstruction, the coalition forces that waged war there bore "the responsibility to ensure a secure environment."
Representatives from the 25 countries in the expanding union and from other European countries issued a declaration, separate from the statement about Iraq, that reaffirmed Europeans' "determination not to tolerate any new dividing lines."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); IRAQ WAR (73%); NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (91%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



550 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Once Just Threats, Cutbacks Sink In Among New Yorkers 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
For many New Yorkers, the budget blues have come on slowly, like a bad, unkickable cold that finally becomes a miserable sinus infection. A street on Staten Island looks a bit dirtier; an Upper West Side subway station seems to have a few more homeless people. 
 It is as if people are already starting to see their city crumble ever so slightly -- even when statistics defy their perceptions -- because they finally believe government when it says that it is out of money. The mayor's budget, which he released on Tuesday, portrays a city where firehouses would close, where teachers would lose their classroom assistants and where there would be far fewer places to take children come next summer. 
 Hearing about the privation on the horizon, many people seem to think it has already arrived, and they are starting to debate in earnest how the city's fiscal problem should be solved. 
"There were predictions of these things a year ago," said Lee Goldman, 75, who lives in Brooklyn Heights. "But it seems to have become stronger. I have a sense that there has been a decline in services, especially in safety. From what I hear, the public schools are terrible. I guess I need to listen more."
Wade Golden, who worked as a florist in the World Trade Center and has been unemployed since Sept. 11, may have an exaggerated view of the facts, but a not untypical sense of doom. "You're playing with people's lives right now," Mr. Golden said of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's latest budget plans. "By closing down the Fire Department, people are being affected," he said at the Fulton Mall in Brooklyn. "This is their lives."
News of the city's dire fiscal problems has not been secret. Since the day he took office, Mr. Bloomberg has warned about massive budget gaps, impending cuts, shared sacrifices. 
But back then, there was a governor running for re-election who skirted the budget story. Then there were whispers on Wall Street and in Washington that a recovery might be just around the corner. And the budget process was always confusing: onerous cuts would be proposed by the mayor, rejected by the City Council and sometimes patched up with "electricity savings" and other mysterious pots of money.
"They have been through this so many times," said Ted Kanabis, who had stopped in for lunch yesterday at the Stein Senior Center on East 24th Street, where he is a client and a part-time worker. "There was talk about cutting the senior centers from five days to four, and that was back in January that there was talk of that and people got upset." 
Now, however, there is an amplified debate between Albany and City Hall over how to get the city out of its financial distress. Falling tax revenue means that service cuts are a given. Pink slips have already gone out to scores of city workers, and no one talks anymore about an imminent economic recovery.
The news is no longer about what will be saved, but rather how deep the cuts will be. "This is the first time I can remember in a long time it's been so bad," said Brenda Hill, an outreach worker for a private nonprofit group. "This is scary. So many people are losing their jobs."
Simply put, the debate between Mayor Bloomberg and Gov. George E. Pataki over a proposed $1.4 billion tax on commuters pits a mayor who wants to spare New York City residents some of the cost of city services against a governor who simply abhors taxes. 
But the disagreement is much broader. Mr. Bloomberg, a newly minted Republican and former businessman, believes that businesses and people leave a city when its services fall into disrepair, as they did in the 1970's. Mr. Pataki embraces the notion that taxes are what drive companies and residents away.
Dee Das, 19, a salesman at Go Jays, a kiosk that sells cellphones in the Staten Island Mall, sided with Mr. Bloomberg yesterday, though a bit reluctantly.
"This is the slowest month ever," he said. "People are scared of losing their jobs. No one feels secure. Cutting back on police and fire isn't good. People won't feel safe anymore. It's better to raise taxes. Not very high -- maybe by 2 percent."
John O'Mahoney, 59, a retired police officer, had a slightly different view. "I think Bloomberg is going about this the wrong way," he said as he waited for his grandchildren to finish riding the Easter train at the mall. "He should tax businesses, not the communities. Let them pay their fair share. We just got a big property tax increase. Why should the middle class always pay the brunt of the tax burden in New York City?" 
Either way, it is clear that people are starting to believe that oppressive service cuts are on the way. 
Carmine Gallo, 51, a special education teacher who lives on Staten Island, said the cuts to city agencies he had heard about in the past were things he could live with. Now, he is not so sure. "We're talking, when you have to go throw your garbage out, or when you want a cop and he doesn't get there for 20 minutes," said Mr. Gallo. "We want our firefighters. We need these policemen on the streets."
Proposed cuts to education -- which is slated for a 2 percent reduction in the 2004 fiscal year budget -- seemed to upset many New Yorkers. And many of them seemed to believe the message that is subtly coming out of City Hall, that part of New York City's burden could be eased by the governor. 
"I blame Bloomberg up to a point," said Mary Ann Carola, 56, who works at Public School 56 on Staten Island. "But he has to balance the budget. I blame Pataki more. There was federal funding given to the Board of Ed. Why don't they take that money and save jobs and do better for the children?"
Mrs. Goldman, the Brooklynite, said she was just starting to piece together what is happening from bits and pieces on television and the radio. "I think the governor should be interested in New York City, but from what I hear on television, he seems not to be," she said. 
But if people had much to say about how they might suffer as a result of the cuts, they had few ideas on how to patch the holes in the budget. 
"I know that we will give up on garbage; that has been given up before," said Beth Linskey, who splits her time between the Upper West Side and Columbia County, N.Y., where she produces jams for sale. 
What should go? She could not say. "We certainly have had less park maintenance before, and we survived," she said. "And it's wonderful that we've had such gorgeous parks. And maybe we shouldn't really give up the swimming pools that are open all the time, because that keeps crime down during the summer by giving kids a lot to do, so those are areas that you shouldn't cut right away.
"I mean, that's a tough one."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carmine Gallo: Teacher -- "We want our firefighters. We need these policemen on the streets." (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times); Beth Linskey: Businesswoman -- "Maybe we shouldn't really give up the swimming pools that are open all the time, because that keeps crime down." (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times); Brenda Hill: Outreach worker -- "This is the first time I can remember in a long time it's been so bad. This is scary. So many people are losing their jobs." (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times); Ted Kanabis: Works with the elderly --"They have been through this so many times." (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PARAEDUCATORS (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); SINUSITIS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



551 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
HIBERNIA, LOUISIANA BANK, PLANS TO ELIMINATE 290 JOBS

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

 BODY:
 Hibernia, Louisiana's biggest bank, plans to eliminate 5 percent of its work force to cut costs after first-quarter earnings fell 5.1 percent and lending money became less profitable. About half of the 290 jobs that will be cut are vacant, Hibernia said. 
Expenses related to eliminating the jobs will reduce earnings in the second quarter by $3.9 million, or 3 cents a share. Net income in the first quarter fell to $56.2 million, or 36 cents a share, from $59.2 million, or 37 cents a share, a year earlier, as homeowners paid down more of their mortgages, the company said. Revenue fell 3.9 percent, to $246 million from $256.1 million. The bank has $17.7 billion in assets and about 260 branches. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); LABOR FORCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY LOSSES (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); HOMEOWNERS (88%); COMPANY REVENUES (72%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES 

ORGANIZATION: HIBERNIA CORP (HIB) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



552 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Hardware: Electroglas To Cut 25% Of Work Force 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

 BODY:
 Electroglas Inc., a maker of semiconductor equipment, said yesterday that it would cut 25 percent of its work force in the next two quarters. The company also said delays in customer bookings and shipments led to a loss in its first quarter. 
The net loss widened to $23.3 million, or $1.09 a share, from $14.8 million, or 71 cents, a year earlier. Sales for the quarter ended March 31 fell 19 percent, to $9.47 million from $11.7 million. Electroglas employed 469 workers as of December 2002, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Its loss widened because of $8.5 million in expenses for writing down the value of its San Jose, Calif., campus, the company said. Shares fell 21 cents, or 13 percent, to $1.36. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); SEMICONDUCTORS (73%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (73%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: EG SYSTEMS LLC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%) ELECTROGLAS INC (EGLS) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (96%) SIC3829 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (65%) CALIFORNIA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



553 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

War News Summary B2

British Army Link Found To Killings in Ulster
British Army intelligence officers and the Royal Ulster Constabulary in Northern Ireland helped Protestant guerrillas kill Roman Catholics in the late 1980's, a report by Britain's senior police official said. A3

U.N. Rights Resolution on Cuba
The 53-member panel of the United Nations Human Rights Commission passed a resolution calling on the Cuban government to allow a rights monitor to visit the country, but saying nothing about the recent crackdown on dissidents that has triggered international outrage. A5

American Officials Visit Arafat
Three United States congressmen paid Yasir Arafat the highest-level American visit since last June, when President Bush called for his replacement by new leaders "not compromised by terror." A7

A New Call for Cyprus Talks
Turkey's prime minister and the president of Greek Cyprus called for new talks on an abandoned United Nations peace plan to unite Cyprus. Turkey's aspirations to join the European Union could fail in the absence of a Cyprus deal. A7

Nigerians Brace for Elections
The upcoming Nigerian elections will be a closely watched test of the government's ability to engender confidence among an electorate that has suffered decades of rigged polls and military coups. A8

French Trial Shows Corruption
The trial of executives of the formerly government-owned oil giant Elf Aquitaine has revealed a maze of graft and corruption that reached to the pinnacle of the government. A8

Russian Legislator Shot
Sergei N. Yushenkov, a legislator and co-chairman of the Western-style Liberal Russia Party, was assassinated hours after announcing that the new party had registered to run candidates in parliamentary elections scheduled for December. A8

NATIONAL A10-13

Bill Limits Judicial Power In Sentencing Criminals
A bill setting up a national alert system for child abductions includes provisions that have created an uproar among federal judges and legal scholars because they limit judicial discretion in sentencing criminals. Critics say the new limits are an assault on independence and a step toward unraveling sentencing reforms. A1

Legal Fees at Issue in California
California has spent $13 million defending itself in a lawsuit seeking to improve conditions in its public schools. That figure has drawn attention as lawmakers wrestle with a looming budget deficit. A10

Judges Press Cheney Lawsuit
Members of a federal appeals court questioned the Bush administration's request to stop a lawsuit delving into Vice President Dick Cheney's contacts with energy industry executives and lobbyists. A12

NEW YORK/REGION D1-8

U.S. Investigating Ferry in Possible Fraud Case
Federal authorities are investigating allegations that the region's leading private ferry company, New York Waterway, defrauded the federal government of hundreds of thousands of dollars in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attack, according to investigators involved in the case. D1

9 Hurt in Bus Accident
A runaway bus laid waste to three blocks of a residential street in Queens, smashing into 15 vehicles, knocking down utility poles and sending terrified pedestrians flying. Nine people were injured, none seriously. The cause was not immediately determined, the police said. D1

Businessman Kidnappped
A business meeting in Lower Manhattan between two men veered into vitriol on Monday when one of the men was bound and gagged by the other, and then imprisoned in the space beneath the floorboards of an apartment for 28 hours, the authorities said. The suspect was arrested but denied the whole thing. D2

Study of Guns Used in Crimes
The first analysis made public of the sources of firearms belonging to criminal suspects found that despite New York's gun laws, 3 of the top 10 dealers were in New York City, and a fourth was on Long Island. D3

EDUCATION A12

School Contracts Canceled
Philadelphia school officials announced that they were canceling their contract with Chancellor Beacon Academies, the private company that was managing several area elementary schools. A12

OBITUARIES D8-9

Robert C. Atkins
Dr. Robert C. Atkins, a cardiologist who devised a hotly debated weight-loss plan favoring steak and eggs over spaghetti and spinach that more than 30 million Americans have tried, was 72. D9

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Primedia Chief Resigns
Thomas S. Rogers, the chief executive of Primedia, which publishes New York and Seventeen magazines, resigned over plans by the company's controlling investor to dismantle the business. C1

Big Board Investigates Trades
The New York Stock Exchange said that it was investigating some of its traders, adding to pressure on the exchange's managers to demonstrate that they are protecting the interests of small investors. C1

Sony Wants to Cut Costs
Sony Pictures Entertainment has formed an internal committee to cut costs and review its movie business. According to a memorandum, the committee is made up of Sony's top U.S. entertainment executives. C1

Ford Won't Meet Fuel Pledge
Executives of the Ford Motor Company backed away from a pledge to increase the fuel economy of its sport utility vehicles 25 percent by 2005. Ford does not know whether it can meet the original timetable. C11-Business Digest C1

World Business W1

WEEKEND E1-26; 27-36

SPORTS S1-9

ESCAPES F1-12

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials:Editorials: The quest for illicit weapons; preventing a miscarriage of justice; Cuban litmus test; a new school war.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E24
TV Listings E26
Public Lives D2
Weather A14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ARMIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SENTENCING (86%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); SUITS & CLAIMS (85%); COUPS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); RELIGION (77%); LOBBYING (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); JUDGES (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (62%); FERRIES (60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (60%); BUDGETS (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ELF AQUITAINE SA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CYPRUS (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); NIGERIA (92%); TURKEY (92%); CUBA (91%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



554 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
CHAPIN, EMERSON E. "BUD"

 BODY:
 CHAPIN-Emerson E. "Bud". Died April 14, 2003. Survived by Ruth, his wife of 57 years; son David and daughter Ruth; grandchildren, Madeleine, Russell, Eli and Lianna and sister, Mary Elizabeth. 
He grew up on Staten Island and graduated from the University of Rochester, Phi Beta Kappa with letters in swimming and tennis. He was an editor on the foreign desk of The New York Times for 30 years and was the foreign correspondent for The Times in Japan from 1963-1966. His reporting was instrumental in making the world aware of Japan's and Korea's emergence as major economic forces. Memorial service will be held 2PM Tuesday April 22 at the Unitarian Church, 67 Church Street, Montclair, NJ. In lieu of flowers the family requests contributions to the Montclair Volunteer Ambulance Unit, 86 Valley Road, Montclair, NJ 07042 or a charity of your choice. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (71%); VOLUNTEERS (67%) 

ORGANIZATION: PHI BETA KAPPA (58%)

PERSON: CHAPIN, EMERSON E. "BUD" 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); NORTHERN ASIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



555 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: PepsiCo Reports 13% Rise In First-Quarter Earnings 

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY

 BODY:
PepsiCo reported a 13 percent increase in its first-quarter earnings yesterday and attributed the growth to strong sales at its Frito-Lay North America unit, cost savings from its merger with Quaker Oats and the sale of a pasta business.
 PepsiCo showed growth in all of its major business areas. Overall worldwide sales increased 3 percent while global sales of snacks and beverages each increased 3 percent. But the continued growth at Frito-Lay North America was the brightest spot in the report. 
 For nearly a year, PepsiCo has been trying to revive business at Frito-Lay, its snack division. Heavy spending on trade promotions last summer failed to generate a significant increase in sales for the second quarter of 2002. In the months that followed, executives at PepsiCo pledged to lift sales at Frito-Lay, which generates two-thirds of PepsiCo's profits.
The latest quarter provided evidence that the company was moving closer to its goals, analysts said. Revenue at Frito-Lay North America rose 5 percent, to $2 billion, and operating profit was up 6 percent, to $506 million. Volume increased 4 percent.
"It's certainly improving," said Bryan Spillane, a beverage analyst at Banc of America Securities. "You can visibly see a recovery. The next phase is now that you're seeing the top line increase, you should start to see a better spread on profitability."
PepsiCo's earnings topped Wall Street's expectations, which had been fairly conservative because the weak economic environment negatively affected food and beverages companies throughout the quarter, analysts said.
In the first quarter, net income rose to $777 million, or 45 cents a share, from $689 million, or 38 cents a share a year earlier. The per share results included a penny gain from the $16 million sale of Quaker's Mission pasta business. Analysts had forecast earnings per share of 42 cents, according to Thomson First Call. 
Total revenue rose 4.1 percent, to $5.5 billion.
In the North American beverage business, revenue rose 4 percent, to $1.5 billion, and operating profit increased 5 percent, to $343 million. Total volume at the unit inched forward by half a percent, the company said, led primarily by sales of noncarbonated beverages. The carbonated soft drink business proved disappointing. Volume declined 2 percent during the quarter because of slow sales of Pepsi and Mountain Dew, two flagship brands.
"Although we're not satisfied with our volume growth, it is worth noting that it was all generated without acquisition," Steven S. Reinemund, PepsiCo's chairman and chief executive, said, alluding to the Coca-Cola Company, which reported Wednesday that much of its volume increases in the first quarter had come from acquisitions. "We do have some real bright spots in our portfolio, but we also have some challenges, and we will address those challenges." 
Mr. Reinemund said the forthcoming introductions of Mountain Dew LiveWire and Pepsi Vanilla would enhance the product line, which includes Gatorade, Aquafina bottled water and Tropicana juices.
Analysts described Pepsi's earnings as solid and said the challenges were easily surmountable. 
"The comparisons in both the Frito-Lay business and the soft drink business get easier as we go forward," said Carlos Laboy, a beverage analyst at Bear, Stearns. "We've got a pretty bright macro outlook for the second half of the year. Some key areas of the company that were question marks have been addressed, with the exception of North American soft drinks which we knew were going to be weak."
PepsiCo also said it would continue to do business with Fleming, the grocery wholesaler that filed for bankruptcy earlier this month, and with U.S. Foodservice, the American unit of Royal Ahold, which is being investigated for accounting irregularities. The troubles at those businesses are not expected to have a material effect on PepsiCo's business, company officials said. 
Shares of PepsiCo rose $2.64, or 6.6 percent, to $42.54. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); SALES FIGURES (91%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (89%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); SOFT DRINKS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MERGERS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (89%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%) SOFT DRINKS; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: FRITO-LAY INC (92%); PEPSICO INC (90%); COCA-COLA CO (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: PEPSICO INC (PEP) 

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (90%); KO (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (92%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%) SIC2087 OTHER FLAVORING EXTRACTS & SYRUPS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



556 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: MONEY; 
Iraq to Run On Dollars Till It Gets New Currency

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17 

 BODY:
As the focus in Iraq shifts from waging war to paying wages, the Bush administration plans to run Iraq on dollars until it fosters a replacement for today's nearly worthless "Saddam dinars."
 American military officials are already paying Iraqi civil servants in dollars, and they expect to continue doing so for at least the next several months. But a team of experts from the Treasury Department is already commuting to Baghdad from Kuwait City, trying to determine the fastest and smoothest way for Iraqis to have a new currency and a central bank to control it. 
 Today, a senior administration official said it was in discussions with Peter McPherson, who was a deputy Treasury secretary under President Ronald Reagan, to serve in Iraq as a coordinator on financial issues during reconstruction. A Treasury Department spokesman declined to comment. 
The model is Afghanistan, which had several competing currencies and a financial system in shambles. Working with Afghan leaders, Treasury officials laid the groundwork for a unified Afghan currency and contracted with printers in Germany and Sweden to produce the actual bills.
"We will pay in dollars initially," John B. Taylor, assistant secretary of the Treasury in charge of international affairs, said in an interview today. "It's an interim measure, and we're not going to do it any longer than we have to. But the dollar has value and it's a stable currency."
The most likely strategy, Mr. Taylor said, will be to expand the use of old Iraqi dinars that were used before the first Persian Gulf war decimated Iraq's economy.
Iraq replaced the old "Swiss dinars," as they are known, with Saddam dinars, and then printed ever-larger quantities to make up for the government's chronic budget shortfalls. Though the government maintained the official exchange rate of Saddam dinars at 0.3 to the dollar, the black market exchange rate reached 2,000 to the dollar by the time American forces attacked Iraq last month. Today it is 3,000 to the dollar.
The older dinars continue to circulate in the autonomous Kurdish regions of northern Iraq, and they have kept most of their value because nobody has printed new bills since about 1990. The old dinars are now ragged, sometimes held together with tape, and there is no central bank that controls their supply. They simply recirculate in the regions.
Treasury officials are in the process of assessing the possibilities for printing new batches of the old dinars either in Iraq or abroad. Though Iraq did have printing and engraving plants, officials say they do not yet know how many of them are still functional or whether they can produce bills with modern anticounterfeiting features like holograms.
Many countries have created new currencies in the aftermath of war and upheaval over the last decade. Republics that broke free of the former Soviet Union have mostly adopted new currencies, as did countries like Bosnia that broke free from Yugoslavia. Kosovo, now an autonomous region of Serbia, has essentially adopted the euro.
Establishing a new currency is only a step in rebuilding Iraq's financial system. Iraqi prices have become almost entirely divorced from normal market forces. Inflation roared along at 60 percent a year, and perhaps much more, but the government also kept prices for many staples and for electricity and water far below their actual cost.
Until a new system is established, Iraq will be doing business in dollars, which have circulated widely in Iraq for years. By some estimates, Treasury officials say, as much as $500 million in American currency may be in Iraq.
Administration officials say the choice of a new currency ought to be made by Iraqis, and they insist that the administration is neutral on many basic issues of monetary policy. For example, Iraq could adopt a system of flexible exchange rates, which move in response to market forces. Or it could adopt a fixed exchange rate, which would require the central bank to intervene with its own reserves to keep the exchange rate at a constant level.
"This is something the Iraqis will have to decide and have a lot of ownership on," Mr. Taylor said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (72%); COUNTERFEITING (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GULF STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



557 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: THE CONTRACTOR; 
Company Has Ties in Washington, and to Iraq

BYLINE:  By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. with DIANA B. HENRIQUES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17 

 BODY:
The company that will lead the reconstruction of Iraq had its beginnings in 1898, when Warren A. Bechtel and his pack of mules were hired to grade railroad beds in the Oklahoma Territory. A century later, his company, which is still controlled by his descendants, is one of the world's largest and most politically connected construction companies.
 It has a long history of doing business in Iraq, including an unsuccessful pipeline deal that at one point involved a meeting between Donald H. Rumsfeld, now the secretary of defense, and Saddam Hussein. That project later drew scrutiny from a special prosecutor looking into allegations of impropriety involving Edwin A. Meese III, the former White House counsel and attorney general in the Reagan administration. 
 With 47,000 employees worldwide, the Bechtel Group already has about 1,000 people on projects in the Middle East and Persian Gulf region, where the company maintains five offices and a procurement center.
In a statement, Tom Hash, the president of Bechtel National, the subsidiary that will carry out the work of rebuilding Iraq's roads, power plants, water systems, seaports and airports, said the company was "honored to have been selected through a competitive process" to take on the work of "humanitarian assistance, economic recovery and infrastructure."
The deal provoked some disappointment at the Parsons Corporation in Pasadena, Calif., which confirmed tonight that it was the second finalist in the bidding.
"We learned from the press that we were not selected," said Erin Kuhlman, vice president for corporate relations for Parsons. The United States Agency for International Development, which awarded the contract to Bechtel today, had been in discussions with Parsons as recently as last Friday, she said.
Ms. Kuhlman said it was too early to say whether the company would challenge the award, as it is allowed to do under federal regulations. Parsons had identified the Kellogg Brown & Root unit of Halliburton as a subcontractor in its bid. But Ms. Kuhlman said she did not know whether the controversy that has surrounded Halliburton -- where Vice President Dick Cheney served as chief executive until 2000 -- was a factor in the decision to reject Parsons. "I hope not," she said.
Congressional Democrats have questioned the involvement of Halliburton in postwar Iraq, prompting the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress, to open a wide-ranging inquiry.
But while Halliburton's involvement in Iraq has drawn the most attention, Bechtel has longstanding ties to the national security establishment -- both for the work it has done as well as the men who have served in its executive ranks.
One director is George P. Shultz, who was secretary of state under President Ronald Reagan. Before joining the Reagan administration, Mr. Shultz, who also serves as a senior counselor to Bechtel, was the company's president, working alongside Caspar W. Weinberger, who served as an executive at the San Francisco-based company before his appointment as defense secretary. This year, President Bush appointed Bechtel's chief executive, Riley P. Bechtel, to serve on the President's Export Council.
Bechtel's history in Iraq goes back to 1950, when it was hired by the Iraq Petroleum Company to build a 556-mile crude oil pipeline linking the oil fields in Kirkuk, in the Kurdish sector of northeastern Iraq, to the port of Baniyas in Syria.
Most recently, from 1983 until the early 1990's, Bechtel teamed up with Turkey's Enka construction group to help build the Bekme hydroelectric dam near the Turkish border.
But perhaps its most controversial dealings with Iraq surrounded a project that was never built. 
In 1983, Bechtel was negotiating to build an oil pipeline from Iraq to the Jordanian port of Aqaba, and the project was discussed privately by Mr. Hussein and Mr. Rumsfeld, who was in Baghdad in December 1983 as the president's Mideast peace envoy.
A secret State Department cable, released by the National Security Archives and obtained by the Institute for Policy Studies in Washington, detailed the meeting between Mr. Rumsfeld and the Iraqi leader. 
"In response to Rumsfeld's interest in seeing Iraq increase oil exports, including through possible new pipeline across Jordan to Aqaba, Saddam suggested Israeli threat to security of such a line was major concern and U.S. might be able to provide some assurances in this regard," the cable stated.
Mr. Shultz, who was secretary of state at the time, has said that he recused himself from any discussions involving the proposed pipeline.
Bechtel later brought in as a partner Bruce Rappoport, a Swiss executive with ties to Israel, who sought to secure a promise from Israel not to attack the pipeline. Mr. Rappoport then retained E. Robert Wallach, a lawyer who was close to Mr. Meese, then the attorney general. Mr. Wallach later wrote a memo to Mr. Meese saying that some proceeds from the pipeline would go to Israel's ruling Labor Party.
Mr. Meese's involvement was later investigated by a special prosecutor as part of a broader inquiry into Mr. Meese. He was not prosecuted but later resigned.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Contracts for the Reconstruction of Iraq"With yesterday's award of a contract for infrastructure construction to Bechtel, the government has awarded five out of the nine contracts for reconstruction of Iraq that it has announced so far. The four that have yet to be awarded are for airport administration, logistical support, public health and community programs. CONTRACT: Infrastructure constructionCOMPANY: Bechtel San FranciscoWHEN AWARDED: YesterdayINITIAL AMOUNT: $34.6 millionESTIMATED MAXIMUM: $680.0 million CONTRACT: Local governanceCOMPANY: Research Triangle Institute, Research Triangle Park, N.C.WHEN AWARDED: April 11INITIAL AMOUNT: 7.9 millionESTIMATED MAXIMUM: 167.9 million CONTRACT: Planning and managementCOMPANY: International Resources Group, WashingtonWHEN AWARDED: Feb. 7INITIAL AMOUNT: 7.0 millionESTIMATED MAXIMUM: Not available CONTRACT: Seaport administrationCOMPANY: Stevedoring Services of America, SeattleWHEN AWARDED: March 24INITIAL AMOUNT: 4.8 millionESTIMATED MAXIMUM: 4.8 million CONTRACT: Primary and secondary educationCOMPANY: Creative Associates International, WashingtonWHEN AWARDED: April 11INITIAL AMOUNT: 2.0 millionESTIMATED MAXIMUM: 62.6 million (Source: U.S. Agency for International Development)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); ACCOUNTING (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); CONTRACT AWARDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BECHTEL GROUP INC (96%); HALLIBURTON CO (86%); PARSONS CORP (67%); KBR INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%)

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (86%); KBR (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (96%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (96%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (86%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (86%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (86%); NAICS238110 POURED CONCRETE FOUNDATION & STRUCTURE CONTRACTORS (57%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (57%); NAICS237120 OIL & GAS PIPELINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (57%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (57%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (57%) SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES; 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



558 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Sony Is Looking to Cut Costs at Its Movie Division 

BYLINE:  By LAURA M. HOLSON

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 17 

 BODY:
Sony Pictures Entertainment, whose Columbia Pictures unit was responsible for last year's wildly successful "Spider-Man" and this summer's sequels to "Charlie's Angels" and "Bad Boys," is making a high-level review of its movie business to cut costs.
 According to a memorandum distributed today to employees, the company has formed a seven-member operating committee made up of Sony's top United States entertainment executives, including Howard Stringer, chief executive of the Sony Corporation of America, and the finance chief, Rob Wiesenthal, a former investment banker. 
 To many in the entertainment industry, it signals another step in the dominance of Sir Howard, who in recent months has taken more control of Sony's American entertainment assets in an effort to contain spending.
Other committee members include the chairman of Sony Pictures, John Calley, and its three vice chairmen, Jeff Blake, Yair Landau and Amy Pascal. 
The most notable addition to the group is Joe Roth, a co-founder of Revolution Studios. Sony owns a stake in Revolution and distributes its films. Revolution is an integral part of Sony's movie-making machine, having made "Anger Management," which was a hit last week in its first weekend. Mr. Roth, who has run two large studios in his career, is thought by many in Hollywood to be the successor to Mr. Calley, who is 72, if and when he decides to retire.
Earlier this year, the head of the Sony Music Group, Thomas D. Mottola, was ousted after steep losses in that division. He was succeeded by Andrew Lack, a friend of Sir Howard and a former television executive. Mr. Lack recently announced the layoffs of 1,000 people. Sony Pictures Entertainment, on the other hand, covered its costs and made a profit last year. But that was only the second year it did so since Sony bought Columbia and other assets in 1989 for $3.4 billion, company executives have said.
Two people apprised of the creation of the committee said Sir Howard had been directed by his superiors at Sony in Japan to try to squeeze more cash out of the movie division. Sony, the world's No. 1 consumer electronics maker, has struggled with its own financial difficulties. Its stock price has hit a four-year low in recent days.
Almost every major multinational entertainment company has been forced to shore up its business for a variety of reasons, including unsuccessful mergers and too much debt. In Sony's case, investors are concerned about the slump in the computer industry, as well as a sluggish global economy, which they worry will continue to be a drag on earnings, financial analysts said.
"The realities of the difficult economic environment demand that we conduct a disciplined review of how we operate each of our core businesses," Sir Howard wrote in the memo.
Executives for Sony Pictures Entertainment declined to discuss the committee, which will meet weekly. "There is nothing to talk about," said a spokeswoman for Sony Pictures Entertainment. "It is what it is." Sir Howard, who was on vacation, was not made available for comment.
But Columbia, it seems, is already feeling the pinch of the committee's review. Ms. Pascal, the chairwoman of Columbia Pictures, has begun quietly seeking co-financing arrangements for several films the studio originally planned to finance itself, two movie industry executives who have talked to her said.
Columbia's marketing department, too, known for its spectacular Hollywood premieres and lavish promotional campaigns, is cutting back. It recently canceled the red carpet and premiere parties for two films, "Basic" and "Anger Management." The company attributed the cancellations to concerns that a celebration would appear inappropriate given the war in Iraq.
Two people involved with those films, though, agreed it saved Columbia $1 million or more.
Columbia has a lot riding on this summer's blockbusters, including the two much talked about sequels, "Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle" and "Bad Boys 2." Both were expensive to make, in part because of the money demands of the producers, stars and directors.
Columbia ran into difficulty recently getting "Spider-Man 2" off the ground. The movie's star, Tobey Maguire, balked because he was not paid as much as the film's producer, Laura Ziskin, for the original movie, said two people involved in the "Spider-Man" project.
He then complained of back problems, according to a recent report in Daily Variety. 
Columbia then offered the job instead to Jake Gyllenhaal but recanted the offer after the studio worked out a deal with Mr. Maguire.
Several executives at competing studios who were asked about Mr. Roth's presence on the committee suggested that it could be a precursor to a merger of Revolution and Sony Pictures. But one person close to Sony's operations dismissed that notion, adding, "Where is Sony going to get the money to pay for it?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some in the entertainment industry see the cost-cutting effort as another step in the dominance of Sir Howard Stringer, who heads Sony in America. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); MERGERS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); RECORD REVENUES (69%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (60%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%) CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT INC (90%); SONY CORP (85%); SONY CORP OF AMERICA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SONY CORP (SNE) 

TICKER: SON (LSE) (85%); SNE (NYSE) (85%); 6758 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (85%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (85%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (57%) SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT; SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION; 

PERSON: HOWARD STRINGER (90%); AMY PASCAL (59%) STRINGER, SIR HOWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



559 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Rejecting The World 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The Bush administration did the right thing on diesel emissions this week, curbing an important source of air pollution. Yet George Bush has, in general, reneged on the environmental promises of his 2000 campaign. Most notably, he broke his campaign pledge to regulate carbon dioxide emissions, offering instead a purely voluntary -- and therefore, one might have thought, meaningless -- plan to limit global warming.
 But even this, it turns out, was too much for Mr. Bush's party. The energy bill passed by House Republicans last week didn't include any plan, even a voluntary one, to limit greenhouse emissions. Why? 
 The answer, I believe, has to do with an aversion to all things global.
On its face, the Bush plan on global warming was a sham, relying on the kindness of corporations. The Department of Energy would have issued credits to companies that reduced carbon dioxide emissions, but since there would have been no legal limits, those credits would simply have been a symbolic recognition of good behavior. 
Or would they? Right-wing think tanks engaged in a concerted, andsuccessful, campaign to persuade Congress to reject the Bush scheme. Those think tanks argued that keeping track of emission reductions would make it easier for a future administration to introduce a real global warming policy: companies that had accumulated credits might favor measures that gave those credits some value. More broadly, they opposed any legitimization of the idea that global warming is a problem. 
But why would that be such a bad thing, from their point of view?
We can safely dismiss the idea that the right has carefully weighed the scientific evidence and concluded that the overwhelming consensus of the scientific community is wrong. We can also dismiss the idea that conservatives have carefully examined the economics of emission controls and concluded that they are too expensive.
So was it just politics as usual? Opposition to a global warming policy partly reflects a general aversion to government regulation. Don't forget that Tom DeLay, the House majority leader, is a former exterminator who entered politics because he was angry about controls on pesticide use.
But the ferocity with which the right opposes any policy to limit greenhouse gases, even the nearly empty Bush plan, goes beyond general anti-environmentalism. What's different about global warming, I think, is that unlike local pollution, dealing with it requires concerted action by governments around the world. And that's what the right really can't stand.
This shouldn't be surprising. There was a time when U.S. conservatives were isolationists. Nobody thinks that's a viable position nowadays, but the same impulses -- an assertion of moral superiority, an unwillingness to consider alternative points of view -- lie behind America's new spirit of unilateralism. We obviously can't ignore the world, but many Americans reject the idea that other countries should have any say over what we do. 
But what happens when unilateralists encounter problems that clearly require the cooperation of other countries -- not as junior partners, but as equals? Right now the answer is simply to deny the existence of those problems. The greenhouse effect is a quintessentially global issue -- fine, we'll deny that global warming exists. Fighting stateless terrorists demands a global cooperative effort -- fine, we'll fight terrorism by launching a conventional war against a regime that, nasty as it was, had nothing to do with the terrorist attacks.
Eventually, of course -- and sooner rather than later -- this attempt to deny reality will fail. While we've been watching the Iraq show, many past achievements of U.S. foreign policy have been disintegrating. Through neglect and arrogance, the United States has squandered the good will it built up in Latin America in the 1990's. For half a century the U.S. has regarded the drive toward free trade as a key part of its global strategy; now trade negotiations are falling apart from lack of attention.
Even in Iraq, we're starting to see that winning the war was the easy part, and U.S. officials -- previously dismissive of "old Europe" -- are suddenly talking about an international peacekeeping force. But to be effective, such a force, like the one in Afghanistan, would surely have to include French and German soldiers.
The truth is that we can't go it alone. But by the time that truth sinks in, there may be a lot of pieces to pick up. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); POLITICS (85%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); PESTICIDES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



560 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR/AN OVERVIEW: APRIL 17, 2003; 
Rebuilding Contract, Threats to Syria From Congress, Help for a Museum

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
The attention of the United States has turned increasingly to the reconstruction of Iraq. The administration selected an American company to oversee the huge job of putting Iraq back together, but the contract angered allies. F.B.I. agents were sent to Iraq to help recover stolen antiquities, and Special Forces troops in Baghdad caught another of Saddam Hussein's half brothers. 
 CONTRACT AWARDED -- The administration awarded the major contract for rebuilding Iraq to the Bechtel Group, a politically well-connected firm that was responsible for getting the Kuwaiti oil fields working again after the 1991 Persian Gulf war. 
 The lucrative contract gives Bechtel, based in San Francisco, overall responsibility for repairing Iraq's airports, power plants, schools, hospitals and irrigation systems and the port at Umm Qasr. The awarding of the contract by the United States Agency for International Development angered European allies, since their only opportunity to get a share of the reconstruction work will be as subcontractors to Bechtel. 
The contract provides up to $680 million for work over the next year and a half. At first, the United States would pay Bechtel, but the revenues from the sale of Iraqi oil are expected to pay for much of the reconstruction work eventually. In all, reconstruction work in Iraq could cost from $25 billion to $100 billion, financial experts say. 
SANCTIONS AND THE UNITED NATIONS -- The Bush administration considers the penalties the United Nations imposed on Iraq in 1990 to be an obstacle to the quick reconstruction of Iraq.
They restrict commerce with Iraq to what is permitted under the oil-for-food program. President Bush has called on the United Nations to lift the sanctions.
Debate on lifting the penalties began Thursday behind closed doors. To avoid what he feared might turn into a heated debate, the United Nations Secretary General, Kofi Annan, urged European leaders arrive at a common position on the terms and timing of Iraq's reconstruction. 
PRESSURE ON SYRIA -- Members of Congress said that they intended to introduce a bill later this month that would impose economic and diplomatic penalties on Syria. The bipartisan group of lawmakers from both houses of Congress said they did not foresee immediate military action by the United States against Syria. But they said that neither did they expect to give diplomacy and sanctions a dozen years to work, as they said happened with Iraq. Under the proposed legislation, Syria would have to withdraw its support of the terrorist group Hezbollah and surrender whatever chemical or biological weapons it had. If Syria did not comply with the demands, the United States would halt all exports to the country, freeze Syrian assets in the United States and reduce diplomatic contacts between the two countries. 
HUSSEIN RELATIVE ARRESTED -- American Special Forces in Baghdad captured one of Mr. Hussein's half brothers, a former chief of intelligence and Iraq's representative to the United Nations in Geneva for a decade. Barzan Ibrahim al-Tikriti was considered a loyal member of Mr. Hussein's government, but he reportedly had disagreements with the Iraqi ruler. Mr. Tikriti is the third high-ranking Iraqi official to be captured so far. He was on a list of the 55 Iraqis most wanted by the United States authorities. 
GRAVES FOUND IN IRAQ -- At the dusty edge of an industrial park in northern Iraq, between a Pepsi-Cola bottling plant and a mansion that once belonged to Mr. Hussein's family, human rights groups said they had discovered a vast burial ground filled with perhaps 1,600 unmarked graves.
Local people said the dead were Iraqis grabbed from the streets of Kirkuk during a 1991 uprising. A local police officer said they were Kurds who had vanished. Another man said they were the remains of Iraqi soldiers killed in the war against Iran. American troops have measured the burial ground and reported its coordinates. 
In Baghdad, American soldiers found unmarked graves near the Rashid Military Hospital. Army officers said the graves contained the bodies of about 700 Iraqi soldiers who had been killed in the American-led invasion. 
RECOVERING LOST TREASURES -- Thirty archaeologists from around the world agreed to send an emergency mission to assess what was taken from Iraq's National Museum by looters after the fall of the Iraqi government.
The archaeologists also supported an appeal by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization to temporarily halt the acquisition of cultural objects from Iraq.
Italy pledged to contribute $1 million to help recover the looted objects. Several other nations also offered to help. And the F.B.I. said several dozen agents were sent to Iraq to help track down cultural objects taken from the museum. ANTHONY DePALMA

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (91%); CONTRACT AWARDS (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); LEGISLATION (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (63%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (63%); HEZBOLLAH (60%); TERRORISM (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BECHTEL GROUP INC (94%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (94%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (94%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) SYRIA (95%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); GULF STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



561 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: A Nation at War 

 BODY:
 In Iraq

THE STATE OF THE COUNTRY -- As American Special Forces captured one of Saddam Hussein's half brothers, a former intelligence chief, and unmarked graves were found both in Kirkuk and near Basra, a nascent, if so far unelected, Iraqi leadership began jockeying for position under the eye of the American military. A1

A NEW MISSION -- They came to Iraq to fight. But now that the regime has been toppled, Army Special Forces soldiers in Diwaniya, known as Green Berets, have found themselves on a mission to rebuild the city. A1

UNMARKED GRAVES -- The first of what Iraqis and human rights groups say may be numerous gravesites has been found in the northern Iraqi city of Kirkuk. The site reportedly contains nearly 1,600 such unmarked graves. B1

PLANNING SUICIDE ATTACKS -- According to documents found in a Baath Party bureau in Zubayr, local party officials significantly stepped up their efforts beginning last summer to indoctrinate troops and collect declarations from Iraqis professing a willingness to make suicidal attacks. B1

THE IRAQI NATIONAL CONGRESS -- In Mosul and other cities, local leaders have already expressed vehement opposition to the Iraqi National Congress, headed by the wealthy Iraqi exile Ahmad Chalabi. B3

AN ELITE OPERATION -- Military officials said that even before American forces took control of Baghdad, a small team of American Special Forces soldiers had leapfrogged farther north and used a handful of M-1A1 tanks to seal off the highway leading to Tikrit, hoping to prevent flight there by Iraqi leaders. B6

THE IRAQI ECONOMY -- A team of experts from the Treasury Department are commuting to Baghdad from Kuwait City, trying to determine the fastest and smoothest way for Iraqis to have a new currency and a central bank to control it. B6

In Washington

REBUILDING IRAQ -- The Bush administration awarded the Bechtel Group of San Francisco the first major contract in a vast reconstruction plan for Iraq that assigns no position of authority to the U.N. or Europe. A1

SANCTIONS AGAINST SYRIA -- Lawmakers in both parties say they will renew a push for economic and diplomatic sanctions against Syria when Congress returns at the end of the month. B1

THE BECHTEL GROUP -- The company that will lead the reconstruction of Iraq has a long history of doing business there, including an unsuccessful pipeline deal that at one point involved a meeting between Donald H. Rumsfeld and Saddam Hussein. B7

THE PREDATOR -- Remotely piloted aircraft like the Predator have played a crucial role in the Iraq war, providing a bird's-eye view of the battlefield and giving military planners the ability to attack without risking American lives. B8

AID IN THE WEAPONS SEARCH -- Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said that the United States would still need the help of Iraqis, perhaps scientists or military officers, to find banned weapons in their country. B10

AN OBJECTIONABLE CHOICE -- The Pentagon plans to proceed with a Good Friday religious service by the Rev. Franklin Graham despite objections from some Muslim groups. B10

On the Home Front

PROTECTING AIRCRAFT -- A group of 46 pilots from several of the nation's largest airlines will return home from a federal training class in Georgia with semiautomatic handguns that they can carry into the cockpits of their planes. A1

WEST POINT CADETS -- Cadets at West Point are full of questions about the role of America in the world, what their mission will be as leaders in the greatest fighting force known to man and whether they are ready for the new reality they will face. A1

GAYS IN THE WAR -- The gay partners of troops in the Persian Gulf voice frustration that they have not received the same benefits as married couples. B9

RESEARCH DISRUPTIONS -- Experts say the war has caused the greatest interruption of overseas study since World War II, forcing the cancellation or postponement of hundreds of research expeditions. B10

Around the World

RESCUING IRAQ'S HERITAGE -- An international group of archeologists and museum directors meeting in Paris agreed to send an emergency mission to Iraq to measure the damage done to the National Museum and other cultural institutions. B2

AT THE UNITED NATIONS -- The United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, implored European Union leaders to forge a shared position on the terms and timing of Iraq's political and economic reconstruction. B7

SKEPTICAL VOICES -- While many analysts say it is just a matter of time before American searchers uncover unconventional arms in Iraq, a few experts consider that unlikely. B8

Watching the War

THE TV WATCH -- The many television magazine shows and movie treatments devoted to Pfc. Jessica Lynch reveal far less about their subject than they do about American culture. B9

OVERVIEW OF THE WAR B1

PHOTOGRAPHS FROM BAGHDAD B4-5

BRIEFLY NOTED B8

MAP OF IRAQ B10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (86%); ARMIES (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); CEMETERIES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (64%); CURRENCIES (62%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: BECHTEL GROUP INC (85%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (85%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (85%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (98%); SYRIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



562 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: RECONSTRUCTION; 
U.S. GIVES BECHTEL A MAJOR CONTRACT IN REBUILDING IRAQ

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER and RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17 

 BODY:
The Bush administration awarded the Bechtel Group of San Francisco the first major contract today in a vast reconstruction plan for Iraq that assigns no position of authority to the United Nations or Europe. 
 The contract, which was awarded by the United States Agency for International Development, had set off a heated contest among some of the nation's most politically connected construction concerns. 
 The award will initially pay Bechtel, a closely held San Francisco company that posted $11.6 billion in revenue last year, $34.6 million and could go up to $680 million over 18 months.
But those amounts could be only a fraction of what it costs to rebuild Iraq's airports, water and electric-power systems, roads and railroads.
The reconstruction of Iraq, a task that experts have said could cost $25 billion to $100 billion, is part of a broad American-led effort to stabilize the country and set up a new government. 
The American taxpayer will pay the initial contract costs, but Iraqi oil revenue is supposed to eventually pay for much of the reconstruction.
Since the fall of Saddam Hussein's government a week ago, the Bush administration has effectively shut out the United Nations from any postwar role in Iraq. 
An American team led by retired Lt. Gen. Jay Garner will take over the civilian administration of Iraq until an interim Iraqi authority is in place. The Iraqis will then work with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, institutions in which the United States enjoys wide influence, to reshape the country.
"We are in control on the ground and creating facts on the ground," said a senior administration official who declined to be identified. "Iraq will not be put under a U.N. flag. The U.N. is not going to be a partner. And right now, people don't have the stomach to make a theological fight over this." The administration also opposes the return of United Nations weapons inspectors, senior officials said.
Debate began yesterday at the United Nations on whether to lift sanctions against Iraq, which would end the United Nations' authority to oversee the sale of Iraqi oil, to buy and distribute food, to inspect for weapons and to safeguard the border with Kuwait. Page B7. 
European governments still hope to extract more influence for the United Nations in shaping postwar Iraq, in part to ensure greater involvement by countries and organizations that are reluctant to work for a military occupation. And some European companies are still hoping for a share of the work, perhaps as subcontractors to Bechtel. 
British companies are already upset at being cut out of the most lucrative deals to rebuild postwar Iraq, and Prime Minister Tony Blair urged Mr. Bush at a meeting earlier this month in Northern Ireland to grant the United Nations a wider role in reconstruction.
But Mr. Bush has held firm to having the United States play the dominant role, suggesting in comments after the meeting with Mr. Blair in Belfast that United Nations agencies may assist with food, medicine and other needs and that a United Nations special representative can provide political advice. 
Administration officials said it was important to give contracts to American corporations, essentially leapfrogging over international groups, as a way to demonstrate to the Iraqi peoplethat the United States is a liberator bringing economic prosperity and democratic institutions to their nation. 
"We don't see the need for a U.N. operation at all -- the Iraqi interim authority will be the equivalent of a civilian U.N. administration," said the senior administration official. 
As the administration sketches out its postwar Iraqi plans, officials say that the World Bank eventually can act as the neutral international body that will be the accountant for oil revenues, replacing the United Nations, which has overseen the oil-for-food program.
This would require the creation of an Iraqi authority that is accepted by other nations and international organizations, including the United Nations. It would also mean lifting United Nations sanctions, as proposed by President Bush on Wednesday, and unfreezing Iraqi assets.
Bechtel defeated a handful of other construction companies today to win the contract.
The contract covers virtually all the major projects in Iraq, including two international and three domestic airports, ensuring potable water is available, reconstructing electric power plants and building roads, railroads, schools, hospitals and irrigation systems.
An initial priority is rebuilding Iraq's only deep-water port, the harbor at Umm Qasr, where cargo is loaded on ships that travel down a waterway in southern Iraq to the Persian Gulf.
While administration officials say the bidding was based solely on which companies were most qualified to do the work and on the need for an expedited selection and security clearances, the two-month process drew complaints from Congressional Democrats, as well as British companies, about secrecy and the decision to restrict bidding to a handful of the largest United States construction companies.
The finalists had come down to Bechtel, which rebuilt Kuwaiti oil fields after the 1991 Persian Gulf war, and a bid from the Parsons Corporation, an employee-owned company in Pasadena, Calif., which is one of Bechtel's largest rivals and which performed extensive postwar reconstruction work in Bosnia and Kosovo.
Parsons's bid included a major role as a subcontractor for Halliburton's Kellogg Brown & Root subsidiary, but Halliburton never bid on the work as a prime contractor. Other companies invited to bid included the Fluor Corporation, the Louis Berger Group and Washington Group International.
For the Bush administration, there could be a down side to running Iraq on United States authority. Reconstruction is estimated at $25 billion. The war has cost more than $20 billion so far, and Pentagon officials are projecting costs of $2 billion a month through Sept. 30. There is also the question of being seen as an occupying power with an agenda closer to American than Iraqi interests.
Jean Marie Guehenno, the United Nations under secretary for peacekeeping operations, said that no matter who was in charge, "the problem is to create a system that is seen as legitimate by Iraqis and the world." 
"You have to be transparent and show you do not represent a foreign national agenda," he said. Bush administration officials have emphasized that foreign companies are eligible to become subcontractors for the work in Iraq. Earlier this week, the State Department called in diplomats from Arab countries and informed them that this construction contract would be announced this week and encouraged them to begin preparing bids for the subcontracting jobs.
Frances D. Cook, a former United States ambassador to Oman who represents a consortium of Arab companies, said Bechtel would be wise to consider awarding subcontracting work to companies from the region.
"There is both a political usefulness and cultural appropriateness to using Arab companies from countries that helped us and want the jobs," said Ms. Cook. "It will help our country the most and start to repair some of the relationships in the region." A Bechtel spokesman said tonight that there would be a "full and open competition on an international basis" for subcontractors. 
The contract is one of several that had drawn criticism from lawmakers, including Representatives Henry A. Waxman of California and John D. Dingell of Michigan, the ranking Democrats on the Government Reform and Energy and Commerce committees. The lawmakers had demanded an investigation by the General Accounting Office into how the contracts were awarded.
Now, the G.A.O. plans an even wider investigation than what had been requested. It will include an overall review of all matters relating to postwar reconstruction in Iraq, said Jeff Nelligan, spokesman for the G.A.O. "We will not be targeting any particular companies, but no company will be off of our radar screen," Mr. Nelligan said.
Just this week, the United States Army Corps of Engineers said it would send out for competitive bids on a new contract to fight continuing oil field fires and rebuild Iraqi oil fields, a job initially awarded to Halliburton in a separate contract without seeking any other bids. Halliburton is giant Texas company that had been run by Vice President Dick Cheney until he quit to run for vice president. 
The Bush administration has denied that politics played any role in the awarding of any contract for postwar Iraq. All decisions have been made on the merits, administration officials say.
"The White House hasn't made any decisions to exclude countries or companies on awarding contracts," Michael Anton, a spokesman for the National Security Council, said today.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Tikrit, Iraq, a bridge bombed by American forces, with a palace of Saddam Hussein in the background at right. The contract awarded to the Bechtel Group yesterday includes reconstruction of Iraq's roads. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times); Part of Boston's Central Artery project (Associated Press); Battling oil well fires in Kuwait (Mario Tama/Getty Images)(pg. B7) Chart: "A Builder Used to Thinking Big"Bechtel is one of the world's largest contractors. CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE: Riley P. BechtelFOUNDED: 1898 by Warren BechtelEMPLOYEES: About 50,000SALES -- Latest figures available Graph shows sales figures in the billions from 1997 through 2001. HISTORICAL OR CURRENT PROJECTS: Hoover Dam; English Channel Tunnel; Hong Kong airport; Boston Central Artery/Tunnel; AT&T Wireless network expansion; Ankara-Gerede highway in Turkey PROJECTS IN THE MIDEAST: Kirkuk-Syria oil pipeline; putting out Kuwaiti oil well fires after gulf war (Sources: Company reports; Hoovers)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BECHTEL GROUP INC (96%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (96%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (96%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); TONY BLAIR (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); ANKARA, TURKEY (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (96%); EUROPE (93%); KUWAIT (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); TURKEY (79%); ENGLAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003 



563 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Facing U.S. Threat of Penalties, Cuba Issues a Defiant Statement 

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 18 

 BODY:
As the Bush administration considers several measures to penalize Cuba in response to its jailing of nonviolent dissidents, the Cuban authorities said today that they were ready to withstand the worst.
 Administration officials said this week that they might stop family remittances, which amount to as much as $1 billion a year, and end direct charter flights. 
 Cuba's Foreign Ministry replied tartly in an eight-page statement today, saying the country had survived for 44 years despite the trade embargo and the collapse of its Soviet patron. The statement also discounted the impact of the remittances, saying the government provided for much of its people's needs. 
"More than four decades of the revolution have shown our country is capable of confronting whatever threat and defeating any sinister plans," the statement read.
"The United States government has few remaining weapons in its arsenal of actions that it can carry out against Cuba," it continued. "All possibilities are foreseen and will be confronted."
A State Department official said that a wide range of policy changes were under review, but that nothing had been settled.
Although the government listed a range of basic goods that a single dollar could buy, political analysts and researchers familiar with Cuba said its economy was especially vulnerable. The sugar industry has been cut back drastically, tourism has fallen and oil prices are up, they said, while basic goods are usually available only at higher prices on the black market.
"Without the remittances, the Cuban people will feel the financial crisis even worse," said Andy Gomez, a senior fellow at the Institute for Cuban and Cuban-American Studies at the University of Miami. "Cubans with access to dollars have been able to survive already difficult conditions. Without that influx, it will only get worse." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); TRENDS (72%); POLITICS (71%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (70%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (65%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; POLITICAL PRISONERS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; CUBAN-AMERICANS 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%) CUBA

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



564 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Anxiety in the Air 

BYLINE:  By Jenny T. Beatty; Jenny T. Beatty is a pilot for American Airlines.

DATELINE: ABOARD AMERICAN AIRLINES FLIGHT 1383 

 BODY:
My fingerprints are on file with the F.B.I., safety officers pat me down each day on the way to work, I'm separated from co-workers and customers by a bulletproof door and government decree, and my seatmate might be packing heat: my profession has certainly changed. As an airline pilot, I know these and other new security measures are necessary. But for me, "security" recently took on new meaning. Now I'm concerned about job security. 
 This week pilots, flight attendants, mechanics and ground workers joined other employees in making tremendous personal sacrifices to keep our airline out of bankruptcy. My wages are getting whacked -- by at least 23 percent -- and my dreams of retiring with a pension are fading like a mirage in the desert. 
 I've felt this stomach-clenching anxiety before. Early in my career, flying freight and charter passengers in small aircraft, I used to obsess about the potential for inclement weather and mechanical breakdowns. I chewed on my worry like a piece of gum, grinding away at it -- with zero effect. Like many pilots, I'm a control freak.
This should be reassuring to you. More than a character trait for pilots who pay close attention to detail, it is practically a prerequisite for the job. We're trained to keep a cool head in emergency situations. We can't do much to prevent a snowstorm, of course, but at least we know how to respond to one.
Now alarm bells are going off -- but not in the cockpit. These are a bothersome reminder of my vulnerability to circumstances beyond my control.
With 20 years of flying experience in my logbook and four pilot uniforms in my closet, I've ridden the ups and downs of the airline industry's economic roller coaster. But this is different. Hundreds of perfectly good jet airliners are parked in the Arizona desert, and the 8,000 pilots who flew them were left jobless -- including many friends and former colleagues. The effects ripple outward: about one-half of all American jobs lost since 9/11 are in aviation and travel-related industries. Those parked planes, mothballed by airlines no longer able to fill them, are bad news for workers at Boeing and Airbus.
In another industry, workers might be able to apply their skills elsewhere. That isn't easy for a furloughed pilot who earned his bona fides flying bombers during wartime, or one who spent tens of thousands of dollars for flight training and her first decade of adulthood in low-wage apprentice flying jobs.
The pilots still flying are struggling to protect their ability to pay the mortgage and the children's tuition, or to preserve the pensions they worked for. Our anxiety stems from the realization that we should have planned better for a rainy day.
But who could have predicted it would rain this hard and this long? Most airlines could weather a bad economy, terrorism, war and a virulent pneumonia virus as separate events. Coming all at once, however, a cloud looms over the entire industry, making it vulnerable to complete collapse. If drastic cost-cutting measures do not prevent American Airlines from joining United in Chapter 11 bankruptcy, then it won't take long for other major air carriers to line up nose-to-tail on that same flight path. And what then -- a Chrysler-style bailout? A Darwinian blood bath?
That is beyond my control. All I can do is focus on flying and on the safety and security of the passengers, crew and plane. My best hope for job security, after all, is doing my job well. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT PILOTS (91%); AIRLINES (91%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); DESERTS (68%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (56%); BOEING CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%)

PERSON: BEATTY, JENNY T 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



565 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Lockheed Wins Huge Sale to Poland With Complex Deal

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: PARIS, April 18 

 BODY:
Wrapping up the largest arms purchase by a former Soviet-bloc country since the cold war ended, Poland signed contracts today to pay $3.5 billion for 48 F-16 fighter jets built by Lockheed Martin.
 The deal is also notable for including what appears to be the largest so-called offset arrangement yet seen in the international arms trade. In return for ordering the fighters, Poland prevailed on Lockheed to organize a $6.3 billion package of investments in the country by itself and other American companies. 
 Some are directly related to the jet order, like a commitment by the Pratt & Whitney unit of United Technologies to build the engines in Polish factories. Others are farther afield, like a commitment by General Motors to expand a car plant in Poland and another by Motorola to install an emergency telecommunications system for the Polish government. 
"It's the deal of the century," said Christopher R. Hill, the American ambassador to Poland, echoing Polish officials. "Really what Lockheed did," he said by telephone from Warsaw, "is to develop a Team U.S.A. concept." 
The deal, which took months to negotiate in detail after Poland and Lockheed reached a preliminary agreement on the jet order in December, is a central element in Poland's plans to modernize its armed forces to meet the standards of NATO, which the country joined in 1999. The F-16's will replace aging Russian-built MIG-29 fighters.
But the deal has provoked bitter criticism from two quarters: Poland's European allies, whose manufacturers lost out on the deal, and American labor unions, which object to offset deals on the ground that they shift jobs out of the United States. 
Poland has worked hard since the collapse of communism to reorient itself toward Western Europe. In Athens on Wednesday, the country achieved a long-sought goal, signing treaties to join the European Union along with nine other new members.
But other European governments, most notably France, have criticized Poland for choosing an American supplier over two European bidders. Dassault Aviation of France offered Mirage 2000 jets; Saab of Sweden and BAE Systems of Britain jointly offered the Gripen fighter. 
The falling-out with the French became especially bitter after Warsaw and Paris found themselves on opposite sides of the argument over war in Iraq. 
Poland's defense minister, Jerzy Szmajdzinski, said the jet order and offset agreement would "bring an economic and technological stimulus for Poland and strengthen our links with the United States." 
After communism fell in 1989, Poland revamped its economy more quickly and more pitilessly than its neighbors; its "shock therapy" approach was wrenching at the time, but for years afterward Poland had the strongest and most sustained economic growth among the former Communist states. 
It has attracted a huge flow of direct foreign investment -- over $65 billion from 1989 to 2002, much more than its peers. France was the leading source, supplying $13 billion; the United States was second, with $8.7 billion. 
But in recent months, Poland has been faltering, held back by the slowing world economy and, especially, the sluggishness of Western Europe, its main export market. Growth slowed to about 1 percent in 2001 and 2002, and prospects for this year are not much brighter. 
In all, the contracts signed today cover three distinct agreements. One is the sale of the 48 jet fighters; another is the offset package of investments in Poland over the next 10 years. The third is low-interest financing for the jet order by a United States government agency, with payments on the principal not due until after 2010. 
The offset deal calls for Pratt & Whitney, which already makes some F-16 parts in Poland, to expand its capacity there to include building the engines. The planes themselves will be assembled in Fort Worth. The commitment by General Motors involves fresh investment at its factory in Gliwice, in southern Poland, to produce an updated version of its Opel Astra model.
Offsets have become so widespread that it is unusual for a government not to seek them in any major contract with a foreign company, whether for weapons systems or a new dam or oil pipeline. They may also be sought when state-owned companies are privatized.
But such deals have their detractors. Aside from their distorting effects on trade, offset agreements have drawn fire in the United States because of their effects on employment. A presidential commission studying offset deals found in 2001 that they had caused the loss of 4,200 manufacturing jobs a year in the 1990's, mostly at subcontractors.
"They are totally outside the framework of trade as generally considered," Gary C. Hufbauer, an economist at the Institute for International Economics in Washington, said of offset deals. "You know right away that commercial considerations get second or third billing." 
Ambassador Hill said the United States government "does not organize them, nor does it encourage them." But he added: "What American business tells you is, 'We don't like offset deals either -- but if we don't, we're going to lose business, and American workers will be hurt, too.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leszek Miller, Poland's prime minister, looking at a model of a Lockheed Martin F-16 fighter jet yesterday. Poland agreed to buy 48 jets after Lockheed lined up $6.3 billion in investments in the country. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS TRADE (91%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (91%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); COLD WAR (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); AIRLINES (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); LABOR UNIONS (63%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ENGINES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; AUTOMOBILES; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LABOR; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (96%); PRATT & WHITNEY (57%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); BAE SYSTEMS PLC (52%); DASSAULT AVIATION SA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%) LOCKHEED MARTIN; PRATT & WHITNEY; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; MOTOROLA INC; EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (96%); UTX (NYSE) (57%); MSI (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%); BA (LSE) (52%); AM (PAR) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (57%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (52%)

PERSON: ;SZMAJDZINSKI, JERZY (MIN); TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); WARSAW, POLAND (92%) POLAND (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) POLAND; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



566 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: After Years of Financial Crises, an Atlanta College Is on a Death Watch 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, April 18 

 BODY:
Morris Brown College's storied history is what drew Justin Roberts, 18, to enroll last fall.
 The college was founded in 1881 in the basement of the legendary Big Bethel A.M.E. Church on Auburn Avenue here, the first college in Georgia established by and for blacks. 
 It graduated Alberta Williams King, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s mother, and it has taken a chance on countless students lacking the credentials to get a private-college education elsewhere. 
"It's the heart and soul of all the historically black colleges and universities," said Mr. Roberts, who also cannot say enough about the Morris Brown's "familylike atmosphere."
But now, Morris Brown may soon be history.
A financial crisis that was years in the making and came to a point last fall reached its climax on April 8, when the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, which had revoked the college's accreditation, rejected Morris Brown's appeal. And on Tuesday, the college's president, Dr. Charles E. Taylor, resigned after just seven months, acknowledging that he had failed to avert what could very likely prove the college's death blow.
The tiny campus on Atlanta's west side was already something of a ghost town: administrators cut the spring semester in half, ending it on March 10, with twice-as-long class sessions and the school week extended to Saturdays, so that an adverse ruling by the association would not force students to transfer in mid-semester.
Even so, it is clear that the back-to-back blows have taken their toll. The trustees vow to keep the college open, but of the students who remained on campus, in work-study jobs or playing out their athletic seasons, few expect to return in the fall.
Mr. Roberts, for one, was on campus not to go to class, but to order a transcript. As he left the dean's office, an application to Clark Atlanta University in his hand, he said he was angry at what was happening.
"You kind of think they wanted us to close up," he said of the accrediting agency. 
Indeed, a siege mentality appears to have set in among some staff and faculty members, many of whom refused to comment, saying they were instructed not to by college officials. An exception was Rashid Lemone, a 2000 graduate who coaches the football team's defensive backs.
Shooting baskets in the John H. Lewis gym on Thursday, Mr. Lemone, 24, said he wondered why none of the administrators who had caused the college's financial problems had been charged criminally. He speculated that a conspiracy was at work to shut down the college.
"That's the only word for it," he said. "People steal from institutions all the time, and it never gets to the point where the institution is going to close."
If people here are casting about for villains, it is easy to see why: The roots of Morris Brown's financial undoing remain a mystery. As early as 1993, the accrediting agency cited poor financial practices in placing the college on probation for a year. 
Accreditation is vital for any college, but even more so for Morris Brown: without it, a college's students are ineligible for federal grants and loans, and more than 90 percent of Morris Brown's 2,547 students rely on student aid, which accounts for more than 70 percent of the college's income.
Morris Brown's lingering financial problems again bubbled up to the surface in late 2000, when former students began complaining to state and federal education officials that Morris Brown was showing them as still registered -- preventing them from obtaining financial aid at other colleges and universities. By late 2001, a review by the federal Education Department showed 148 students as receiving financial aid when they were not enrolled at Morris Brown. About the same time, the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools placed Morris Brown on probation again, after its own review again showed poor bookkeeping practices and staffing problems.
The connection between the two reviews became evident in January 2002, when despite an Education Department order a college worker downloaded $8 million in federal financial aid without approval. A month later, when the college's trustees learned that the money had been misused to pay Morris Brown's outstanding bills, both the financial aid director and the college president, Dolores Cross, resigned.
It was not until last fall, however, that Morris Brown's future appeared in doubt. Another Education Department review turned up more than 100 cases of the college's getting loans and grants for students who were ineligible or not even enrolled, and Morris Brown was ordered to repay more than $7 million in financial aid. 
Dr. Taylor, who took over as president in September, quickly put Morris Brown's total debt at $27 million, but also vowed that he would quit if he was unable to resolve its financial problems. By Tuesday, when he stepped down, the college had raised nearly $5 million, or about half of its $10 million in short-term debt.
Inside the Sarah Allen women's dormitory, across Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard from the main quadrangle, only tiny clues hint at Morris Brown's predicament. On the thick-glass window of the security guard's booth, a picture of the campus is surrounded by cut-out letters spelling "Thank God for M.B.C."
Another sign warns that, effective March 25, anyone locked out of her room will have to pay $1 to be let in. The college is trying to raise money every which way, students say -- and delaying many other needed expenditures.
Mandi Lopes, 18, of Waltham, Mass., said that not long ago several friends were locked in an elevator that broke down. Her roommate, Jamilah Falero, 18, of Savannah, Ga., said the hot water in their dormitory was cut off for five days last semester.
"I had to microwave some water and throw it on myself to get warm," Ms. Falero said. And that, she added, was after the air-conditioning broke down in the dog days of August, a fine how-do-you-do to incoming freshmen.
But for as little time as the two young women have spent at Morris Brown, and for all the trouble they have experienced here, they both said they would return here in a heartbeat if the college could win back its accreditation.
"I want to graduate from here," Ms. Lopes said. "Even if it was second semester senior year, I'd transfer back."
Ms. Falero said, "I fell in love with it when I got here."
Both said they knew nothing about the looming crisis when they applied, or even when they arrived last year.
"If I knew about the problems, I probably wouldn't have come," Ms. Lopes said. "But if I knew what kind of experience I'd have, I would have. And I'm glad I did." 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 14, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 19 about a financial and academic crisis at Morris Brown College in Atlanta misstated events that preceded the resignation of Dolores Cross as president. In January 2002, the college failed to freeze $8 million for student loans and notify the federal government that it had received the money erroneously. A college employee did not download the money contrary to an Education Department order. Dr. Cross resigned the next month. Dr. Cross, who could not be reached for comment for the article, has since said that she resigned not because of the college's use of the $8 million but because of her fractured relationship with the trustees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (92%); SCHOOL INSPECTIONS & ACCREDITATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); ACCREDITATION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); RESIGNATIONS (67%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; ACCREDITATION; BLACKS 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGES & SCHOOLS (56%) MORRIS BROWN COLLEGE 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%) GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) GEORGIA

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



567 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: ANKARA; 
Turkey, Spared a War, Still Pays a Heavy Price

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: ANKARA, Turkey, April 16 

 BODY:
Without firing a single shot, Turkey's military has had an expensive war.
 Its commanders have not only lost a special bond with the United States that had endured for half a century, but also forfeited a chance to secure a strategic bridgehead in Kurdish northern Iraq. 
 In addition, by blocking the United States from opening a second front through northern Iraq, Turkey sacrificed $5 billion in proffered American economic aid and dealt itself out of the region's decision making.
"The Americans don't need Turkey anymore," said MehmetAli Birand, a columnist, author and broadcaster. "Turkey lost its chance to become the strong point of the United States in the region." 
Nothing showed the military's quandary more than events just across its border in the Kurdish regions of northern Iraq, which Ankara's military commanders have long seen as a potential trigger for Kurdish separatism in their own country.
As the Iraq war entered its final throes last week and Kurdish irregulars rode jubilantly into Kirkuk, alarm bells began to sound here.
"In the old days there would have been intervention as soon as Kirkuk fell," said Kemal Kiriscik, a professor at Bosporus University in Istanbul and an expert in the politics of the military.
But Turkey's army stayed put, as a flurry of urgent phone calls between Ankara and Washington led to the withdrawal of the irregulars, known as pesh merga, and their replacement by United States forces.
It was a moment that showed just how much the Turkish Army has redefined its role, not just in the nation's tangled politics but also in the face of a huge shift in regional power that from Ankara's viewpoint has transformed the United States from a distant godfather in NATO to a player with the military power to block Ankara's regional agenda.
"The military is well aware that the region is going through exceptional times requiring new policies," Professor Kiriscik said. "And the old established way of doing things is left in the past."
Indeed, said Dogu Ergil, head of an independent research institute here, the war to oust the Iraqi leader, Saddam Hussein, "ended up with the United States becoming Turkey's neighbor" as the de facto ruler of Iraq, opposed to any Turkish military adventure that might set off a new conflict with the region's Kurds.
Even before the American invasion, a vote in Parliament on March 1 denying American forces access to northern Iraq through Turkey bewildered Americans, who had seen Turkey as the most reliable of allies. Moreover, by conducting a single-front war from Kuwait, some Turks believe, the United States effectively supplanted this vast land as a pivot of Washington's strategy in the region, ending Turkish hopes of a broader role.
"If Turkey had been with the United States in entering northern Iraq, Turkey would have had a seat at the table," said Seyfettin Seymen, a retired air force general. "These days, I don't know if we are going to have a seat at the table to secure our southern border."
What is more, some military experts believe that the crisis sharpened the long-running debate among the military's top commanders between a desire to be accepted by the West -- embodied in Ankara's ambition to join the European Union -- and a deeper nationalism that would have the nation turn away from Europe and the United States and seek new allies in Russia and China.
The developments in Iraq also illuminated the military's efforts to show that after the heavy-handed political interventions of the past, it has become more democratic.
"The era of the coup d'etat is gone," Mr. Birand said.
Three times between 1960 and 1980, the Turkish military overturned civilian governments, justifying the coups by reference to its historical role as what Mr. Ergil called, "the gatekeeper of the state, the guardian of the nation."
As recently as 1997, the military forced the ouster of Necmettin Erbakan, an Islamist, as prime minister. 
Since the end of the cold war, the European Union has pressed Turkey to scale back the role of the military, and guarantee minority and human rights if it wants to join the union. As a result, the generals, who remain deeply suspicious of the governing party's Islamic roots, are seeking to avoid the impression that they exert undue influence on the government, retired officers and others with close contact to the military say.
Gen. Hilmi Ozkok, 63, Turkey's top-ranking officer, "is very careful to avoid the impression that the military is running this country," said a Turkish analyst who has known the general for many years. 
Many supporters of Turkey's generals say they emerged from the war in Iraq with their prestige intact, with any blame for missteps put on the government.
But General Ozkok's pro-European stance has put him at loggerheads with some senior officers, who are wary of any dilution of the military's political and economic power. 
Specifically, some analysts say, General Ozkok's predecessor as chief of staff, Gen. Huseyin Kivrikoglu, and some generals like the land forces commander, Gen. Aytac Yalman, have argued that General Ozkok should be less cooperative with the United States.
The army, which numbers 700,000 troops, most of them conscripts, is the region's biggest and best-equipped. 
It claims the right to intervene against Islamic fundamentalism and Kurdish separatism. Indeed, it fought a 15-year war against Kurdish separatists that ended only in 1999. The war in Iraq stimulated deep-rooted fears among Turkish officers that greater Kurdish power in Iraq would re-ignite separatism among Turkey's large Kurdish minority.
Opinion surveys consistently rank the military as the most trusted institution in the country, and many analysts think its real power derives from public support.
Turkey still has about 4,000 troops stationed in border areas of northern Iraq under a longstanding agreement with the Iraqi Kurds, with 40,000 more massed nearby. The military has threatened to intervene in northern Iraq if it sees developments that could promote the cause of Kurdish independence or harm the Turkoman minority in northern Iraq. The United States opposes that idea, leaving the generals to make some tough new calculations.
The generals "are well aware that they have blown a 50-year alliance relationship apart" with the United States, said Professor Kiriscik in Istanbul. "The worst thing they can do now is to do something that conflicts with the American position." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; KURDS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (95%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) TURKEY (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (79%) IRAQ; TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



568 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: THE REGION; 
Iraq's Neighbors Issue Declaration Criticizing U.S. Over Syria

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW 

DATELINE: RIYADH, Saudi Arabia, Saturday, April 19 

 BODY:
Foreign ministers of the six countries that share a border with Iraq, including Syria, met here today for their first postwar summit meeting, sharply criticizing the United States for its mounting pressure on Syria and urging the "occupying powers" to quickly stabilize Iraq and withdraw.
 The ministers of the six neighboring countries -- Saudi Arabia, Syria, Turkey, Iran, Kuwait and Jordan -- as well as those from Egypt and Bahrain, also agreed to oppose the lifting of United Nations sanctions against Iraq until a legitimate government, formed by Iraqis, was in place, the officials said. 
 "Now Iraq is under an occupying power and any request for lifting sanctions must come when there is a legitimate government which represents the people," said the Saudi foreign minister, Prince Saud al-Faisal, the host of the meeting. 
In a clear reference to Iraq's oil reserves, the ministers, who produced a nine-point declaration, said, "any exploitation of their natural resources should be in conformity with the will of the legitimate Iraqi government and its people." 
While the question of how Iraq should be governed dominated the seven-hour meeting, which concluded early this morning, the growing tensions between the United States and Syria have suddenly leapt to the top of the regional political agenda. 
Two of the points in the declaration dealt with American accusations that Syria may possess unconventional weapons, is harboring terrorists and possibly leaders of Saddam Hussein's toppled government. 
The meeting came after members of the United States Congress said on Thursday that they intended to introduce a bill this month that would impose economic and diplomatic penalties on Syria.
Prince Saud, reading from the declaration, said the foreign ministers here "expressed their countries' disagreements with allegations directed toward Syria." They "welcomed the news regarding the intention of the American secretary of state to visit Damascus to discuss Syrian-American relations," he said. 
Syria's foreign minister, Farouk al-Sharaa, did not speak to reporters.
In his opening remarks at the meeting, which followed a lavish feast of roast lamb at the desert ranch of Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, Prince Saud said, "We reject utterly any accusations and threats against Syria; this will lead to a vicious cycle of wars and turmoil." He continued: "Delegates, our region has suffered more than its share of wars and turbulence over decades, which exhausted its resources and delayed its development and cost a lot in material and human resources. I believe that we should work hard to establish peace and security in this part of the world. We should try to make the war in Iraq the last of these turbulences."
Support for Syria has been growing among Middle Eastern countries. Six Persian Gulf nations who met here earlier this week said they believed Syria's denials of the charges leveled by the United States, for example, and this meeting appeared to cement that support into a full-blown defense of the country. 
The Egyptian, Syrian and Saudi foreign ministers held a separate meeting on Thursday night, Syrian television reported, saying only that they had discussed "the developing Arab situation and the latest developments in Iraq." 
Still, the communique and other remarks on Friday and today focused heavily on concerns about American intentions in Iraq and on the instability of a country whose path toward peace is crucial to the security of the rest of the region.
During a break, the Egyptian foreign minister, Ahmed Maher, said: "We cannot accept a military government. There is an occupying authority, which has responsibility according to the Geneva Convention. It must preserve security and order to give the people it occupies their basic living needs and then to respect their civil rights. But for there to be a military government, this is something I can't imagine anyone will accept."
Egypt and Syria have been vocal in their opposition to foreign military rule in Iraq. The ministers declined to specify when they would expect American and British forces to leave the country, with several of them saying repeatedly that their timetable was "as soon as possible." 
But they also said the United States and Britain had an obligation to ensure stability, civil rights, independence and sovereignty so that the Iraq can piece itself back together.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The foreign ministers of Iraq's neighbors met in Riyadh yesterday, among them, left to right, Kamal Kharazi of Iran, Abdullah Gul of Turkey, Farouk al-Sharaa of Syria and Prince Saud al-Faisal of Saudi Arabia. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); COUPS (64%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (64%); LEGISLATION (64%); TERRORISM (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); ABDULLAH GUL (56%) KERSHAW, SARAH 

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (92%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (71%) UNITED STATES (98%); SYRIA (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); TURKEY (93%); KUWAIT (93%); EGYPT (93%); JORDAN (92%); BAHRAIN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (78%) IRAQ; SYRIA; SAUDI ARABIA; TURKEY; IRAN; KUWAIT; EGYPT

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



569 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: American Air Pulls Back Bonus Plans 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:
American Airlines dropped plans yesterday to pay large bonuses to seven top executives if they stayed with the company until January 2005. But the carrier said it would keep money in a much-criticized trust fund set up to protect the pensions of 45 executives in case it files for bankruptcy protection.
 Despite the attempt by American to appease its irate workers, the flight attendants' union said last night that it would vote again soon on $340 million in critical concessions its members narrowly agreed to give the company on Wednesday. 
 American's announcement came after union leaders denounced Donald J. Carty, the chief executive, and other officials of the AMR Corporation, the parent of American, for agreeing to take the compensation packages while they were seeking annual labor concessions worth $1.8 billion and for not disclosing them during negotiations. American, the world's largest carrier, had told the unions that big concessions were needed to keep the airline from having to seek legal protection from its creditors. 
The conflict is only the latest in a series of increasingly hot flash points over executive pay at the airlines, an issue that management experts say could complicate efforts to revamp the industry. In the last month, several airlines with dismal returns to investors have disclosed in securities filings that they gave what many viewed as generous compensation packages to chief executives even as those executives were demanding concessions from unions and laying off workers.
Concerning the most recent example, Representative James Oberstar, Democrat of Minnesota, sent a letter yesterday to Mr. Carty saying that "it is unfortunate that at least some of your executives have such limited loyalty to the company and its employees."
On Tuesday, the Allied Pilots Association and the Transport Workers Union said their members had voted to give annual concessions of $660 million and $620 million each. The Association of Professional Flight Attendants initially voted by a narrow margin against $340 million in concessions, then accepted the cuts after voting was extended to Wednesday and members were allowed to change their votes.
AMR disclosed the trust fund money and bonuses in a filing made with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Tuesday night. Workers became irate on Thursday, and union officials said they might not approve the concessions voted on by members, even if it meant pushing the airline into bankruptcy court.
In a written statement yesterday, Mr. Carty apologized to union leaders for not telling them about the trust fund money and bonuses during negotiations. "We have all agreed to give up these retention payments in order to give our employees confidence in management's ongoing commitment to share sacrifice," Mr. Carty said.
But Mr. Carty said the company intended to keep in place the payment made last October to a trust fund set up to protect executive pension benefits from creditors during bankruptcy proceedings. Mr. Carty argued that such a fund "is a common tool used in a broad range of industries," and that it "represents a benefit already earned, in some cases over a period of 17 years."
American has not disclosed the amount it has paid into the fund. When American was negotiating with the pilots, it said the pilots could lose their pension benefits if the company filed for bankruptcy-court protection, union officials have said.
In response to Mr. Carty's announcement yesterday about the bonuses, John Ward, president of the flight attendants' union, angrily said in a telephone message to workers: "No doubt this cancellation is only a result of the fact that they were caught with their hands in the cookie jar." He added that he had sent a letter to Mr. Carty saying the flight attendants would schedule another vote soon, though he did not give further details.
The trust fund American has decided to keep is similar to one that Delta Air Lines set up in the name of its chief executive, Leo F. Mullin. American said its fund was more "responsible and conservative" because of the payments it makes, but workers at both companies are denouncing the very existence of these funds. Critics of executive pay say such funds undermine worker and investor trust because they create the appearance that executives are looking out for themselves.
"The only word to describe that is 'disgraceful,' " said Nell Minow, a founder of the Corporate Library, a research group that tracks executive compensation. "That's entirely the wrong signal. Again, it's all downside protection. There's no performance aspect to it."
Airline executives are jeopardizing their ability to overhaul their companies during the industry's worst downturn by taking such compensation packages, management experts say. In recent days, employees have been using the word "Enron" when they talk about airline executives, invoking a symbol of corporate greed.
This kind of hostility will stay in the collective memory of workers, experts say, and the airlines could find it increasingly difficult to make cultural and cost-cutting changes needed to revamp their businesses.
"There has to be a perception that both parties are sacrificing for the greater good," said Paul Clark, professor of labor studies and industrial relations at Pennsylvania State University. "This is anything but a sacrifice. It sends all the wrong signals."
The airlines generally defend their executive compensation packages by saying they need to offer enough incentives to keep these managers around during a time of crisis. They also say that some executives were given big raises last year because their companies did not perform as poorly as rivals, even though the return to shareholders was dismal.
Continental Airlines and Delta both have compensation packages tied to relative industry performance. Gordon M. Bethune, the chief executive of Continental, had total compensation last year worth $14.7 million, a 172 percent increase over 2001, according to Pearl Meyer & Partners, an executive pay consulting company. In the period, the company reported a loss of $451 million, and investor return was a negative 72 percent.
Ned Walker, a spokesman for Continental, said that part of Mr. Bethune's pay "is basically valueless in today's economic environment and has a long way to go before it gets into the money." But that statement refers primarily to Mr. Bethune's stock options. Excluding those, Mr. Bethune's compensation rose by 82 percent.
Mr. Bethune, meanwhile, has said Continental will lay off 1,200 workers this spring as part of a plan to cut $500 million a year in costs. 
It is true that Continental is in a healthier position than some of its rivals, and one could argue that Mr. Bethune performed better last year than some peers in the industry. But compared with many companies in this country, Continental performed disastrously, if investor return is used as a benchmark. Critics say cases like this show that company boards need to begin relying more on measures of absolute performance rather than just gauges of relative performance when determining pay.
"The board needs to exercise some judgment in assessing whether the payments are warranted from the shareholder perspective," said Pearl Meyer.
Partly because of relative-performance criteria, Mr. Mullin at Delta received a compensation package worth $13.8 million last year, a 104 percent increase from 2001. Meanwhile, the airline reported a loss of $1.27 billion and investor return was a negative 58 percent.
After drawing scathing criticism from Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Delta workers, Mr. Mullin said on April 3 that he would take a cut on his 2003 base salary, to $596,250 from $715,500. He added that he would forgo a potential bonus of $1 million and give up stock-based retention awards valued at $5.5 million. But he did not give up millions of dollars that Delta paid to the executive pension trust fund set up in his name, the same kind of fund under fire now at American.
Other airline executives have said recently they will take cuts in their pay. Mr. Carty said last month that he would take a 33 percent cut off his annual base salary of $811,000 and forgo a cash bonus for a third consecutive year. Glenn F. Tilton, the chief executive of United Airlines, part of the UAL Corporation, said on April 4 that he would take a cut of 14 percent to his base salary of $828,500 this year. But pay experts regard cuts to base salaries as meaningless sacrifices, since those salaries make up such a small part of total compensation.
In addition, the "retention" bonuses that Mr. Mullin and the seven top American executives said they would give up should never have been proposed in the first place, critics say. Companies argue that such payments are needed to keep executives from defecting. But the bonuses reward people just for showing up, not for how they perform, management experts say. 
In the airline industry, the other big argument against "retention" bonuses is: Why try to keep executives who are running companies that perform so poorly? And given the executives' track records, not too many other companies would be interested in luring away these executives anyway, said Morten Beyer, an industry consultant. 
"Where would they go?" he said. "Who needs them? These guys should be glad to have a job."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Though unions at American Airlines voted to accept deep cuts to help the carrier avoid entering bankruptcy-court proceedings, news of compensation plans for executives has the workers rethinking their votes.; Donald J. Carty, chief executive, issued an apology to unions. (Agence France Presse)(Getty Images)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); AIRLINES (91%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); SECURITIES LAW (70%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR; BONUSES; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; BANKRUPTCIES; FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING) 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); AMR CORP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES; AMR CORP; AMR CORP; ASSN OF PROFESSIONAL FLIGHT ATTENDANTS 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: JIM OBERSTAR (55%) ;CARTY, DONALD J; WONG, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



570 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Subcontractors to Receive Bulk of Iraq Reconstruction
Although the Bechtel Group has been selected as the prime contractor for up to $680 million worth of reconstruction work in Iraq, a substantial percentage of that money -- half or more, by some estimates -- will actually flow to subcontractors, which are expected to rely heavily on Iraqi workers, government and company officials said.
 A spokesman for the United States Agency for International Development, which awarded the contract on Thursday, said Bechtel has said it plans on using Iraqi resources to the greatest degree possible. Page B8. 
Compensation Increased at Xerox
Xerox increased the compensation of the chief executive, Anne Mulcahy, by 9.8 percent last year. Her salary, bonus and miscellaneous compensation increased to $2.57 million from $2.34 million in 2001, the company said in a regulatory filing. Her salary was unchanged at $1 million and her bonus rose to $1.5 million from $1.25 million. Other compensation fell to about $67,000 from $88,000. C5.

Poland to Buy Jets From Lockheed
Poland will pay $3.5 billion for 48 F-16 fighter jets built by Lockheed Martin. In return for ordering the fighters, Poland prevailed on Lockheed to organize a $6.3 billion package of investments in the country. C4.

Sovereign Takes a Stake in SK Unit
Sovereign Asset Management, a private investment group based in Monaco, has become the largest shareholder in SK Corporation, South Korea's biggest oil refiner. C4.

European Bank Head to Stay Longer
Wim Duisenberg, the president of the European Central Bank, has formally accepted a European Union request that he postpone retirement for as long as it takes to find a successor. Mr. Duisenberg said he was willing to stay beyond his planned July 9 retirement date to ensure a smooth transition. C4.

Global Crossing Loses $142 Million
Global Crossing, the bankrupt owner of communications networks, had a loss of $142 million in February after posting a loss of $93 million in January. Sales fell to $222 million from $236 million. C4.

Leak Is Found at a Texas Reactor
A nuclear reactor in Texas is leaking cooling water from the bottom of its reactor vessel, a development that experts view with concern because they have never seen it before, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission said. Representativesof two industry groups are at the plant to study the problem. A8.

Earnings Decline 41% at Samsung
Samsung Electronics posted a 41 percent drop in first-quarter profit, but said it had overcome "economic instability" at home and abroad. Although the slump was greater than some analysts had expected, investors appeared to share the company's outlook on the likelihood of a resurgence in coming months. Shares of Samsung rose 4.3 percent, to 315,000 won in Korea. C4.

Minnesota Denies Qwest Request
Three of the five members of the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission recommended that federal regulators deny the application of Qwest Communications, the largest local telephone company in Minnesota, to sell long-distance service in that state. C3.

Intel's Vadasz Is Planning to Retire
Leslie Vadasz, 66, manager of the Intel team that designed the first computer microprocessor, plans to retire on June 1 from his current position as president of Intel Capital, the semiconductor giant's strategic investment program. C2.

AAR's Ratings Lowered by S.& P.
Standard & Poor's lowered the credit and debt ratings of the AAR Corporation, which leases and maintains aircraft parts for airlines, to noninvestment grade because airlines are cutting schedules and grounding planes, reducing demand for the company's services. C3.

New Pact for Noranda Workers
About 725 members of the United Steelworkers of America who work at Noranda's zinc-lead mine near Bathurst, New Brunswick, agreed to a contract that increases wages by 9.6 percent over three years. C4.

U.S. Markets Closed for Holiday
The financial markets in the United States were closed yesterday in observance of Good Friday. They will reopen Monday, but most European markets will be closed.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks share prices of Samsung Electronics for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (88%); ENERGY REGULATION (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (85%); CONTRACT AWARDS (79%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (79%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EURO (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); BONUS PAY (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (65%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (63%); COMPANY PROFITS (61%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: BECHTEL GROUP INC (94%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%); SK HOLDINGS CO LTD (82%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (70%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%)

TICKER: 003600 (KSE) (82%); LMT (NYSE) (70%); SMSN (LSE) (51%); 005930 (KSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (94%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (94%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (82%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: ANNE MULCAHY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); POLAND (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); MONACO (74%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



571 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: FUGITIVES; 
At Least 7 Iraqi Leaders Believed to Be in Syria

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 18 

 BODY:
The United States believes that at least seven senior Iraqi officials are now in Syria, including a figure who is No. 8 on the American wanted list, defense officials said today.
 The most senior Iraqi identified in American intelligence reports as being in Syria is Kamal Mustapha Abdullah al-Tikriti, secretary of the Republican Guard and Special Republican Guard, the officials said. 
 In recent days, the State Department has relayed to Syria the names of Iraqi officials believed to be there, with a request that they be expelled, administration officials said today. It was not clear whether Mr. Tikriti was on that list. A State Department official said tonight he had not heard Mr. Tikriti was in Syria. 
The American military has also stepped up its search efforts in parts of northwestern Iraq near the Syrian border where some senior Iraqi officials are now suspected to be hiding. 
For more than a week, administration officials including Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld have said that they believed some Iraqi officials or their families escaped to Syria and perhaps beyond.
In their public statements, the officials have not been more specific about who they believed to be in Syria. But in a television interview broadcast on Thursday night, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said the United States had provided Syria with "some information concerning specific named individuals that we would hope they will look into."
The only other Iraqis that administration officials said they believed were in Syria and cited by name were Farouk Hijazi, Iraq's ambassador to Tunisia and a former senior intelligence operative, and possibly President Saddam Hussein's first wife, Sajida Khairallah Telfah. 
The concerns about the flight of Iraqi officials have aggravated an already difficult relationship between the United States and Syria. Bush administration officials have long expressed concern that Syria is developing chemical weapons and about its support for organizations the United States considers terrorist, including Hezbollah and the Palestinian groups Hamas and Islamic Jihad.
Mr. Powell has said he plans to travel to Syria later this spring to discuss all those issues with its leader, President Bashar al-Assad. 
The defense officials who identified Mr. Tikriti as the highest-ranking Iraqi believed to be in Syria spoke on condition of anonymity and would not describe the basis for the intelligence reports. They said he was among seven or eight Iraqis on the American list who are believed to be in Syria.
United States forces in Iraq have detained several high-ranking Iraqi officials in recent days, and other Iraqis have surrendered to American troops. But none have been ranked as high as Mr. Tikriti on the American list.
The Syrian government has repeatedly denied having granted refuge to any Iraqi officials, and said it had closed its border to Iraqis. American officials say those border posts have indeed been closed in recent days, a step they have characterized as positive, but they say it is possible that Iraqi leaders may be finding other routes into Syria. 
Of Iraq's six neighbors -- the others are Turkey, Iran, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Jordan -- Syria had by far the closest economic and political ties with the Baghdad government, and it is regarded by intelligence officials as being the most likely escape route for fleeing Iraqi officials. 
American forces in Iraq have now begun the process of sorting through Iraqi prisoners of war to determine who should remain in custody.
In the last two weeks, coalition forces have released 887 Iraqis detained during the war who have since been determined to be noncombatants, the Pentagon said today.
"Our intention is not to hold prisoners indefinitely and to get these people processed as soon as possible," said Cmdr. Chris Isleib, a Pentagon spokesman.
But nearly 7,000 Iraqi prisoners are still being held at camps in the southern city of Umm Qasr, where the United States is constructing what it has named its Theater Internment Facility. An unknown number of additional prisoners are still at temporary holding units elsewhere or are with the military units who captured them, the officials said.
Under the Geneva Convention, prisoners of war can be held until the end of hostilities, a condition the United States is not likely to declare for weeks or even months. But noncombatants who did not engage in hostile acts during the war and were not part of a military force are to be released as soon as their status is determined.
Among the prisoners held at Umm Qasr are a number of high-ranking Iraqi officers, according to defense officials. They are being interrogated as part of the broader American effort to seek out other Iraqi officials who have evaded capture and to obtain information about Iraq's suspected caches of illegal weapons.
In other military developments today, the Pentagon said it had recovered and identified the remains of an Air Force pilot missing since his F-15E fighter jet went down in Iraq on April 7. The pilot was identified as Capt. Eric B. Das, 30, of Amarillo, Tex., and his status was changed from missing to killed in action.
The search for the plane's weapons officer, who has not been publicly identified, is continuing. The confirmation of Captain Das's death brings to 128 the number of American military personnel killed in the war. Two Americans are still listed as missing -- the second F-15 crew member and Army Sgt. Edward J. Anguiano, 24, of Brownsville, Tex., missing since his convoy was ambushed on March 23 in Iraq.
No Americans are listed as prisoners of war from the current conflict. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); RANKINGS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%); HAMAS (67%); HEZBOLLAH (67%); TERRORISM (62%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%); SYRIA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); TUNISIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



572 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: RECONSTRUCTION; 
Bechtel's Subcontracts Are Expected to Include Non-U.S. Companies and Employ Iraqis

BYLINE:  By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
Although the Bechtel Group in San Francisco has been selected as the prime contractor for up to $680 million worth of reconstruction work in Iraq, a substantial percentage of that money -- half or more, by some estimates -- will actually flow to subcontractors, which are expected to rely heavily on Iraqi workers, government and company officials said yesterday.
 "Bechtel has told us that they plan on using Iraqi resources to the greatest degree possible," said Luke Zahner, a spokesman for the United States Agency for International Development, which awarded the contract on Thursday. 
 Faced with tight deadlines, Bechtel is moving quickly to get its team in place. A port engineer will arrive in Kuwait tomorrow, and Bechtel's project chief, Terry Valenzano, will be there on Monday, Michael G. Kidder, a spokesman for Bechtel, said. 
Although the contract's demanding time schedules may work against the selection of Iraqi companies as subcontractors, even non-Iraqi subcontractors are likely to rely heavily on local workers, procurement experts said.
"When it comes to using Iraqi companies, it will all come down to capacity," said Steven L. Schooner, a professor of procurement law at George Washington University law school. "But remember, you could use 50 or 75 United States subcontractors, but 90 percent of their work force will still wind up being Iraqis." Companies like Bechtel "hire labor wherever they need to hire it."
Andrew S. Natsios, the administrator of A.I.D., has said that he expects at least half of the Iraqi contract awards to be paid to subcontractors selected by Bechtel. But that percentage may be substantially understated.
"On construction contracts like this, it could be 70 percent or significantly higher," Professor Schooner said.
Mr. Kidder said Bechtel expected "the vast majority of the work" would go to subcontractors.
The first step for Bechtel will be to establish priorities, with the agency's guidance, for the work that needs to be done, Mr. Kidder said. As soon as that is completed, the company will be able to draft and execute contracts with other companies.
The process for selecting subcontractors "will be a full and open competition on a international basis that we will launch as soon as possible," he said.
The contract leaves the actual selection of subcontractors to Bechtel, and does not specify whether any of the work must be shared with companies in countries that supported the United States military effort in Iraq.
"We've said all along that our only priorities were to get the work done in a timely and cost-effective manner," Mr. Zahner said. 
But Mr. Natsios has waived certain federal procurement rules to give Bechtel the broadest possible scope for choosing its subcontractors. As a result, it may choose companies from outside the United States and is required to exclude only those based in countries on the government's short list of terrorist sponsors. That list includes Libya, Cuba, North Korea, Iran, Laos and Syria.
The aid agency retains the right, however, to monitor the process Bechtel uses to select its subcontractors and to approve all but the most negligible awards. According to Mr. Zahner, the agency must approve any subcontracts awarded on a cost-reimbursement basis, and any fixed-price contract worth more than $500,000 or 5 percent of the contract, whichever is less.
Moreover, Bechtel must justify any contract awarded without competitive bids, he said. And the agency also plans to hire another company soon to monitor and evaluate Bechtel's work.
Professor Schooner said he doubted that Bechtel was only now lining up its subcontractors. "Very rarely does any large company bid on a huge contract like this without knowing exactly who they intend to use," he said.
But Mr. Kidder at Bechtel said that while some subcontractors may already have been identified, he is not aware of any formal contracts that have been signed obliging the company to use specific companies. 
As Bechtel's deployment of its engineering experts suggests, one important priority already identified by the aid agency is to dredge and improve the port at Umm Qasr, which will handle relief and reconstruction materials. But Bechtel also expects to have an electric power engineer in place in Kuwait by Tuesday, suggesting that restoration of power is also near the top of the company's to-do list.
Later on, Bechtel's priorities will be established in consultation with the aid agency's team in Iraq, which will be led by Lewis Lucke. According to Mr. Zahner, Mr. Lucke will also serve as the senior reconstruction adviser to retired Lt. Gen. Jay Garner, who will take over the civilian administration of Iraq until an interim Iraqi authority is in place. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); CONTRACT AWARDS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (87%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ENGINEERING (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTS LAW (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); LAWYERS (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (55%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

COMPANY: BECHTEL GROUP INC (98%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%) BECHTEL GROUP 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (98%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (98%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%) SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES; 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KUWAIT (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



573 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: Turbulence Stalks Further Nigeria Elections 

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

DATELINE: ABUJA, Nigeria, April 18 

 BODY:
Far from this Nigerian capital, in a provincial town called Sagbama on the edge of the oil state Bayelsa, the election commission office lies ransacked, with ballot boxes broken and the governor's lodge in embers.
 The governing People's Democratic Party blames opposition activists for the destruction last Saturday, while enraged opposition supporters accuse their rivals of trying to fix that day's legislative elections. In any case, few if any ballots ever made it to polling booths, even though the national election commission declared today that the irregularities were isolated. 
 The ruin shows the resentment piling up before another, far more important, round of voting on Saturday -- this time for the presidency and governorships -- as Africa's most populous nation tries to achieve what it has never managed before: moving from one elected government to another. 
The vote is being closely watched both as a measure of the continent's progress toward consolidating democracy and as a bellwether of the stability of Nigeria, the world's sixth-largest oil producer. 
Last week's violence provided a chilling reminder of the chaos that many are bracing themselves for across a country with volatile fissures of ethnicity and religion, particularly between its Islamic north and its Christian south. 
The sitting president, Olusegun Obasanjo, a former military ruler from the south and an ethnic Yoruba, is vying for a second term against 19 contenders -- chief among them Muhammadu Buhari, a Muslim and former military ruler from a north dominated by the Hausa and Fulani tribes. 
This week tensions rose as the two men traded warnings -- the opposition against the ruling-party's meddling with the vote count, and the president against the opposition's inciting violence. Police officers and soldiers fanned out across the country today in an attempt to stanch potential trouble, particularly here in the southern oil states.
The presidential race aside, the contests for the governorships are equally explosive in a country where elected office is widely regarded as a quest for a personal fief and elections are a no-holds-barred and often deadly face-off. 
Greed, poverty and the quest for power are a combustible mix at election time in Nigeria. Legions of young unemployed men are the ready foot soldiers. Old ethnic divides can be easily manipulated for the benefit of one candidate or another. Moreover, an absence of campaign finance laws makes it impossible to know how much money, public or private, is spent buying votes. 
Few if any issues distinguish one candidate from another. "Only whohas the bigger pot, who controls more money than the other," said Festus Okoye, a veteran pro-democracy activist who heads a coalition of advocacy organizations called the Transition Monitoring Group. 
"There are no values in this election," he said. "There are no principles. It's only who gets power. Nothing more. It's a shame." 
Olubunmi Dipo-Salami, of a Lagos-based women's rights group called Baobab, was equally dismissive. "Elections will happen, and it will make people realize that we don't have a democracy," she said. "It's civilian rule that we have." 
The dividends of democracy have in fact not all been pleasant. Nigerians on average are no richer. The country ranks as the second-most corrupt in the world, according to Transparency International, a watchdog group based in Britain. Ethnic and religious divides have worsened. During Mr. Obasanjo's four-year tenure, anywhere from 5,000 to 10,000 people have been killed in communal clashes. 
In an interview in his residence in the capital, President Obasanjo dismissed that toll as no more than the number of Nigerians who died in traffic accidents. Every nation that has emerged from a repressive regime has suffered the same, he said, and Nigeria, after all, has seen nothing of what took place, for instance, in the Balkans. 
"We had a military regime -- brutal, oppressive, putting the boot," he said. "And when people have the opportunity to express themselves -- democracy -- the expression takes all sorts of forms." 
With old rivalries among over 250 ethnic groups, Nigeria ought to be "commended," he said, for having avoided even worse bloodletting. 
"We are moving away from oppression to dialogue, to democracy, and it will take time before dialogue takes way," Mr. Obasanjo said. "Nigeria did not descend from the high mountain top to the valley overnight. And it will not get back to the mountain top of morality, of values, overnight." 
While the presidential race is the most closely watched by outsiders, the governor's races are the most prone to violence and rigging, analysts here say. The stakes are high. The candidates are desperate. "You see people dying to be governor," Nosa Igiebor, the editor of the news weekly Tell Magazine, said. "As a governor you're lord."
Control of a state house, he added, means control over a large bounty that can be doled out to friends and family: civil service jobs, building contracts, on occasion cold hard cash. 
Nowhere, analysts here say, is that more true than in the oil-rich states of the swampy Niger Delta. The fifth-ranking supplier to the United States, Nigeria earns roughly $10 billion a year -- nearly all its export revenues -- from oil. 
Offshore drilling stands to raise that figure, as well as the vast reserves of natural gas that have been found in these southern swamps. By some estimates, Nigeria could earn another $10 billion a year from gas exports by 2010. 
With oil monies at stake, it is no coincidence that the political contest here in the Niger Delta has been among the fiercest -- with the most extensive fraud and violence during last weekend's legislative polls, election monitors say.
In parts of Rivers State, election observers trying to monitor the tally found vote-counting centers shuttered and reported widespread theft of ballots and polling materials. Yet, when the national election commission announced results, turnout figures were reported to be above 90 percent, with solid victories for the governing party.
Likewise, in the Warri area of Delta State, where violence forced the postponement of elections fora day, election observers found that in some parts, polls never opened and election workers never materialized. There too, the election commission declared a turnout of nearly 100 percent and an overwhelming victory for the governing party.
Not surprisingly, the Niger Delta states are braced for violent clashes this weekend. "It's a contest for the control of resources," said Oronto Douglas, deputy director of Environmental Rights Action, an advocacy group based in neighboring Port Harcourt. "The other parties want control of that, too. Everyone wants a piece of the action. There's clearly no philosophical underpinnings, no ideological underpinnings. Its more 'How do we survive?' "
In the Bayelsa State capital, Yenagoa, a couple of ballot boxes have been put up as roadblocks at a traffic checkpoint. Giant billboards are plastered with with the portrait of Gov. D. P. S. Alamieyeseigha next to his party's presidential contender, Mr. Obasanjo. Election monitors last Saturday reported gunfights and irregularities at the polls in several places across the state. In one of the oddest, official results showed that the governor's party picked up some 133,000 votes in an area with just 127,000 registered voters. 
The billboards are evidence of the governor's popularity, the state's chief press secretary, Freston Akpor, said. The advertisements boast of the governor's initiatives for the state: a bridge, a jetty, a hospital, a university among them. Critics like to point to the university as well -- but as evidence of a fief. The university is to be built in the governor's native village.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The burned-out governor's lodge and cars in Sagbama, in the Nigerian state of Bayelsa. Opposition supporters, blamed for the destruction, said the governing People's Democratic Party was trying to fix elections.; Smashed ballot boxes at a local election office in Sagbama, Nigeria, after the violence that occurred during legislative elections last Saturday. Elections for the presidency and governorships are scheduled for today. (Photographs by Michael Kamber for The New York Times) Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Nigeria" CAPITAL: Abuja AREA: 356,669 sq. miles(just larger than Texas and Oklahoma combined) POPULATION: 130 million LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH: 50.6 years for men and women LITERACY RATE: For age 15 and older: men, 67.3%; women, 47.3% RELIGIONS: Muslim, 50%; Christian, 40%; indigenous beliefs, 10% LANGUAGES: More than 500 are spoken. Main languages are English (official), Hausa, Yoruba, Ibo and Fulani. EXPORTS: Petroleum, cocoa, rubber G.D.P. PER CAPITA: $840 (Source: C.I.A. Factbook)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); RELIGION (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RIOTS (66%); ETHNICITY (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (52%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI; BUHARI, MUHAMMADU (GEN); OBASANJO, OLUSEGUN (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) NIGERIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%) NIGERIA; SAGBAMA (NIGERIA)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



574 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: On the Day of Bouncer's Funeral, A Martial Arts Student Is Charged 

BYLINE:  By SHAILA K. DEWAN 

 BODY:
The killing was strange from the start, and has gotten only stranger. A bouncer stabbed to death, some said, because of the city's new ban on smoking in bars. A missing weapon. Three siblings arrested, then released, then revealed to be the children of a Chinatown gangster.
 And yesterday, a new suspect, whom the police described as a suicidal young Filipino-American trained in a vicious Filipino martial art in which even beginners learn lethal knife thrusts. 
 The suspect, Isaias P. Umali II, was arraigned yesterday on charges of killing the bouncer, Dana Blake, with a single stab wound early Sunday morning at a downtown nightclub after a fight broke out over a burning cigarette.
Mr. Umali tried to commit suicide on Monday after learning that Mr. Blake had died, said George F. Brown, the chief of detectives.
The police made the arrest after learning that Mr. Umali had told someone about the stabbing and was in the hospital, Chief Brown said. In what was apparently intended as a suicide note, Mr. Umali made reference to his involvement in the crime, investigators said. The note was destroyed -- it was not clear how -- but someone who read it described it to the police, they said.
The police announced the arrest of Mr. Umali just two hours after eight brawny men struggled to carry the 6-foot-5 bouncer's casket up the stairs of the Humble Way Church of God in Christ in South Ozone Park, Queens, for his funeral.
On Thursday night, friends donated nearly $20,000 at a fund-raiser to pay the funeral expenses of Mr. Blake, known to bartenders and other nightclub workers across town as Shazam, said Brooke Hammerling, a friend who helped organize the event.
The arrest brought some satisfaction to investigators caught in a frustrating whodunit, with an international spotlight but no weapon, no witnesses to the stabbing itself and multiple sets of blood-soaked clothing.
Mr. Umali, 31, left Mary Immaculate Hospital in Queens yesterday for his arraignment on a charge of second-degree murder, appearing in State Supreme Court in Manhattan. He was ordered held without bail, on suicide watch.
He was among a group of friends who gathered last Saturday night to celebrate a friend's birthday in the basement of Guernica, a sleek Lower East Side lounge, Chief Brown said.
After one of the friends, Jonathan Chan, 29, lighted a cigarette and passed it to a friend, whom the police identified as Meynard Leonardo, a fight ensued. Investigators have said that when Mr. Blake, 31, asked that the cigarette be put out, a rude response prompted him to eject Mr. Chan from the club.
Mr. Chan's lawyer has said that his client was polite but that the bouncer grabbed him around the neck anyway.
Either way, a struggle that involved Mr. Chan; his brother Ching; his sister, Alice; and other people left Mr. Blake on the floor, bleeding to death.
The police arrested the Chan siblings, but released them early Tuesday after the Manhattan district attorney declined to press charges. The police said the investigation was continuing and charges might still be brought against the Chans.
The siblings, a stockbroker, a medical student and a bookkeeper, are the children of a former Chinatown gang leader who is serving a murder and racketeering sentence in federal prison.
During the fight, Mr. Umali "came to the assistance of the Chans," Chief Brown said.
He said Mr. Umali left the club immediately after the stabbing and walked downtown to a subway station, discarding the knife as he walked. It has not been recovered.
Mr. Umali traveled to the Upper East Side, to the home of friends who, along with the Chan brothers, an investigator said later, studied kali, also called escrima or arnis, together at a martial arts studio on West 27th Street. At a studio on that street, the Fighthouse, there is a weekly escrima class, but an employee refused to provide the name of the teacher last night.
Kali is a martial art without a mystical side, according to its teachers. It was developed over hundreds of years in the Philippines, where it was sometimes forbidden and had to be practiced in secret, to help the underdog against a more powerful enemy, teachers said.
"It's based on this principle: do unto others before they do unto you," said Frank Ortega, a kali guro, or teacher, in Queens. "It's an aggressive art. You don't learn kali to show off or break watermelons, you learn kali to survive. It is more of a street art."
Mr. Umali spent the remainder of the night with his friends, and on Sunday went home to his house on 171st Street in Jamaica wearing fresh clothes they had provided, Chief Brown said. He lives there with his parents and younger sister, people who know the family said.
On Monday morning, he tried to slash his neck and wrists, the police said. "We believe he was distraught over learning of the death of Mr. Blake," Chief Brown said.
But unlike Mr. Blake's wound, which severed his femoral artery, Mr. Umali's wounds were not fatal. He was carried out of his house to an ambulance with his mother and girlfriend looking on, said a neighbor, Tom Bagasan, 57.
Mr. Umali, a slight man in a light blue T-shirt, appeared in court yesterday with bandages on his neck and wrists. His lawyer, David Krauss, said Mr. Umali had attended a Roman Catholic high school, completed some college and worked as a computer network administrator. "He's never had contact with the criminal justice system before," Mr. Krauss said.
The police said Mr. Umali was currently unemployed. Friends and neighbors described him as a quiet man who liked to play with paintball guns.
His parents, who friends said were both retired accountants, are well known among Filipino-Americans in Queens. Mr. Umali's father, Isaias Umali Jr., is a charter member and past president of Bayanihan, a Filipino community organization.
The senior Mr. Umali and his wife paused on their driveway last night to speak to a reporter.
"I have a great son, he's a great guy," he said. "He's very helpful and respectful to elders. We put the burden of the case in God's hands."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pallbearers leaving a funeral home yesterday in Ozone Park, Queens, after the services for Dana Blake, a bouncer who was stabbed to death. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times)(pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DEATHS (90%); MARTIAL ARTS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); SUICIDE (89%); MURDER (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); SMOKING (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); SMOKING BANS (73%); BAIL (72%); RELIGION (69%); HOSPITALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (60%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS; SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS 

PERSON: DEWAN, SHAILA K; UMALI, ISAIAS P II; BLAKE, DANA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



575 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing Africa: Zimbabwe: Defiant On Independence Day 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 In an address to commemorate independence from Britain 23 years ago, President Robert Mugabe blamed Britain and the United States for the crisis in his country and told a rally in Harare that they were trying to "recolonize" Zimbabwe by leading a campaign against him. 
"Never again will Zimbabwe be a colony," he said to applause. He also said he would not tolerate unrest. The worsening political tensions and economic problems cast a shadow over the holiday for some. Brian Kagoro, a rights activist, said, "On one hand, there is the invaluable gift of independence, and on the other, we have very serious problems economically, socially and politically."

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: MUGABE, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (90%) ZIMBABWE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) ZIMBABWE; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



576 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Israel Offers Concessions, but Palestinians Are Wary 

BYLINE:  By GREG MYRE 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, April 18 

 BODY:
With the Bush administration preparing to push a new Middle East peace initiative, Israel said today that it was willing to pull back troops, release some Palestinian prisoners and ease travel restrictions if an emerging Palestinian government made a serious effort to halt violence.
 But Palestinians cautioned that the steps were not a substitute for full Israeli acceptance of the international peace plan, called the road map. 
 "All this talk about confidence-building measures, as kind as it may sound, is part of an attempt to do away with the road map," said Nabil Shaath, a Palestinian cabinet minister and negotiator. "What is required of Israel is to accept the road map. Then there will be a detailed plan for everyone to follow." 
Raanan Gissin, a spokesman for the Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon, said: "We are talking about a package of humanitarian assistance and the easing of security restrictions. Of course, it is contingent on the Palestinian security forces showing they are dead serious about taking action against terrorists."
The incoming Palestinian prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas, has been a critic of the Palestinian violence, calling it counterproductive. But Hamas, Islamic Jihad and other groups that have carried out suicide bombings and other attacks say they plan to press ahead, and it is not clear how forceful Mr. Abbas will be in confronting them.
The United States and its partners -- the European Union, the United Nations and Russia -- intend to present the plan formally when a new Palestinian government is established. That could happen within days, though Mr. Abbas is still wrangling with the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, over the makeup of the cabinet.
The peace plan is the most ambitious effort yet to end 30 months of Mideast fighting and revive peace negotiations. The aim is a comprehensive peace agreement and a Palestinian state by 2005. While both sides accept the plan in principle, an Israeli delegation expressed more than a dozen reservations in talks with the Bush administration in Washington this week.
Still, Mr. Sharon says he is prepared to sit down with Mr. Abbas, widely known as Abu Mazen. 
Israel is prepared to remove troops from some Palestinian cities and towns where they have been for most of the last year, Mr. Gissin said, if Palestinian security forces can take over.
In addition, Israel said it would be willing to release some of the more than 5,000 jailed Palestinians. The figure includes those convicted of violence, as well as suspects facing trial, and about 1,000 being held without charge.
With the Palestinian economy in a shambles, Israel is also considering allowing more Palestinians into Israel to work. Before the Palestinian uprising, some 150,000 Palestinians in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip commuted daily to Israel, mostly for work. Today, the number is around 10,000.
Israel is also willing to increase the amount of money it is sending to the Palestinians from the taxes and customs duties collected on their behalf, Mr. Gissin said. Israel has withheld hundreds of millions of dollars in such revenue, saying it believed some of the money was being used by the Palestinian Authority to finance violence.
The Israeli spokesman did not give a timetable, but said Israel was ready to move as soon Mr. Abbas's government was in office.
"Even before the road map is published, we're ready to take basic steps," Mr. Gissin said. "We're all for Abu Mazen putting his security forces in place, and making a 100 percent effort to halt terror so we can pull out our troops."
President Bush has said the plan will be presented when the Palestinian government is formed, and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell is expected to visit the region in an effort to get the initiative started.
However, the United States says that the measures will not be imposed, and that the two sides will have to work out their differences.
The Palestinians fear the plan will be derailed by Israel objections on issues like freezing construction on Jewish settlements in the West Bank and Gaza.
"We are satisfied that the United States is not going to change the road map," said Mr. Shaath, the Palestinian minister. "Is the United States going to wield all its influence to get it implemented? I don't know the answer to that."
In recent weeks, Palestinian attacks against Israeli civilians have eased significantly, though Israeli troops and Palestinian militants still clash regularly in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. No deaths were reported today, something that used to be a rarity, but that is now becoming more common. Israel attributes the decline to its strong military presence in Palestinian areas, though the presence also constricts everyday life for Palestinian civilians.
Israel sealed off the Palestinian territories before the weeklong Jewish holiday of Passover, which began Wednesday evening. Israeli security sources say they have received more than 50 warnings of possible attacks in the holiday period.
In another development, four Israeli border guard policemen have been arrested on suspicion of beating to death a 17-year-old Palestinian in the West Bank town of Hebron last December. The policemen are suspected of seizing Imran Abu Ramdiya at his home, killing him with blows to the head and dumping his body in an industrial park.
The suspects apparently decided to carry out the assault after one of their commanders was killed by Palestinians several days earlier, said Jacob Galanti, a spokesman for Israel's Justice Ministry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (93%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HAMAS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); MISCONDUCT (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (67%); TRENDS (61%); RELIGION (51%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; PALESTINIANS; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (55%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (55%); HAMAS (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (89%) MYRE, GREG 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%) ISRAEL; HEBRON (WEST BANK)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



577 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Lifting Sanctions on Iraq 

 BODY:
Everyone understands that the main reason for international economic sanctions on Iraq vanished with the ouster of Saddam Hussein. The world no longer needs to worry about keeping Iraqi oil revenue out of the hands of an ambitious dictator intent on buying weapons. Instead, it should be seeking ways to increase that revenue as quickly as possible to rebuild a shattered country and improve the living standards of its people. 
 To that end, the Bush administration is asking the United Nations Security Council for a phased lifting of sanctions on Iraqi oil exports. As it happens, Washington had been the prime sponsor of those sanctions, and successive administrations twisted arms in the Security Council to get them approved, adjusted and enforced. 
 Administration officials can hardly relish returning to the Security Council, the scene of their embarrassing failure to win an endorsement for the war in Iraq. Countries on the other side of that fight, like France, Germany and Russia, should see this as the opportunity that it is and not as a new occasion to gang up on Washington. Their first concern should be the interests of the Iraqi people.
If all Council members bear that in mind, the coming debate can be used to start healing trans-Atlantic divisions. America, as well as France, Germany, Russia and China, should take a pragmatic approach aimed at narrowing rather than perpetuating past differences. The resulting resolution should protect Iraqi control of oil resources and guarantee that an adequate share of oil revenue goes to meet urgent humanitarian needs. Both objectives would be served by giving continued authority to the U.N. secretary general, Kofi Annan, to supervise early oil sales.
Iraqis should not have to wait months for revenue to start flowing again. The appropriate deadline for Security Council action to lift sanctions is early June, when the current authorization expires for the oil-for-food program for Iraq. That should leave enough time to work out an agreement on the U.N.'s postwar role in Iraq. This should include a strong U.N. presence in shaping an interim Iraqi government, in verifying the destruction of any unconventional weapons and in coordinating humanitarian assistance.
Agreement will be a lot harder to achieve if the Bush administration persists in its current efforts to minimize U.N. participation. A vital U.N. role is in the interests of all Security Council members and would enhance the international legitimacy of Iraq's postwar administration. It would also help smooth the resumption of oil exports, which the Iraqi people are counting on to rebuild a country devastated by decades of war, dictatorship and sanctions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (72%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) SECURITY COUNCIL (UN); UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); FRANCE (88%); CHINA (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



578 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Get Recycling Out of the Dumps 

 BODY:
Last year, Mayor Michael Bloomberg told New York City residents to put away their bins for plastics and glass and suspended that part of municipal recycling. The move was supposed to save money and buy time to improve the programs. But it turns out that the savings were mostly illusory, and the Bloomberg administration's commitment to sorting out its trash problems seems shaky. 
 The July 1 deadline for a resumption of plastics recycling approaches, but the city still does not have a new recycling contract in hand. Last November, a New Jersey company offered to pay $5.10 a ton for metal and plastic recyclables -- until then, the city had expected to pay someone to take that combination. But officials say they are still examining the bid. 
 Even if the Sanitation Department meets its deadline on plastics, it cannot ignore the importance of glass as part of the recyling program. Glass recycling -- now scheduled to resume on July 1, 2004 -- is more expensive, and the reclaimed glass is harder to sell.
But the Department of Sanitation, which has never been enthusiastic about recycling in any form, turns out to have overestimated how much the program costs. Once the cost of hauling away the larger regular garbage collections was taken into account, the city's savings amounted to perhaps only $10 million, not the $50 million the department projected last year. Other cities have coupled recycling programs with more efficient trash collection routes. New York needs to look in that direction, too, since right now many trucks return at the end of a shift only half-full.
Recycling is just part of the city's gargantuan trash problem. Since Mayor Rudolph Giuliani closed the Fresh Kills landfill, garbage has been trucked to landfills as far away as Ohio and Virginia. Every step of this huge operation incurs costs, economically and environmentally, which continue to grow -- rising 46 percent in the last three years.
Mayor Bloomberg hoped to streamline operations by fixing up the city's eight marine transfer stations so rubbish could be put into containers, then on barges and trains. But his two-year deadline was as unrealistic as the estimated cost, which may end up being $50 million per station at a time the city is in the grips of a severe fiscal crisis.
Solving the garbage problem is one thing the city cannot duck, or defer until times improve. But in the short term, the Sanitation Department needs to struggle for greater productivity and do more than just go through the motions on restoring recycling. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (93%); RENEWABLE PLASTICS (90%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LANDFILLS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); BUDGETS (77%) WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; EDITORIALS; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PLASTICS; GLASS; PRODUCTIVITY; CONTAINERS AND PACKAGING 

ORGANIZATION: SANITATION DEPARTMENT (NYC) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



579 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: REBUILDING; 
Bush Plans to Ask U.N. to Lift Penalties Against Iraq in Phases

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 18 

 BODY:
The Bush administration plans to ask the United Nations to lift international penalties against Iraq in phases, retaining United Nations supervision of Iraq's oil sales for now but transferring other parts of its economy to a new Iraqi authority in coming months, administration officials said today.
 The officials said that instead of a single Security Council resolution to lift sanctions on Iraq, the United States would seek three or four resolutions over several months, gradually turning over parts of the economy to an Iraqi authority assembled with American guidance. 
 The step-by-step approach was described as the latest American tactic to counter assertions by France, Russia and other Security Council members that they would oppose lifting sanctions without a broader role for the United Nations than the one envisioned by Washington.
At least in theory, France and Russia could veto the lifting of sanctions, giving them considerable leverage even though they opposed the war. Some in the Bush administration say they fear a messy situation in which lawsuits would be filed by those arguing that any oil sales in defiance of the United Nations measures would be a violation of international law. 
"Nobody wants to have litigation on this," an administration official said. "But the sanctions have to be modified or you can't have a reconstruction of Iraq." 
This official, like others interviewed today, requested anonymity because of the sensitivity of the subject and the fact that many aspects are unresolved.
How to approach this issue has been a matter of considerable debate in an administration that has long been riven ideologically on the issue of the United Nations. The Pentagon has favored a minimal role for the United Nations, but the State Department argues that its role is essential to lending legitimacy to a postwar Iraqi government.
"For a while there was a lot of talk about one omnibus Security Council resolution on Iraq," a senior administration official said. "We're now thinking in terms of several resolutions and letting Iraqis build their economy in phases before they get full control of the oil."
It was not clear, however, whether the latest administration approach would win any support from Security Council members who remain bitter about the administration's decision to go to war without the Council's authorization.
United Nations diplomats say there is confusion over how to return Iraq to normal status now that the war is over. France has asked for a "central" role for the United Nations, and President Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain say they want a "vital" role. But little has been put in writing.
"The U.S. is facing a pretty stiff resistance from other members of the Council on this," a European diplomat said. "The U.S. position is, 'We're there in Iraq and it's going to be our effort, and maybe someone from the U.N. can come in and give it a blessing.' That's not going to fly."
One of the most contentious issues, expected to surface next week, is deciding the next phase of the multibillion dollar Oil for Food Program, in which oil is sold and the proceeds used for medicine and food for Iraqis. At present, the program distributes at least some food to 90 percent of Iraqis.
Before the war, the Oil for Food program was jointly supervised by Iraq and the United Nations. When the war began, the Security Council authorized Secretary General Kofi Annan to take it over, and it continued on a much smaller scale with Iraqis managing parts of it.
Now some in the Bush administration would like parts of it turned back to Iraq. Others argue that such a step is impractical because of the complexity of the program. Hundreds of contracts have been let to sell the oil and bring food, medicine, trucks and other supplies into the country.
In addition, there is a network for 44,000 food distribution centers throughout the country that many experts say the Iraqis are not yet ready to run themselves.
"This is big leagues stuff," said an administration official, referring to the oil-for-food program. "It's complex international economics, with a big portfolio. It's good to have Iraqis run it, but that may take time. It makes sense to leave the current structure in place. You can't predict how long."
One advantage of leaving the program in place, officials said, would be avoiding a fight with France, Russia and others who might oppose effectively turning Iraq's oil industry over to a government in Baghdad seen as handpicked by Washington.
But administration officials say that other parts of the economy, including imports of other vital goods and services for the agriculture industry and the civil service, could perhaps be authorized by the United Nations without a fight.
Officials on all sides are particularly uncomfortable discussing one factor on the record. Under the oil-for-food program, much of the food, medicine and other goods like trucks that have been imported by Iraq have been supplied by France, Russia and Syria, all on the Security Council.
Some diplomats say that the United States could make headway on its objectives if it guaranteed that these countries' lucrative contracts remained in place.
"Let's face it, this is a highly politicized environment," said an official involved in the talks on oil for food. "I don't think there's any secret about the motivations of some. It's out there. We're not operating in a vacuum. All these practicalities will come back to the Security Council."
But administration officials maintain indignantly that they will not trade Security Council legitimacy for the awarding of contracts to certain countries.
"The idea that we would throw contracts to the French or the Russians to get them to go along -- I mean, come on," an administration official said. "If there are goods in the pipeline needed for the Iraqi people and supplied by them -- yes, fine. But our interest has to be the welfare of the Iraqi people."
Another source of contention within the administration, and with others at the United Nations, is over whether Hans Blix and the United Nations weapons inspectors have any role to play in the future.
There is a consensus in the administration, State Department officials said, that Mr. Blix should be sent into retirement. Many officials remain angry over his performance during the inspections phase in Iraq this winter, believing that he was too eager to please Iraqi authorities.
On the other hand, some American officials admit that they have not been able to find the chemical, biological and other unconventional weapons that not too long ago they blamed Mr. Blix for not finding. 
But a new element is the fact that the Arab news media -- most notably, Al Jazeera, the influential television network -- have begun suggesting that if chemical, biological or nuclear weapons are found in Iraq, it will be because the American military planted them there.
Thus there is a growing feeling, however reluctant, that Mr. Blix and the United Nations may be needed if the United States is ever to convince the world that its fears of Iraqi weapons programs were justified. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LITIGATION (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); VETO (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); TRENDS (60%); POLITICS (60%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%) UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TONY BLAIR (50%) WEISMAN, STEVEN R; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (92%) IRAQ; FRANCE; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



580 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: De-fense! De-fense! De-fense! 

BYLINE:  By BILL KELLER; E-mail: billkeller@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I don't think President Bush is going to war with Syria anytime soon, but I can understand why he might be tempted. Not just because it's another terrorist-coddling, weapons-hoarding, dissident-torturing, neighbor-molesting, America-hating despotism. Not because Mr. Bush peaked too soon in Iraq and needs another victory to carry him into 2004, or because he hopes to distract us from the con artistry of his economic policy.
 No, the biggest attraction of continued war, I suspect, is that in the war on terror, offense is just a lot more exciting than defense. The military triumph in Iraq, despite some mishaps and heartbreak, was a romp compared with the long slog to secure our own shores. Protecting our ports, securing vulnerable chemical plants, tracking foreign visa holders, fixing our dysfunctional intelligence community, getting emergency equipment to firefighters and hospitals -- there are no cakewalks on the home front. 
 And there is less glory. Who would you rather be, Tommy Franks, with the most fearsome military in the history of militaries at your command, or Tom Ridge, trying to protect the world's most target-rich environment with the leftovers from the Pentagon's budget? When history records what you did for American security, would you rather go into the books as Stormin' Norman Schwarzkopf or the transportation secretary derided by The Economist as Underperformin' Norman Mineta? 
Since armies abandoned the static warfare of forts and trenches, commanders have preferred to take the initiative rather than dig in. On offense, you get to pick the time and the battlefield. On defense, you have to guess where the horrible surprise might arrive.
On offense in this war, you face outgunned opponents and, mostly, you kill them. On defense you face industry lobbyists, civil libertarians, investigative gadflies, pork-barrel politicians, employee unions, campaign consultants, tort lawyers, budget police, bureaucratic red tape, the Bill of Rights and the laws of physics. You can wage a war without deferring to allies or sharing the spoils, regardless of the wisdom of that, but the home front doesn't put up with unilateralists -- except maybe Alan Greenspan.
On offense, victory may be expensive and bloody and it may give way to an ugly peace, but it is assured. You can declare it, date it and celebrate it with a parade. On defense, the overwhelming odds are that no matter how rigorously the government prepares, America will again suffer what the administration calls "terrorism of catastrophic proportions." Every day without a terrorist attack is not a victory, merely a reprieve.
On the whole, it is only fair to say we are better protected than we were on Sept. 11. The general level of official vigilance is up, the more liberal flow of intelligence from allies has led to some important arrests, and a few prudent security measures have moved along smartly.
Thanks to a little subsidy from Congress and a lot of arm-twisting from the Federal Aviation Administration (overseen by the ridiculed Mr. Mineta, by the way) passenger airplanes that fly in America have, as of last week, cockpit doors that can withstand bullets, crowbars and even hand grenades. You can dismiss this as fighting the last war -- terrorists will find new tricks, and in any case the next hijacker who tries to commandeer an airplane is likely to be pounded into submission by the passengers -- but it shows what can be done with determined leadership and money. The doors were invented and installed on thousands of airplanes in 15 months. That's not the three weeks it took to occupy Baghdad, but it's pretty good for government work.
The government has also made serious headway in policing the millions of shipping containers that enter the country every year. Since Baltimore was cinematically incinerated by a containerized nuke in "The Sum of All Fears," this has been everyone's favorite candidate for delivery of some hideous weapon. The Bureau of Customs and Border Protection has introduced earlier screening, better scanners and radiation detectors, and especially a computerized crunching of shipping information to identify suspicious containers. The system will never be fail-safe, but it is no longer a pushover.
For a pushover, you might consider your local chemical plant. The Environmental Protection Agency lists 123 chemical plants so close to urban centers that a "worst case" terrorist attack at any one of them could endanger more than a million people. In this case, though, the chemical lobby has risen up to fight off mandatory safety measures, like efforts to substitute less hazardous chemicals where possible. The Bush administration and its regulation-phobic allies on Capitol Hill have decided we can trust the industry to fix itself voluntarily. Sure we can.
The other day Daniel Zwerdling of National Public Radio asked a homeland security official why the administration was willing to force safety on the airline industry but not on chemical makers. The answer: because the weapon of choice on Sept. 11 was not a chemical plant. In other words, wait until they blow up a chlorine tank.
Terror-defense aid for states and cities is likely to be spread thin by the pork-barrel imperative. Since every volunteer fire department in every one-stoplight town in America thinks it is entitled to "first responder" aid -- and since every member of Congress approaching an election campaign feels obliged to agree -- there will be less money for the cities that are proven targets. If greedy custom prevails, this means, for instance, no money to install radio signal boosters in New York high-rises so that next time, firefighters in a burning skyscraper will know what's going on. And good luck getting the bankrupt City Council or the well-muscled real estate industry to pick up the cost.
By most accounts the single best way to defend against terrorists is to sort out our underperformin' intelligence community. The limitations of our intelligence agencies were famous and ancient long before Sept. 11: the C.I.A.'s foreign brief and reluctance to share information, the F.B.I.'s antiquated technology and an F.B.I. culture designed for making cases rather than nabbing terrorists, and so on. The terror attacks mobilized support for what a joint Congressional investigation called "an effective all-source terrorism information fusion center," where knowledge of terrorist activities can be collected, shared, matched, analyzed and acted upon. Congress thought the obvious place for it was under the Department of Homeland Security, which needs intelligence if it is to be more than the color-of-the-day department. The F.B.I. is not a home for this center because it is at heart a law enforcement agency, and the aggressively territorial C.I.A. flunked an earlier assignment to coordinate counterterrorist intelligence back in 1986.
The administration decided, though, that the quickest, cheapest, least feather-ruffling solution was to give the job to the C.I.A., so that's where it is to be. This effectively neuters Tom Ridge and his successors. Well, President Bush wasn't very enthusiastic about creating a Homeland Security Department in the first place.
It is easy to find fault with the domestic war on terror, given its shortcomings and its silly excesses, too. (A civil liberties group, Privacy International, maintains a Web site listing idiotic infringements since 9/11, like the airport security guard said to have made a nursing mother drink three bottles of breast milk to prove it couldn't be used as a weapon.) Hurray for cheap fun. Let's understand, though, that making the country safe in the quagmire of democracy is really hard.
Even so, democracy is the quagmire we've got, and while the system does not jump to attention like a company of marines, it does respond to leadership of a particular kind. It responds to persistence, patience, compromise and a willingness to set priorities. (Terrorist-proof chemical plants, or tax cuts for the really rich?) These are the same qualities that will be required to convert the overthrow of Saddam Hussein into a genuine liberation of Iraq, and to apply our newly won credibility to the larger project of a liberated Middle East.
There are still those deluded souls who discount George Bush as a slacker and a tool of his political handlers. Some people never learn. It should be evident by now that he is a man of self-confidence, iron discipline and radical ambitions. But he picks his fights, and he has not put the personal muscle into the harder aspects of domestic security that he has put into waging war or cutting taxes.
Back when Mr. Bush ran a baseball team rather than the entire free world, he was famously an offense guy. He built the Texas Rangers a new ballpark with short distances to the fences, heaven for sluggers. He assembled high-scoring, crowd-thrilling teams. Boy, did those guys pound the baseball. They just didn't win championships because when the playoffs came in October, they had no defense. The pitching and fielding that win games in bigger stadiums had a trophied in a park built for offense. Maybe there's a metaphor here.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Knickerbocker) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); LOBBYING (75%); LITIGATION (75%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (73%); CHEMICAL PLANT SECURITY (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); TORTS (50%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (55%) KELLER, BILL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); SYRIA (92%) SYRIA

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



581 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: Cloaked in Green, But Pushing Trucks 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 18 

 BODY:
As the Ford Motor Company scaled back expectations this week for its first hybrid-powered vehicle and backpedaled on a pledge to improve the fuel economy of its sport utility vehicles, Toyota was introducing its latest Prius, which will get about 55 miles a gallon and be the first midsize vehicle with hybrid technology.
For environmentalists, the contrasting developments reinforced the sense that only foreign carmakers care about curbing America's swelling appetite for oil.
 "The Japanese are where you go if you want good technology, and Detroit is where you go if you don't," said Daniel Becker, the top global warming expert at the Sierra Club. 
 But the picture is also more complicated -- and bleak, from the perspective of reducing oil consumption. Toyota, Honda and Nissan are flooding the American market with S.U.V.'s of all sizes; Toyota and Nissan are redoubling efforts to take on the last largely unchallenged stronghold of Detroit, the pickup truck. And sales of new- model S.U.V.'s from Japan far outnumber gas-sipping hybrids, which supplement the internal combustion engine with electric power. 
"They're getting all this great green press over the Prius," said John DeCicco, a senior analyst with Environmental Defense, "but their product strategy has moved into trucks big time."
As Toyota was promoting the Prius this week at the press preview of the New York International Auto Show, in another corner, Nissan introduced the Pathfinder Armada, its first full-size S.U.V., which is due later in the year. The Armada is as heavy as the Chevrolet Suburban, equipped with up to 14 cupholders and can tow four and a half tons. 
With a new crop of vehicles named Sequoia, Titan, Tundra and Armada -- can Godzilla be far behind? -- Toyota and Nissan are making a statement that they will build light trucks as big as Detroit. Honda is also increasing production, but not of the largest pickuplike models.
The influx of competition is forcing United States automakers to lower their own prices on sport utility vehicles and pickups and improve their own vehicles to stay competitive.
Since 1999, Toyota, Nissan and Honda have introduced 10 new pickup trucks and S.U.V.'s, compared with 3 small hybrid cars from Toyota and Honda; last year, the Japanese Big Three sold about 471,000 of these 10 vehicles in the United States, while Toyota and Honda sold about 35,000 hybrids, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank.
And that does not count huge sales of existing S.U.V.'s like the RX-300 from the Toyota Lexus division or the Nissan Pathfinder, to name a few. 
Mr. DeCicco said that Asian automakers generally performed better, segment by segment, in the environmental ratings that he compiles, but by no means across the board.
A recent report by Environmental Defense found that G.M.'s automotive fleet produced the most climate-warming carbon in the 1990's -- a function of its rank as the largest automaker. But Toyota's carbon emissions grew the fastest, by 72 percent, compared with 33 percent for the market, a function of a product mix that is approaching the truck-heavy tilt of the Big Three. 
"In addition to addressing environmental concerns, we have to balance what customers want, and many of them want S.U.V.'s," said Donald V. Esmond, group vice president and general manager of the Toyota Division in the United States. Toyota executives have said they plan to sell 300,000 hybrids a year worldwide by the middle of the decade. 
"As we introduce more and more hybrid vehicles, Toyota will continue to develop new, efficient and environmentally friendly internal combustion engines," Mr. Esmond added. 
These market dynamics help explain the regulatory knot in Washington. The current corporate average fuel economy system requires each automaker's annual fleet of passenger cars to average 27.5 miles a gallon. Light trucks, which include sport utility vehicles, pickups and minivans, are required to average 20.7 miles a gallon; the Bush administration is raising that requirement to 22.2 miles a gallon by the 2007 model year.
Detroit says the Japanese benefit from the current fuel-economy rules because companies like Nissan have until now built mostly smaller light trucks, so the average miles per gallon for their fleets isabove the required average, giving them more flexibility to further increase their advance into larger light trucks. Executives want the regulations revamped to give them more flexibility to build even more light trucks, and the Bush administration is considering such a proposal. The administration has also said it intends to improve overall fuel economy in the years beyond 2007. Environmentalists worry that the upshot will be little progress on reducing pollution or fuel consumption. 
Further complicating matters is Ford's loss of $5.5 billion over the last nine quarters. DaimlerChrysler is trying to restore Chrysler's profitability. While General Motors has been profitable, its margins are dwarfed by Honda and Toyota, and it has enormous pension and health care obligations that sap its competitiveness while providing benefits to hundreds of thousands of Americans.
Consumers favor bigger engines and vehicles than fuel efficiency, "and clearly Asian manufacturers have been on that trend line just like the domestics have," said Christopher Preuss, a spokesman for G.M., whose overall fuel economy performance is the best of the Big Three.
The company has committed itself to trying its hand at hybrids, but Mr. Preuss said that thus far "hybrids are inconsequential because their volumes do not approach a significant amount."
But for many environmental groups, Toyota and Honda are at least actively selling fuel-saving technologies, while any dialogue with Detroit has been largely abandoned. The Sierra Club, which sees G.M. and its Hummers as a hopeless case because of the company's hard-line stance on fuel regulations, was bullish on William Clay Ford Jr. 
But trust in Mr. Ford, Ford's chairman and chief executive for the last year and a half, is fading. This week, the company backed away from its commitment to raise its S.U.V. fuel economy 25 percent by 2005 and declined to specify a new timetable. Development problems have also emerged in Ford's first planned hybrid, a version of its Escape S.U.V. 
When Ford made its much publicized pledge three years ago, G.M. and Chrysler executives said they would outperform Ford but pointedly did not specify a commitment of their own. Mr. Preuss declined to comment on Ford's action, and Stuart Schorr, a Chrysler spokesman, would not address it directly. He said "we have a commitment to increase light truck fuel economy and will continue along that path." 
Environmental groups say the industry cannot be trusted to regulate itself. Despite technological advances, the rise of S.U.V.'s has pushed the fuel economy of the average new American vehicle to its lowest point in two decades, according to the most recent data from the Environmental Protection Agency.
"The Japanese automakers have better fuel economy, but it's unclear if they're going to increase the fuel economy of their overall fleets without the government stepping in," said David Friedman, a senior analyst at the Union of Concerned Scientists. 
Mr. Becker of the Sierra Club said, "Japanese manufacturers are going to force the Big Three to compete because they're increasing their market share with better technology."
"I work on global warming," he added. "I can't lose hope."

GRAPHIC: Photos: While Japanese automakers continue to introduce hybrid vehicles, like Toyota's 2004 Prius, top, they are also indicating plans to sell bigger S.U.V.'s, like Nissan's Pathfinder Armada. (Reuters); (Associated Press) Chart: "Falling Efficiency"As Japanese carmakers expand in the full-size sport utility vehicle andpickup markets, the average gas mileage of all the vehicles they sell in the United States has fallen. Graph tracks average gas mileage (per gallon of gas) for vehicles sold in U.S. from 1990-2001 for the following types of vehicles: NISSANHONDATOYOTAGENERAL MOTORSFORDDAIMLERCHRYSLER (Source: Union of Concerned Scientists)(pg. C1) Chart: "New Vehicles, Old Patterns"Of five new models Toyota has introduced since 1999, its pickups and sport utility vehicles have sold much better than its hybrid Prius, which has gotten more attention. Graph tracks sales in the United States from 1999-2003 (Jan.-March '03) for the following Toyota models: SPORT UTILITIESLexus GX470HighlanderSequoia PICKUPTundra HYBRIDPrius FUEL EFFICIENCY AND POLLUTIONGraph tracks fuel economy, miles per gallon and greenhouse gas emissions, tons per year*. *In carbon dioxide equivalents. Based on 15,000 miles a year, 45 percent highway and 55 percent city driving. (Sources: WardsAuto.com; American Honda Motor Co.; Environmental Protection Agency)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); CLIMATOLOGY (74%); PICKUP TRUCKS (74%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%) AUTOMOBILES; ELECTRIC VEHICLES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (59%); SIERRA CLUB (57%) TOYOTA MOTOR CO; FORD MOTOR CO; HONDA MOTOR CO; NISSAN MOTOR CO 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



582 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: As Industry Shifts, New Chip Seeks Footing 

BYLINE:  By JOHN MARKOFF with STEVE LOHR 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 18 

 BODY:
Intel will face its strongest challenge in more than a decade when its archrival, Advanced Micro Devices, formally unveils the Opteron 64-bit microprocessor next week.
 Opteron represents a determined attempt by Advanced Micro to undermine Intel's blueprint for dividing the computing universe into two worlds: one represented by its desktop 32-bit Pentium processors; the other by its pricier, corporation-oriented Itanium 64-bit chips. In doing so, Advanced Micro is trying to blur the line between the computing categories, positioning its new processor as a simpler transition for software designers and computer users from the standard 32-bit chip architecture to 64 bits, which shatters the limit on computing memory from 4 billion bytes to what, for all practical purposes, is an unlimited ceiling. 
 But Advanced Micro, which competes directly against Intel in both microprocessors and in the market for flash memory chips, which are widely used in consumer products like cellphones, faces a big challenge in its attempt to chip away at Intel's powerful status in the industry. Indeed, many industry executives see the Opteron processor and the Athlon 64 -- its companion desktop version to be released this fall -- as a make-or-break test for Advanced Micro as it tries to carve out a secure, profitable position within Intel's shadow. Last week, A.M.D., while surpassing Wall Street expectations and claiming to have gained market share against Intel, reported a $146 million loss for the quarter on revenue of $715 million. Advanced Micro, which is based in Sunnyvale, Calif., has reported losses in four of the last five years and badly needs to have a hit product in Opteron.
The company is hoping that it can take advantage of the industry transition from 32-bit to 64-bit computing, which will initially be driven by the need for corporations to handle vast databases. But looking forward several years, an even bigger market beckons as desktop computers are expected to support far more powerful graphical applications.
During the last three decades Silicon Valley has gone from what now seem like simple 4-bit designs to the ability to turn out incredibly complex 64-bit processors. Each generation of chips has permitted computers to make use of larger blocks of data while also allowing them to double the amount of information that can be handled with each super-fast tick of the computer clock.
Until now Intel has thoroughly dominated the desktop computing world, while companies like I.B.M., Sun Microsystems and Hewlett-Packard have sold more powerful and more expensive 64-bit computing systems to corporate computer users. Almost a decade ago Intel and Hewlett-Packard joined forces to design the 64-bit Itanium in an effort to blend the increasing computing potential of the more powerful processor with Intel's sophisticated manufacturing capabilities. Their first product was commercially introduced in 2001; it is now in its second generation.
Itanium, however, has been slow to catch on, in part because the chip's performance has been disappointing and in part because software designers and corporate customers have been slow to convert software from other hardware platforms. Moreover, the computer cognoscenti have generally been more enthusiastic about the Advanced Micro chip design, which is expected to offer roughly equal performance at a lower price.
Even more threatening to Intel, the Opteron chip promises to run existing software seamlessly, potentially allowing Advanced Micro to get in the door with corporate users by promising a smoother transition to 64-bit technology. By contrast, Itanium users have faced a penalty in using current 32-bit software, which runs more slowly in a special emulation mode.
Intel is already under the gun, industry executives said, because Microsoft has committed itself to offering its operating system for the Opteron as well as Itanium. If Intel were forced to introduce a similarly compatible processor, which is reportedly in the works at the company's research labs as an insurance policy, it would be forced to either follow Advanced Micro's standard or persuade Microsoft to invest in yet a third 64-bit operating system.
Perhaps more significant, Advanced Micro is pricing the new Opteron chips to compete against Intel's 32-bit Xeon processors, which are now widely used in the market for low-end corporate servers.
If the Opteron lives up to the earlier performance expectations and is widely adopted in corporate applications, it could badly undercut Hewlett-Packard as well as Intel, particularly because corporate spending on information technology has been cut by the recession.
"In many ways this is an excellent time to introduce the Opteron," Hector Ruiz, Advanced Micro's chief executive, said. "It will be possible to make a simpler transition because it will be possible to run the existing 32-bit software without modification."
Hewlett-Packard and Intel executives respond that Opteron faces its own challenges in the marketplace. Bringing application software to new computer designs will be more complex than A.M.D. suggests, they said.
"It is a hard, complex problem that we've been working on for a long time," said Shane V. Robison, chief strategy and technology officer for Hewlett-Packard. "The Opteron guys are going to have to go through the same thing.
"Having the microprocessor is one thing," Mr. Robison added. "Having it ready for the enterprise -- all the software, management tools and other expertise you need -- isanother."
He also asserted that Hewlett and Intel would retain a performance edge because of Intel's manufacturing advantages in building chips with even smaller design features.
Apart from manufacturing, Advanced Micro's biggest challenge is to establish support from industry leaders quickly for its new design.
"It's important for A.M.D. to build a sense of momentum for Opteron," said Jim Turley, publisher of Silicon-Insider, a computer industry newsletter in Pacific Grove, Calif.
Dell, I.B.M. and Sun Microsystems are all potential backers for the new A.M.D. processors but none have publicly announced a commitment yet. Industry executives said it was probable that at least one of the computer makers would announce its support on Tuesday in New York, when the new processor is publicly introduced.
The jockeying inside the industry has been particularly brutal, according to a number of people who have been engaged in the struggle.
"Some of our customers," Mr. Ruiz said, "have woken up to find horses' heads in their beds."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Advanced Micro Devices has great hopes for Opteron chips, like the one held by Hector Ruiz, the chief executive. (pg. C1); A.M.D. will formally introduce its 64-bit microprocessor next week. (pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROPROCESSORS (93%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (79%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); MEMORY CHIPS (76%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); MARKET SHARE (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (55%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER CHIPS 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (98%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (92%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP; ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%); AMD (NYSE) (92%); AMD (FRA) (92%); HPQ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (51%) SIC3679 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS; 

PERSON: HECTOR DE J RUIZ (73%) MARKOFF, JOHN; LOHR, STEVE; RUIZ, HECTOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



583 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: BASRA; 
Teacher, a Survivor, Fondly Recalls Life in Hussein's Iraq

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: BASRA, Iraq 

 BODY:
When the lights went out at Montgomery Malaami's house here a few years ago, he called up a fellow Baath Party member to sort it out.
 "My friend said he would call the electricity authority and if they did not arrive in five minutes, then he would have them electrocuted," he recalled, chuckling at the advantages he once enjoyed as a party member, "and three minutes later, electricians were at my house." 
 Mr. Malaami is a big man, a generous man and seemingly a gentle man. He speaks fondly of Saddam Hussein and longingly of the United States, where his wife and two sons now live. He is above all a survivor who deftly threaded his way through decades of war and privation to live comfortably and raise a family in Mr. Hussein's Iraq. 
Now he is quietly waiting for a new master to serve. "I loved Saddam Hussein, and I will love the British," Mr. Malaami said of the forces now occupying his city.
Though the Baath Party's leaders are accused of horrific acts, the secretive and brutal organization's rank and file was made up of ordinary people like Mr. Malaami who joined the party in order to get a job. Ordinary members were schoolteachers and policemen and factory managers and government clerks.
The party was founded in 1947 with a secular, socialist, antimonarchist, Arab nationalist platform, but as Mr. Hussein's control of the Iraqi branch deepened three decades ago, it was held together by fear and opportunity more than any cohesive ideology. The loyalty of its members was frail and many of them are now ready to forget the past, just as they were willing to overlook the evils of Mr. Hussein's rule.
Mr. Malaami, 52, is one of the country's small Assyrian ethnic group. He is a Christian and lives with his sister and mother in a small concrete house decorated with figurines of Jesus and Mary. A framed print of the Last Supper hangs on the living room wall.
The house sits literally in the shadow of Basra's former state security office, an imposing, gray concrete block on the other side of his garden wall. But Mr. Malaami said he knewnothing of the prison or the torture or the executions that are said to have taken place there.
"I hear a lot, but unless I see things myself I cannot tell," said Mr. Malaami, a glass of iced Pepsi in his hand.
He said the last time he saw the inside of the building was during its construction in 1980. Mr. Hussein was an occasional visitor to the building, his presence evident by the members of the presidential guard who would appear outside Mr. Malaami's door.
"You can't get any closer than this side of the wall," he said of the state security compound. "You can't even park your car near the gate."
Mr. Malaami said that he knew the people who worked in the building by their faces and that they were always friendly.
"Listen, the Baathists are very nice people, as long as you do not do anything bad to them," he said. "But if you do make a small mistake, it will never, ever be forgotten."
He said he graduated from a physical education institute and spent a year in the Iraqi Army's special forces before joining the Baath Party, a requirement for his job as a high-school gym teacher. He was called back to the army two more times in the 1980's during the eight-year war with Iran.
He said he respected the Iranians because they fought the Iraqis face to face. "You have to respect a man like that, even if he is your enemy," Mr. Malaami said. He said that if the Americans or British would fight the Iraqis like that, "they couldn't move us one centimeter," but that there was little sense in dying in what he said was clearly not a fair fight.
"What can we do against the tanks and Apaches?" he said, referring to Apache attack helicopters. "Why would I fight you when I know you will kill me?"
He was sympathetic to the Fedayeen Saddam, the paramilitaries organized by Mr. Hussein's son Uday, who were among the most effective Iraqi forces in the brief war.
"Uday's Fedayeen Saddam fought very well because they are young," he said, denying that they attacked disloyal Iraqis, as has been widely claimed. "The fedayeen don't kill ordinary people. If you do your work, then they leave you alone."
Mr. Malaami described Saddam Hussein as an almost avuncular figure for whom his grandfather once worked as a cook. He said he remembers his grandfather saying Mr. Hussein treated the people who worked for him like part of the family.
"To us, Saddam Hussein is very good," Mr. Malaami said. "He didn't do anything against our people."
He said he met Mr. Hussein once, in the 1970's, when the increasingly powerful Iraqi general visited Basra's state-sponsored Assyrian Club, a social organization. Mr. Malaami was its director.
"He had a good sense of humor," he recalled. "You feel that he's a very simple man, easy to talk to, but at the same time he gets this look in his eye when he's talking to you that is really terrifying."
Still, Mr. Malaami blames Mr. Hussein for Iraq's economic and political troubles over the last 20 years.
"I love him because he didn't hurt me, but he made some mistakes," he said. "This is an oil country and every year we have billions of dollars coming to Iraq. If he likes you, he gives you money, but if he doesn't like you, you're out of luck and that isn't right."
"He gives our money to Palestinians," he continued, "but what do we have to do with the Palestinians? What would we do with an atom bomb? Why do we kill people with chemical weapons? We want to live."
After the 1991 Persian Gulf war, his wife decided she wanted to emigrate to the United States, where she has family. He discreetly inquired about withdrawing from the party, saying he wanted to retire and visit Jordan, and, surprisingly, the party agreed. "I live here, so I have to be clever," he said with a smile, "and if I am clever, they will respect me."
From Jordan, he sent his wife and children to Yugoslavia, then to Hungary and on to Vienna, where they spent three years and four months waiting for an American visa. The family now lives in Magnolia, Calif., and he hopes to join them there soon.
Sitting in his spare living room, a bird warbling in a reed cage outside the window, Mr. Malaami described the airstrike that sliced through the state security building next door before dawn a few weeks ago.
"The house moved one meter this way and back that way," he said, pointing to the house's front wall. After the first two missiles hit, he grabbed the television set and ran to the room farthest from the target. Five more missiles struck within minutes, he said.
He is not angry about the airstrike, but is not particularly hopeful about the future either. "The Americans said they would bring Iraq food, medicine and security," he said. "So far we have heard only talk."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Montgomery Malaami, 52, with his sister in their home in Basra. (Alan Chin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (67%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (65%); ETHNIC GROUPS (50%); ETHNICITY (50%) CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%) MALAAMI, MONTGOMERY; HUSSEIN, SADDAM; SMITH, CRAIG S 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) IRAQ; BASRA (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



584 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: A Nation at War 

 BODY:
 In Iraq

THE STATE OF THE COUNTRY -- The struggle for power in postwar Iraq came sharply into focus as Shiite and Sunni Muslims united in a demonstration that railed against both the United States and Saddam Hussein, while Ahmad Chalabi, an Iraqi exile backed by the Pentagon, emerged from well-guarded seclusion in an exclusive club to meet foreign reporters and stake a claim on the future of the country. A1

A FAMILY DESTROYED -- The fate of the Kachadoorians, an Iraqi family from the southeastern edge of Baghdad, is a small footnote to the war just past. But the moment of their deaths seemed to crystallize much about the nature of this conflict, in its terror and confusion and goodness. A1

GROWING RESISTANCE -- Sayed Abbas, a Shiite Muslim preacher and self-proclaimed mayor of Kut, called for resistance against the dividers, an oblique reference to the Americans, at a large gathering in front of the city's destroyed grand mosque. B1

IRAQI PILGRIMS -- For more than three decades, the pilgrim's path was walked in secret. Once a year the Shiite faithful would try to make their way to the holy city of Karbala under threat of arrest and persecution. Now, thousands are walking freely. B1

HUSSEIN'S IRAQ -- Since Saddam Hussein's control of the Iraqi branch of the Baath Party deepened three decades ago, it has been held together by fear and opportunity more than any cohesive ideology. The loyalty of its members was frail and many of them are now ready to forget the past. B2

Borders and the Region

TURKEY AFTER THE WAR -- Turkey's military has had an expensive war. By blocking the United States from opening a second front through northern Iraq, Turkey both forfeited $5 billion in proffered American economic aid and dealt itself out of the region's decision-making. B2

A POSTWAR SUMMIT -- Foreign ministers of the six countries that share a border with Iraq met in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia for their first postwar summit, sharply criticizing the United States for its mounting pressure on Syria and urging the "occupying powers" to quickly stabilize Iraq and then withdraw from the country. B6

In Washington

LIFTING SANCTIONS -- The Bush administration is preparing a proposal to lift international sanctions on Iraq in phases, retaining United Nations supervision of the country's oil sales for now but transferring other parts of its economy to a new Iraqi authority in coming months. A1

THE HUNT CONTINUES -- A new videotape showing Saddam Hussein smiling as he was thronged by a mob of well-wishers in a Baghdad square was broadcast by an Abu Dhabi television network which said the tape was made on April 9, the day that Baghdad fell. As some intelligence officials voiced doubt about the new tape's authenticity, they said it contained valuable visual clues that might enable them to establish when and where it was made. B1

IRAQIS IN SYRIA -- The United States believes that at least seven senior Iraqi officials are now in Syria, including a figure who is No. 8 on the American wanted list, defense officials said. B6

On the Home Front

THE WOUNDED -- Many of the wounded servicemen at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland and at other hospitals have displayed self-assurance and confidence in news conferences and television appearances. But, in long conversations, many tell of hard-to-explain feelings as some of the long-term physical and emotional effects of the war become evident. A1

THE STORY OF RIAYAN TEJEDA -- The Saddam Hussein regime has fallen and hesitant postwar life has begun in Iraq. But the ripples caused by the many deaths in this brief war continue to beat against life's shores. Each life has its own story, its own supporting cast, its own community. A1

TERROR SUSPECT APOLOGIZES -- Mohamed Suleiman al Nalfi, a former Al Qaeda operative who recently pleaded guilty in New York to a conspiracy charge, has written to a judge renouncing his actions against America and saying he has been treated fairly in the court system. B6

IN DETROIT -- The judge at the trial of four men charged with being members of a terror cell criticized Attorney General John Ashcroft for praising the government's chief witness, Youssef Hmimssa, and implied that Mr. Ashcroft had violated his ban on public comments about the case. B7

REBUILDING IRAQ -- Although the Bechtel Group in San Francisco has been selected as the prime contractor for up to $680 million worth of reconstruction work in Iraq, a substantial percentage of that money will actually flow to subcontractors, which are expected to rely heavily on Iraqi workers. B8

Around the World

FORMER P.O.W.'S -- The six men and one woman freed from captivity in Iraq appeared briefly at a military hospital in Germany. Officials said they would fly to the United States soon, accompanied by a team of military psychologists and intelligence officers. B7

OVERVIEW OF THE WAR B1

POLICING BAGHDAD B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (90%); RELIGION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (78%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); TURKEY (92%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



585 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: PROTESTS; 
SUNNIS AND SHIITES UNITE TO PROTEST U.S. AND HUSSEIN

BYLINE:  By JOHN KIFNER and CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, April 18 

 BODY:
The struggle for power in postwar Iraq came sharply into focus today as Shiite and Sunni Muslims united in a demonstration that railed against both the United States and Saddam Hussein, while an Iraqi exile backed by the Pentagon emerged from well-guarded seclusion in an exclusive club to stake a claim to a role in Iraq's future.
 At overflow Friday prayer services at the huge Abu Hanafi Mosque, a Sunni religious center that opened its doors to members of the rival Shiite sect in a rare demonstration of solidarity, hostility toward the Americans and the desire for an Islamic Iraq were on display. 
 "No to sectarianism, one Islamic state," read a banner on the mosque, with the legend "No to America" emblazoned on top.
"You are the masters today," Ahmed al-Kubeisy, the prayer leader, said of the Americans as he addressed a congregation that spilled out onto the sidewalks. "But I warn you against thinking of staying. Get out before we kick you out." 
A very different tone was struck at the news conference of Ahmad Chalabi, the 58-year-old scion of a wealthy Shiite clan who returned to his native Baghdad this week for the first time in 45 years. 
Mr. Chalabi is protected by American soldiers on a mansion-lined street in Baghdad's richest neighborhood. One of his supporters, Muhammad Zobaidi, was installed as city administrator at a chaotic meeting called by American officers on Sunday. Despite this American backing, the level of their support -- or even recognition -- in a country still struggling for normalcy is unknown. 
Almost as Mr. Chalabi surfaced, Abu Dhabi television showed film of a man said to be Mr. Hussein being cheered by a crowd in a Baghdad street on April 9, the day marines pulled down a giant statue of him on Fardos Square. American intelligence officials said they had no way to tell how genuine the tape was, but the broadcast underscored the confusion that now envelops Iraq.
At the prayer meeting in central Baghdad today, a Marine foot patrol that came by, and quickly left, stirred a frisson of anger in the street. The apartment building opposite the mosque is shell-pocked and burned from American attacks. A nearby telephone exchange was flattened by American bombing, and the mosque's clock tower has a gaping hole from the war.
The prayer service ended with a demonstration filled with banners denouncing the United States and Israel.
"Muslims unite against the infidels!" one man shouted, jumping up and down in fury. "Get them out of our country."
Elsewhere in the capital, in the vast Shiite slum once known as Saddam City but now renamed Al Sadr City in honor of a Shiite cleric reportedly assassinated on Mr. Hussein's orders in 1999, more than 100 Shiite clerics met today inside a heavily guarded mosque to discuss security and aid for the more than one million Shiites in Baghdad. The gathering quickly became a power play by a radical faction that hopes to gain control over the often divided Shiites, who make up 60 percent of Iraq's population. 
At the prayer meeting in Baghdad, Sheik Kubeisy had little good to say about anyone, from Mongol conquerors in 1258 to Mr. Hussein and the looters who sacked buildings in recent days, but he reserved much of his wrath for America. "The United States is the enemy of mankind, we all know why they are here," he said, alluding to the widespread belief among Iraqis that the Americans only covet the country's oil. 
A somewhat similar economic view -- although from an entirely different poltical perspective -- was voiced this morning by Mr. Zobeidi in the third-floor suite of the Palestine Hotel, which has become the American military headquarters. In the Arab style of government, he was surrounded by rows of assistants and hangers-on, many of them ranking uniformed members of the old police and military.
"I invite all U.S. companies to come here to work in Baghdad and make business in this country," he said. "We are a rich country. Now we are considered the first country in oil."
Mr. Chalabi repeatedly declared today, in the well-worn tradition of political power brokers, that he was not a candidate for president.
"I am not a candidate for any position in the interim government," he said. "My role is to rebuild Iraq."
Although some Americans inside and outside the State Department are more skeptical of Mr. Chalabi than his backers at the Pentagon are, his appearance was counted as an important event, given his support by the only real power here, American armed might.
The marines -- who have been trying to restore electricity and other services in the city -- are planning to pull out over the weekend, officials said, leaving their role to the heavier-equipped American army.
Aside from trying to tamp down chaos, the United States military is also hunting for Mr. Hussein and his top 50 or so officials. One man on that list, Samir Abed al-Aziz al-Najim, who was a member of the governingBaath Party's regional command council, was captured in northern Iraq by Kurdish forces today and turned over to American troops.
The Associated Press reported tonight that an American official had said Imad Hussein Abdullah al-Ani, an Iraqi scientist accused of being involved in the development of VX nerve gas had turned himself in.
The Iraqi National Congress and Mr. Chalabi have been the principal beneficiary of the millions of American dollars provided by the Congressional Iraqi Freedom Act passed under the Clinton administration, and have been favored by Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and his deputy, Paul D. Wolfowitz.
Their militia -- recruited in recent months inside and outside Iraq and trained by the American military in Hungary, in northern Iraq and around the southern town of Nasiriya -- are dressed in surplus American-style desert fatigues. Someare said to have deployed with American units.
Mr. Chalabi's reputation in the region, however, is not unsullied. He is accused by the Jordanian authorities of absconding with the proceeds of Petra Bank more than a decade ago. The disappearance of hundreds of millions of dollars -- along with Mr. Chalabi himself, who Jordanians say was smuggled out of the country in a Mercedes -- wreaked havoc with the Jordanian economy, bankrupting many small investors.
A retired American lieutenant general, Jay Garner, is to be a civil administrator of Iraq, a nation of competing ethnic, religious and tribal groups drawn on a map by the European powers after the defeat of the Ottoman Empire in World War I. The provisional plan is to split Iraq into three sectors: a mostly Kurdish north, a mostly Sunni Muslim center and a mostly Shiite Muslim south, with American officials in charge.
Mr. Chalabi has set himself up in the Hunting Club, an enclave in the wealthy Mansur district, where -- in contrast to the threadbare concrete streets of most of the city -- gaudy villas lie behind walls, amid well-watered hedges and gardens.
Inside the compound, American soldiers with the shoulder patch of the Special Operations Command and older, hard-looking men in unconventional camouflage with no military insignia were visible several hours before the news conference. Before most of the reporters arrived, they had been sent out of sight. American Bradley fighting vehicles still dominated the compound.
Mr. Chalabi strode into the news conference, smiling broadly, and took up a position under a new green, yellow and blue flag. That same flag flew at his base in Nasiriya, where Mr. Chalabi and some 600 of his fighters were flown from northern Iraq this month. 
In Nasiriya, one of Mr. Chalabi's aides explained that the blue in the flag represented Iraq's mountains, the yellow its deserts and the green its famously fertile valley. Two stylized stars on the flag represent the Euphrates and Tigris Rivers. It was not the flag of a new Iraq, the aide said, merely of Mr. Chalabi's militia, the Free Iraqi Fighters.
When asked to describe the flag today, Mr. Chalabi replied: "I will not do that. I will not give significance to it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An American soldier raised the flag yesterday at a checkpoint near the National Bank in Baghdad. The military spent the day tamping down chaos and hunting for Iraq's former leaders. (Oleg Nikishin/Getty Images); Ahmad Chalabi is staking a claim to a role in the future of Iraq. (James Hill for The New York Times)(pg. B3) Chart: "Emerging Dissent"As looting and disorder diminished, a major Sunni Muslim mosque in Baghdad opened its doors to Shiite Muslims. After the service, large protests against the American presence in Baghdad developed. Official CapturedKurdish fighters hand over Samir Abed al-Aziz al-Najim, a Baath Party official and regional command chairman for the Baghdad district. Planes DiscoveredAustralian military officials say their forces discovered 51 MIG fighter jets at an air base to the west of Baghdad. Pilgrimage to KarbalaFor the first time in 26 years, Shiite Muslims from across Iraq are openly making the pilgrimage to Karbala, one of their holiest cities. Returned Exile SpeaksAhmad Chalabi, leader of the opposition Iraqi National Congress, gives a news conference in Baghdad in which he insists he is not a candidate for president. Ministry on FireThe Ministry of Information is set ablaze as disorder and looting continues, although at a slower pace. (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (94%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); ARMED FORCES (65%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (62%); RIOTS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ISLAM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%) KIFNER, JOHN; SMITH, CRAIG S; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); CHALABI, AHMAD 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (99%); VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (51%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (79%) IRAQ; BAGHDAD (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



586 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR -- AN OVERVIEW: APRIL 18, 2003; 
A Role for the U.N., or Not; the Iraqi Leaders' Whereabouts

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA 

 BODY:
The absence of widespread violence in Iraq did not necessarily reflect the presence of calm. With mounting pressure for the United States to hand over authority to Iraqis, there were complex political struggles over who the new local leaders should be. In parts of Iraq, Muslims united in opposition to the presence of American troops. The search for surviving officials of the former government intensified, and a new videotape of Saddam Hussein raised questions about his fate. 
 PHASING OUT PENALTIES -- The Bush administration proposed a step-by-step approach to lifting economic sanctions on Iraq that would maintain a supervisory role for the United Nations while beginning the transfer of parts of the economy to a new Iraqi authority. This way, rather than risk a confrontation at the United Nations over a single resolution that would lift sanctions, the United Stateswould seek three or four resolutions over several months, gradually turning over parts of the economy. The United Nations would retain supervisory control over the oil for food program, through which Iraqi oil is sold and food and medicine are bought with the proceeds. 
 The Bush administration was said to be leaning toward supporting the return of United Nations weapons inspectors to Iraq. 
IRAQI POLITICAL CHIEF -- Ahmad Chalabi, the opposition leader who re-entered Iraq with the help and support of American forces, dismissed the possibility of the United Nations' playing an important role in rebuilding the country. Speaking to international reporters at his first news conference in Baghdad, Mr. Chalabi said the United Nations' handling of the Iraq crisis was "less than stellar." He dodged questions about accusations by the government of Jordan that he took off with millions of dollars from one of the country's biggest banks. Top officials in the United States Defense Department want to see Mr. Chalabi and the Iraqi National Congress that he heads become pillars of a democracy movement. But State Department officials do not share that view, and many Iraqis are suspicious of Mr. Chalabi. At the news conference, Mr. Chalabi declared he did not intend to run for office. "My role is to rebuild Iraq," he said. 
ANOTHER VIDEOTAPE -- An Arab television network broadcast what it said was a videotape of Saddam Hussein that was made on April 9, the same day American tanks rolled into the heart of the city and a crowd pulled down a bronze statue of the Iraqi leader. Intelligence officials said they doubted that the tape was shot that day, but its release by Abu Dhabi television reignited the debate over whether Mr. Hussein was dead or alive. Analysts pored over the tape, which shows Mr. Hussein thronged by admiring Iraqis in a Baghdad square. Because it was shot outdoors, analysts thought the tape might provide visual clues establishing when and where it was made. Such clues helped American analysts conclude that a similar videotape that purportedly showed Mr. Hussein in the Mansur neighborhood on April 4 was actually made before the war. 
IRAQIS IN SYRIA -- Defense Department officials said they believed that at least seven senior Iraqi officials were hiding in Syria. They include Kamal Mustapha Abdullah al-Tikriti, secretary of the Republican Guard. The United States has asked Syria to find the Iraqis and expel them. Concerns about the presence of Iraqi fugitives has aggravated the rocky relationship between the United States and Syria, and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell plans to visit there soon for talks. 
COMMANDERS AND SOLDIERS -- As the search for high-ranking officials continued in Iraq, Kurdish soldiers captured a Baath Party regional commander who was on the American list of the most wanted Iraqi leaders. The Kurds caught the official, Samir Abed al-Aziz, in northern Iraq and handed him over to American forces. Coalition troops also began the time-consuming process of sorting through thousands of Iraqi prisoners of war. American and British forces have already released 887 Iraqis who were considered noncombatants. But nearly 7,000 prisoners continue to be held at tent camps in the southern city of Umm Qasr.
PROTEST IN BAGHDAD -- A rare gathering of Shiite and Sunni Muslims demonstrated on the streets of Baghdad, united in their opposition to the presence of American troops. "No to America," read a banner draped over the Abu Hanafi mosque during Friday prayers. Protesters opposed American involvement in Iraq, and called for the creation of an Islamic state in which religion would play a central role. 
PILGRIMS' PATH -- Thousands of Shiite Muslims from all over Iraq began a special pilgrimage that Iraq's government had banned for three decades. The pilgrims headed toward Karbala, where on Tuesday they will observe one of the holiest days of the Shiite religion, mourning the murder of Hussein, a descendant of Muhammad. The former Iraqi government had banned the march and arrested anyone caught participating. As they marched, some pilgrims condemned the United States for having failed to protect Iraqi resources. But many were thankful to have the freedom to practice their religion openly. ANTHONY DePALMA

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (74%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); FOOD CHARITIES (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (62%); RELIGION (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (96%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003 



587 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: Queen Victoria's Secret 

BYLINE:  By Margaret MacMillan; Margaret MacMillan is a professor of history and provost of Trinity College at the University of Toronto, and the author of "Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed the World."

 BODY:
 EMPIRE
The Rise and Demise of the
British World Order and the
Lessons for Global Power.
By Niall Ferguson.
Illustrated. 392 pp. New York:
Basic Books. $35.
 "WHY should Americans care about the history of the British Empire?" Niall Ferguson asks in the introduction to the American edition of "Empire." His answer is that they may have to. Can Washington continue to foster free trade, the democratic institutions it values or the rule of law indirectly? Can it rely on weak, corrupt governments to cope with terrorism? Has the time come, in other words, for the United States to take direct charge of countries like Afghanistan and Iraq? Are we looking at a new empire, this one American?
Even before the present crisis, attitudes to empire had been changing. When the European empires vanished after World War II, this was widely seen as a good thing. Empires were wrong, at best mildly comical. Who knew the names of the long-forgotten empire builders whose statues stood lonely in the parks of London or Paris or Lisbon? 
But empires -- or at least their history -- are now back in fashion. In a bookstore recently, I counted four fat histories of the British Empire, all published in the last 10 years. Their tone was generally neutral, although at times elegiac. This partly reflects the passing of time; historians can now study a major force in modern history without being obliged to take a strong position for or against. 
The notion of empire can also be useful. The historian John Lewis Gaddis, for example, argues that empire, as the power that one type of people and society exercises over other, different, ones, is crucial to analyzing the cold war and indeed the workings of international relations. He is onto something, it seems to me, if only because the convenient fiction that governs relations among states at the diplomatic level -- that they are all independent and sovereign -- is so clearly at odds with reality. The United States and minuscule Guinea both sit on the United Nations Security Council but we all know which one counts. 
In the cold war, although it somehow escaped the notice of much of the left, the Soviet Union had a very old-fashioned empire, with direct control of subject peoples. The United States had its empire as well -- the Western European countries, Israel, Canada, nations that largely but not entirely of their own volition decided to place themselves under American protection and leadership. "Empire by invitation," as one student of the period describes it. 
Niall Ferguson goes even farther. A young British historian who has made a name for himself with masterly studies of banking and finance, as well as an iconoclastic account of World War I inwhich he contended that Britain would have been much better off to have stayed out, he argues here that empires can be a positive force. They can provide the necessary framework in which good things, from globalization to uncorrupt government, happen. He has little patience with liberal guilt about imperialism or the exercise of power. The time has come, he asserts, for the United States to think seriously about swallowing its deeply ingrained distaste for colonies and take up, well, if not the white man's burden, then that of the civilized world.
His model is the British Empire. True, the slave trade was appalling, the hunting down of aborigines in Tasmania genocide. On the other hand, the British Empire spread wealth and technology. It allowed the free movement of capital and labor. Would, say, India have done as well left to its local rulers? (Ferguson does not actually tell us much about Indian society.) The British were right, he says, to abolish the burning of widows. Today we in the West would do the same with "modern equivalents" like female circumcision. 
In 1897, when the old queen Victoria celebrated her diamond jubilee, Britain controlled 444 million people living on 25 percent of the world's land surface (and it had a large informal empire in Latin America as well). What is more, Britain did it on the cheap and with a surprisingly small bureaucracy. The Indian Civil Service, the backbone of the Raj, rarely numbered more than 1,000 men. Britain spent a minimum on its armed forces, much less proportionately to G.N.P. than the United States did during the cold war and than it is starting to do again. London was banker to the world and the British held over 40 percent of all foreign-owned assets. Not even the United States today has such large foreign holdings.
"Empire" gallops briskly through the familiar story of the rise and fall of the British Empire. Since the book is a companion to a television series, the episodes that are highlighted are the ones that make for good visuals. So we have slavers in Africa, convicts in Australia, desperate slave revolts in the West Indies, the Indian mutiny, when women and children were hacked to death at Cawnpore, and the redcoats, winning in South Africa and losing in the 13 colonies. The wicked Henry Morgan rampages through the Caribbean pillaging and killing -- and ends up as Sir Henry and as acting governor of Jamaica. (The British were always pragmatic.) David Livingstone makes his extraordinary and lonely treks across Africa. There is nothing much new here.
How, Ferguson asks, did an unlikely collection of islands off the coast of Europe achieve such dominance in the world? Technology, for one thing, from innovative navigational tools to better guns to the steam engine. The profit motive. Consumers, in Britain and on the Continent, had an insatiable appetite for new products like cane sugar, tea and tobacco. Fresh institutions. After their government nearly went bankrupt in the late 17th century, the British learned from the Dutch how to use publicly managed credit. "Credit makes war, and makes peace," Daniel Defoe wrote, "raises armies, fits out navies."
Ferguson is no economic determinist, though. He believes strongly in the importance of human agency. The slave trade ended not because it became uneconomical but because significant numbers of people came to the conclusion that it was wrong. The British built their empire, at least in part, because they believed they were doing good. Joseph Chamberlain, the great radical turned imperialist, once said "You cannot have omeletswithout breaking eggs; you cannot destroy the practices of barbarism, of slavery, of superstition . . . without the use of force." (In a recent press conference President Bush announced "We're working to free the Iraqi people.")
Ferguson writes with his usual verve and takes a few swipes at sacred cows along the way. The American War of Independence was made by those who had benefited most from British rule. The United States, the heir to the British Empire in more than one sense, was fortunate, he argues, that the groundwork for its institutions was laid by Britain. And so are those parts of the world where the British implanted their culture.
Ferguson could have strengthened his own argument by paying more attention to former colonies where British institutions and values have survived. The dominions -- Canada, Australia and New Zealand -- which enjoyed a slow and peaceful evolution to full self-government, get cursory treatment, I suspect because men in top hats discussing constitutions simply do not make good television. He also gets some of the history wrong. French speakers in Canada were far from a "beleaguered minority" in the first half of the 19th century. Australia did not avoid conscription in World War I because there were enough volunteers but because it was impossible politically. 
For Ferguson, the end of the British Empire is a noble one, as the British exhausted themselves fighting the Axis powers in World War II. After 1945, the British, faced by nationalist movements and pressured by the United States, unwisely, in his view, simply gave up. The fate of many of the newly independent countries has not been happy.
His book is timely as Americans try to work out their role in the post-cold-war world. Is the United States now in the business of running other countries either for its sake or for theirs? The evidence is mixed: on the one hand the inadequate attention to Afghanistan, on the other the talk of a temporary administration in Iraq. And American opinion is divided. The left sees those usual suspects, the capitalists, at work behind the scenes. Today it's the oil companies; in the 19th century it was the bankers. Neoconservatives talk about American responsibility to remake the world. Old-fashioned conservatives like Pat Buchanan worry about the moral damage to the United States. Pessimists warn about overreach. All of this echoes the debates that the British had in their time. Ferguson's book, with its unapologetic defense of empire, should keep things stirred up.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Wesley Bedrosian) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (89%); COLD WAR (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); WORLD WAR II (68%); WORLD WAR I (68%); BOOKSTORES (58%); TERRORISM (55%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (58%)

PERSON: MACMILLAN, MARGARET; FERGUSON, NIALL 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (70%)

TITLE: EMPIRE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



588 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 3351 words

HEADLINE: The Day The Traffic Disappeared 

BYLINE:  By Randy Kennedy; Randy Kennedy, a reporter for the Metro Section of The Times, writes the Tunnel Vision column about the New York subway system.

 BODY:
When Queen Elizabeth opened the new City Hall in London last year, some observers compared the building, designed by the architect Norman Foster, to a giant eye. And that is exactly what it looks like -- a glassy postmodern eyeball on the south bank of the Thames, staring across the river at its staid Georgian and Victorian neighbors as if to say, "Welcome to the 21st century." Atop the building is a semicircular penthouse called London's Living Room, walled with windows that offer a commanding view of the city below. The idea behind this room is to offer a place for Londoners to gather, if only through the medium of a television camera, for the kinds of serious, big-family sit-downs that go along with governing a sometimes dysfunctional city of more than seven million -- a city so decentralized, in fact, that until three years ago it never had an elected mayor. 
 On an unusually bright morning earlier this year, that mayor, Ken Livingstone, strides into the room before a bank of cameras, and with an unusually pleased look on his dour face, announces a coup, one that has eluded dozens of large cities like New York, Los Angeles and Paris. He has not conquered crime or poverty, but he may very well have hobbled an urban enemy seemingly just as invincible: the car. Livingstone has just begun the world's most radical experiment in reclaiming the city from the tyranny of the automobile, a power struggle that cities have been losing in humiliating fashion for more than half a century. Since well before his election, he has been warning Londoners that far too many of them (about 250,000 a day) are trying to drive into far too small a place -- central London -- polluting the air, choking commerce, slowly strangling their own livelihood. To stop them, the mayor decided to draw a line, literally. 
 The line formed a lopsided oval around eight square miles of the historic inner city. Almost anyone who drove across the line during business hours -- in fact, almost anyone who moved or even parked a car on the street within it after Feb. 17 -- instantly owed the city of London $:5 (about $8) a day for every day it happened. If a driver failed to pay, one of more than 700 vulturelike video cameras perched throughout the zone would capture his license plate number and relay it to a computer, leading to a huge fine. And if the driver declined to pay those fines? The mayor vowed, only half-jokingly, that the city would relentlessly track his car down, clamp it, tow it away and crush it -- "with or without the driver inside." Few would be exempt, not even volunteer social workers, teachers, foreign diplomats or undercover police officers.
The idea behind his assault on automotive freedom was neither new nor very hard to understand. If a finite resource is free, human beings tend to use it all up, regardless of the consequences. If it has a cost, they tend to use it more rationally. Livingstone, a far-left Socialist, won his mayoralty largely on the promise of applying this tough-love theory to London's streets. But in the weeks just before the "congestion charge" began, it sometimes seemed that he was the only one who believed it would work. The newspapers were full of derisive nicknames for it, like "Ken-gestion" and "Carmaggedon." Samantha Bond, the actress who plays Miss Moneypenny in the most recent James Bond movies, became the sympathetic face of the opposition, presiding over a protest with hints of civil disobedience at the West End theater where -- somehow fittingly -- "Les Miserables" was being staged. Tony Blair's government, which had given London and other British cities permission to levy such traffic charges in the first place, carefully distanced itself from the plan. And the bookmaking firm William Hill, one of London's most able arbiters of public sentiment, began offering 4-to-1 odds that it would fail by the end of the year. (The odds that Livingstone would be out of office before the end of his term were put at 10 to 1.)
On this sunny Tuesday morning, however, it appears that the mayor has beaten at least the first of those odds. The number of cars entering the cordon zone the day before, the first day of the charge, dropped by about 60,000, remarkable even in the context of a school holiday. One automobile group estimated that average speeds in central London had doubled, nothing less than a miracle in the world of road policy. Livingstone, addressing his public in a droopy suit, bright blue tie and a pair of sensible thick-soled walking shoes, declares it "the best day we've had in traffic flow in living memory" and reports that he has even taken a call from the government's transport minister, John Spellar, a Labor Party archenemy who had helped to expel Livingstone from the party three years earlier when he launched his renegade mayoral bid.
Livingstone's eyes twinkle as he relates the conversation. "He said, 'Clearly the devil looks after his own,' and we had a good laugh," the mayor says.
When a reporter asks whether the mayor has truly considered the consequences of the scheme failing, especially with his re-election campaign only a year away, Livingstone's nasal Cockney voice, already as affectless as a door buzzer, drops to a full deadpan. "I never consider my own future when making political decisions," he says. He pauses for effect. "How can you be so cynical?"
As television crews troop out to the balcony to shoot the light traffic wheeling around the Tower of London, a good laugh is had all around the living room.
The exchange, however, goes straight to the heart of cities' tangled history with the automobile -- undoubtedly the most inefficient, and most aggressively defended, means ever conceived for transporting large numbers of people through crowded places. The idea of using a price tag to regulate driving into crowded places has been around for years, but its progress has been slowed by two problems, one big, the other gigantic. The first was simply technical: how would you charge for entry into entire cities or neighborhoods without putting tollbooths everywhere and causing more congestion? That obstacle has now been largely overcome with high-speed electronic tolls, sharpshooter cameras (originally developed for antiterrorism purposes in London) and even the development of satellite tracking of cars.
The gigantic problem is political. Since at least the end of World War II, the battle between cars and cities, a battle over the shape of the city itself, has been an epic mismatch. An oversimplified chronology would read something like this: the car helps to create sprawl; sprawl siphons people and political power away from the hearts of cities; the car returns to attack the city, which was never designed to accommodate so many; the city is forced to transform itself, ceding sidewalks to streets, trolley tracks to traffic lanes, parks to parking lots, whole neighborhoods to expressways.
In the United States, the critic Lewis Mumford foresaw a grim end to the whole process: "a tomb of concrete roads and ramps covering the dead corpse of a city." While the effects have not been quite that dire yet, the imbalance remains tremendous. On a purely human level, it can be witnessed any weekday in Times Square, where armies of angry pedestrians crowd around S.U.V.'s pinioned in crosswalks, the drivers inside easily outnumbered 100 to 1.
But those drivers and the people who profit from them in cities -- principally garage owners, automobile clubs and road builders -- have had tremendous political influence over the years. They have portrayed unfettered access to public tax-supported roads as something like a modern amendment to the rights of man. And while it may be in the long-term interests of drivers to pay for using some roads in order to make them passable again, to put that money into subsidizing more efficient conveyances like trains and buses, city leaders have long viewed administering that corrective as something close to electoral suicide. Even the most crusading anti-car mayors -- like John V. Lindsay in New York, who came within weeks of ordering a Midtown traffic ban in the early 1970's, and Edward I. Koch after him, who came almost as close to imposing tolls on the free East River bridges -- have ultimately backed down or lost their battles. 
Though it might seem like a relatively new phenomenon, saturation traffic has existed in many cities for decades, virtually unchanged. Depending on whom you believe, it is incredibly destructive, costing London alone over $300 million a year in lost productivity and revenue just because of congestion in the tiny central portion of the city. (One New York City study in the late 1990's found that traffic problems in Manhattan cost the city as much as $4 billion a year in lost productivity.)
With its mazelike medieval streets, London was a city plagued with congestion long before the car. In his diaries, Samuel Pepys twice recorded being stuck in 17th-century horse-and-buggy jams. When the car came along, the original notion was that such age-old transportation problems could be solved if enough new roads were built to handle cities' needs, a strategy called "predict and provide." But by the 1960's, only a half-century after the car came into common use, economists and traffic planners were starting to notice that new roads seemed only to create more traffic.
By 1977, when the British punk band the Jam recorded "London Traffic" ("No one knows the answer/No one seems to care/Take a look at our city/Take the traffic elsewhere"), the average speed of a car in central London was 12 miles an hour, or a little faster than the top running speed of a domestic pig. At the turn of the millennium, more than two decades later, many Londoners could only look back on those congested years with nostalgia. The average speed had dropped to less than nine miles per hour for the first time in modern record-keeping, meaning that car travel through Britain's capital was generally as slow as by coach a century ago.
"We're addicted, really," Bev Ramsden, a veteran taxi driver and dispatcher, told me one wet weekday morning, inching down the A4 highway through the gray margins of Hammersmith, nowhere near the most congested part of the city. "Like addicts, I think we're getting to the point where we're realizing how crazy this is. Someone's got to do something."
It will probably go down as one of the stranger chapters in the history of traffic policy that the man who finally did something is a former lefty radical (once known as Red Ken) applying conservative free-market ideas. In a way, of course, it all makes complete sense: the congestion charge is classic Robin Hood socialism, taking from the comfortable Londoner commuting by Bentley and giving to the commoner hanging from the strap of a packed double-decker bus. But don't misunderstand. While he is a crusader, Livingstone is also a famously foot-sure career politician as interested as any in re-election. Despite his quip for the television cameras, he did not launch his assault without making a lot of practical calculations about its effect on his future. That morning, in fact, waiting downstairs for him in a cavernous boardroom was a group of strategists who were highly paid to do just that. It was telling that most of these strategists were not from London at all but from a place with much worse traffic problems and a much more treacherous political climate for trying to solve them: New York City. (Average traffic speed: about seven miles per hour, no faster than a running possum.)
Only a few months after his election in the summer of 2000, Livingstone began courting Robert R. Kiley, a former C.I.A. official, business leader and transit expert, who as head of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in New York in the 1980's was credited with resurrecting the city's graffiti-scarred subway system, now considered one of the best in the world. Kiley, given the new title of London's transport commissioner, brought with him another former top New York transit official, Jay Walder, who had become an expert on road pricing at Harvard and in Singapore, where a smaller but much more costly congestion-charging system in place for more than 25 years has cut car ownership to 1 in 10 city residents.
When Kiley arrived in London, most of the attention focused on his transit credentials and how he would use them to rescue the ailing London Underground, an effort in which he and Livingstone, fighting Blair's government, have been largely unsuccessful. But Kiley told me later that he was equally interested in coming to London because of Livingstone's determination to try to right the relationship between the city and the car. If it worked, Kiley knew, it would be seen as a model around the world, and especially back in New York, where more than 250,000 vehicles crowd into the 8.5-square-mile heart of Manhattan in three hours every morning, roughly the same number that enter the eight square miles of central London over the course of an entire workday.
As the leader of a business alliance in the 1990's, Kiley advocated road pricing for Manhattan, but he received no support from Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, whose voting base in Queens and Staten Island practically lived in their cars. In many ways London was an interesting parallel, more like New York than any other American city in its atypical transportation landscape. In both cities, as packed as the roads can be, more than 80 percent of workers take some form of mass transit into the central city every weekday morning. In London, as in New York, some drivers are poor. But most tend to have money -- enough to generate political pressure to protect their choice. They are also affluent enough, Kiley points out, to be persuaded to spend a little money to save them something much more valuable: their time.
"We knew all along that the motorist advocates and writers for the newspapers and libertarians and people who are really locked into cars would be critical, but I think the majority of Londoners supported congestion-charging right up to opening day," Kiley said later in his office, with a poster of the Brooklyn Bridge behind his desk. "Would I call it a popular measure? Probably not. But I think that Londoners have long since concluded that someone had to take this dragon on."
Sitting there that day, as the dragon was being cowed on the streets below, Kiley told me that he had spoken at length about fighting it with another very important potential St. George, one in some ways a lot like Livingstone -- a political outsider who takes the subway to work, who strongly supports the idea of road pricing and who views the prerogatives of driving from a much more jaundiced 21st-century perspective. His name was Michael R. Bloomberg, and he was the mayor of New York City.
Though not mentioned in "The Power Broker," Robert A. Caro's biography of the master road builder Robert Moses, one of the more iconic clashes in the long war between the car and the city took place in New York, with Moses playing a role. He and other planners wanted to slice a highway through the middle of Washington Square Park, the heart of Greenwich Village. It is now hard to believe such a plan was ever seriously proposed, but in 1958 it came close to happening.
At the time, photographed defiantly on the City Hall steps with a giant prop key to lock traffic out of the park, a Tammany Hall leader framed a question that was only then starting to be asked in earnest. Would we, he asked, "plan and develop our cities in accordance with the needs and wishes of the people who live in them or for the convenience of the vehicles which pass through them?" The highway through the park was eventually scrapped, but in New York that question, until very recently, has been answered almost always in favor of the passing cars. From 1924 to 1965, car lanes into Manhattan grew from 68 to 120, according to one count, while the number of cars on the street went from 390,000 a day in 1946 (considered intolerable at the time) to more than a million by the end of the 1990's. And that is not because travel has been made more efficient. In fact, it has often been the opposite. In 1907, with trolleys and traffic lanes, the Brooklyn Bridge carried 426,000 people a day; now, with space only for cars, it carries far less than half that number and is often jammed. Convoys of trucks rumble down the decaying streets of Chinatown on their way to New Jersey because tolls on the Verrazano Narrows Bridge would cost them an average of $33 per trip to take the highways that are better designed for them.
Many traffic experts see Bloomberg as the last, best chance -- at least for the foreseeable future -- for anything to change. When he was campaigning, he sought the advice of car skeptics like Kiley. Samuel I. Schwartz, an engineer who worked on East River bridge tolls under both Lindsay and Koch, wrote much of Bloomberg's stridently anti-car campaign platform himself. And Schwartz, who coined the quintessential New York warning "Don't Even THINK of Parking Here," is no moderate on the issue. He advocates charging trucks $50 for using Manhattan as a pass-through and, were it technically possible, $25 a minute for people who want to cruise Fifth Avenue during the height of the holiday season. ("They want to see the Rock Center Christmas tree from their car?" he says. "If they do, they should pay for that greatprivilege.")
After his election, Bloomberg seemed to be moving in that direction. He decided, in the face of mounting attacks by powerful garage owners, to maintain most of an emergency traffic ban that Giuliani started after the Sept. 11 attacks, preventing single-occupant cars from crossing into much of Manhattan during the morning rush. He has ended the age-old tradition of free Sunday parking in many neighborhoods (including his own, the Upper East Side) and banned turns on some busy crosstown streets -- small changes but ones met with shrieks of protest. His transportation commissioner, Iris Weinshall, even went to London last summer to talk to Kiley and Livingstone about the congestion charge.
But there seems to be a growing sense that Bloomberg could end up among the near-miss mayors on any kind of serious traffic reform. In large part, this is because he has already spent a career's worth of political capital by raising property taxes to fix the city's enormous budget gap, for example, and by banning smoking in bars, a move that would probably get Livingstone sacked in London. Bloomberg and his staff are so nervous about traffic issues that they do not like to talk about them even privately anymore. One city official told me of his particular nightmare: trying to write the speech that Bloomberg would deliver when he cut the ribbons on the new Brooklyn Bridge toll plaza: "What's he going to say? 'Ladies and gentlemen, these things that've been free for decades and decades. I'm the guy who's going to make you pay for them! Thank you for your support!"' 
Kiley says he still believes that Bloomberg could sell a congestion charge, especially in a city where so many take mass transit and only half of the people living at the epicenter of the problem even own cars. "That's not a bad place to start," he says, "when you know that half the people in Manhattan are going to be with you, almost by definition."
For all the rest, he adds, "Bloomberg could use the analogy of, well, look what a difference government has actually made to the subway system. Now we've got to take the next step because we have a subway that's working better, a commuter rail system that's in good shape and lots of room on buses. We've got to really start managing road use. That could be his message."
Would the message work? New York might not be ready to hear it yet, and the messenger might be killed. But inevitably the city will have to listen, and the brave politician who forces it to come to its senses will be heralded as a visionary. "Fifth Avenue" has always had a dull ring to it. What about "Bloomberg Promenade"? 

GRAPHIC: Drawings: London; New York (Michael Witte; with apologies to Richard Scarry) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (62%); AIR POLLUTION (50%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TOLLS 

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) LONDON (ENG); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



589 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 2306 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 4-20-03: ENCOUNTER; 
Spooky

BYLINE:  By Matt Bai; Matt Bai is a contributing writer for the magazine. He last wrote about Lincoln Chafee.

 BODY:
'The war is going to start at 8 tonight," George Friedman told me on the phone. His voice, over the hum of his rental car, was hushed and urgent; I thought maybe he was being tailed. B-52's from Britain were already in the air and would be "in country" soon, he told me. President Bush had already decided to address the nation at 9. 
 On the eve of war, I had arranged to meet Friedman in Melbourne, Fla., where he was headed for a family bar mitzvah. Friedman is the founder, chairman and "chief intelligence officer" of Stratfor (short for "Strategic Forecasting"), a private intelligence company based in Austin, Tex. Stratfor is an upstart in this little-known industry. While more established firms discreetly sell their expertise on world events to large corporations, Stratfor operates a more populist service, a Web site for subscribers, for whom it claims to do "predictive, insightful global intelligence." In other words, for a fee, George Friedman will tell you what happens next. 
 Since I arrived at my hotel before Friedman, I turned on the TV in my room and flipped the channels. No one was expecting the war to begin immediately. The White House hadn't asked the networks for TV time. Some correspondents, not to mention Peter Jennings, were heading home. Friedman, ensconced in his climate-controlled sedan on I-95, was claiming to know something the best reporters in Washington didn't. 
When 9 p.m. came and went without any new developments, Friedman was troubled. I found him in his new command post at the Hilton, a mauve-and-green room overlooking the ocean with a bedside desk and a high-speed modem. He was pacing, in a T-shirt and shorts, studying maps of U.S. troop deployments and ordering up situation reports from his analysts in Austin. At 54, Friedman is a bearded, owlish figure, with small, alert eyes and a slightly hunched gait. "I need caffeine," he told his wife, Meredith, who is also his public relations director."I need sugar. I need beef."
He turned to me. "Understand that you're now in a superheated atmosphere," he said. "There are all kinds of rumors floating around. And one of the players is deliberately feeding us lies." I nodded. I wondered whether I was safe.
Then, suddenly, Meredith's cellphone rang. "Triple A going crazy over Baghdad!" she called out. ("Triple A," or AAA, I learned, is what the pros call anti-aircraft artillery.) Friedman grabbed the phone. "Repeat," he commanded. He listened, then informed me that the war had begun.
I asked how he knew that, since it still wasn't on TV. "I can't tell you where that came from," he replied.
Within minutes, the White House announced that U.S. forces had indeed launched cruise missiles into Baghdad, and by 10:15, Bush himself was speaking from the Oval Office. It was an impressive moment for Friedman, and I told him so. But his relief at being proved right was already starting to fade as he plunged back into his maps and fired off a new round of e-mail.
"We were told he would speak at 9, and for some reason it was delayed an hour," he said. "The question is: why?"
His clients would want to know the answer; indeed, their lives might depend on it. And yet Friedman's clients weren't on the battlefield. They are the financial traders and investors who get advice from Stratfor's Web site or from Friedman himself. In the global economy, unrest and uncertainty cloud the market like an Arabian sandstorm, and the Wall Street guys desperately want to know: Will oil be up or down? Is the E.U. a friend or an enemy? 
"We're a place you can go," Friedman told me, "to get the mysteries answered."
The strangest thing about George Friedman -- and this is by no means an easy call to make -- is that he wouldn't know Wall Street from Little Italy. He doesn't even own stock, and he never had any aspiration to make money off the financial world. For Friedman, it's always been about war and spooks. Growing up in the Bronx, he watched his father, who served with his fellow Hungarians on the Russian front, follow the progress of Soviet troops into Hungary. Later, after earning a doctorate from Cornell in political theory, Friedman worked on some of the earliest computer war games for the Pentagon. His ambition was to create his very own military-intelligence service -- a kind of C.I.A. for the masses.
During his 20 years as a college professor, Friedman lectured at military policy centers and wrote impossibly dry books with titles like "The Future of War." He was running a center on geopolitical studies at Louisiana State University in the mid-1990's when his research on ethnic enclaves took him to Eastern Europe.
"We went to Slovakia, and we were meeting with Hungarian dissidents," he recalled. "One of them slides into a booth across from me and says, 'I think I'm being followed.' This is wonderful! It's like a 1930's movie."
Friedman had a revelation: like so much else in the Internet age, intelligence was about to undergo a revolution. Foreign newspapers, once available only to the C.I.A. at great expense, were now online for free. The business of recruiting informants, once the exclusive purview of governments, could now be reinvented by a professor and a bunch of students eating pizza in a computer lab.
He set up Stratfor in 1996 and began sending out his free daily briefing on world events to contacts in national defense and business, who then sent it on to others. He predicted that the surging Asian economy would collapse by the end of 1997, while the American economy would reach unprecedented heights. These weren't exactly Nostradamus-type predictions, but Friedman found a modest following nonetheless.
Eventually, Friedman hired a former Russian colonel, who goes only by the name Victor, as his director of intelligence. Victor won't say exactly what he did in the old days, but let's put it this way: he knows 10 languages and spent a fair amount of time operating in countries like Iraq, Iran and Afghanistan. You figure it out.
Between them, Friedman and Victor say they've amassed hundreds of contacts around the world who now feed them tips or, in some cases, trade what they know for information about another country. Some of Stratfor's 150,000 Web subscribers -- who include devotees in the military, foreign governments and Fortune 500 companies -- have become informants as well. "I'll give you a range," Friedman said. "A senior commander, the head of one of the services of a NATO member, communicates with us continually. Down at the other end, I just got an e-mail from somebody at Fort Hood who's an enlisted man. And they are everywhere in between. A great deal of the information they give me is dubious, O.K.? But a lot of it is valuable."
These sources correspond with Friedman and Victor by e-mail or cellphone at all hours of the day. This business of private-sector spying seems remarkably similar to the daily activities of your average 16-year-old: it entails a lot of sitting around with a computer, instant-messaging everyone you know.
On the morning after the opening strike of the war, I was sitting with Friedman in his hotel room when we were interrupted by Meredith. "Apaches," she said.
Friedman snapped upright. "The Apaches are moving?" He had expected bombing first; now the ground forces were mobilizing. He returned his wire-frame glasses to his nose and swiveled his chair back toward the computer in a single motion.
"O.K. - right now, it gets really, really interesting," he told me, reaching for the phone. "You don't know how badly this violates all the doctrines of joint operations we've been taught in the last 10 years."
Soon a midlevel officer in the Air Force was e-mailing Friedman. "Is this starting to make sense to you now?" the officer asked, almost tauntingly. "You had most of it laid out in your diary" -- a daily feature on the Web site -- "but the timing is/has been difficult to project, even from where I was/is. I'm available tonight if you have questions." 
Friedman smiled. "I wrote a piece saying this war would be different from every other war, because it was dynamic and would not have a fixed plan," he told me. "But it's really strange sitting here watching it happen."
I watched as Friedman discussed these unfolding events with his analysts in Austin before deciding what interpretation to post on the Stratfor site. The company has about 20 full-time analysts, and the internal debate over their divergent theories -- Friedman calls it a seance -- can sometimes veer into the surreal, if not the delusional.
Several days later, for instance, as it became apparent to Friedman that the military was facing a troop shortage, he and his chief analyst, Matt Baker, studied a wall-size map of the region. Baker offered the possibility that U.S. forces might allow the Turks to invade from the north and slaughter the Kurds if that would enable the Americans to get to Baghdad quicker. Friedman pondered this as if it now fell to him to make a difficult battlefield decision. "I can live with that deal," he said. "Can you?"
In the years after the tech boom collapsed, a few unforeseen calamities befell Wall Street. First there was the attack on the World Trade towers and the following war on terrorism. All at once, a new era of geopolitical turmoil burst upon the street, as investors worried that uncontrollable events might lead to soaring oil prices or failing airlines. Then the Henry Blodgets of the world fell into disgrace, along with the brokerage firms that created them. These crises created a vacuum of credible advice. 
The natural beneficiaries of this misfortune have been the handful of firms who use inside information to analyze global events for investors. One outfit, Medley Global Advisors -- founded by Richard Medley, a former Yale professor and Congressional economist -- advises clients on geopolitical risks, ranging from war in Iraq to the spreading virus SARS. Another, Eurasia Group, puts out an index with Lehman Brothers that measures the financial and political stability of emerging markets.
These larger, high-end companies look down on Stratfor, which has four Web sites -- including one for the energy industry and one specifically for the Iraq war -- with sharp graphics, a pop-up window and various price packages, starting as low as $49.95 for six months. They see it as the Drudge Report of global analysis, a tip sheet posing as serious forecasting. There's some basis for this charge; Stratfor has a habit of throwing a lot of unconfirmed rumors onto its Web site. And yet there is a kind of genius in Stratfor's approach. The markets now are increasingly dominated by jumpy day traders and short-term bettors -- the perfect audience for Stratfor's rapid-fire postings. A trader who sees a bit of good news on the Stratfor site should be able to buy stock before the mini-rally and sell it later in the day for a tidy profit.
In at least one instance leading up to the war, for example, Stratfor moved the financial markets all by itself when it reported that a Russian envoy was en route to Baghdad to negotiate peace with the Iraqis. That sent the Dow into a spasm of momentary optimism. 
Day traders aren't the only ones who have taken note. In recent weeks, Salomon Smith Barney organized calls with Friedman for fund managers and clients. Immediately after the U.S. invasion, Friedman began holding early-morning conference calls, six days a week, with hundreds of traders at Wall Street's biggest firms. Access to one of these calls costs $100, but if you just can't get enough of Friedman's wisdom, you can get a package of 30 calls for just $1,800. 
There is a temptation, when you are around George Friedman, to treat him like a Magic 8 Ball. Does North Korea really have the bomb? No. Will America's feud with France deepen? Yes. Will Bush win re-election? Ask again later.
As Baghdad's statues of Saddam toppled on cable TV, Friedman predicted there was little chance that the United States would ever bring Saddam into custody. "I'm not sure we really want to capture Saddam," he told me. "If we capture him, we can't just shoot him down."
I asked about the reconstruction.
"I think Iraq will have a formally independent government that will be in perpetual gridlock and chaos," he said. "And essentially, there will be a U.S. military administration utilizing NGO's that can do a lot of the heavy lifting in the country."
"And will there still be U.S. troops there in a year?"
"Oh, absolutely," he said. "The whole reason for the war is to get American troops into the region to put pressure on other governments. This is going to be the main American military base in the region."
The next confrontation, he told me, will most likely be with Iran, although Syria and Pakistan are serious trouble spots as well. The markets will be upended by turmoil in two oil-producing countries that no one is paying much attention to: Nigeria and Indonesia.
Not all of this -- maybe none of it, for that matter -- will come to pass. This doesn't really concern Friedman. "If you're right 99 percent of the time, you're not making really interesting calls," he likes to say. Either way, George Friedman is living his dream. It's the colorful battlefield maps and secret informants -- not the direction of the Dow -- that drive him to do what he does. For Wall Street, predicting geopolitics is a business. For Friedman, it's the ultimate war game, and he's getting paid to play.
"Your 15 minutes are here, Friedman," he muttered to himself as we drove in his Lexus from San Antonio to Austin. Meredith asked him what he meant by that.
"I'm just saying," he said. "All your life you know useless and obscure things. And suddenly. . . ." His voiced trailed off thoughtfully. "It is a fairly strange experience."
He stared out the window. There are some mysteries for which even George Friedman has no answer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MODEMS (65%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (87%) TEXAS, USA (87%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



590 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 4-20-03; 
Viral Terrors

BYLINE:  By Abraham Verghese; Abraham Verghese is the director of the Center for Medical Humanities and Ethics at the University of Texas Health Sciences Center, San Antonio.

 BODY:
Severe acute respiratory syndrome has infected nearly 3,000 people in 18 countries, and 111 people have died from it at the time of this writing. Public awareness of SARS has spread almost as fast as the disease. And fear and a search for scapegoats has come with it. My nephew in Singapore tells me that taxi drivers avoid picking up or dropping off people near hospitals. Because nurses were among the first to fall sick in Singapore, a dentist reportedly refused to see a nurse waiting in his office. Along with the isolation of those who are ill, countries have to make a decision about whether to quarantine people who are not ill but who might have been exposed. 
 "Quarantine" is a loaded word with metaphorical implications that many of us in America have fortunately forgotten. As the medical historian Howard Markel has noted, it derives from the Italian words quarantina and quaranta giorni, referring to the 40 days ships suspected of carrying plague were made to wait in the port of Venice before discharging their cargo. In America, the Federal Quarantine Legislation was passed in 1878, prompted by outbreaks of yellow fever. The power of quarantine was used vigorously, cruelly and arbitrarily during the New York City epidemics of typhus and cholera in 1892. (About 1,150 healthy people, mostly Russian Jews, were quarantined on North Brother Island, for example.) Fear of catching disease from immigrants (as well as fears of losing scarce jobs to them) caused citizens to rally against immigrants and immigration. Indeed, it is not far-fetched to think of race-based immigration bans as the ultimate form of quarantine. 
 In America, as of April 11, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended isolation for those who are ill with SARS but not quarantine; that idea does not sit well with our country's values. Given the lightninglike spread of SARS within a hospital, and given the way SARS has caused deaths in physicians and nurses caring for patients, I think we will regret our unwillingness to quarantine those who have been exposed. Singapore's authoritarian government had no such qualms. Cosmopolitan Hong Kong, on the other hand, a more enlightened, democratic society, did not quarantine at first. SARS spread more rapidly in Hong Kong.
As I make my hospital rounds with my team of medical students, residents and interns, I am reminded of the now well-described outbreak of SARS in a Hong Kong hospital. A patient was admitted for what looked like garden-variety pneumonia, the sort seen every day in large city hospitals. But then the staff treating the patient began to fall ill, as did others in close proximity. Eventually, 138 other people in that hospital caught the pneumonia from the patient, including 20 doctors, 34 nurses, 15 related health-care workers and 16 medical students. I have tried to imagine how the hospital must have been transformed, with health-care workers lying beside former patients, and it seems inevitable that an American hospital will soon face this problem on this scale. Were I to examine a patient and then decide he almost certainly had SARS -- we badly need an early, definitive diagnostic test -- I would not feel comfortable going home and possibly exposing my family to infection. The short history of SARS tells us that health-care workers seem to amplify this illness. I would rather stay in the hospital. The logistics of keeping a health-care team confined at work for 10 days or more is nightmarish. But the way the illness has cut down families, the heartbreaking stories of young doctors and nurses dying, then their loved ones dying, is a worse nightmare. It would justify this self-imposed draconian measure.
We are privileged to live in a free society where we have privacy (but not anonymity) and freedom to travel. But SARS may change that; highly contagious diseases pit individual rights against the public-health imperative. Historically, as with diseases like tuberculosis, public welfare wins out: you may believe your TB is your business, but a court order can nonetheless hospitalize you and force you to stop spreading the infection and to take conventional drugs. With SARS, already we are being warned against going to Hong Kong, China, Singapore and Vietnam. SARS comes at a time when we are also under a high-level terror alert, which is further inhibiting travel. Indeed, there are strong parallels between our response to terrorism and our response to a new contagion: both are characterized by anti-immigrant sentiment, the curtailing of certain freedoms in travel, the registering and tracking of the movements of foreigners.
Recently, we in America have sensed our right to privacy eroding, along with our rights to due process. The justification that such loss of liberty directly improves homeland security is not readily apparent, and it seems quite self-serving. But the virus that causes SARS has no political agenda, no jingoist banner to wave, and it has not read John Stuart Mill's "On Liberty." The virus is democratic to its core, affecting rich and poor, doctor and patient, crossing borders with impunity and thus freezing commerce, threatening a global recession. The temporary loss of liberty that might come with quarantine for SARS, while painful, is a pill that I would find easier to swallow. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Justin Guariglia; Contact Press Images) Chart: "LOCKDOWN BACK IN THE DAY""It is true that the locking up the doors of people's houses, and setting a watchman there night and day to prevent their stirring out or any coming to them . . . looked very hard and cruel; and many people perished in these miserable confinements which, 'tis reasonable to believe, would not have been distempered if they had had liberty, though the plague was in the house; at which the people were very clamorous and uneasy at first, and several violences were committed and injuries offered to the men who were set to watch the houses so shut up. . . . But it was a public good that justified the private mischief, and there was no obtaining the least mitigation by any application to magistrates or government at that time, at least not that I heard of. This put the people upon all manner of stratagem in order, if possible, to get out." From "A Journal of the Plague Year" (1722), by Daniel Defoe

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SARS (91%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); DEATHS (89%); PNEUMONIA (89%); IMMIGRATION (86%); ISOLATION & QUARANTINE (79%); TROPICAL DISEASES (78%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (78%); EPIDEMICS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); HEALTH CARE (71%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (69%); HISTORY (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%) SARS (SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME); QUARANTINE 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%) CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION 

PERSON: VERGHESE, ABRAHAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) SINGAPORE (94%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) HONG KONG

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



591 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: Hitting The Road, At Home 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN CATTO; SUSAN CATTO contributes to The Times from Toronto.

 BODY:
THE admission turnstiles are still spinning at America's top tourist destinations despite the war in Iraq and the level-orange security alert in the United States. 
 While the war has had an immediate and devastating effect on the domestic airline industry, many tourists are seeing the sights by car, part of a trend toward regional, drive-in vacations that has been shaping the industry for the past 18 months. According to the Travel Industry Association of America, car-based trips increased by 3 percent in 2002 over 2001, and travel within a region (a traveler's own census region) rose by 4 percent in the same period. 
 In a recent Internet-based survey of 1,200 respondents from March 20 to 25 conducted for the association, 12 percent said the war and the state of the economy had made them more interested in taking an auto or R.V. vacation; 12 percent said they had become more interested in traveling within their state.
For many of the country's major tourist attractions, increased car travel is one of the few bright aspects in a market affected by war, terrorism concerns and economic uncertainty. 
The situation at Seattle's Space Needle is typical of many national attractions. "We're seeing a lot of families with kids traveling," said Dean Nelson, president and chief executive of the Space Needle Corporation, noting that most come from neighboring states and Canada. "This is the time of year when we are affected more by regional travel than we are by destination travel, just by virtue of the kind of location we are." 
Attendance is down only slightly compared with last year, said Mr. Nelson, adding "but of course, last year was nothing to write home about." He said that last month, visits represented "probably about an 8 percent decline compared to March 2002, though Easter was that month so it's not an exact comparison." In terms of pre-Sept. 11 figures? "I'd have to say that we're off 10 to 12 percent compared to peak years," he said, "which is a big number in this business because, as you know, your costs are fixed." 
The Mall of America, in Bloomington, Minn., has also seen a steady influx of tourists, who typically make up 40 percent of the mall's 35 million annual visitors. "The first weeks of the war our traffic was very good," said Monica Davis, a spokeswoman. Spring break helped, but so did the fact that the national basketball and hockey tournaments, held in nearby Minneapolis-St. Paul's, happened to include teams from nearby Kentucky and Wisconsin. 
"We reap a lot of benefits when people are coming in from out of state for these tournaments," said Ms. Davis. "The stars and the moon have been aligning for us a little bit." 
Good timing has been matched by good marketing. When the number of foreign tourists -- estimated at 6 percent before Sept. 11, 2001 -- began to drop last year, the mall extended its advertising campaigns to reach an 11-state region and parts of Canada; the mall is pinning its hopes for summer on that market.
Graceland, in Memphis, has also seen more drive-in traffic. "It's almost like replacement visitorship: what we're losing in terms of people coming halfway around the world to visit, we're gaining in a five-, six-, seven-, eight-state area," said Jack Soden, chief executive of Elvis Presley Enterprises. With about 600,000 visitors a year, numbers are up about 5 percent over the past 12 months, but, Mr. Soden points out, they're still about 10 percent below 1999 figures. "We're even with last year, but the little asterisk in the footnotes is that last year was really lousy too," he said.
If the war continues, business could soften, he added, but Graceland's location may stand it in good stead: "I suppose there's a greater inherent sense of security out here in the heartland than in the more high-visibility tourism markets." 
However, in Washington, D.C., the hotel occupancy rate for the week ended March 29 was a bit higher than it was for the month of March 2002, at 79 percent compared with 77 percent. Tourism officials attribute the strong numbers to family leisure travel. "Luckily we're in the center of a gigantic drive market," said Bill Hanbury, president of the Washington, D.C. Convention and Tourism Corporation.
New York City has not fared as well, with first-quarter occupancy rates falling from 70 percent in 2002 to 67 percent this year, well below the 2000 occupancy rate of 79 percent. 
"I can't say with any authority that it's all war-related," said Cristyne L. Nicholas, president of NYC & Company, the city's tourism office. Contributing to the decline, she said, were a nationwide drop in international visitors, a faltering economy and "the self-inflicted wound" of the Broadway musicians' strike in March. 
In both cities there is an increased police presence near many major attractions, but most have not changed their security procedures in recent months, largely because they never relaxed the more stringent measures adopted after the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center. 
In Washington, the Bureau of Engraving and Printing stops giving tours during orange alerts, and public tours of the Capitol buildings were suspended on March 21, though prearranged group tours are still available. The White House executive residence has been closed to tourists (except, at times, for prearranged group tours) since Sept. 11, 2001, as has the Statue of Liberty (though tourists can still visit Ellis Island). 
The Empire State Building has seen a drop of about 15 percent compared with last March, though in an e-mailed statement, Howard Rubenstein, a spokesman, wrote, "this is most likely due to the fact that Easter fell during late March last year, whereas Easter isn't until mid-April this year." Bad weather and poor visibility have also affected the number of visits at the Empire State Building, and similar conditions in Chicago may be responsible for a slight decline in visits to the Skydeck at the Sears Tower.
While a spokeswoman for Walt Disney World in Orlando says the park has not seen a significant decline in attendance since the war began, Thomas Staggs, Disney's chief financial officer, told shareholders at a March 19 meeting that "the pace of advance reservations at Walt Disney World is down versus 2002." However, bookings are up at the Disneyland resort in California, continuing a 2002 trend.
According to the industry journal Amusement Business, visits in 2002 to the Magic Kingdom in Florida declined by an estimated 5 percent compared with 2001, while visits to Disneyland were up 5 percent. 
The Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Fla., reports that orange alerts have made a bad situation worse. "Our trouble really started here after the first orange alert at the beginning of February," said Dan LeBlanc, chief operating officer of Delaware North Parks Services of Spaceport, which operates the space center for NASA. While the number of visitors this January was 23 percent higher than in 2002, February attendance dropped to 2 percent below the same period last year. March figures plummeted 22 percent -- though this also reflects the fact that Easter, a busy travel time, occurred in March last year.
Fear of terrorism may be keeping some visitors away from major sites; other travelers may simply be staying home because of possible delays at airports and borders. 
Half the visitors to Casino Niagara, on the Canadian side of Niagara Falls, typically come from the United States, but Steve Wolstenholme, the assistant general manager, said the number drops with each orange alert. 
"Certainly the perception is that if a terror alert goes from yellow to orange, there will be long lineups at the border," Mr. Wolstenholme said, adding that border delays are rare for noncommercial traffic.
The boost provided by spring-break traffic may prove fleeting, and if the hostilities continue for weeks or months, the situation for major tourist destinations could worsen. Yet some in the industry remain cautiously optimistic.
Jim Yeager, a spokesman for Universal Parks and Resorts, noted that business at Universal Studios resorts is holding steady in both Florida and California. "You have the classic refrain which covers our business," he said. "It's entertainment, and in terms of the mood of the country, historically people are looking for diversions." 
"This is a trying time for those of us who are in the travel business, there's no two ways about it," said Mr. Nelson at the Space Needle. Yet he hopes the worst times are over. "I've become a little anesthetized to this whole thing," he said, "and I'm suspecting that it wouldn't take much good news to get things going again."

GRAPHIC: Photos: You can see the Statue of Liberty, but only from a distance.; The Seattle skyline from the Space Needle's observation deck.; The West Front of the Capitol.; Graceland, home of Elvis Presley, in Memphis. (Photographs for The New York Times by Philip Greenberg Statue of Liberty and Rollin Riggs Graceland , Doug Mills/The New York Times Capitol ); (Ron Wurzer for The New York Times)(pg. 5); The Lincoln Memorial, with an officer on guard. (Associated Press) (pg.12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); TOURISM (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); AIRLINES (73%); TERRORISM (71%); CENSUS (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (62%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (60%); BASKETBALL (60%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%)

PERSON: RONALD L NELSON (69%) CATTO, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%) NEW YORK CITY; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



592 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1980 words

HEADLINE: Barn Praising 

BYLINE:  By VIVIAN S. TOY 

 BODY:
HALLOCK TUTHILL, a retired farmer in Cutchogue, talks about his barn as though it were a living, breathing thing.
 Gazing up at the neatly spaced rafters, he runs his hands gently over the uneven surfaces of the hand-hewn support beams and says, "She's a beauty, isn't she?" 
 The barn dates to the early 1700's, and as Mr. Tuthill walks through and describes the different sections of the barn, the history of the huge structure and the land it sits on comes to life.
Here, in the three bays of the original barn, Mr. Tuthill imagines an 18th-century farmer with maybe one cow and one horse, someone who was living off the land. Then big changes came in the early 1900's, when a wing was added and the barn more than doubled in size to accommodate what had become a thriving potato farm that produced food for tables throughout Long Island and New York City. 
By the time Mr. Tuthill bought the farm in 1941, modern equipment made the barn's grain room and horse stalls obsolete, so he used the barn instead as a chicken coop. Mr. Tuthill, 86, grew potatoes and raised chickens here until the late 1960's, when he sold most of the farmland.
But he kept the barn.
He uses it mostly for storage now, gardening equipment and an enormous pile of items collected for his church's spring yard sale. He still marvels at the soaring open framework, the carved wooden pegs and the precise mortise-and-tenon joinery that holds it all together. "Everything's just as tight as they could possibly fit," he said. "It's great carpenter work."
Mary Ann Spencer, a historic preservationist from East Setauket, came upon Mr. Tuthill and his barn last year as she conducted the first comprehensive inventory of barns on Long Island's North Fork. She sees the barn as "a quintessential Long Island barn because of its evolution through agricultural uses, its many additions and modifications."
Ms. Spencer said she decided to count and photograph every barn on the North Fork, because of the barn's place in Long Island's cultural history. Suffolk County's efforts to preserve farmland have focused attention on the diminishing rural lifestyle that once dominated the island. The barn, Ms. Spencer figured, is an often ignored icon in the rural landscape that deserved some attention. 
"Suffolk County will become Nassau County unless farmland preservation is successful, and barns are what identify farmland for us," she said. "Plus, I just think barns are intrinsically interesting because of their simplicity, their scale, the connection between form and function."
Ms. Spencer started her survey about a year and a half ago, using a grant she received through the Old House Society in Cutchogue, a local preservation group. She has yet to finish her final report, but her preliminary figures show 652 barns and 69 carriage houses. She estimates that about 40 percent of those buildings were built before 1950. She also found that 280 of the barns, or 43 percent, are still in agricultural use.
"I didn't anticipate the number would be that high," she said. "It tells you that agriculture on the North Fork is alive and well, and it's just wonderful to see how many of these buildings have been stabilized and maintained, how they've been loved."
Robert B. McKay, director of the Society for the Preservation of Long Island Antiquities, said Ms. Spencer's work is both timely and interesting. "Barns remain very much part of the story out there on the East End," he said. "Yet they are the most ephemeral of buildings, because once there's no pressing use for them, they disappear from the landscape."
Farming in Suffolk County has changed significantly in the last 50 years. The number of acres being farmed has dropped from 123,000 in 1950 to only about 31,000. But even though Suffolk County's farm acreage ranks among the lowest in New York State, it ranks first in market value, selling more than $168 million a year in agricultural products.
"It's a small portion of Suffolk County's total economy," said Pearl Kamer, the chief economist of the Long Island Association, the area's largest business group. "But it's a major share of New York's agricultural economy as a whole. And Suffolk County is obviously one of the most significant agricultural counties in the state."
Joseph Gergela, executive director of the Long Island Farm Bureau, said that to survive, "our guys have gone towards higher value agriculture to get a better return per acre." Only about half the farm acreage in Suffolk County is still in traditional vegetable and potato farming, he said, with the rest in vineyards and horticultural products like sod and ornamental flowers. "People like to say it's still rural out there, but it's really farming in and for suburbia," he said.
Despite these major shifts in the industry, there is still a need for barns, he said, noting that greenhouse farmers use barns for storing bulbs and equipment and vineyard owners will use them for winemaking and wine tasting.
At the Castello di Borghese Vineyard in Cutchogue, which is formerly the Hargrave vineyard, a converted 1949 potato barn is used as an art gallery and tasting room, where operas and receptions are held. Like many of the potato barns of that era, the lower walls are made of cinderblocks with stuccoed buttresses in the ground. The walls were so heavily reinforced because conventional barn walls would collapse from the weight of potatoes stacked inside and pushing out.
Ann Marie Borghese, who owns the vineyard with her husband, Marco, said she loved the sense of history at the vineyard, which celebrates its 30th anniversary this year and is widely recognized as Long Island's first.
On the back of the property sit several farm buildings, including a chicken coop, a stable and a barn that dates to 1850. That barn is now used for winemaking, bottling and labeling. In a nice coincidence, the barn also has an underground Prohibition room that was concealed beneath a tiny trap door. The room has a number of arched caves set into the walls that Ms. Borghese believes must have been used to hide liquor during the Prohibition. "It was uncovered during an earlier renovation," she said. "But the entry is so tiny, they must have had to send a child down to get anything out of there."
Finds like the Prohibition room help illustrate the versatility of barns, Ms. Spencer said. The room could have been part of a traditional root cellar that was hidden away when circumstances made it more useful as a secret room. Ms. Spencer said she found many barns that had been adapted for changing times on the North Fork.
The Conway farm in Southold, for example, has a small 19th-century barn that was originally used to board horses, but was modified when tractors replaced real horsepower. The barn was raised from its brick foundation, cinderblocks were laid on top of the bricks to add height and the wall planks had new planks attached at the bottom to double the barn's height. "That's why you see that line running across the middle of the barn," said Joe Conway, 64, a retired Southold police officer whose family rents its land to local farmers. "They raised it so machines could fit in there, but it all predates me."
Michael A. Tomlan, a founder of the New York State Barn Coalition, a preservation group, said barns like the Conway barn are proof that "the first places where the industrial revolution was made manifest was on the farm, not in the factory." Mr. Tomlan is also director of the graduate program in historic preservation at Cornell University; he helped start the coalition eight years ago to study and help preserve barns across the state. The group also helps publicize a 1996 law that gives tax credits to farmers and other business owners who rehabilitate historic barns.
Mr. Tomlan said people have a hard time understanding the importance of barns and agrarian life today because only 1.5 percent of the nation is involved directly in agriculture. "Barns are really rather sophisticated vehicles," he said. "They're not simply boxes that have been discarded on the landscape."
The coalition holds a conference each year, and this fall will come out to tour the North Fork. Coalition members are familiar with rural landscapes throughout the state, but the North Fork will provide one that is unique in many ways, particularly since it goes back to the 1700's, Mr. Tomlan said. "There are very few places in the state that have that continuous history of agricultural use," he said. 
Like many rural areas in the northeast, the traditional barn out here is the three-bay, English-style hay barn, a structure with vertical wood planks on the exterior, and with doors in the center of both broad walls so wagons could pull in, unload their loads and then drive straight out again. In a local adaptation, many of the barns are built into a hillside to give the structures a lower level with a side entrance, in addition to the ground level and hayloft.
Unlike other rural areas, the North Fork has virtually no silos because there were few dairy farms and, thus, no need to store large quantities of grain to feed cattle. But there are plenty of potato barns. In addition to potato barns with buttressed walls like the one at the Borghese vineyard, there are many barns set into the ground, with just the pitched roof and ventilation stacks visible above ground. Burying the walls below grade allows the surrounding dirt to act as a natural buttress for the walls.
The Wickham family farm in Cutchogue, which has been owned by Wickhams since the early 1700's and is now rented out as the David Steele Farm, has a little bit of all these things. The oldest barn there was built in the 1700's and some of the hand-hewn beams were so roughly finished that they still look like tree trunks. It's mostly used for storage now, including an old family buckboard and yokes for oxen. Nearby there is a 19th-century barn with a root cellar built into the ground that now holds farm equipment and a 20th-century potato barn that is still in use.
Virtually all the work buildings on the Wickham farm have always been painted -- what else -- bright barn red. "I guess that's just the way we've always thought it should be," said Gail Wickham, whose grandfather was the last Wickham to actively farm the land. Her father managed the property until he died last year. "My father was extremely proud of his farm and he took good care of all the buildings," she said.
Ms. Spencer said a farmer's pride in his work buildings was obvious everywhere she went. She said that after word got out about her inventory, several farmers who were out when she counted their barns would call her up and say, "Come on by again, I want to show you my barn."
Daniel Latham is the fourth generation in his family to work the Latham Farm out on Orient Point, and he gets sentimental about the main barn, which was built in 1840. The barn is 50 feet wide and about 120 feet deep. "It was a pretty large barn for that time," Mr. Latham said, adding that his great-grandfather had three pairs of horses, allowing him to rest a pair at all times.
"The new barns, you get more square footage and they're functional," he said, pointing dismissively to one of his modern metal barns. "But I like the old barns. This was put together with pegs, and it was built to last."
Mr. Gergela, from the Long Island Farm Bureau, said farmers spend a good deal of time in their barns, especially in the winter months, to work on equipment and prepare for the next season. "People have real offices now," he said. "But the barn's where you really operate your business out of; it's the informal office, the shop for doing things."
Mr. Gergela grew up on a potato farm in Jamesport, and he remembers the main barn being the center of his universe. "I can't really describe it," he said. "But there's a connection between farmers and their buildings. It's just the way it is."

GRAPHIC: Photos: BARNS NOW HOLD MEMORIES: At the Wickham Farm in Cutchogue, at far right, a barn wears a traditional color, and at top, a potato barn; the Tuthill Farm in Cutchogue, right; and the Conway Farm in Southold. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Ann Marie Borghese, co-owner of the Castello di Borghese Vineyard, loves the sense of history the old barns give to her operation. She has a potato barn that serves as an art galley, tasting room and reception area.; The Latham Farm in Orient Point, above and right, has been in Danny Latham's family four generations. Hallock Tuthill's barn, top, dates from the 1700's. He says it makes history come to life. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); HISTORY (76%); MAMMALS (74%); POULTRY (73%); POTATO FARMING (58%) AGRICULTURE; BARNS 

PERSON: SPENCER, MARY ANN; TOY, VIVIAN S 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) LONG ISLAND (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



593 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: OPINION; 
When Imagination Took Flight

BYLINE:  By ED SMITS; Ed Smiths is chief executive officer of the Cradle of Aviation museum.

 BODY:
THE paradox is stunning.
 Against a backdrop of high-tech 21st-century aircraft overwhelming Iraqi air defenses, leaving Baghdad open to ground assault, the supersonic, Mach 2-plus Concorde is being retired. To add to the irony, the decision to ground this pioneering passenger plane comes during the centennial of aviation when we are pausing to look back at just how far we have come in 100 years and where we should be going. 
 Long Island has been connected to the Concorde since its first flight to the New World in November of 1977. With Kennedy International Airport its destination, the aircraft continues to slow traffic every time its dramatic delta wing and drooped nose swoops over the Island on its way to landing. Its initial arrival, however, sparked a typical Long Island response to virtually anything new -- not in my back yard. . Or more accurately, "not at my airport." At the time, a handful of Nassau County politicians sought to galvanize opposition to the Concorde on environmental grounds. It came to naught and the Concorde was Long Island bound. 
What is ultimately grounding our supersonic trans-Atlantic visitor is economics. Built far too small for genuine cost effective service, it was reserved for the wealthy or those on generous expense accounts. Throughout the plane's operational life, the cost of a ticket never dropped below $9,000. A far larger and much more economical version built by Boeing never got beyond a wooden mockup. Congress wasn't prepared to pay the price for development at a time when the Vietnam War was consuming our society. So the Concorde became the solo state-of-the-art example of commercial passenger flight at its zenith, arriving on Long Island with all the majesty of an ocean liner during the Golden Era of steamships.
In the beginning, no one thought Concorde would be the end of the line of supersonic transportation. Planners thought nearby Kennedy would be a host to a family of SST's by the 21st century, putting travelers scant hours from anywhere on the globe. But as the Columbia shuttle tragedy proved, and the fuel tank fire that claimed an earlier Concorde, technology ages out with dangerous results. Bits of rudder continue to shed from Concordes on a regular basis, and upgrades were putting the SST operators deeper in debt at a time when airline revenue is declining. 
The retirement of the Concorde and the Columbia catastrophe remain in stark technological contrast to the prowess of American military technology exhibited in Iraq. We have used our extraordinary skill in technology development to reinvent warfare. Never before in the history of mankind has such care been exercised to avoid the deaths of noncombatants through the use of precise munitions. Stealth aircraft, remote-controlled aircraft and a squadron of other aviation advances will punctuate the history of this conflict and set new future standards. 
As we observe the centennial milestone of the Wrights' first flight, is this the sole direction of our advances in aviation? Do we as a nation no longer have any interest in creating advances in commercial aviation, pioneering space flight and lunar exploration? Do the Concorde and the shuttle reflect the high-water mark of aviation's peaceful application? Are these amazing vehicles to be left to museums as symbols not of what we can achieve but of where humanity decided to stop? 
The Cradle of Aviation has in its collection a half-scale model of the Concorde. It was taken down from its perch as an advertisement at Times Square and donated to the institution by British Airways. Our intent is to erect it as an icon inspiring a new generation of Long Island aviation pioneers to move beyond the limits of Concorde. Long Island manufacturers and others throughout the country have made possible the X-43, NASA's experimental hypersonic scramjet that will reach any place on earth in two hours. For the sake of our society's future we must use our skills, intellect, energy and treasure to continue aerospace discovery and produce an aircraft that will not only break the sound barrier but make the world a true global village. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (73%); VIETNAM WAR (64%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; CONCORDE AIRPLANE 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: SMITS, ED 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (79%) LONG ISLAND (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



594 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: MONEY & MEDICINE; 
StressIs Up. So Why Are Mental Health Benefits Down?

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE ANDREWS; Michelle Andrews is a freelance writer in Manhattan specializing in health care. Her column on its economics appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: moneymeds@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
FEELING anxious or depressed? The continuing uncertainties of war, terrorism and the weak economy have left many people longing for stability and looking for ways to cope. But just when some people could arguably gain the most by spending a little time on a therapist's couch, their mental health benefits are at risk.
 In a survey this month by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press in Washington, about a third of the people questioned said they felt depressed by the war with Iraq. Russ Newman, executive director for professional practice at the American Psychological Association, said the war was affecting the vast majority of the group's patients, based on a survey conducted last month, but that it was "just the latest stressor." 
 "Over the years, the stress people feel just continues to increase," he said.
The share of employers offering mental health benefits, however, dropped to 76 percent last year from 84 percent in 1998, according to the 2002 benefits survey of the Society for Human Resource Management. Because health care costs are estimated to rise 15 percent this year, "employers are looking for areas where they can cut costs," said Jennifer Schramm, manager of workplace trends and forecasting for the human resources group, "and mental health is one of the areas that's easier to cut."
"People are less likely to protest because of the stigma around it," she added.
Even if they don't cut benefits outright, some employers are increasing co-payments and deductibles, said Patrick Leary, a group health care consultant at Watson Wyatt Worldwide, a human resources consulting firm based in Washington. Others are reducing out-of-network coverage, he said. That is significant because many psychologists and specialists do not participate in large health care networks.
By reducing mental health coverage, employers may be hurting themselves. In a study released in February by Mercer Human Resource Consulting and Marsh Inc., an insurance broker, 70 percent of 723 employers reported that stress or depression had increased in cost or frequency as a disability condition during 2001. That was a higher figure than for any other health problem, including cancer, lower-back pain or repetitive trauma like carpal tunnel syndrome. "Many industries have been cutting back on staff because of the economy, but the work still has to be done," said George Faulkner, a principal at Mercer. "That exacerbates the stress."
In 1996, Congress took the first step toward elevating mental health coverage to a par with medical and surgical care. It passed legislation that prevented private plans from setting lower annual or lifetime caps for mental health care than for other types of coverage. But that law allowed companies to require much higher deductibles and co-payments for mental health treatment than for other kinds of care.
A bill introduced this past winter in the House and the Senate would close those loopholes. But it's no panacea; like the original bill, it would apply only to employers who already offer mental health coverage, and then only to those with 50 or more employees. There has also been talk of restricting the disorders covered by the bill -- excluding, for example, post-traumatic stress syndrome, anorexia and autism. 
OF course, the bill could backfire, even with the restrictions. "I've certainly heard of employers who've said they'd drop their mental health coverage if the legislation goes through," said Ruth Donahue, a health care consultant in the Chicago office of the Segal Company, a benefits consulting firm based in New York.
Noting that employers found ways to circumvent the original 1996 legislation by requiring higher co-payments and deductibles, Ms. Donahue said, "if they put real teeth into this new parity legislation, it will be interesting to see what kind of creative ways employers find to get around it again."
And for an already anxious public, that may be just one more thing to worry about.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TRENDS (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (89%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (87%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (86%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); DEPRESSION (78%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); TERRORISM (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (70%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (65%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE; PSYCHOLOGY AND HUMAN BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: TOWERS WATSON & CO (90%); MARSH INC (84%); MERCER INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION (57%); SOCIETY FOR HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT (55%)

TICKER: TW (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



595 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1994 words

HEADLINE: For Charities, the Taxman Cometh 

BYLINE:  By GARY SANTANIELLO 

 BODY:
AS the state cuts back on the amount of money it passes to cities and towns and their budgets get tighter, several municipalities are going where few tax collectors have gone before. They are sending property tax bills to nonprofit organizations.
 Encouraged by a State Supreme Court ruling in December that allowed Bridgeport to tax a homeless shelter, some communities have already begun rejecting the tax-exempt status of similar groups and others are looking into doing the same thing. 
 New Haven is taxing an organization that provides emergency and transitional shelter for women and children, Hartford is taxing an organization that runs a halfway house, a substance abuse rehabilitation center is being taxed in Windham and Bridgeport has sent tax bills to several nonprofits. Stamford is asking organizations such as the YMCA, Jewish Community Center, the Italian Center, Saint Luke's Community Services and Stamford Hospital to justify their current exempt status. 
"It's a sign of how desperate cities are for tax money, especially in light of the cutbacks in state aid to cities and towns," said Kevin Maloney, spokesman for the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities, an association of cities and towns.
The groups, shocked by the new strategy, said the taxes will not only cut into the services they offer, but also possibly force them to close altogether. That, the groups said, would put the burden of providing services back onto communities that don't have the money.
"How pathetic this makes us look to the rest of the country," said State Senator Bill Finch, a Democrat whose district includes Bridgeport and Trumbull. "The most affluent state in the country, and we're forcing municipalities to tax homeless people."
Verenda Smith, a government affairs associate at the Federation of Tax Administrators in Washington, said the economic climate was forcing municipalities to find new revenue.
"Such activities are unique to each state and locality, and how laws are interpreted also is going to be unique," she said. "Where you might see a trend emerging is in administrators combing through statutes and as diligently as they humanly can making sure that every tax that ought to be collected, is collected.
"What this issue boils down to is what legislators and governments think public policy ought to be in this area, whether the public benefit these nonprofits provide outweighs the costs to the public."
The Bridgeport Rescue Mission, the subject of the Supreme Court ruling, is facing a $300,000 tax bill. The mission, founded in 1993, is a nonprofit organization that provides shelter for the homeless, operates a substance abuse recovery program and serves roughly 110,000 meals a year. In 1996 the mission took over the Fanny Crosby Memorial Home in Bridgeport, which provided housing for the elderly.
The Fanny Crosby property was treated as tax-exempt by Bridgeport from 1927 until 1996, when a new tax assessor, Pam Davis, began looking more closely at the tax-exempt status of nonprofits that provided housing. "She was very aggressive in her approach," said John Fabrizi, the mayor of Bridgeport.
In 1996, the city put the property on its grand list, citing the state statute that disallows tax-exempt status for properties used for housing. Bridgeport Superior Court upheld the city's position that the low-and moderate-income housing provided by the mission was not a "charitable purpose" because the group received rent from some of the tenants.
The mission appealed to the State Supreme Court, where it was represented pro bono by David Lehn of Kleban & Samor of Southport. The court unanimously upheld the trial court's decision on Dec. 31, basing its ruling on a strict interpretation of General Statute 12-81(7), which defines tax-exempt properties, and a 2001 case that found an organization must be "exclusively charitable" to be tax-exempt.
By this time, the mission's tax liability had grown to $300,000, nearly half its annual operating budget.
"We don't have any resources," said the Rev. Terry Wilcox, its executive director. "We have no endowment or reserve fund. We're thrilled when we finish a fiscal year in the black. Last year was an especially good year -- we finished with $8,000 in our checking account."
Mr. Wilcox said a settlement in the $30,000 range had been discussed with city officials, "but then we'd have to go out and raise $30,000, and it's not easy to raise money to pay your taxes. Hopefully, we can find some way to keep operating."
Although the Bridgeport mission's tax bill has received the most headlines, "it's not just a Bridgeport issue anymore," said Dr. Rudy Feudo, executive director of the Greater Bridgeport Adolescent Pregnancy Program, a maternity home for pregnant and parenting teens that pays $8,000 in taxes to the city. "It's a statewide issue."
Encouraged by Bridgeport's success levying taxes against the mission and similar nonprofits, Connecticut municipalities are applying 12-81(7) more aggressively. Windham, for example, is taxing Perception Programs, a counseling center for substance abusers. The group is appealing its $35,000 tax bill.
"We're like those cities, but on a much smaller scale," said Mike Paulhus, first selectman of Windham, home to a number of nonprofit agencies serving northeastern Connecticut. "We're in the same boat, looking for the same money."
Maurice Segall, deputy director of the Pro Bono Partnership, a tax-exempt legal resource center for nonprofit organizations and lawyers, said the interpretation of the state statute on nonprofits shouldn't come from the towns.
"The bottom line is that application shouldn't be contingent upon a person in a government agency's reading of the statute," he said. 
Mr. Segall said the scope of the statute was limited.
"It was meant to stop for-profit developers of affordable housing from being tax-exempt," he said. "It didn't have as broad a reach as it's being given now."
Whatever the intent, the reach is extending. In New Haven, a half-dozen nonprofit agencies are challenging these tax-collection efforts. One of them, ALSO-Cornerstone, which provides prevention, treatment, recovery and supportive housing services for people with mental illness and substance abuse problems, successfully fought a tax bill three years ago, and now is trying to reach accommodation with the city on a $25,000 tax bill.
"We're taking people who literally are homeless off the Green and providing them housing, and now the city wants to tax our housing," said Jerry Ross, the executive director.
Mr. Ross said he was working with other nonprofits to preserve their tax-exempt status and change the legislation. Similar efforts are under way in Bridgeport, although some nonprofits have made accommodations with the city.
Bethel Recovery Center, a shelter in Bridgeport for abused women and children who are homeless, initially tried to fight a $25,000 tax bill, then reluctantly agreed to pay the city $7,000 a year in taxes.
"It's settled, so at least we can breathe and know they can't take this place away," said Janice Kelly, the executive director. "I was losing all of my funding. I was writing for grants all the time, but with these funders, their bylaws state that if a nonprofit has any kind of legal problem with a municipality, they can't give them money. I said to myself, 'I've got to get rid of this problem."'
Another nonprofit group, Isaiah 61:1 of Bridgeport, decided to fight its tax bill and won.
"If we weren't blessed with an attorney that went to bat for us, we would've done the same thing as Bethel Recovery Center," said Ed Davies, executive director of Isaiah 61:1, a halfway house for people completing prison sentences. "We would've paid more in legal fees than in tax bills."
Represented by Mr. Segall, the group won its case in Superior Court, before the same judge who ruled against the Bridgeport mission. Bridgeport has appealed the decision to the Supreme Court. "If the city wins, we're looking at $12,000 to $15,00 a year that's not in our budget right now," Mr. Davies said.
To clarify this issue, State Senator John McKinney, a Democrat from Fairfield, reintroduced a bill in January through the Finance, Revenue and Bonding Committee to amend 12-81(7) so that transitional housing facilities such as homeless shelters and substance-abuse centers are exempt from local property taxes.
Passage of such a bill would help organizations, but it would deprive municipalities of tax revenue at a time of decreasing state aid. The consequences in Bridgeport, said Ted Gwartney , the tax assessor, would be that "many new properties would qualify for tax exemption -- a substantial number."
That would further constrain tax-burdened cities like Bridgeport and New Haven, which claim they already are shouldering a disproportionate load by being a haven for nonprofits that are zoned out of surrounding communities.
"Senator McKinney's heart is in the right place," said State Representative James Holloway, a Democrat from Bridgeport, "but there's no transitional housing in Fairfield or Darien. Bridgeport is fighting this thing by itself. We're a magnet for every social service that's out there."
"The current tax system is unfair, but on my best day I couldn't vote for that bill," said Senator Finch, a former Bridgeport city councilor. "There's a feeling within certain cities in Connecticut that they do more than their fair share for social services, and they're the ones least able to afford it."
"Socially, we need these nonprofit organizations, no question about it," said Russell Liskov, the associate city attorney of Bridgeport. "But don't shove everyone into one narrow area and say 'sink or swim' and you, the poor, have to foot the bill. The burden has to be spread among communities. If it falls on one city, that city needs to get money to pay for it." 
The most likely source of that money would be from the state, but considering its monumental budget problems, that's unlikely. "In this economic climate, I don't know how that bill could pass," Mr. Segall said.
That leaves nonprofits fearful of new tax liabilities.
"Unfortunately, towns and municipalities are starting to look at nonprofits as their private piggy bank," Ron Cretaro, executive director of the Connecticut Association of Nonprofits, which represents more than 500 charitable organizations. "We've seen this issue pop up a lot, though it's not yet as prevalent as it could be."
One unanswered question raises is whether municipalities will end up spending more in services provided than they are gaining in taxes. "If these nonprofits aren't able to function, ultimately it will cost cities and towns more money," said Mr. Cretaro.
Mr. Wilcox of the Bridgeport Rescue Mission agreed: "Any money the city takes for taxes is money that won't go to feed and clothe and house poor, hungry people, and meet basic human needs. I empathize with the city's plight. I'm a homeowner in Bridgeport. But we're not costing the city money; we're saving the city money."
Further, the nonprofits argue, the tax money going to city can't possibly be spent as efficiently as they can spend it.
"Nonprofits don't have that bureaucracy, and their administrative costs are very low," Dr. Feudo said. "Plus, they can act immediately to try to resolve some of these issues."
Some municipalities, though, see the issue in terms of fairness.
"I view it strictly as a matter of equity and responsibility," said Bill O'Brien, the tax assessor of New Haven. "It's not fair to have the rest of the residents carry the burden of exempt properties that are not eligible to be exempt."
Jorge Perez, a New Haven city councilor, said the two sides were just going to have to come to an agreement on the issue.
"Government officials have to use their common sense dealing with these organizations when they're not trying to defraud and cheat," he said. "You have to make accommodations. The public good is not served by putting these organizations out of business."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The nonprofit Bridgeport Rescue Mission, top, is struggling to meet its tax bill. The mission provides shelter and meals, above left. The Rev. Terry Wilcox, above right center, is the mission's executive director. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Rev. Terry Wilcox of the Bridgeport Rescue Mission said he was trying to work out a deal with the city to erase a $300,000 tax liability. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); TAX ASSESSORS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); WOMEN'S SHELTERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); JEWS & JUDAISM (54%) TAXATION; NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 

PERSON: SANTANIELLO, GARY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



596 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3102 words

HEADLINE: Office Data: Many Players, Fuzzy Numbers 

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
LIKE so many other significant developments in the New York real estate business, this one was triggered by a proposed rent increase. 
 During the inflationary years of the 1970's landlords were trying to pass on rising costs to tenants, each in proportion to the amount of space they occupied, recalled Robert F. R. Ballard, an executive vice president of Cushman & Wakefield, the brokerage and services company. 
 The problem was that few agreed on what percentage of the total rent increase should be assigned to each tenant, because there was no accepted compilation of building sizes and layouts.
So Mr. Ballard and some assistants set about collecting information on every major building in Manhattan that was not completely owner occupied, and they published the Directory of Manhattan Office Buildings in 1978. The book, which was priced at a whopping $79.50, contained pictures, layout plans and floor sizes for each of the 500 buildings listed, along with their ages and heights and the names of the owner, architect and principal tenants. 
The book was the predecessor of the computerized databases that now provide up-to-date information for landlords, tenants, brokers and investors. Several ambitious efforts in the field did not survive the implosion of the dot-com companies, but others have become well established.
The larger national players, as well as some specialized companies that focus on investors, are increasingly adding analytic capabilities to their services, so users can probe the databases in search of economic opportunity. The addition of analytical tools is a conscious emulation of what the Bloomberg terminals did in disseminating financial information for the markets for bonds and other debt securities. Other smaller players have sought out niche markets, such as supplying listings for economic development agencies or for print publications' Web sites that carry the brand of the host organization. 
"A lot has happened over the last two years," said Andrew C. Florance, president of CoStar Group, one of the most prominent of the real estate information services. "Our long-term goal was not to be a listings service, but to try to quantify what is happening in commercial real estate markets." Traditionally, he said, real estate has been a localized business with information on market conditions and transactions often hard to find.
Based in suburban Washington, CoStar says it is attempting to supply data on more aspects of the real estate market by adding, among other things, information on building sales and prices to data on vacancy rates, direct and sublet spaces and asking rents. The company collects its data at 34 offices in the United States and Britain and has about 875 employees.
Mr. Florance said CoStar, which has acquired 14 data reporting companies over the last few years, is attempting to impose order on the chaotic industry by setting standards for how information is collected and reported. This is a new development for an industry where each brokerage company has had its own standards for what types of buildings to monitor and how to present data.
In New York, where the number of buildings changes only slowly over time, each of the large brokerage firms reports different figures for vacancy rates and average asking rentals. For example, the current office vacancy rate in Manhattan varies from 10.39 percent to 14.6 percent, according to various reports, while the average asking rent has been reported at anywhere from $32.37 a square foot annually to $43.39 a square foot. The disparities can be caused by things as simple as the failure of building managers to return telephone calls from researchers seeking information on leasing, industry executives say, or disagreements as to what buildings are grouped in Class A, Class B and Class C.
Other differences are caused by varying definitions. Some firms will track only buildings over a certain size; others include smaller properties. Submarket definitions vary as well. "Midtown South" is in the eye of the beholder, and brokerage companies tend to hold on to old definitions to keep their statistics comparable over time.
Having accurate information about the state of the market is important for those making investment decisions, particularly about starting new construction, Mr. Florance said. He said it is generally agreed that when the vacancy rate in an office market reaches 15 percent, starting new buildings is unwise.
The vacancy rate hit that level in 1990 in the Washington area, he said, but no one could be sure at the time "because the reported vacancy rate was 8 to 23 percent." The result, he added, "was massive overbuilding." 
He said that because many large brokerage companies use CoStar data to establish base lines, while doing specialized research on their own, the variations among reports is less than in the past. "They are within a few points of each other these days," he said. 
But some research executives say that it takes too long for CoStar to collect and publish data for the information to be completely useful to brokers trying to make deals and that the company's data does not go into enough detail. Other researchers say the economic interests of companies that market services to landlords and tenants alike tend to use data collection methods that have an influence on the final results.
No company can buy all the information it needs about real estate on open markets, said Maria Sicola, the senior managing director for research for Cushman & Wakefield, which downsized its research department in 2000 during the dot-com boom.
"We were swept up in the e-commerce notion that information was going to become a commodity available to anybody," she said. "In about two months we realized that was not going to be the case." 
By then, however, the company had laid off about 30 of the approximately 100 people on its research staff and sold its current database at the time to RELocate, a successful leasing research company that focused on the New York market.
The database was used to create RealtyIQ.com, which tried to compete with CoStar, but collapsed when revenues did not come close to meeting the debt incurred in setting up a national system. It was one of several ambitious reporting projects that failed or never got started after investors soured on the profit potential of Web-based services.
Bruce Z. Weissberg, who ran RELocate for about 10 years before selling to the investors backing the RealtyIQ venture, said a service like CoStar's has become essential, particularly for smaller brokerage companies that cannot afford research staffs. But he said it is hard for users to know how accurate and timely the information is. "CoStar said it calls properties on a monthly basis, which is actually hard to do," he said. "In any case, the information is 30 days old. When we had a different database, brokers bought both."
Mr. Weissberg said he is currently associated with D. G. Hart, a Manhattan brokerage, and is managing a redevelopment project in Chicago.
Ms. Sicola said Cushman & Wakefield had retained its historical database after the sale and a research staff of about 70 people, and rebuilt its research capability based on information not available from public sources. "We have 800 brokers and 100 appraisers, and they are constantly meeting with owners, building agents and tenants," she said.
"They add information to the database about who has space that may not be on the market yet and tenants who may need space," she said. "For example, we know there is as much as 8 million square feet of shadow space out there -- that is, space that is not on the market but could be. We know where that space is, but it is not reported by any service."
ACCOUNTING rules and practices have recently been changed with the intent of limiting the reporting of losses that cannot be accurately measured, but these changes are not likely to force this shadow space into the open, according to Gregory A. Tosko, an executive managing director in Insignia/ESG's consulting operation.
Existing rules force publicly owned companies to take losses against current earnings when they sign subleases at rents less than they are paying the landlord. But companies are not allowed to take charges for unused shadow space as a means of improving future earnings reports, Mr. Tosko said.
Still, investors would be wise to keep an eye on companies that keep piling sublet space on the market, Mr. Florance observed. "Often," he said, "a big sublet is a flag signaling that a company is in big trouble." 
Joseph R. Harbert, the chief operating officer of Insignia/ESG's metropolitan New York region, said he buys basic information from CoStar, but also relies on his company's brokers to get closer to the current market. "We think of brokers as the best single source of information, so we do broker-centric information gathering," he said. While listing services can provide asking rents for properties, brokers who are shaping the deals are in the best position to know what the actual taking rent was that resulted from negotiations.
Mr. Harbert said that while CoStar's reporting system, which includes 550 researchers making telephone calls backed up by a people in a fleet of vehicles making on-site inquiries, has improved over the years, information from brokers doing deals will almost always be closer to the market. "We think we have an edge of two to four weeks in time, and greater accuracy," he said.
Building managers have a greater incentive to give full information to a broker than to a researcher, because the broker may bring a tenant to the property, Mr. Harbert said. Nevertheless, he noted that his company had a 15-member research staff to fill in information gaps left by the brokers. 
Brokers active in a market are more sensitive to changes in building classifications, said Matthew Barlow, an executive managing director of Julien J. Studley, a brokerage that has traditionally represented tenants. Buildings in New York are generally grouped in three grades: Class A, for the newest and best equipped; Class B, for older properties in less choice locations; and Class C, for the least desirable space.
"Of 1,100 buildings listed by a third-party data service, we had different classifications on 300, which can significantly alter the statistics," he said, adding that Studley brokers had a meeting last month during which the classification of 35 buildings was changed. The criterion? "If 55 out of 60 brokers say a building is Class B, then it is a B building," he said.
Brokerage companies that represent landlords and property managers have an incentive to describe the market as more robust than it may actually be, said M. Myers Mermel, the chief executive of TenantWise.com, a Web-based service that combines listings with brokerage activities.
"They have a conflict because they represent landlords as well as tenants," he said, an argument echoed by other tenant brokers and firmly rejected by their competitors who represent interests on both sides of the space leasing process. 
Mr. Ballard, who prepared the book that was the precursor of the databases now available for New York, said his original objective was to settle disputes over rent escalations. "The landlords wanted escalations and the tenants were supposed to pay their proportionate share of the increase," he said. "The landlords' accountants sent out bills with the increases each year, but the bigger tenants didn't buy that. At the time, in many cases neither the landlord or the agent knew how many total square feet were in a building, so it was hard to peg the correct percentage for each tenant."
With the blessings of his superiors at Cushman & Wakefield, Mr. Ballard approached the publisher McGraw-Hill with his proposal. It was accepted, and the publisher assigned an editor and an assistant to help gather data.
The project entailed long hours at the city's Department of Buildings, going over floor plans and recording when buildings opened and who designed them. The legwork also included visiting buildings, dealing with often-uncooperative landlords and literally measuring the floors.
This was still the age of paper, so each building had its own folder containing plans, photographs and clippings from industry publications. Some notable properties, like the Chrysler Building, required more than one folder, Mr. Ballard said.
In all, it took about 3,000 hours of work over two years to complete the project. Cushman & Wakefield's research department was a result of the book, he said. "It happened slowly, starting with one person," he said. "But the company wanted to be known as a real estate services company that really knew the market, so it grew over a 20-year period to what it is today."
Mr. Ballard recalled that he had had no interest in updating the book as information changed and new buildings were added. "I was worn out," he said.
One company that did was Yale Robbins Inc., whose magazine-style Office Buildings publications largely followed Mr. Ballard's format. "Bob Ballard did the first book, and he did a great job as a one-man show," said Henry Robbins, executive vice president of the company. "We wanted to do a joint venture with Bob, but I guess Cushman & Wakefield did not want him to do it."
THE Robbins company has since added Web-based information to its printed publications, with a listing service called MrOfficeSpace.com. Unlike most data services, which charge users for information, MrOfficeSpace.com offers its information free, while charging listers for displaying enhancements beyond basic data.
Robbins has also developed a business of hosting the office space listings for publications like Crain's New York Business and business groups like the Alliance for Downtown New York. Another smaller player, Cityfeet.com, has developed a niche hosting space listings for the Web sites of newspapers, including nytimes.com.
Two years after the dot-com related shakeout, the real estate information services appear to be financially stable, if not hugely profitable. CoStar, which is publicly traded, has reported that it is profitable as measured by earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, an accounting standard preferred by real estate companies. It has not yet reported a profit according to the more demanding standards used by most major corporations.
Others report they are cash flow positive, meaning they have more money coming in than going out, although not profitable in a fully accounted sense. Many other listings services exist, including the San Francisco-based LoopNet.com, which claims to have the largest number of listings and users.
The Ballard and Robbins publications and their electronic descendants have largely been marketed to brokers and renters and users of office and retail space.
Meanwhile, other electronic information services have been developed that are aimed primarily at real estate investors. Once again, the model is the Bloomberg service, which combined data on securities trading with automated analytic capability so that prospective investments could be quickly ranked against one another.
One of the leading players in this sector is Reis Inc., a New York based company that sells Web-based reports on the financial condition of various markets around the country and of individual properties and the terms of sales transactions.
Lloyd Lynford, the president of Reis, said he started publishing paper reports on real estate markets in 1980 but has migrated to a Web-based system as the technology has evolved. "The last year and a half has been a time of evolution," he said. "Despite the crash and burn of the dot-coms, Web-based delivery ofinformation on commercial real estate to lenders and investors has grown in response to evolving markets."
He said real estate investment managers need timely and accurate information because they compete for capital with managers who invest in stocks and bonds, where access to information is almost instantaneous. "We need a Bloomberg for real estate," Mr. Lynford said.
He said the company focuses on 50 major real estate markets in the United States and collects its basic data quarterly, but is emphasizing adding tools so that its 9,000 desktop users can quickly analyze their portfolios or prospective purchases in response to changes in market conditions. "Real estate is valued as an income stream, so you want to be able to figure the impact of a change in interest rates," he said.
The Reis database includes information on some individual properties as well as general market conditions and includes likely financial outlooks for them. For example the database includes estimates that the 2.5-million-square-foot former Port Authority warehouse at 111 Eighth Avenue, between 15th and 16th Streets, which is now mostly an office building, will have a net cash flow of $57.9 million this year. This is expected, the database says, to rise to $58.6 million by the end of next year and $59 million by 2005.
Mr. Lynford admits that the figures, which seem amazingly precise, are based on a standard set of assumptions, which can be changed and the results automatically recalculated. Indeed, a page is attached to the financial display giving a user a long list of variables to be changed if the user thinks his own estimates are closer to reality.
The largest category of customers for Reis services is lending institutions, because most real estate transactions are financed with far more debt than equity, Mr. Lynford said. Using the system, a loan officer can enter the loan terms and derive an estimate of a property's worth and estimate the likelihood of a default by the owner.
These estimates will become increasingly important as lenders have to conform to new international standards for holding financial reserves against potential losses. In general, the higher these reserves, the lower a lender's profitability.
"What is the probability of default? Is it 2 percent or is it 8 percent? Bankers need to know the answer," Mr. Lynford said.
Although automated information systems are improving, Robert M. White, president of Real Capital Analytics, which sells information services to investors, said his group collects its own data on $8 billion of sales in progress. "We maintain a proprietary database because there are no standards out there," Mr. White said. "What is a community shopping center? No one agrees. 
"We do sales comparables, including who the players were in a deal, how much was paid and the other details," he said. "There was no other data available, so we had to create it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joseph R. Harbert, wearing jacket in left photo, chief operating officer of Insignia/ESG's New York region, in firm's research department. Robert F. R. Ballard of Cushman & Wakefield, pioneered collection of office data. (Left, Ruby Washington/The New York Times; right, Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) (pg. 4) Diagram (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BONDS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); DIRECTORY & DATABASE PUBLISHING (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



597 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION; 
A Mixed Message For the Schools

BYLINE:  By DEBRA NUSSBAUM

 BODY:
ALMOST half the state's superintendents and educators are trying to figure where they went wrong. When they finish sorting that out, they will have to resubmit their school budgets to municipal boards and councils and decide where they can cut -- from personnel or programs.
 On Tuesday, voters in 208 of the state's 550 school districts, or 63 percent of them, rejected their budgets, and 342 approved them. In all, the New Jersey School Boards Association said that only 14.7 percent of all registered voters went to the polls last week -- a typically meager turnout. 
 Around the state, results were mixed, with 80 percent of the proposed budgets receiving approval in Essex, Morris, Mercer and Middlesex counties and fewer than 50 percent passing in Hunterdon, Passaic, Camden, Burlington and Salem counties.
"When the economy is sluggish, the success rate tends to go down," said Michael Yaple, a spokesman for the New Jersey School Boards Association.
Last year, when the economy was also stalled, voters approved 359, or about 65.4 percent, of the 550 proposed budgets -- a drastic drop from the previous five years, when the stock market was robust. In 2001, 81 percent of the budgets were approved, and 88 percent were accepted in 2000. 
In 2002, districts faced financial difficulties caused by a freeze in state aid along with increases in costs ranging from transportation to insurance to special education, Mr. Yaple said. 
This year, costs continued to escalate, he said, and although state will rise by $200 million for the 2003-2004 school year, half of that will go toward construction projects.
"There's not a lot of wiggle room in these school budgets," Mr. Yaple said. "There's contractual obligations and state and federal regulations. Some districts are getting increases, but they are puny. So many of these districts have enrollments that are constantly growing. A lot of districts are just trying to hold on to what they have."
According to state law, budgets that are rejected by voters must be submitted to borough or town government boards, which can approve them as is or make changes and vote again.
Of course, the districts took different tacks to get budgets approved. In Cherry Hill, where voters rejected the $134 million budget by a vote of 3,078 to 3,407, Superintendent Morton Sherman said his district would look at cutting positions and scaling back on transportation. 
But to Mr. Sherman, the larger question was why more parents had not come out in a district of 11,600 students.
"I'm not sure I can figure it out," he said. "I'm just frustrated. There's a lot of complacency I don't understand among the parents."
In the end, he attributed the rejection to frustration with the state government. "Trenton is not doing its job," Mr. Sherman insisted.
Edwina Lee, executive director of the New Jersey School Boards Association, agreed that the brunt of voter dissatisfaction over taxes was taken out on schools.
"This is the only budget people can vote on," Ms. Lee said. 
She said some districts now faced "painful cuts" that would result in larger classes and delays in maintenance and other projects. 
"What are the choices?" she asked.
In the case of Cherry Hill, which was seeking an increase of about $9 million, a spokeswoman, Susan Bastnagel, said that parents and administrators had worked to get the word out that the budget would allow existing programs to continue, keep class size the same and not add new programs.
Increases in health benefits, special education costs and busing all added to the growing budget, Ms. Bastnagel said.
She said that district officials had wanted to shrink class sizes in the high school, increase the number of world language programs in the elementary schools and institute full-day kindergarten classes, but that they did not even try putting those items in the budget because they would have been prohibitively expensive.
"There are things we would like to have, but this isn't the time," she said.
As in many districts throughout the state, parents and administrators in Cherry Hill held coffees and informational sessions about the budget. In addition, material was mailed to all residents, and messages were broadcast on the local cable channel.
"We tried to reach out to all different constituencies," Ms. Bastnagel said.
Nor was Cherry Hill the only district that faced defeat after putting in some hard work. In Washington Township, Gloucester County, a school district with 10,000 students, Superintendent Thomas Flemming and his staff worked with no fewer than 11 budget committees made up of local residents. Yet the $114 million budget --a $7 million increase over the current year --was voted down 3,024 to 2,300.
The way he viewed the situation, it was not a rebuff of his stewardship but rather "a reaction to taxes in New Jersey."
Still, not all the news was bad. In such districts as Bloomfield, in Essex County, with 6,000 students, programs and staff positions would have been cut had the $62 million budget -- an increase of $4 million over last year --not been approved by a vote of 1,427 to 1,107.
Starting in February, Superintendent Thomas Dowd explained, the administration put on evening presentations, mailed fliers and used the local-access cable channel to get word to voters that the district was suffering from cuts in state financing at the same time costs were rising.
"The key was letting people know that until the state funding is appropriately addressed, we have to find ways to fund these programs," Mr. Dowd said.
In the Ocean Gate School District in Ocean County -- made up of one elementary school with 198 students -- voters approved two budget questions that will add $125,000 to the $2.2 million budget.
"I couldn't have been more surprised that we passed both," said Frances O'Loughlin, the district's business administrator, who attributed the passage to a "push from the PTA" to get parents to the polls.
At this time of year, educators in the 550 districts that seek voter approval may well envy their colleagues in the districts that rely on a board of estimate to determine the tax rate and approve the budget. About 50 districts around the state -- like Montclair -- bring their budgets to a board, usually composed of town council members and some school board members. 
This year, Montclair received approval for its $80 million budget, a $4 million increase over last year, on April 1.
Not having to take the budget to the voters can work both ways.
"Sometimes it may be more difficult," said Dana Sullivan, the district's business administrator. "It depends. It's a yearly thing. At this point, it's a relief."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 27, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about local school elections held statewide misstated the percentage of districts that rejected their budgets for the 2003 fiscal year. It was 208 of the 550 school districts, or 37 percent, not 63 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photos: There was no waiting at Brookdale Elementary School in Bloomfield, left, which approved the budget. "The key was letting people know that until the state funding is appropriately addressed, we have to find ways to fund these programs," said Superintendent Thomas Dowd, below. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BUDGETS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CITIES (72%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

GEOGRAPHIC: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



598 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2082 words

HEADLINE: War And Politesse 

BYLINE:  By JEREMY PEARCE

DATELINE: ROXBURY 

 BODY:
FROM pancake socials to Elks Club dinners, Representative Rodney P. Frelinghuysen cuts a mellow, unfailingly polite figure among his constituents in northern New Jersey. The son of a former member of Congress and the scion of a Republican political dynasty of sorts, he jovially fields questions and, in his office, answers each and every letter.
 As for legislative duties, he has long preferred to tinker with tax reforms and such local issues as the location of train lines. But in recent weeks, the war on Iraq has overshadowed Mr. Frelinghuysen's status as a social moderate and fledged him into a hawk, one whose voice in Congress carries more than symbolic resonance. He happens to be New Jersey's senior member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee and sits on its defense appropriations subcommittee, the body that earlier this month approved a $75 billion advance for the Bush administration to finance the war. Last week that amount grew to $80 billion in a Senate vote. 
 In the transformation, Mr. Frelinghuysen (FREE-ling-high-sen), 56, has not lost the gloss of his amiable manner, but his language, sometimes salted with mild oaths of the prep school variety, is more aggressive now, even as he takes pains to stress the propriety and grounds for the military invasion. 
"I think there is enough evidence that even if there are not factories, the Iraqis have caches of different chemical and biological agents, and there's some real potential for reaching terrorists, given the history of this regime," he said in an interview after a town meeting here. "And yes, I think this has been a training ground for terrorists."
He paused, then issued this warning to any Iraqis who might use unconventional weapons against United States troops: "For those who would perpetrate and press the chemical button -- they ought to pay with their lives. We will find out before our dying day who was responsible. You do something like that, and you can count on paying a huge penalty."
Indeed, Mr. Frelinghuysen plays politics from the balls of his feet. He is a trim, erect and nimble man, a runner and tennis player whose energy overflows into daily contacts with a constituency of 650,000 in the 11th Congressional District, which spans all of Morris County and parts of Essex, Somerset, Passaic and Sussex counties. It is safe to say that he practically owns his seat, having recorded clear-cut victories in the last three elections and winning 73 percent of the vote last year. 
He is also an Army veteran, who served a tour in Vietnam that he said colors his view of the war in Iraq. After graduating from Hobart College, where he studied American history, he was drafted and became a clerk in a construction battalion, spending a year overseas building roads and seeing flashes of combat. 
"We were mortared, we took fire and it's a frightening and horrendous experience," he said recently, with an occasional stutter that belies the image of a controlled, pedigreed lawmaker.
"So I have a deep respect for these young people that are out there in a huge land area. We don't need demonstrations supporting the Iraqi regime or Columbia professors suggesting that America deserves to suffer 100 Mogadishus. I don't regard that as a hawkish view on my part."

The Costs of Victory
When it comes to the monetary costs of the war, he is less sure-footed. A fiscal conservative, he continues to support the idea of federal tax cuts, while both the House and Senate try to reconcile proposals that would result in tax reductions on the order of $350 billion to $750 billion. He says such cuts would in fact be essential for the domestic economy's recovery in the aftermath, once the fighting ends and the reconstruction of Iraq begins.
"I don't know anyone who can pinpoint what the overall cost of this war is going to be," he said. "This $74.5 billion may well be a substantial down payment, but we think there would probably be similar supplementals in the future. There are no limits. Most people would agree that we need to spend what we need to be victorious."
About the tax cuts, he said: "The real question is about who is going to get back most of the money into their pockets. Some of us on the majority side say that those of us who pay the most taxes ought to be getting most of the tax relief."
He then added: "I do think tax cuts are a pretty good way of giving people more confidence."
The congressman also supported the Homeland Security Act but shared others' concerns about possible civil liberties encroachments in anti-terrorism measures that were advanced by Attorney General John Ashcroft. Mr. Frelinghuysen's aides said he had "felt reluctance" about the so-called Ashcroft amendments but decided that "the greater good in the bill won out."
Mr. Frelinghuysen's political rise has been marked by steady steps and patient application. After Vietnam and a year in graduate school, he returned home to Morris County to work as a grants coordinator for the County Board of Chosen Freeholders. His first political race -- for a freeholder's seat -- was helped along by name recognition, and it came just as his father, Peter H.B. Frelinghuysen, was retiring from a 22-year career representing New Jersey in Congress. Because boundary lines have been redrawn over the decades, the younger Frelinghuysen's district covers part of his father's old constituency, including Morris County, but does not reflect it exactly.
"That was 1974, which of course was the Watergate year, and a hell of a time to run," he recalled. "Nixon had done a pretty good job of disgracing himself and making it difficult for any Republican aspirant -- even one with a name like Frelinghuysen -- to run for public office."
Yet Mr. Frelinghuysen won that race and spent nine years as a county official before moving to the state Assembly, where he served for 11 years. From his start in state office, he found a place on the Legislature's Appropriations Committee and gained an education that he said had prepared him when he entered Congress in 1995.
His father provided other tuition. The elder Frelinghuysen often took his son along to social events, introducing him to the flesh-pressing and casework that the younger energetically calls the "hallmark of my administration."
When in New Jersey, Rodney Procter Frelinghuysen lives in Harding Township with his wife, Virginia, and their two children. His father, now 87, lives in the same town.
Sumner Putnam, a friend, said that he had witnessed the seeds of youthful ambition when the two attended St. Mark's, an Episcopal boarding school in Southborough, Mass. Mr. Putnam, who lives in Bedminster, said Mr. Freylinghuysen's subscriptions to a British newspaper, The Manchester Guardian, and The Christian Science Monitor, immediately set him apart.
"Rodney had an innate curiosity and was already reading widely," he remembered. "He worked at it. And that's the fun thing about his career -- he certainly worked his way from the bottom up."
Even so, Mr. Frelinghuysen had family models and precedents. Four others bearing his surname served as United States senators, and one of them ascended to Secretary of State under President Chester A. Arthur. Others were Revolutionary officers and ministers, the offspring of Dutch settlers who first moved to Somerset County in the 1720's. Another ancestor, Theodore Frelinghuysen, ran unsuccessfully for the White House with Henry Clay. 
"Frelinghuysen was everything that Clay wasn't -- a president of the American Bible Society and a very righteous and proper New Jerseyan," he said. "Clay was an incredible orator and gambler, womanizer and drinker. It was a good team, I guess."
A history buff, Mr. Frelinghuysen is somewhat wide-eyed about his own lineage.
"Subconsciously, I suppose it does influence me," he said with a smile. For one thing, he added, his family has witnessed many decades of great change across New Jersey -- "the disappearance of farmland, the end of the big estates, everything that has been snapped and gobbled up."
Mr. Frelinghuysen said that he considered the key to his popularity to be both hard labor and a mostly moderate platform. Following many Democrats, he has opposed drilling for oil in the Alaskan National Wildlife Refuge, pushed for purchases of open space around the state and championed projects that promote mass transit and environmental cleanups. Further pushing the ideological envelope, he has supported financing for youth services and believes in women's legal right to abortion.
Thomas A. Zelante, chairman of the Morris County Democratic Committee, said, "People view him as being decent and honorable and as holding viewpoints similar to Democratic viewpoints."

'He Has Walked in Our Shoes'
Another Morris County official, John J. Murphy, director of the county's Board of Freeholders, said that Mr. Frelinghuysen's thrift had also struck a chord.
"He has walked in our shoes and understands what kinds of projects we need funding for," Mr. Murphy said. "But he's also very practical about his politics and watches every penny as it's spent."
For all of the political snuggling, Mr. Frelinghuysen has made clear some sharp differences with the administration of Governor McGreevey.
He wonders how much the rights of property owners are at risk, for example, in the planning map devised by the state Department of Environmental Protection to add new land-use restrictions for developers.
"The horses are already out of the barn, with the completion of all the Interstate highways that cross New Jersey, from east to west and north to south," he said. "Let the developers achieve their monetary objectives, but legally prevail upon them to do things to minimize the burdens on local infrastructure." 
And he is skeptical about Mr. McGreevey's handling of the state's projected $5 billion budget deficit. "I have no suggestions for the governor," he said. "I guess he's doing what he has to do. But I'm not sure he has done enough to solicit from the various constituencies from which he has cut -- what literally the day-to-day impact is going to be."
Recently, speaking at the town meeting that he had scheduled in Roxbury, the congressman took questions about the Iraq war, nursing homes, veterans' funds, loopholes for obtaining immigrant visas and the marriage penalty tax. The queries ranged from the mundane to the cranky, and Mr. Frelinghuysen fielded them with equal attention. But when a constituent asked about an element of the war on terrorism that would allow the Central Intelligence Agency to listen in on overseas cellphone calls, he came to life.
"You're damned right we should be eavesdropping on every damned cellphone out there," he said, snapping his fingers. "We need to act like that." 
Yet as confident as he may be on the home front, Mr. Frelinghuysen acknowledges that drafting large packages of legislation has never been a strong point. Even with his illustrious ancestors, there is still no Frelinghuysen Act on the national law books, although the family name is attached to a Warren County township, an arboretum in Morristown and a thoroughfare in Newark. 
A survey of bills that Mr. Frelinghuysen has recently sponsored shows initiatives to prohibit telemarketers from interfering with telephone caller identification services; to establish a program to test veterans for hepatitis C; and to name New Jersey an American Revolution National Heritage Area.
And then there is the bill that deals with "the liquidation or reliquidation of certain entries of pasta."
Its purpose?
"I should be able to do justice for the record on what that is," Mr. Frelinghuysen said, flagging for a moment. "Somebody is getting the short end of the stick around here, in terms of importation of pasta, although I'm not exactly sure what that is."

Teacher, Broker Anything
But he brightened again when asked about his ambitions for the future. A run for the Senate against the state's two seated Democrats would be tempting, he said, but seeking the chairmanship of the House Appropriations Committee would be more likely. According to his own historical research, a New Jerseyan has not held that title since the committee was founded in 1865.
And after Congress? 
With characteristic energy, he said: "I could easily see myself being a teacher or doing something at a college. And I always thought it would be fun to be a stockbroker."
In a final burst, he added: "Hell, I'm ready for anything. Retired public servants are an asset that ought to be pumped and utilized."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Rodney P. Frelinghuysen at a town meeting in Roxbury. (Nancy Wegard for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Popularity and a long political lineage are hallmarks of Representative Rodney P. Frelinghuysen of the 11th Congressional District. Here he chatted with constituents after a recent town meeting in Roxbury. (Nancy Wegard for The New York Times) (pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (88%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ARMIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HISTORY (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); ARMED FORCES (65%); TERRORISM (64%); TENNIS (63%); SPORTS (63%); ATHLETES (60%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (60%); TAX REFORM (57%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RODNEY P FRELINGHUYSEN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); VIET NAM (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



599 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: SOAPBOX; 
The Pinelands Plan

BYLINE:  By JAMES J. FLORIO; James J. Florio was governor of New Jersey from 1990 to 1994.

 BODY:
GOVERNOR McGREEVEY has made combating unrestrained and uncontrolled growth a priority of his administration, and we can expect changes from the State House aimed at facilitating balanced economic growth while protecting New Jersey's environment and our overall quality of life. The Pinelands Commission, of which I am the chairman, has had this goal for 20 years. In fact, in its pursuit of sustainable growth, New Jersey is fortunate to have in the Pinelands model what is likely one of the greatest regional planning success stories. It offers a conceptual model for consideration by the rest of New Jersey.
 Authorized by federal legislation I introduced as a member of Congress and by state legislation signed by Gov. Brendan T. Byrne in the late 1970's, the Pinelands Comprehensive Management Plan is the regulatory code that guides land use, development and preservation of the million-acre Pinelands, covering all or parts of 53 municipalities in seven counties. In addition to designating nine land-use management areas, similar to municipal development zones, the plan sets forth a variety of resource protection and management programs covering issues like water quality, threatened and endangered species, forestry, historic and cultural resources, wildfire management and open space acquisition. 
 While there are many state and regional land-use plans around the nation, the Pinelands plan is unusual in that it has the regulatory teeth to facilitate smart growth. The basic framework requires municipal land use and zoning ordinances to comply with the plan's goals and principles to protect natural resources and guide growth. This provides a key mechanism for implementing and enforcing the standards of the plan. 
Many strategies touted today as weapons for the war on sprawl have already been successfully applied in the Pinelands. Through its land use management areas, the Pinelands plan designates what intensities and types of growth are suitable for a given area. This has virtually halted suburban sprawl in much of the Pinelands and has supported appropriate development in areas deemed suitable based on criteria like the presence of infrastructure, prevailing development patterns and environmental conditions. The plan's rules prevent the construction of certain growth-generating infrastructure in conservation areas, while the Pinelands Infrastructure Trust Fund provided $30 million to support infrastructure investments in the designated growth areas. 
An important component of the plan is a transfer-of-development-rights program, which helps to redirect growth from the preservation and agricultural districts, where development is largely restricted, to growth areas supported by infrastructure. Landowners in conservation areas may deed-restrict their property in exchange for Pinelands Development Credits. In turn, developers buy credits to increase development opportunities, in the regional growth areas, within prescribed densities. To date, this program has permanently protected nearly 37,000 acres in the heart of the Pinelands. 
The Pinelands plan encourages redevelopment of older industrial towns such as Egg Harbor City, Hammonton, Woodbine and Buena Borough through the Pinelands Town designation. This designation has facilitated the development of state-of-the-art sewerage treatment plants as well as a special project to streamline the approval process for industrial parks. An economic development program has helped seven rural Pinelands communities identify economic opportunities compatible with their needs and community character. The commission's long-term monitoring continually takes the temperature of the Pinelands economy by gauging an array of indicators from property values to employment to cranberry prices. 
The plan also offers a phased-growth program that allows towns to stage development over both time and geographic areas to facilitate growth in an orderly fashion. Hamilton Township in Atlantic County has adopted this program, reserving 2,000 acres for future development. The program is similar to the timed-growth concept proposed through legislation in Trenton. It represents the common-sense observation that growth should be coordinated with the availability of the infrastructure necessary to sustain it.
Today, the concept of smart growth is directly linked to protecting the quality and adequate supply of water resources. Watershed planning has been fully integrated into the Pinelands plan since its inception in 1980. The state and federal Pinelands acts both recognized the importance of protecting the 17-trillion gallon Kirkwood-Cohansey aquifer and the regions vast network of rivers, streams and wetlands. 
The commission is addressing some of the challenges faced by communities in the Pinelands area in planning for and absorbing growth. The commission has received a grant from the Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation for creation of the Pinelands Excellence Program. With a focus on zoning, infrastructure and open space, the program is working with two municipalities -- Winslow and Hamilton Townships -- to develop prototypical approaches to smart growth planning and creating sustainable communities
The Pinelands plan is a truly smart growth plan, but there is always room for improvement.
The commission is committed to addressing the remaining challenges while recognizing that smart growth by its nature requires a cooperative approach among a multitude of agencies at every level of government, as well as a significant private investment. As chairman, I am dedicated to building bridges to all our partners toward this end. 
I often think of the Pinelands experience as a sort of laboratory experiment in regional planning, growth management and natural resource protection. In view of the sprawl that has besieged much of New Jersey and the nation, there is little doubt that the Pinelands region would look much different today had it not been for the achievements of this plan. The commission is committed to continuing the course set nearly a quarter century ago, while at the same time addressing remaining and emerging challenges.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ZONING (77%); ORDINANCES (77%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); SUBURBS (77%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (75%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (66%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



600 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Art World Asks, Who Is Next? 

BYLINE:  By MARIA NEWMAN

DATELINE: Englewood 

 BODY:
WHEN the John Harms Center for the Arts in Englewood shut its doors on Monday because of financial problems, it sent a "there but for the grace of God" shudder through the arts world in New Jersey as arts groups face zero financing from the state under a budget proposed by Gov. James E. McGreevey.
 "It's very sad news," said Jeffrey Woodward, managing director of the McCarter Theater Center in Princeton, and chairman of Art Pride New Jersey, an advocacy group. "It shows how fragile arts institutions are. If you lose a source of your funding, things go south very quickly. Unfortunately, unless you see a restoration of the state funding cuts, you're going to be seeing a lot more of this." 
 Arts advocates also said the closing would be felt far and wide.
"It will create a void, in the City of Englewood, in Bergen County, in the educational system," said Sharon Harrington, chairwoman of the state Council on the Arts and the state Historical Commission, which hands out millions in grants each year. "They were a very important part of the community, of the economy of the community and of the cultural life of the region."
Jeffrey Norman, vice president of public affairs for the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newarkalso also called the news "so very sad." He said he had tickets to hear Ira Glass, who is featured on National Public Radio's "This American Life," at the Harms next week. "I bought the tickets six months ago."
Directors of the Harmscenter, when announcing the closing at a news conference on Monday, said their financial problems were not related to the financing they would lose from the state next year, if the Governor's budget is adopted. They attributed their problems primarily to their inability to pay off a $2.3 million debt accumulated during a $6.6 million renovation in the 1990's that turned the 1926 Victorian-style theater into a state-of-the-art performance hall.
But even so, many arts advocates saw a connection between the bleak prospects for state arts financing and the closure, which also was a reminder of what a tightly woven chain of money arts institutions depend on. If one link breaks, it loosens the entire chain.
"The crushing burden of the debt makes fundraising virtually impossible," said Robert Stern, president and chairman of the Harms Center's board, explaining why it had not found someone to rescue the institution. "Individuals and foundations are paralyzed, reluctant to commit scarce and precious resources to an organization that faces an enormous and overwhelming debt."
People active in the arts world said they were surprised by the closing. Ms. Harrington of the arts councils said the Harms leadership was not to blame.
"They have a good, committed board," she said. "I'm confident they did everything they could to fend this off. It's very disappointing."
The Harms was what is considered a "presenting," rather than a "producing" organization. Like the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark, the State Theater in New Brunswick and the South Jersey Performing Arts Center in Camden, the Harms brought in a variety of acts or companies to put on performances. While these venues vary in size, they all rent their spaces to outside producers and agencies for performances, often one-night stands, for concerts, comedy acts and dance companies.
Others, like the McCarter Theater in Princeton and the George Street Playhouse in New Brunswick, are producing organizations whose main mission is the production of dramatic theater although the McCarter presents outside acts as well.
The Harms brought to Englewood, and the entire northern New Jersey region, a range of performers, from the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra, to the Moscow Circus. Recent acts included Dr. John, a New Orleans bayou-funk piano player and singer, and the actress and comedienne Janeane Garofalo. The Harms also runs a well-attended performing arts school for children and stages special shows for families.
The Harms was built in 1926 as the Englewood Plaza, a showcase for vaudeville. As the times changed, it showed silent movies, and then talking pictures. In the 1970's, it fell into disrepair, and was threatened with demolition.
In 1976, John Harms, a local concert impresario, led a drive to save the theater. Mr. Harms, who was an organist, was a director of the John Harms Chorus, and in the 1940's, had started engaging well-known concert artists to appear in Bergen County with that group. He helped find private and public money to renovate the theater; after he died in 1981, the theater was renamed for him.
Located on North Van Brunt Street, off the city's main thoroughfare, Palisade Avenue, the Harms is credited by many locals with bringing new life to downtown in the form of restaurants and other businesses.
The renovation program that the directors said was the root of the current problems began in 1996. The center got a new roof, air conditioning, sound system, marquee, and additional seating that brought capacity to 1,400. Two years ago, a new fiber-optic cable linked the theater to the nearby Bennett Recording Studios for live music recordings and broadcasts.
The debt was one burden. Also the center's revenues have suffered in the last two years. Like many other live theaters, the Harms center had to cope with declines in consumer spending and in philanthropy after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. In summer 2002, ticket sales were down $100,000 compared with the previous year, and corporate donations were down $150,000.
"Maybe the renovation was overly ambitious," said Frank Huttle, a new board member. "But we do have a world-class theater."
The directors would not say this week if they are going to declare bankruptcy, and still appeared to hold out hope that someone could come to the rescue.
Mr. Norman of NJPAC said the news had further galvanized art advocates to fight the proposed arts cuts. A rally to support arts financing is planned for May 14 in Trenton. At performances throughout the state, directors and others are making appeals to the public. On the Web site of almost every state arts organization, there is a message about the issue, and a link that people can use to contact their legislators. 
The governor has pledged to restore half the arts budget, but the decision is now in the hands of the legislature.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The closing of the John Harms center "will create a void," said Sharon Harrington of the state Council on the Arts. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); THEATER (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); PUBLIC RADIO (70%); HISTORY (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 

 
